mmmmmi 



mil Hi 



I! ||ij 



I 

j i f . ; 



I i! Hi 

i j ; 
1 iii !i 



Hi 



111 

. ' i! j *i: < 2 



H-i 



HBBBHBHHJ 



I 



iiiiiiiiiiiilHii 











' , 



, 

i 



i 



. . 









m 

. 

mm, 






i - 



^ ! - 



I 



A MANUAL 

FOR 



HEALTH OFFICERS 



BY 

J. SCOTT MAcNUTT, A.B., S.B. 

Sometime Health Officer of Orange, New Jersey, and Member of the Board 

of Examiners of Health Officers and Sanitary Inspectors of 

New Jersey; Lecturer on Public Health Service in 

the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 



WITH A 

FOREWORD 

BY 

WILLIAM T. SEDGWICK 

Professor of Biology and Public Health in the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology 



FIRST EDITION 

SECOND THOUSAND 



NEW YORK 

JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC. 

LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED 

1915 




COPYRIGHT, 1915, 

BY 

J. SCOTT MACNUTT 



Stanhope jprcss 

F. H. GILSON COMPANY 
BOSTON, U.S.A. 



PREFACE 



The aim of this volume, as a general guide for health 
officers, is clearly indicated in the Foreword. Its scope, 
however, as the work progressed, has been enlarged over 
that of a simple manual by the inclusion of a considerable 
amount of reference matter which it was thought should be 
thus readily available. And, while the needs of the local 
health office have dictated the content, certain portions of 
the volume e.g., those summarizing tuberculosis, infant 
hygiene and publicity work may be of service to persons 
engaged in the work of unofficial organizations concerned 
with those subjects. 

Emphasis has been placed upon practical administration, 
the more abstract principles of sanitary science being pre- 
supposed. So far as possible definite procedures are given, 
but in regard to the many matters on which no such pro- 
cedure can at present writing be positively deduced, an 
effort has been made to indicate the chief considerations at 
issue. 

References, suggestive rather than exhaustive, are fre- 
quently given, not only to substantiate specific statements, 
but also to serve as indications for further study along 
particular lines. On page 98 is given a list of the literature 
of chief general interest to the health officer. 

In the three principal needs in the public health field 
today (i) scientific definition of principles of procedure, 
(2) improved organization and (3) trained sanitary officers 
progress is being made. Not only is this observable in 
individual cities and towns, but in the advances in the 
sanitary systems of whole states. A recent example of 



iv PREFACE 

this is to be seen in the recent reorganization in New York 
State with the conferring upon the State authorities of local 
supervisory powers and the adoption of a State sanitary 
code. To such developments, which cannot be treated in 
detail in such a volume as the present, attention is called, 
as most clearly exemplifying the present-day public health 
movement. 

Aside from many sources of data which cannot be par- 
ticularized here, special acknowledgment is due for the 
courtesy of Dr. M. J. Rosenau and his publishers, Messrs. D. 
Appleton and Company, in permitting the use of consider- 
able excerpts on disinfection from his work "Preventive 
Medicine and Hygiene" (1913); also to Professor G. C. 
Whipple for extracts on epidemiology from his " Typhoid 
Fever" (1908). Particular thanks are due to Mr. Franz 
Schneider, Jr., of the Department of Surveys and Exhibits 
of the Russell Sage Foundation, for reading the entire manu- 
script and making many useful suggestions. Advantageous 
criticism on the subject of publicity was also received from 
Mr. E. G. Routzahn, Director of the above-mentioned 
Department. To Professor W. T. Sedgwick, of the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology, the author is indebted 
for the original suggestion from which the present work 
took its inception, as well as for subsequent advice and 
encouragement. 

J. S. M. 
BOSTON, April, 1915. 



FOREWORD 



Some three years ago when the author of this book 
(whom I am glad to be able to claim as a former pupil) 
was serving as the Health Officer of Orange, New Jersey, I 
urged upon him the importance of preparing a Manual or 
Handbook which should do for health officers what the 
various handbooks for civil engineers, mechanical engi- 
neers and other technicians do for persons engaged in 
those professions. Fortunately, in 1913, Mr. MacNutt was 
enabled to withdraw from his official position and, after 
devoting a year of quiet labor to the task, has now com- 
pleted the first edition of a manual such as I had in mind. 
This, I believe, will be of great service to health authori- 
ties of every kind, who will here find carefully laid down 
the fundamental data of their profession, and to all such 
I therefore heartily commend it. 

At the end of the nineteenth century the public health 
officer when he existed at all was generally merely a phy- 
sician who had assumed the title and who gave to the office 
only a small part of his time. Of any special training for 
public health work he was blissfully innocent. Of water 
supply, sewerage, milk supply, insects, infant mortality, 
school hygiene statistics, ventilation and similar topics so 
indispensable today he had little or no knowledge. His 
interest began and too often ended at the bedside and 
the hospital. But with the recent remarkable development 
of sanitation, preventive medicine and hygiene; with the 
recognition of the significance of pure milk, pure water, 
pure air and pure food; with the modern emphasis upon 
the transmission of disease by insects and by carriers ; and 



vi FOREWORD 

with the growth of sanitary law and Federal, state and 
municipal regulations, the problems and practices of health 
authorities, whether physicians or laymen, have become 
so highly technical as to require special preparation and 
technical knowledge. Hence it is not too much to say 
that within the last decade a new profession has arisen 
in America, namely, that of the trained and full-time health 
officer. 

For health officers, boards of health, and all other 
health officials Mr. MacNutt's Manual will be of imme- 
diate practical value. To the beginner it will be espe- 
cially helpful since it virtually records the practical results 
of the author's personal experience in the profession. For 
students in training, such as members of schools for 
health officers, and for students pursuing special courses in 
public health science in medical, scientific and technologi- 
cal Schools it should serve also as an indispensable guide 
to those subjects requiring most careful consideration. 

WILLIAM T. SEDGWICK 



CONTENTS 



PART I 

HEALTH AUTHORITIES: THEIR ORGANIZATION AND POWERS 



CHAPTER I 

PAGE 

LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES i 

Organization, 4; Powers and Procedure, 8; Staff, 12; Nature 
of Sanitary Authority, 24; Administration, 27. 

CHAPTER II 

STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 31 

Advisory Functions, 32; Executive Functions, 39; Organi- 
zation, 46. 

CHAPTER III 
FEDERAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 52 

Advisory Functions, 52; Executive Functions, 53; Federal 
Bureaus, 54; Proposed National Health Service, 56. 

CHAPTER IV 

UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 59 

National, 60; International, 65; State, 65; Local, 67. 

CHAPTER V 

THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 69 

Public Health Science, 69; Problems, 71; The Old Public 

Health, 82; The New Public Health, 88. 
General References, 98. 



viii CONTENTS 



PART II 
PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 



CHAPTER I 

PAGE 
COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 101 

Terms and Classification, 1 01; Control, 102; Modern Theory 
of Infection, 106; Sources and Modes of Infection, 112. 

7. Diseases Spread Largely through Secretions or Discharges 
from Nose, Throat or Mouth, 123. Diphtheria, 136; 
Scarlet Fever, 147; Measles, 150; German Measles, 154; 
Whooping Cough, 154; Lobar Pneumonia, 155; Cere- 
brospinal Fever, 157; Tuberculosis, 158; Other Diseases, 
1 86. 

II. Diseases Spread Largely through Excreta. Typhoid Fever, 
187; Cholera, 203; Dysenteric Diseases, 204; Hookworm 
Disease, 205. 

777. Diseases Spread by Insects and Vermin, 206. Mosquito- 
borne Diseases: Malaria, 207; Yellow Fever, 208. 
Fly-borne Diseases, 209. Other Insect-borne Diseases: 
Plague, etc., 210. 

IV. Diseases Having Specific or Special Preventive Measures. 
Smallpox, 21 1 ; Rabies, 218; Venereal Disease, 233. 
Preventable Blindness: Ophthalmia Neonatorum, 239; 
Trachoma, 242.' 

V. Miscellaneous Diseases. Infantile Paralysis, 243; Chick- 
enpox, 245; Septic Sore Throat, 245; Tetanus, 246; 
Glanders, 248; Anthrax, 250; Pellagra, 251; Leprosy 
(Lepra), 252; Mental and Other Diseases, 253. 

The Schools in Relation to Communicable Disease, 254; 

School Hygiene and Sanitation, 261; Libraries, 263; 

General Regulations against Contact Infection, 264. 
Epidemiology, with Examples of Epidemics, 266. 
General References, 293. 

CHAPTER II 

CHILD HYGIENE 296 

Medical Inspection and Sanitation of Schools, 296; Infant 
Hygiene, 300; Organization of Infant Hygiene Work, 333. 



CONTENTS IX 

CHAPTER III 

PAGE 
MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 345 

/. Milk. General Requirements, 345; Regulation of Milk 
Supplies, 361. 

//. Foods Other than Milk, 398. 

CHAPTER IV 

WATER SUPPLIES 405 

Inspection, 405; Analysis, 405; Public Supplies, 408; Private 
Supplies, 414. Ice Supplies, 418. 

CHAPTER V 

HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 420 

Housing, 421. Industrial Hygiene, 434. 

CHAPTER VI 

NUISANCES 439 

General Considerations, 439; Disposal of Excreta, 448; 
Other Wastes, 458; Fly Suppression, 461; Mosquito 
Suppression, 468; Miscellaneous Nuisances, 475. 

CHAPTER VII 
SANITARY LAW 480 

CHAPTER VIII 
THE ANNUAL REPORT 486 

CHAPTER IX 

VITAL STATISTICS 489 

Registration, 492; Theory, 499; Population, 503; Deaths, 
507; Marriages, 519; Births, 519; Stillbirths, 523; 
Morbidity Statistics, 523; Sources of Statistical Error, 
524; Methods, 529; Presentation of Results, 534; Prac- 
tical Application, 539. 



X CONTENTS t 

CHAPTER X 

PAGE 

PUBLICITY 54 2 

General Considerations, 542; The Press, 546; Printed 
Matter, 552; Exhibitions, 556; Small Exhibits, 564; 
Lectures, 564; Motion Pictures, 567; Publicity and 
Administration, 568. 

APPENDIXES 

A. Disinfection and Disinfectants 569 

Terms, 569; Disinfectants, 570; For Specific Uses, 581; 
Standardization, 589; Household Disinfectants and 
Deodorants, 590. 

B. Standard Rules for Milk Supplies 594 

C. Legal Decisions Regarding Tuberculin Test 604 

D. Health Department Laboratory 608 

E. Rules of Statistical Practice : 612 

F. Cooperative Health Administration Among Small Communities 619 

G. Standard Plan for Annual Reports 622 

H. List of Health Office Forms 629 

/. Extracts from New York State Sanitary Code 632 

J. The Schick Test 634 

INDEX 635 

CHARTS 

1. Death Rates by Ages 74 

2. Death Rates for Chief Preventable Diseases 76 

3. Showing Relation of Milk Routes to Scarlet Fever During 

Outbreak at Norwalk, Conn., 1897 283 

4. The Problem of Infant Mortality 301 



PART I 

HEALTH AUTHORITIES 
THEIR ORGANIZATION AND POWERS 



A MANUAL 
FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



CHAPTER I 
LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 

The chief basis of sanitary authority in any community 
is essentially local. That authority is commonly vested 
in the local board of health and its officers, although 
in some small communities where no such board is ap- 
pointed the sanitary authority is exercised by the select- 
men, township committee or other governing body. The 
local board of health was in origin the earliest, and is now 
in operation the most powerful, sanitary unit. 

In all except the most undeveloped and primitive com- 
munities, boards of health entrust their executive work to 
a staff headed by a " health officer " (or " health inspec- 
tor" ; sometimes " health commissioner "), who is as- 
sisted by subordinate sanitary inspectors and other em- 
ployees. The health officer attends to matters of routine 
and takes such executive action as he may be empowered 
to take between sessions of the board. ^The board retains 
a directive power: makes regulations, prescribes the gen- 
eral manner of their enforcement, and decides important 
questions of administrative policy and procedure. Thus 
the fundamental authority and responsibility reside in 
the board and are exercised by the health officer only in 
so far as they are delegated to him by the board. 

3 



4 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

LOCAL ORGANIZATION 

The Health Officer and the Board. The health 
officer, staff and board constitute the department of health 
of any community. The terms " health department " 
and " health authorities " will be given preference in these 
pages, not only as being the most inclusive terms, but 
and chiefly to indicate that the most important factor 
is not, as popularly supposed, the board of health, but the 
trained health officer and his staff. In fact, it is main- 
tained by many who have observed the practical workings 
of health authorities that the majority of local boards of 
health are weakened by political interference, or are at 
any rate incapable of dealing intelligently with the techni- 
cal details of administration which come before them, and 
it has been asserted by some that they could to great ad- 
vantage be abolished and their powers be turned over 
bodily to a well-trained, expert health officer. The average 
local board of health, it is urged, does not mend the acts 
of an inefficient health officer, while to the expert health 
officer it may be a positive hindrance, blocking despatch 
and putting a damper on effective administration. 

It is indeed true that the expert health officer, with 
an expert staff, is the chief figure in public health admin- 
istration to-day. It is he, and not the board, who initiates 
and who executes ; it is he only who can have that intimate 
and exact knowledge of principles and conditions which is 
necessary for effective action, nor is there any question 
that the average board of health is a body incompetent to 
pass upon such details. 

There is, however, another view of the matter, 
namely, that the board acts as a mediator between the 
public and the health officer. As a body it is (or should 
be) fitted to deal with those large questions of sanitation 
which affect public standards sanitary, social, economic, 
and other in an important degree. Such questions are 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 5 

in the final decision non-technical in nature, framing them- 
selves in the form: Granted that such-and-such a step will 
bring a certain degree of benefit to the public health, is it 
worth the costs in money and otherwise entailed ? 

In rural districts, where a state or county code can be 
drawn up for large areas, it is doubtless best that (as out- 
lined in Chapter II) local boards of health be abolished and 
that the health officer be made accountable to expert state 
or county authority. But in towns and cities, which have 
a greater degree of civic individuality, the board seems 
likely, for the present at least, to remain. It acts as a 
check on the health officer, preventing him from putting 
impracticable schemes into effect, but at the same time 
giving him the backing of its prestige in difficult cases. It 
may, by acting in a quasi-judicial capacity, prevent cases 
from going to law. It may secure the cooperation of 
other official bodies more readily than could the health 
officer alone, and obtain appropriations more readily. 
Under a commission form of government boards of health 
are naturally and possibly with advantage done away with, 
but under present conditions in most communities their 
abolition does not seem advisable. Inefficiency of boards 
simply indicates that their personnel should be improved 
through higher civic standards and better appointments. 
The appointment of members for political reasons and not 
for qualifications is at present the chief evil. 

Those who urge the abolition of boards of health should 
consider the question of accountability. While, in order 
to secure prompt and effective action, the expert health 
executive should undoubtedly be given a wide range of 
discretion in dealing with matters for which a general 
course has already been laid down, he must nevertheless 
be subject ultimately to some extrinsic control. The 
question therefore is, what that control should be. In 
those instances where the board has been abolished he 
still remains responsible to a superior body or officers 



6 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

as, for example, under the New York plan of supervisors or 
under a commission form of government besides being 
governed by a code of sanitary laws established fey supe- 
rior authority. 

Organization of Local Boards of Health. While not 
always a popularly elected body the board nevertheless 
represents the public in that it acts as mediator between 
health officer and public. As remarked above, the board is 
the judge of the non-technical aspects of a question, just 
as the health officer is the judge of its technical aspects. 
Thus acting, the board is by no means an expert body. 
Its members need simply be intelligent citizens who will 
understand thoroughly and judge wisely the proposals and 
cases brought before them. 

u Composition 

The special, or professional, qualifications of the individ- 
ual members, though frequently important, are secondary. 
It is seldom that the board can be anything approach- 
ing an expert commission, and almost all expert advice 
needed must be furnished by the health officer. It is cus- 
tomary to consider physicians as best fitted to serve on 
the board of health, and it is desirable that that profession 
be represented by one member at least, particularly if the 
health officer himself be not a medical man. It is an error, 
however, to make the board a medical monopoly, as is 
sometimes done, and laws so tending should be abolished. 
The cooperation of the medical profession, and to a cer- 
tain extent its advice, are required, but not entire control 
by it. There are other things to be considered. For 
example, questions of drainage, water-supply, and the like 
not infrequently arise, and it may be well that one 
member of the board be a sanitary engineer, especially 
if the advice of the town or city engineer be not readily 
available. Plumbing inspection is sometimes unduly pre- 
dominant and that trade given undue prominence on the 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 7 

health board. As elsewhere pointed out, plumbing inspec- 
tion is relatively unimportant from the health standpoint 
and is best assigned to some other city department, in 
which case no attention need be paid to it in the organi- 
zation of the board of health. 

The members may properly be appointed by the mayor, 
and to limit responsibility for the appointments it -is prob- 
ably best that they be not subject to confirmation by the 
common council or other governing body. The board 
should be as small as possible not over five members 
for experience seems to indicate that the larger boards are 
less likely to be harmonious and effective. The health 
officer should not be a member of the board, for in that 
case he would be placed in the inconsistent position of 
voting on his own acts and proposals. On the whole it is 
best to make the health board as distinct a body as possible 
without including in it (as has been suggested) the mayor 
and the heads of other city departments, for these officials 
have their own distinct interests which are only indirectly 
connected with health administration. 

Status 

The health board should have full executive powers and 
not be emasculated by limitation to merely legislative and 
advisory functions. It should not be responsible to the 
council or any other body for its acts, so long as these are 
within the powers conferred by law, and should be entitled 
to at least a certain minimum appropriation. It should 
have entire control of the appointment of its employees, 
including the health officer. 1 Some general supervision by 

1 In New Jersey a statute requires that the council or other local 
governing body appropriate to the local board of health at least a cer- 
tain annual minimum sum (ten cents per capita of population, which, 
however, is very insufficient for the needs of the average community). 
In that State it has also been ruled that boards of health are not 
merely municipal boards bearing an accountability to the council or 
other local governing body, but that once the latter has appointed the 
board and granted an appropriation it has no further control. Needless 
to say, however, there should be full cooperation between the bodies. 



8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

state health departments over the standards maintained 
by local boards is, however, desirable. 

It does not seem advisable that members be remunerated 
for attendance at meetings, for much of the best service is 
rendered by unpaid boards, while the absence of fees re- 
moves an inducement to make the appointments political 
prizes. In order to secure the benefits of experience the 
terms should be three years or more, not expiring simul- 
taneously, and members should be eligible for re-appoint- 
ment. Meetings should be open to the public and "press" 
except when very unusual circumstances may render " exec- 
utive session " desirable. 

LOCAL POWERS AND PROCEDURE 

The activities of the local authorities are essentially 
executive. Legislative power, strictly speaking, they have 
not, for any regulations which they may make can only 
be in amplification and not in extension of fundamental 
statutes. Nor have they judicial power, for their deci- 
sions are not binding until passed upon by a court of law; 
they cannot decide their own legal suits nor impose pen- 
alties. 

The first requisite for the exercise of authority is legal 
right. In the case of the board of health that right is 
based entirely on the will of the state legislature as ex- 
pressed in the public health statutes. It must ever be 
borne in mind that the board cannot rightfully issue any 
order nor perform any action which is not authorized, either 
expressly or implicitly, by the organic law of the state. 

The board may and should exercise its statutory powers 
in two ways. First, it may act directly upon such pro- 
visions of the statute law as directly provide for the action 
in question. As a rule, however, public health statutes 
make few specific provisions, but are couched in such gen- 
eral terms that to rely directly upon them in executive 
action is an uncertain or inadequate proceeding. Hence 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 9 

it is customary for local boards to adopt local ordinances 
or regulations (sometimes called collectively the " sanitary 
code " or " health code ") based upon and amplifying in 
detail the general provisions of the statutes. Without 
such ordinances effective local work is impossible. The 
great advantage of such ordinances is that they may read- 
ily be framed to suit local conditions and standards. Such 
ordinances have all the force of law except as they may 
be disapproved on legal grounds when tested in courts of 

law. 

Procedure 

Having, then, a legal basis to work on, the health author- 
ities must first make inspections and examinations in order 
to determine whether or not conditions within its juris- 
diction conform to the provisions of the sanitary law. 
Such investigation may take any form so long as it is 
reasonable and has a legitimate object in the protection of 
the public health. This function implies of course the 
" right of entry," i.e., to enter at proper times into and 
upon all premises for the performance of duty, to be en4 
forced by search warrant if necessary. It also implies the 
right to examine persons in order to make diagnoses and 
the right to keep such persons under observation if advis- 
able. Again, it implies the right to take and examine 
bacteriological specimens, such as diphtheria cultures, of 
various kinds; and to collect and examine specimens of 
foods, drugs, etc. In short, the health authority has wide 
powers, to be exercised of course in a reasonable manner, 
of investigating persons, places and things. 

Then, having the authority of sanitary law on the one 
hand and a knowledge of certain facts on the other, the 
board of health proceeds to deliberation as to what action, 
if any, is necessary under the circumstances. If it is 
decided that some action is necessary that a certain 
condition should be remedied then the next step is to 
deal with the person (or persons) responsible for the con- 



10 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

dition. Such person is customarily accorded the right to 
be heard and to present any considerations in his favor 
before action is actually taken. 

The action, when taken, may consist in a formal notice, 
or perhaps simply warning or advice. Finally, if a remedy 
can be effected in no other way, legal suit may be instituted 
against the person responsible for the violation of the 
sanitary law. 1 The board of health rarely takes arbitrary 
action into its own hands and then only when an action 
e.g., the abatement of a nuisance or the destruction of 
infected food is urgently demanded and can be accom- 
plished in no other way. In such instance there must be 
full legal power and a perfectly clear case, and action must 
be strictly in accordance with legal procedure. Even when 
disinfections are performed by the authorities the theory 
is that this is merely a matter of convenience and effec- 
tiveness for private parties who would otherwise have to 
attend to it themselves under official supervision. Where 
specific action is desired the object of the sanitary author- 
ities is to induce that action on the part of private persons 
rather than to undertake the uncertain proceeding of 
themselves intruding into private affairs. 

An order of the board of health (issued usually by its 
health officer) is a notice to the person responsible to the 
effect that a certain condition is contrary to a certain san- 
itary ordinance and directing that person to take action 
to avoid further violation of the law. The action ordered 
may be to improve a milk supply, to alter a tenement, or 
perhaps simply to refrain from further commission of an 
act detrimental to the public health. The person receiving 
the notice then has the option: either to comply with the 
order, or to disregard the order under peril of proceedings 
by the board. Such proceedings may consist in a suit 
instituted by the board to recover the penalty incurred, or, 

1 Or in some instances as a preventive measure (through injunction) 
in advance of a threatened violation. See Part II, Chap. 6. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES II 

in extreme cases, the board itself through its agents reme- 
dying the condition complained of. (For further details 
as to procedure see Part II, Chapters 6 and 7.) In a 
dispute before the law the board and the private party 
have equal rights to be heard and the court will require 
the board to prove its case before giving judgment in its 
favor. The probable attitude of a court of law toward a 
given question should therefore always be borne in mind 
in the deliberations of board and health officer. 

Special Functions 

In addition to the fundamental functions already out- 
lined, health authorities have to maintain certain functions 
of an auxiliary, though none the less an indispensable, 
nature. Laboratory service for bacteriological diagnosis 
and for examination of food, water, etc.; the distribution 
and perhaps administration of antitoxins and vaccines; 
research and publicity work; the registration of the vital 
records of births, marriages and deaths, are the prin- 
cipal of such functions. 

Need of Executive Staff 

Now, how are all these functions actually to be exer- 
cised? The board of health obviously cannot as a body 
undertake such matters as the inspection of many different 
conditions and the collection of the data necessary for wise 
decisions on technical questions; nor can it intelligently 
consider questions of medical 'diagnosis, sanitary and 
diagnostic bacteriology, and the like. The board, more- 
over, is only in session at certain times and there is a great 
deal of business to be handled between sessions. Hence 
it is that inspections and investigations, routine and also 
many matters involving discretionary action and decision 
are delegated by the board to an executive staff headed 
by the health officer. The board therefore simply directs 
in a general manner, leaving discretion in execution and 



12 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

detail to the health officer and his assistants acting on the 
authorization of law and the decisions and established 
policy of the board. i 

THE STAFF 

The Health Officer, 1 or chief sanitary executive, stands 
in a twofold relation to the board of health : first, as expert 
adviser; second, as executer of laws and orders. In other 
words, his duties are: 

(1) To investigate conditions; 

(2) To report upon them to the board, with recommen- 
dations for action; and 

(3) To execute (with the assistance of his staff) the 
specific action authorized as well as the ordinary activities 
of the health department. 

The position of the health officer is thus analogous to 
that of the superintendent of schools, of police, of public 
works in short, of any main branch of the municipal 
government. In Providence, R. I., he is in fact styled 
" Superintendent of Health." He should be responsible 
to the board of health directly and solely. 

Relation to the Public 

In his relation to the public the health officer stands 
as the representative of the board of health. Between 
sessions of the board, which are usually infrequent, he is 
the chief sanitary authority. He receives the complaints 
and petitions of citizens* and puts in effect all feasible 
remedies. While he is presumed to act with the consent 
of the board, if not by its orders, administrative efficiency 

1 The health officer is sometimes known by other titles: as "health 
commissioner" (especially in the larger cities) or g health inspector" 
(in small towns). In Massachusetts he is designated as "agent of the 
board of health." The title as here used refers to the chief sanitary 
executive of the local board of health, whether he act alone or with 
assistance. The term "sanitary inspector" is reserved for subordi- 
nates to the health officer. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 13 

demands that within the law wide latitude be allowed him, 
not only in matters of routine and detail, but also for 
action in emergencies. In many instances the action taken 
is virtually that of the health officer alone, though such 
action, to be valid, must be either preordained or at any 
rate ratified by the board. For example, Massachusetts 
statute law 1 provides that: 

The board of health in a city or town may appoint an agent or 
agents to act for it in cases of emergency or if it cannot be conveniently 
assembled; and any such agent shall have all the authority which 
the board appointing him had; but he shall in each case report his 
action to the board within two days for its approval, and shall be 
directly responsible to it and under its direction and control. 

Relation to the Board 

Such a relationship should be established between the 
board and the health officer that when the latter acts 
reasonably and in accordance with the ordinances and gen- 
eral policy of the board he will be supported by it. Thus, 
by exercising proper discretion the health officer may 
wield a large degree of power without exceeding the proper 
conduct of his office. The degree of discretion which he 
may properly exercise without referring matters to the 
board for action will depend on local law and custom and 
on the nature of the individual case. He should not, of 
course, pass beyond at least a general authorization. 
There should be at once effectiveness of action, legal 
validity of action, and mutual confidence between board 
and health officer. 

One of the tendencies in public health organization at 
the present time is to concentrate sanitary powers, to give 
the chief executive greater power. This favors efficiency, 
provided the executive is still subject to proper checks. As 
Lord Bacon says in his essay on Dispatch: 'There be 
three parts of business; the preparation, the debate or 
examination, and the perfection. Whereof, if you look 
1 Revised Laws, Chap. 75, Sec. 13. 



14 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

for dispatch, let the middle only be the work of many, and 
the first and last the work of few." Such a tendency is 
the natural development of more highly specialized admin- 
istrative powers. To use a mechanical analogy, the 
health officer should be the prime mover, and his staff the 
auxiliary machinery, while the board of health acts as a 
governor. 

Training and Qualifications 

The position of health officer requires both technical 
and administrative ability. The two are distinct and 
equally important. The technical school graduate who 
lacks the ability to put his scientific knowledge into prac- 
tical effect is as badly off as the man of mere experience 
who knows nothing of scientific principles. 

Contrary to the common impression, health officers need 
not necessarily be physicians though a medical training 
is highly useful and there is now some trend toward 
the non-medical, though specially trained, health official. 
Already there are in practice able health officers trained, 
not in medicine, but in sanitary biology or sanitary engi- 
neering. 1 

The technical training necessary to health officers is 
best obtained in a school having a special department 
devoted to this subject. As the most prominent illustra- 
tion of this we may mention the School of Health Officers 
recently instituted under the joint management of Harvard 
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
with courses in all the branches of public health work. 2 

1 Knowles, "Public Health Service Not a Medical Monopoly," 
and Wells, "A Plea for a More General Recognition of the Qualifica- 
tions of the Sanitary Engineer for Administrative Public Health Work," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 2. 

2 See Whipple, " Public Health Education " (with special reference 
to the above school), address before N. Y. State Conf. San. Officers, 
Science, 1914, N. S., vol. XL, p. 581. A number of medical schools 
now give courses leading to public health degrees. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 15 

This school has set an important standard in establishing 
for its graduates a certificate of public health (C.P.H.). 
It is open to all properly qualified students, medical or 
non-medical; a college or technical degree is a preferred 
preparation but is not required in all cases. It is to be 
hoped that courses leading to similar degrees will be es- 
tablished in many universities, on at least the level of the 
engineering departments, and that such a degree or certifi- 
cate from a reputable institution will be made a prerequisite 
for the practice of the public health profession. With 
wider appreciation of the importance of this profession to 
the welfare of the state, no doubt such a desirable condition 
of affairs will be brought about, and the remuneration of 
expert health officers will become adequate to induce men 
to prepare themselves in the manner described. For those 
men who at the present time are engaged in practice as 
health officers or desire to do so but who cannot take a 
regular technical course, some of the state boards of health 
(e.g., New York and Kansas) provide short courses of 
instruction. One state (New Jersey) requires examina- 
tion and licensing of health officers and sanitary inspectors 
but makes no provision for the instruction necessary to 
pass the examination. Home study (as, for example, of 
the references given in the present volume) will supply 
many deficiencies; every health officer owes it to himself 
and his community to maintain and keep up to date a good 
though not necessarily a large library on public health, 
and boards of health should make appropriations for this 
purpose. 

The administrative qualifications of the health officer, 
important though they are, need not be particularly dis- 
cussed here. Those qualities which go to make a good 
executive in any department of human activity ability 
to judge circumstances, to formulate a plan, and through 
energy tempered with tact to <:arry that plan through 
to a successful conclusion are likewise here demanded. 



1 6 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Tact is particularly required in the health officer for the 
reason that he must frequently impose acts and restric- 
tions which are disagreeable to those who are the subjects 
of them. His quarantines may be against unreasoned 
opposition and the health regulations 'may be regarded as 
arbitrary afflictions ; to the property owner he may appear 
as the instigator of unnecessary expenditure and to the 
householder as an uncalled-for disturber of comfortable 
but objectionable habit. Such police work is more 
readily managed in many cases, as every successful health 
officer knows, by tactful persuasion than by legal measures. 
In other words the average man can be convinced without 
much difficulty that to obey regulations is his only prudent 
course. But tact, of course, means more than this. It 
means knowing where to go strongly and where to go 
softly; where to use persuasion and also where, in the 
residuum of difficult cases, to use compulsion. And all 
this must be done without losing direction and momentum 
in the well-defined general campaign which every health 
officer should constantly be carrying on. 

Nature of Work 

In small communities the health officer perhaps works 
single-handed, performing all the executive work of the 
board of health. Even very small places, however, some- 
times divide duties between a " health officer," a physician 
who attends to the direction of the work and to medical 
and bacteriological matters, and an " inspector," his 
assistant, who carries on the routine work of inspections, 
disinfection, etc. In the larger places the health officer 
has several assistants who relieve him of the detail and 
routine work which can be done cheaply and effectively, 
under his direction, by inspectors, clerks, analysts, etc., 
leaving him free for the larger responsibilities of expert 
direction. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 17 

The various special classes of service required in the 
health department staff are as follows: 

I. Inspection Service. Inspectors should be trained 
men having a fundamental knowledge of sanitary principles, 
though of course not nearly so extensive a training as the 
health officer. Milk inspectors and other special employees 
should in addition be specially qualified. Aside from the 
technical knowledge of the duties of his position the in- 
spector should possess dignity and tact. He must be 
neither overbearing nor, on the other hand, lenient, neither 
talkative nor yet taciturn. His words and actions are 
taken by most persons to be the direct and authoritative 
expression of the department, and should be accordingly 
guarded. 

Tact in the inspector involves courtesy and common- 
sense. The two extremes are to be avoided: the inspector 
who threatens and he who may be persuaded or deceived 
into passing over improper conditions. In cases of doubt 
the inspector should not use discretion dangerous in a 
subordinate but should suspend judgment, preserve 
silence, and report the matter to the " office " for decision. 

The inspector, aside from disinfection Muties and the 
like, has two functions : to report on conditions to the health 
officer, and to bear notices and other communications from 
the health officer to private persons. No opinion should 
be expressed by inspectors as to the probable action of the 
office nor comment be made on such action as may have 
been taken. All important communications to individ- 
uals should be made in writing and from the office. Com- 
plaints of an important nature should not be received 
by inspectors but should be made directly to the health 
officer, preferably in writing. Of course such rigid rules 
do not apply to trivial matters which may be set right by 
a simple oral notification by the inspector, and such noti- 
fications should be recognized as a regular part of routine. 
There are instances in which a mere visit of the inspector 



l8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

will be sufficiently impressive to produce the desired action, 
and in such cases formalities are superfluous. Inspectors 
should thus discriminate, though acting on the safe side 
in doubtful cases. 

The common fault of inexperienced inspectors is to miss 
violations and to exaggerate those which they do find; 
the fault of old inspectors, on the other hand, is to grow 
lax in judgment through becoming accustomed to con- 
ditions. To prevent the latter condition it may be desir- 
able to shift inspectors to new districts at not too frequent 
intervals. 

Full-time inspectors should as a rule wear uniforms, 
which are a distinct advantage in impressing certain classes 
of people; for part-time men a badge may be sufficient. 

2. Medical Service. The board of health must have an 
official medical representative. His duty consists very 
largely in making diagnoses in doubtful or suspected cases 
of communicable disease and in determining whether or 
not cases are ready for release from quarantine. Occa- 
sionally also the " medical inspector " or " board of health 
physician," as he may be called, may be required to admin- 
ister antitoxin or perform vaccinations. 

Health authorities practically always have the right to 
investigate doubtful or suspected cases of communicable 
disease. Thus when there are well-founded rumors that 
an unreported case of communicable disease exists, when 
there are " contacts " to be examined or kept under sur- 
veillance, or when two or more physicians disagree as to 
the nature of a case, it is the duty of the board of health 
to detail its medical representative to make an inspection 
and decision. It may also be desirable to subject to con- 
firmation the report of the private physician that his case 
is ready for release from quarantine. And other ques- 
tions of a similar nature may arise. 

If the health officer is a medical man he may naturally 
perform the duties of medical inspector; if he is not, a 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 19 

physician, who may or may not be a member of the board, 
should be designated to perform this function. His posi- 
tion, especially when called upon to decide between the 
conflicting opinions of other practitioners, requires author- 
ity tempered with tact. The board physician may be 
retained at a fixed salary, or, as seems preferable, may 
receive a stipulated fee for each visit, 

The medical inspector of the board of health should not 
be confused with the " city " or " poor " physician. The 
latter is an official of the city government whose duty 
is the treatment of indigent patients, and he is usually 
accountable to some municipal body other than the board 
of health. In such a case it does not seem desirable, 
although possible, that he act as medical inspector for 
the board; the functions are quite distinct and there 
may arise embarrassment in following decisions rendered 
by an officer not subject to the board's appointment. 

3. Public Health Nurse. A comparatively new member 
of the modern board of health staff is the public health 
nurse. It is now recognized by progressive authorities 
that sanitary policing, with its distinct limitations, is not 
the whole of their duty. Everi under the best environ- 
mental conditions obtainable by that method there remain 
ignorance and home conditions springing from it which 
are a constant detriment to the public health. This fact 
was first recognized in the tuberculosis campaign, and, 
later, in the campaign against infant mortality. Tuber- 
culosis patient and mother respectively were sadly in need 
of instruction in home and personal hygiene, and such 
instruction was seen to be the most powerful single weapon 
that could be brought to bear against the 'twin evils. 
Hence the institution of the public health nurse. 

The first duty of the public health nurse is advice and 
instruction, with the object of prophylaxis in the individual 
case: instruction to the mother in the care of her child 
and to the tuberculosis patient in a proper regime and the 



20 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

avoidance of spreading infection. Such instruction should 
be not merely pedantic, but should be combined with en- 
couragement and assistance, the latter to take the form 
of keeping the patient in touch with charitable agencies, 
making hospital arrangements, and the like. She may 
also perform a limited amount of incidental minor nursing 
work, which should be of great assistance in gaining con- 
fidence and impressing her instructions. 1 Finally, she 
should perform incidental inspection, noting conditions 
which she may refer to the sanitary inspectors; thus she 
may readily note matters connected with housing, the 
keeping of quarantine (though she does not ordinarily enter 
quarantined families), and the like. 

The public health nurse should be a trained nurse, pref- 
erably with a social service training such as is now pro- 
vided in connection with some hospitals, dispensaries and 
social settlements. The phases of her work will be brought 
out later under the heads of Tuberculosis and Child Hy- 
giene. 

In the work of the public health nurse the health author- 
ities extend their activity beyond the region of strictly 
public hygiene into that of personal hygiene. Such ex- 
tension may be justified as demanded by the urgent need 
of attacking in their very strongholds the great public 
health problems of tuberculosis and infant mortality. 
Sanitary policing is of little value so long as uninstructed 
and unsupervised consumptives spread germs in their 
families and among their associates in a way beyond such 
policing. The majority of tuberculosis patients cannot 

1 The public health nurse should be distinguished from the "dis- 
trict" or "visiting" nurses, maintained by charitable societies, whose 
work consists almost entirely in nursing care. The public health 
nurse should maintain constant cooperation with such nurses and 
refer to them any of her cases which need special nursing attention. 
See Waters, "Visiting Nursing in the United States" (Charities Pub- 
lication Committee, 105 East 22nd St., New York City), which treats 
of both classes of work. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 21 

and need not be confined in hospitals; hence their home 
life must be regulated through proper training. Again, 
regulation of milk supplies is only a partial measure of 
control of infant morbidity and mortality, and should be 
supplemented by instruction of mothers to the end that 
they may properly regulate the equally important matters 
of feeding, clothing and other care of the infant and the 
ventilation and cleanliness of the home. There is such a 
widespread need of such instruction and such beneficial 
economic and social results follow it that it may well be 
made public. Both of these lines of attack, through the 
public health nurse, were first taken up by private organ- 
izations against tuberculosis some years ago, against 
infant mortality more recently and now that their 
feasibility as public health measures has been demonstrated 
they are due to be taken over by the public authorities. 1 
When this is done the idea of charity should be excluded. 

4. Laboratory Service. Every board of health requires 
laboratory service, and the laboratory should be near at 
hand. If it is necessary to send samples of milk and water 
and diagnostic specimens to a state laboratory at a dis- 
tance, there are necessarily inconveniences, disadvantages 
and even inaccuracies involved. The importance of 
prompt reports on diphtheria cultures, for example, is 
obvious. Laboratory work may wholly or in part be 
performed by the health officer, or it may be performed by 

1 Even where the health authorities cannot as yet command the 
funds to maintain one or more public health nurses, they may, by 
conferring upon those privately maintained, the appointment of special 
inspector, with right to wear a badge, give them a valuable prestige 
and secure closer cooperation. Where this has been done it has proved 
a practical preliminary to assuming public maintenance of the nurse. 
In such a case the nurse acts only incidentally as inspector, so that 
practically the health authorities do not assume to control her gen- 
eral activities and there need be no conflict on that point. It scarcely 
needs be said that the private organization employing the nurse must 
be convinced of the desirability of this -step and should make formal 
application for it. 



22 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

a private bacteriologist by special arrangement, but in 
places where there is any great amount of it a bacteriologist 
and chemist should be employed. Some points in con- 
nection with small board of health laboratories are taken 
up in Appendix D. 

5. Veterinary Service. In connection with supervision 
of milk supplies and of slaughtering, and in the control of 
communicable diseases among animals, the board of health 
may appoint its own veterinarian. Examinations of dairy 
cattle by the official veterinarian are more satisfactory than 
the reports of private veterinarians, though the former plan 
may mean a considerable expense to the health department. 

6. Labor. The board of health requires a certain 
amount of service in the shape of labor, clerical and manual, 
more or less expert. This head includes office clerks; also 
laborers who may be employed in abatement of mosquito- 
breeding places, and the like. 

7. Legal Counsel and Service. Law, next to sanitation, 
is the subject on which the board most frequently requires 
expert advice and service. The board usually appoints, 
therefore, a counsel or attorney. His duties consist in 
giving advice on all sorts of legal questions, the criticism 
and drafting of ordinances, resolutions and forms, and 
the trying of cases. He stands outside of the regular 
organization of the staff, and is commonly employed on a 
salary rather than a fee system. Frequently this work 
is taken care of by the regular town or city attorney, 
though some boards appoint their own counsel. Though 
he should not be a member of the board, the presence of 
the counsel at board meetings is indispensable. 

Aside from counsel, it is essential that the health officer 
himself have a thorough understanding of the main prin- 
ciples of the sanitary law and of the state and local laws 
under which he must work. Some of the legal principles 
underlying board of health work are discussed in Part II, 
Chapter 7. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 23 

The office of the board of health should be conducted 
like any well-ordered business office. It should be readily 
accessible to the public and convenient office-hours should 
be kept, provision being made for receiving bacteriological 
specimens at all reasonable hours say until 5 p.m. or 
even later. In the larger towns a clerk should be employed 
to take charge of the office while the health officer is out, 
and to answer questions, receive telephone calls, issue per- 
mits and attend to the general routine. The office should 
be open for one or two 'stated hours on Sundays and holi- 
days. In order to attend promptly to communicable 
disease and to receive instructions, sanitary inspectors 
should report to the office at appointed hours, say at. 
8 a.m., I p.m. and 4.30 p.m. Modern recording devices 
should be installed, e.g., card catalogs for shifting records 
and indexes. On account of the possibility of misplacing 
cards, book records are probably superior for permanent 
serial records, such as those of births, marriages and deaths 
and communicable disease. All such records should be 
kept in safes or vaults. Notices and letters should be 
typewritten and duplicates kept on file. An office rail 
for the separation of visitors is a desirable feature. 

The health officer's library should include such standard 
works as are referred to in the present volume, and should 
be kept quite up to date by the purchase of new and 
authoritative volumes. Among periodicals the American 
Journal of Public Health 1 is indispensable; current num- 
bers and bound volumes of previous years should be kept 
for reference. Bulletins published by various state and' 
municipal departments of health may ordinarily be ob- 
tained regularly on application, as well as several of the 
Federal publications e.g., the Public Health Reports, 
Bulletins of the Hygienic Laboratory, monthly list of the 
Department of Agriculture publications, etc. 

1 See p. 98. 



24 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

THE NATURE OF SANITARY AUTHORITY 

The supervision of the public health is based on the gen- 
eral police power of the state, using both terms in their 
broadest sense. That power involves the right of the 
state to regulate the conduct of citizens in such a way that 
their acts or omissions do not materially and unreasonably 
injure other citizens. As society grows more complex the 
exercise of that power involves more extended functions. 
Most of these are prohibitive in character, though some 
of the auxiliary functions, such as publicity work and 
the establishment of dispensaries and hospitals, are con- 
.structive. The latter have been fostered by the growing 
cooperation of health departments with organized char- 
ities and other social service organizations. 

The sovereign power of the state, as expressed through 
legislature, delegates sanitary functions to certain official 
bodies and individuals commonly to boards of health 
-who thus obtain their powers through statute law. 
That law is presumed to represent the kind and degree 
of authority which the people at any time desire to confer 
on their servants in sanitary administration. It is neces- 
sarily granted in general terms which are subject to inter- 
pretation by the courts. 

Sanitary Powers and their Definition. From time 
immemorial powers of an extraordinary and sweeping 
character have been reposed in sanitary authorities. The 
arbitrary and summary power to deprive persons of lib- 
erty and property, to check wholly or partly commercial 
operations, and to disturb civic life to any extent deemed 
necessary to avert menaces to public health, has in the 
past been commonly conferred upon them. The Courts, 
in reviewing their acts, have usually given them the benefit 
of the doubt if there was any defensible ground for the ex- 
ercise of those large powers. The following opinion exem- 
plifies the traditional attitude of the Courts towards them: 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 25 

Their action is intended to be prompt and summary. They are 
clothed with extraordinary powers for the protection of the commu- 
nity. . . and it is important that their proceedings should be delayed 
as little as possible. Delay might defeat all beneficial results; the 
necessity of the case, and the importance of the public interests at 
stake, justify prompt action. 1 

Such powers were from the beginning based upon public 
fear in the face of epidemic disease. It has been said by 
Kipling that a doctor can by raising a red cross in a desert 
turn it into a center of population, and by hoisting a 
yellow flag in a center of population turn it into a desert. 

That far-reaching powers are still conceded to sanitary 
authorities is indicated by the opinion (more recent than 
that just quoted) handed down in the Montclair (N. J.) 
tuberculin-test case. In this opinion the Court said that 
" If the life of one child is endangered by the possible 
communication of tuberculosis through cows' milk extreme 
prudence may be proper " in the regulation of the milk 
supply. 2 

Definition of Sanitary Powers 

There is, however, at the present time a clear tendency 
to define the powers of health authorities more exactly 
and to confine them within closer ordinary limits. This 
is the logical sequel of a more exact sanitary science. 
In the process of legal definition the sanitary functions 
have, it is true, in some instances been extended, but more 
often they have been curtailed. This more critical atti- 
tude of the courts has recently been exemplified in the 
" dip milk " decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of 
Massachusetts, by which the power of a local board of 
health in that state to make and enforce a regulation for- 
bidding the sale of " dip " or " loose " milk was denied. 
The Court ruled that the general statute under which 

1 Opinion by Justice Wells in Salem v_. Eastern R. R. Co., 98 Mass. 
43 1 . 4335 quoted in Massachusetts Manual for Boards of Health, 1899. 

2 See Appendix C. v 



26 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the board of health assumed to act was not broad enough 
to give the authority in question. ' This statute," reads 
the opinion, " does not give the board power to make regu- 
lations as to all matters affecting the public health. . . . 
Milk kept in a vessel, as this was kept by the defendant, 
was not a ' nuisance, source of filth, or cause of sickness,' 
which gave the board of health jurisdiction to take any 
action or make any regulation under the [statute]." 1 Thus, 
although the powers conferred by the statute were very 
general a strict interpretation was placed upon them by 
the Court. Not many years ago the right of a board of 
health to dictate such a rule under such general powers 
would doubtless have gone unquestioned in the courts. 

Other examples of the critical spirit of legislatures and 
courts are not far to seek. Laws are much more specific 
than formerly and more frequently mandatory, rather than 
merely permissive. The reserve powers of sanitary author- 
ities formerly much exceeded their duties; now powers 
and duties come nearer to coinciding. To get things done 
it is found necessary to define them and assign them defi- 
nitely to certain authorities. The precise terms and wide 
scope of the state and federal " pure food " laws are an 
instance in point. If the problem is quantitative it is 
becoming more common to establish exact legal standards, 
both to facilitate administration and to limit the exercise 
of authority. Courts now call for expert testimony and 
discuss fine quantitative points, as in the well-known 
Chicago Drainage Canal case, in which the question was 

1 Com. v. Drew, Opinion dated April 4, 1911, quoted in The Banker 
and Tradesman, Boston, vol. 43, no. 16, p. 921; cf. Jour. Am. Pub. 
Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, no. 6, p. 466; also discussion by Jordan, 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 2. A similar decision was 
later handed down by the Superior Criminal Court of Massachusetts 
in regard to a rule requiring that fruit exposed for sale be protected 
from contamination by dust. To obviate the barrier raised by the 
" dip milk " decision, a statute has since (in 1912) been adopted by the 
Massachusetts Legislature. 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 27 

to decide just how harmful sewage from the city of Chicago, 
discharged into the Mississippi River, was to the citizens 
of St. Louis who used the waters of the latter for drinking 
purposes. 

All of this indicates that henceforth boards of health 
must be prepared to show due and full cause for the meas- 
ures which they take. At the same time, as the court 
remarked in the Montclair tuberculin- test case, " the action 
of a local board in adopting measures for the protection of 
public health will not be set aside by the Court if the board 
has acted reasonably upon evidence that might satisfy a 
reasonable man." A certain degree of discretion (e.g., for 
emergencies) must clearly be allowed to sanitary authorities, 
and the organic public health law, as interpreted by the 
courts, is usually capable of flexible application in the fram- 
ing of ordinances. The Courts simply require that such 
application be demonstrably justifiable and reasonable 
within the general powers conferred by statute. 

ADMINISTRATION 

Efficiency in Local Work. This is not the place to 
discuss the necessity of keeping public health work entirely 
free from harmful political influences, of obtaining and 
keeping efficient sanitary officers, and the like. Merit 
systems of employment and the consideration of budgets 
entirely on their merits (movements which are fortunately 
gaining ground) are matters of the larger question of 
municipal government as a whole. Something, however, 
may be said as to appropriations and the ways of using 
them. 

The majority of boards of health in this country are 
working on appropriations much smaller than thorough 
public health work calls for. But even so the question 
may be asked, whether the majority of departments are 
employing even the limited funds they have to the best 



28 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

advantage. For until they can demonstrate that they are, 
they must be judged in some degree unworthy of the trust 
implied in greater appropriations. 

It may be premised at once that the way to spend a 
small appropriation is not to spread it out thin over the 
whole possible field of endeavor, but to concentrate upon a 
very few specific problems and those of greatest local 
importance. Only in this way can results be obtained and 
demonstrated as the basis for further demands upon the 
public confidence and the city treasury. But such work 
must be persistent as well as concentrated. Too many 
boards of health either range in a desultory way over a 
scattered and unsystematized field, or else, while usually 
limiting their activities to the necessities forced upon 
them, they arise at intervals to spasmodic and spectacular 
" campaigns " such as " swat the fly," " clean-up," and 
whatnot. Such an " outburst method " may have some 
transient results, which, however, very quickly die out 
unless sustained by continued and systematic adminis- 
trative effort. 

The dangers of exaggeration are to be guarded against. 
Health officers can be impressive in their statements, 
reports and appeals without departing from the truth, 
which is frequently quite as striking as need be. Exag- 
gerated promises lead to work for the sake of superficial 
results or to practice which is " ultra vires " that is, ex- 
ceeding legal powers; while exaggerated reports of results 
achieved assumes undue responsibility for the health 
authorities and weakens subsequent requests for funds 
for work still needed. Public health programs cannot 
be accomplished in a day, and, once a proper basis is estab- 
lished, steady progress recorded in accurate reports is the 
only legitimate aim. 

The Problems of Small Communities. Many small 
communities have a peculiar problem in that they cannot 
afford to employ an expert, full-time health officer and to 



LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 29 

maintain the organization necessary for thorough public 
health work. Such communities have to depend upon a 
busy practitioner, whose chief interest is in medical prac- 
tice, for part of his time, with perhaps an inexpert assistant. 
Laboratory work is minimized and, it may be, sent to a 
distant state laboratory. It is true that some part-time 
health officers with limited means for organization do 
overcome the disadvantages and render conscientious and 
effective service to their communities, but in many such 
instances it is impossible to obtain adequate service in 
this way. 

To meet such a situation the plan of joint sanitary ad- 
ministration has been proposed. Under this plan several 
contiguous communities, too small to afford expert health 
service, unite in the employment of a trained health officer 
and the maintenance of a joint health office. Thus can be 
secured the services of a full-time competent and properly 
salaried officer who combines and systematizes the work 
of the various communities in such a way as to give them 
adequate service with little or no increase in appropria- 
tions, or at any rate at the lowest economical cost. A 
joint laboratory would be maintained, with a bacteriologist 
whose concentrated expert services would be preferable to 
the scattered private examinations which would otherwise 
be necessary. There would be either joint inspectors, or, 
if preferred, local inspectors directed by the joint execu- 
tive. It is interesting to note, in passing, that the same 
principle has been widely applied, with success, in another 
field that of education in the consolidation of rural 
schools, by which all the schools in a district are placed 
under a single superintendent and system maintained and 
controlled jointly by the communities concerned. Coop- 
erative public health administration is one of the most 
important of modern developments, and promises to solve 
the problem of efficient but economical service for all 
small communities which can and will join forces for 



30 * A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

mutual benefit. 1 Of the problem of the more rural dis- 
tricts something will be said in the following chapter. 

REFERENCES 

Reports of the Committee of the American Public Health Associa- 
tion on Organization and Functions of Municipal Health Depart- 
ments, published in Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912 and following years. 

Blanchard, "Modern Board of Health Methods in a Small Town," 
and Gunn, "Modern Board of Health Methods in Small Cities," 
Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, no. 5, pp. 369, 373. 

1 Such a plan is in effect at the present time at Wellesley, Mass., in- 
cluding several of the neighboring towns. It was outlined in a paper 
by E. B. Phelps, "An Experiment in Public Health Administration," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 9, and is reported upon in 
full by him in Public Health Rpts., Sept. 25, 1914, vol. XXIX, no. 39. 
For a summary of this important work see Appendix F of the present 
volume. A certain degree of cooperation on a similar principle has also 
been established between the Board of Health of Montclair, N. J., and 
some neighboring small towns. At Wilmington, N. C., a consolidation 
of city and county boards of health has been effected. 



CHAPTER II 
STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 

Just as local health authorities care for public health 
among the individuals which compose the local community, 
so state authorities exert power in those matters which 
are common to communities throughout the state. State 
health departments represent a later form of organization 
than the local, having been called into existence by the 
natural development of sanitary questions of state-wide 
import. 

Originally, as shown by the creative statute of Massa- 
chusetts (which had the first state board in the United 
States), the functions of the state board were entirely 
advisory in character; the board was to " make investi- 
gations," " gather information for diffusion among the 
people," and make " suggestions as to legislative action." 
This is still, perhaps, the most important function of state 
boards of health. But of recent years there have been 
added, according to the exigencies of state-wide action, 
certain functions of an executive nature. These are exem- 
plified in supervision of foods and drugs, of water-supplies, 
and of sewage disposal, and in the comprehensive registra- 
tion of vital statistics. And the executive sphere of state 
action will doubtless continue to increase. 

On the other hand limitations and conservative policies 
restrain state health authorities from interfering in matters 
which can be dealt with by the local authority, except 
when these have a truly state or inter-community bearing, 
i.e., when other districts than the one in question are injured 

31 



32 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

or threatened. There is a tendency at the present time 
to keep the degree of supervision of the state over local 
boards of health very slight, too slight, in fact, in many 
instances, to insure the maintenance of proper minimum 
standards by those boards. 



ADVISORY FUNCTIONS OF STATE 
AUTHORITIES 

Under the head of advisory functions state health author- 
ities maintain the following classes of activities. 

1 . Investigation. Progressive state departments carry 
on various kinds of research laboratory, statistical and 
in the field such as experimental work in bacteriology 
and chemistry in their sanitary applications, statistical 
and field investigations of conditions and administration 
throughout the state, and the like. A great deal of the 
information gathered is used in public enlightenment and 
in advice to local boards of health. 

2. Expert Advice and Information to Local Boards of 
Health. Problems in the control of communicable disease 
constitute the largest class of matters concerning which 
state advice is sought. Such service is invaluable in con- 
nection with epidemics, as also when a rare disease appears. 
Local authorities show wisdom in seeking state cooperation 
in any situation which is difficult or which threatens to 
become so. Such a move does not signify local incompe- 
tence, but prudence. Every state department should 
have in its staff trained epidemiologists, specialists who are 
much more expert in dealing with the unusual aspects of 
communicable disease than the local health officer can 
possibly be, and to seek their services is frequently wisdom 
on the part of the latter. This is especially true in the 
smaller towns, where experience of communicable disease 
is limited. Frequently application for a state inspector 
in the early stages of an epidemic in such a town will result 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 33 

in obtaining advice which will clear up a situation which 
might otherwise have resulted disastrously. In case there 
is public apprehension, resistance or criticism, they are 
abated in the presence of state authority. The state 
inspector, furthermore, will recognize the larger aspects of 
an epidemic: e.g., the possible danger of spread of the 
infection to other communities through milk-supplies or 
by the traveling of infected persons. It is for such reasons 
that cases of communicable disease occurring on dairy 
premises or among dairy employees should be dealt with 
by the state authorities; in some states the law requires 
that they be so controlled. 

Under the head of laboratory service to local boards, 
bacteriological service in the diagnosis of communicable 
disease, when the local board has no facilities, is usually 
furnished. Thus boards of health and physicians in small 
places may transmit cultures of diphtheria, etc., to the state 
bacteriologist for examination. This procedure, as already 
remarked, is by no means ideal, yet may be the best avail- 
able. 

Other valuable laboratory service to local boards is 
frequently provided; thus in some states diphtheria anti- 
toxin, Pasteur treatment for rabies and other sera are 
furnished. In the same way samples of water and foods 
(especially milk) may be analyzed for the local authorities, 
with advice on the analytical results. Some state boards 
provide outfits of prophylactic solution for free distribution 
to physicians and midwives for the prevention of oph- 
thalmia neonatorum (see p. 240). 

Special questions somewhat beyond the province of the 
local counsel on legal procedure, proposed ordinances, 
powers and the like may be submitted to state health 
authorities or state attorney-general for advice. The 
state authorities should have a close familiarity with the 
statutory health powers and with the ordinances adopted 
by the various local boards of health and how these have 



34 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH 'OFFICERS 

worked out in practice and before the Courts ; and should 
consequently be able to render effective advice on all 
such matters. 1 

3. Cooperation with Local Authorities in Raising 
Standards of Administration. State departments are 
in a position to standardize methods and forms and to devise 
plans for uniform composition and reporting of certain 
data, especially statistical data. There is unquestionably 
a great deal of confusion and ineffectiveness among local 
boards which might be removed by such means. Without 
the repression of the experimental and practical diver- 
gencies which must necessarily and properly exist among 
local boards, a common agreement upon the main results 
to be aimed at, the principal recognized methods of at- 
tack and the terms in which results are to be expressed 
is one of the chief needs of the present day. 

A most important opportunity of state departments 
consists in arranging for state conferences at which the health 
officers from the various communities meet for reading 
of papers and discussion of the many pressing questions 
arising out of their work. Such conferences have been 

1 As an example of effective information to local authorities we may 
mention the valuable "Public Health Manual" issued by the New 
York State Department of Health for the guidance of local health 
officers and boards. It contains not only the public health law, but 
also model sanitary regulations, instructions to health officers and to 
registrars, instructions regarding the various communicable diseases, 
and other useful matter relative to state and local boards of health. 
Bender's "Health Officer's Manual and Public Health Law of the 
State of New York" supplements this, containing annotations on the 
law, an explanation of powers and duties of local health authorities, 
recommended sanitary regulations, state department information 
for officials and private individuals regarding communicable diseases, 
and forms (pub. Bender and Co., Albany, N. Y.). The Manual of 
the Laws relating to the Public Health, issued by the Massachusetts 
State Board of Health, fills a similar need in collating laws and court 
decisions. Such studies and codifications of the health laws are highly 
useful and should be available in every state. 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 35 

held with excellent effect in New York, Connecticut, New 
Jersey and other states. At least an annual, and prefer- 
ably a quarterly, conference should be held in every state. 
Conferences may be held not only at the state capital, but 
also at various convenient points in the state. Each 
health officer should have a general authorization from his 
board to attend such conferences, and legislative provi- 
sion should be made that each municipality pay the neces- 
sary expenses of its health officer (and perhaps certain 
other employees) incurred in such attendance. At such 
conferences peculiarly local problems are discussed and 
invaluable opportunity afforded local officers to meet the 
state officials and one another. We may add that experi- 
ence has shown the advisability of forming a state health 
officers' association, which cooperates with the state health 
authorities in calling conferences, arranging programs for 
them, and stimulating interest on the part of the local 
officials. 

State authorities have an important duty to perform in 
endeavoring to raise the professional standard of health 
officers and inspectors. This it may do by obtaining 
through legislation a minimum legal standard for the quali- 
fications of sanitary officers, and by providing for the 
instruction of such men (either practicing or as candidates 
for office) as may be deficient in any subjects. The State 
Departments of Health of New York and Kansas, for 
example, maintain regular courses for health officers in 
sanitary science and laboratory practice. 1 In New Jersey 
there has been in operation since 1904 a law requir- 
ing that all health officers and sanitary inspectors practic- 
ing in the state hold a license from the State Board of 
Health, such license to be granted only upon passing 
written and oral examinations. This particular plan has 
certainly improved the average qualifications of local 

1 It has been suggested that good results might be obtained from 
correspondence courses (Trask, in Pub, Health Rpts., Sept. 4, 1914). 



36 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

officers through the elimination of unfit candidates. It is 
based upon a good principle and would yield much better 
results were it not for two serious obstacles. One of these 
is the lack, in that State, of means of instruction for actual 
or prospective sanitary officers; the other, more deeply 
rooted, is the failure of many municipalities to pay a 
sufficient salary to induce such officers to prepare them- 
selves by adequate study for their positions. In this pass, 
since there is an insufficient number of properly qualified 
men and the state authorities cannot therefore reasonably 
attempt to force local communities, the law is only partly 
fulfilled. Nevertheless, it points the way to a truly effec- 
tive system of qualifying and licensing health officers and 
inspectors. 

Spme state departments maintain a bulletin service, one 
of the objects of which is to keep in touch with local 
health officers and boards on matters of administrative 
interest. (The bulletin as a means of publicity will be 
spoken of later.) Such a bulletin is a very important 
factor in raising and supporting high standards and in 
disseminating important information and advice. Changes 
in the health laws, new regulations promulgated by the 
state health department, ordinances of special interest 
adopted by local boards, advances in sanitary science and 
practice, the communicable disease situation, and many 
other matters are by this means presented fresh to the 
local official. Subjects which have been or will be dis- 
cussed in conferences may be introduced and important 
papers presented at the conferences may be printed. 
Concise abstracts of articles published in various profes- 
sional periodicals and the like may be printed for the 
perusal of the busy health officer. The Departments 
of Health of New York, Massachusetts, Virginia, Kansas, 
North Carolina, California and other states maintain such 
bulletins with excellent effect. However much popular 
matter or statistical tabulations such a bulletin may con- 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 37 

tain, a generous share of space should be allotted directly 
to the interests and needs of the local board and health 
officer. 

4. Cooperation with Universities. Opportunities for 
mutual benefit lie in cooperation of state health depart- 
ments with educational institutions which carry on work 
in sanitary science and public health. The plan has been 
adopted, with some success, between state boards and 
state universities, in some of the states. While as yet 
the idea is in a tentative stage, there are undoubtedly 
advantages in such cooperation under favorable circum- 
stances. 1 Under such an arrangement the state health 
authorities may be enabled to profit by the services of 
expert university specialists, to obtain more extensive 
research work than otherwise, and to have the use of 
well-equipped laboratories and libraries without great 
expenditure; while the university instructors have the 
opportunity for research and service in practical fields, 
and the university students for study of professional prac- 
tice and problems at first hand. 

5. Publicity. In publicity work state health depart- 
ments have a wide and important field. The newspaper 
press deserves special mention as being the most powerful 
means of publicity today. A great deal of the data col- 
lected by state authorities can be worked up into readable, 
and at the same time educative, press material instead of 
being simply filed away in official reports or even bulletins. 
Those state health departments which carry on a regular, 
active press service for the newspapers are taking by far 
the shortest route to the public mind. 

Many state health departments issue for popular instruc- 
tion printed matter, such as bulletins, circulars, posters and 
the like. We have mentioned above some of the states 

1 See discussions by representatives of several states before the 
American Public Health Association in" 1910 (Jour. Am. Pub. Health 
Assn., 1911, vol. I, p. 544 ff.). 



38 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

which issue effective periodical bulletins. Such a bulletin 
usually has two objects in view: the benefit of the local 
health officer and the benefit of the public. The former 
object has already been mentioned above. It seems advis- 
able that so far as possible the two classes of matter be 
printed and circulated separately, some going into the 
bulletin for health officers and some into popular bulletins 
and an active press service. 

The annual reports of state boards of health contain 
much matter of interest, but such reports are usually more 
or less delayed and a great deal of the matter would be of 
greater effect if issued more promptly in the shape of press 
news bulletins, and the like. 

Popular exhibits constitute part of the publicity arsenal 
of some state departments. Thus the New Jersey State 
Board of Health maintains a traveling tuberculosis exhibit 
which is successfully shown in various towns under the 
auspices of the local board of health, school authorities, 
an ti- tuberculosis society and other organizations. In 
California and other states exhibit-cars have been fitted 
up and put on the road for short stops in out-of-the-way 
places which it would be impracticable to reach otherwise. 
Exhibits, moved from place to place, stir up local interest 
and stimulate local action, and are therefore highly valuable 
factors in the leadership of the state departments in cam- 
paigns against tuberculosis, for improved milk supplies 
and the rest. 

EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS OF STATE 
AUTHORITIES 

State authorities may exercise executive power when 
a condition existing in one sanitary district affects another 
district, or when the matter to be dealt with affects two 
or more districts in common and is best administered by 
central authority. The various executive activities of state 
authorities may be summarized under the following heads: 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 39 

1. Communicable Disease. When cases of a trans- 
missible disease threaten more than one sanitary district, 
state authorities may have power to institute general 
quarantines and to perform other such executive functions. 
The control of communicable disease on or affecting dairy 
premises (where the infection might be transmitted to 
citizens in another and perhaps far-distant part of the 
state) is an example of the exercise of such power. 

2. Nuisances. When a nuisance located on one sani- 
tary district affects another district, the state authorities 
may have executive power to order abatement, and if 
necessary, to institute legal suit. 

3. Registration of Vital Records. The maintenance 
of a thorough and comprehensive system for the registra- 
tion of records of births, deaths and marriages is the chief 
duty of the state health department. 1 No efficient system 
can be obtained without strong central control, a fact 
which has now been recognized in many of the states. 

The function of the state registrar consists in : 

(1) Inspection of certificates received for the detection 
of inaccuracies and deficiencies which may have escaped 
the notice of the local registrar. 

(2) Filing for permanent legal record and for statis- 
tical purposes. 

(3) Statistical tabulations and study. As regards san- 
itary administration, the publication of good statistical 
reports and studies is the final aim. 

The collection of morbidity records (i.e., records of 
sickness) is another duty of the state authorities. The 
movement in this direction is of comparatively recent 
but promising development. Local health officers are 
required to forward at short intervals to the state depart- 

1 This duty may be lodged with some other department of the 
state government, but it seems altogether most desirable, for reasons 
which will be set forth later, that it should be under the department 
of health. 



40 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ment, not necessarily to the state registrar but rather to 
the division of communicable diseases, statements of the 
local numbers (and sometimes detailed data) of cases of 
communicable diseases. (The requirement may also em- 
brace occupational diseases, epilepsy and other diseases 
reportable by physicians.) The incidence and distribu- 
tion of the cases are noted and studied in various ways. 
They may form the basis for investigation, advice or 
warning in case of unusual local conditions in any instance. 
The mortality records may also be used as a check on the 
completeness of registration of communicable disease, and 
action may be taken to keep the local authorities up to 
their duty in this respect. 

In the development of systems of registration of vital records (using 
that term in the broadest sense), state departments of health have 
large responsibilities and opportunities. At the official head of the 
movement for better mortality statistics is the Federal Bureau of the 
Census, which endeavors to obtain completeness and accuracy in 
the returns throughout the country, as shown, for example, in its distinc- 
tion between "registration" and "non-registration" states. In this 
work it is supported and assisted by the U. S. Public Health Service, 
the Vital Statistics section of the American Public Health Association 
and other organizations. In this work the individual states through 
their departments of health and their registration officers, play a most 
important part. The divergences among the various states in laws 
and methods are wide, but at the present time efforts are being made 
to obtain uniformity in all essentials. Such efforts involve the estab- 
lishment of national standards which should eventually be univer- 
sally adopted throughout the country. 

The requirements for an efficient state registration system may be 
summarized as follows: 

(a) An adequate state registration law, including among others 
the following provisions. 

(b) Uniform blank forms, based upon the best statistical practice, 
prescribed for use throughout the state. 

(c) Legal requirement that the local registrar be an officer of the 
local board of health, rather than the town clerk or other official. 1 

1 In New Jersey a bill was introduced in 1913 (by request of the 
State Health Officers' Association) providing that a local board may 
appoint a registrar who thereupon is entitled to full charge of records 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 41 

(d) Legal provision for sufficient pay to such registrar, either by 
salary or fees, to compensate for efficiency in the performance of 
duty. 

(e) Insistence by the local registrar on prompt filing of all certifi- 
cates and on fullness and accuracy in the same. 

(f) Accurate local transcription and checking of certificates, and 
periodical forwarding of them, as should be required by law, to the 
state registration office, a bureau of the state department of health. 

(g) Finally, systematic watchfulness on the part of the state reg- 
istration authorities over the accuracy and completeness of local re- 
turns, and the power on their part, not only to ensure the performance 
of duty by local registrars, but also to bring suit themselves, if need 
be, against physicians and others responsible for making returns. 

All of which, it is evident, depends largely upon the activity and 
vigilance of the state authorities. 

4. Food and Drugs. The enforcement of the complex 
and far-reaching food and drug laws is best managed by the 
state department of health with its expert inspectors and 
analysts, its special laboratories and its experience over 
a wide area. The state laws on the subject, it may be 
noted, are largely patterned after the Federal Pure Food 
Law. This is fortunate, for differences in the state stand- 
ards in this intricate matter would at once lead to confusion 
and impaired authority. State officials investigate con- 
ditions as to manufacture, storage, transportation and 
distribution, and collect samples for analyst. State 
licenses may be required for certain classes of establish- 
ments, such as bakeries, ice-cream and confectionery 
factories, and the like, which may, however, be required 
to conform to local regulations as well. Through such 
state activity local boards of health are not curtailed 
in their authority, but are relieved of a good deal of spe- 
cialized work of a state-wide character, which they are 
commonly unable properly to perform for themselves. 

of births, marriages and deaths, relieving the town clerk or recorder 
of that duty. The bill was made permissive in order that only those 
boards appreciating the responsibility and prepared to take proper care 
of the records would assume charge of them. 



42 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Altogether this constitutes one of the most effective 
branches of state executive activity. 

In the supervision of milk-supplies, state control has a 
special value in relation to dairies and creameries which 
ship from one part of the state to another. The state 
authorities can readily supervise widely scattered dairies 
as well as the conditions in transit. Later, under the head 
of milk-supplies we shall revert to this point in some detail. 

5. Water Supplies and Sewage Disposal. Arbitrary 
powers of approval or disapproval of the water-supplies 
of municipalities, as based upon sanitary investigation, 
may be conferred upon state boards of health. Thus, 
for example, in Massachusetts, which has one of the oldest 
and most comprehensive laws on the subject, the State 
Board of Health may make rules and regulations for the 
protection of water-supplies, and no municipality may 
introduce a new system of water-supply without the ap- 
proval of the Board. The Board has corresponding powers 
in relation to sewage-disposal throughout the State. Thus 
also the Engineering Division of the Michigan State 
Board of Health, created in 1913, has supervision of all 
sewer and water systems in the State, has power to deal 
with stream pollution, conducts investigations of water- 
supply and sewerage, including V a de wastes, and gives 
advice to municipalities. 

6. Factories, Tenements, etc. State boards of health 
usually have at least general powers of inspection and 
sanitary control of factories and tenements, and sometimes 
of schools. This function includes also sanitary super- 
vision of the public institutions of the state, such as prisons, 
hospitals, etc. In Massachusetts, for example, factory 
and other inspections were until recently 1 performed by 
a body of State Inspectors of Health under the State 
Board of Health, their investigations being published in a 
series of annual reports. Owing, however, to the specialized 

1 Transferred in 1913 to the State Bureau of Labor and Industries. 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 43 

nature of tenement and factory inspection and to the fact 
that the questions of safety as well as health are involved, 
there is a tendency to assign these matters to special de- 
partments of the state government distinct from the health 
department, while matters of school hygiene are being left 
more largely to the educational authorities. 

7. Transportation and Marine Quarantine. Writing 
in 1900 on the status of public hygiene in the United States, 
Dr. Abbott (in a monograph for the U. S. Commission to 
the Paris Exposition) remarked of railway sanitation: 

At the present time almost the only legislation on this subject is 
that which exists in a few states in relation to the transportation of 
dead bodies, and specially regarding the bodies of those who have 
died of infectious diseases. Yet, it is a matter of certainty that a 
living, breathing human being, sick with an infectious disease, is a 
far greater danger to persons in his immediate proximity, than the 
body of one who has died of the same disease, and is enclosed in a coffin. 
. . . Legislation intended for the protection of the traveler from the 
sick and living is of far more importance than that which is designed 
to protect him from the dead. 

Now, fortunately, broader views are taken of the hygiene 
of transportation than those entertained by the state 
authorities and legislators of that date. Sanitation on 
board trains and boats and in railroad stations; the aboli- 
tion of the common drinking cup and towel in trains, 
stations and other public places; the sanitation of road- 
beds in relation to the spread of disease through the drop- 
ping of excreta (particularly through the pollution of 
watersheds through which railroads may run); regulation 
of the care of milk and other foods in transit; restrictions 
on the transportation of infected persons; and other 
related matters are now recognized or beginning to be 
recognized as responsibilities of the state health author- 
ities. The oversight of the sanitation of construction 
camps on railroads is a duty of the same class. 

The quarantine of ports of entry in maritime states is 
sometimes assigned to state authority, although this is a 



44 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

matter varying from state to state, in which the municipal 
government of the port and the Federal Government may 
also have a share. 

8. Manufacture of Antitoxins and Vaccines. The 
state health authorities should properly have supervision 
over the manufacture of all antitoxins and vaccines pro- 
duced in the state. Actually, most if not all such estab- 
lishments engage in interstate trade and are therefore 
subject to supervision by the Hygienic Laboratory of the 
U. S. Public Health Service. In order to provide reliable 
antitoxins and vaccines, at low cost, for local boards and 
private sale, the state health department (as now in several 
states) may by special legislative authorization undertake 
the manufacture and distribution of diphtheria antitoxin, 
smallpox vaccine, typhoid vaccine, Pasteur rabies treat- 
ments and other products of this class. 

9. Hospitals and Sanitoria. The duty of establishing 
and operating, or at least of supervising, hospitals and sani- 
toria for tuberculosis and other diseases may be assigned 
to the state health authorities. Frequently, however, such 
duties are assigned to a separate state department or to the 
counties. 

10. Local Executive Action and Supervision over Local 
Authorities. In exceptional instances the state authorities 
may exercise purely local power in place of that of the local 
board of health. Thus, in New York State, if a muni- 
cipality fails to establish a board of health, the state 
commissioner is authorized to act instead, appointing a 
health officer and fixing his duties and compensation, 
the latter being paid by the municipality. Again, in 
Indiana, the state board of health is empowered to remove 
local health officers for incompetence. In Massachusetts 
the state board has coordinate powers with the local 
board. Powers overruling those of the local authorities 
are, however, reserved for unusual circumstances, as are 
coordinate powers, which moreover may result in division 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 45 

or clashing of authority. The usual way for state author- 
ities to stimulate and assist local authorities is through 
cooperative advice, and such powers as they may hold 
over the latter are properly designed chiefly to insure a 
minimum degree of activity. 

An instance of state action in local affairs for the pro- 
tection of the people of the state in general may be seen 
in New York. There serious problems are found in sum- 
mer resorts, where certain unsanitary conditions exist as 
a detriment to vacationists coming from other places. 
The great increase in population in such places during 
the summer months is in itself a serious matter, meaning 
increased problems of water-supply, milk-supply and the 
disposal of wastes. Such problems the local authorities 
perhaps cannot or will not cope with. The New York 
State Health Department has opened up a promising line 
of attack in making a survey of all summer resorts in the 
state and publishing in its monthly bulletin or in the 
newspaper press the names and locations of those estab- 
lishments which fail to comply with repeated orders to 
eliminate unsanitary conditions. While such action is not 
strictly executive, it has much the same effect in taking the 
place of local action. 

There is a sentiment in some quarters that state health 
authorities should exercise a greater degree of supervision 
over the activities of local authorities. If the state depart- 
ment is thorough and alive to the best practice, some sort of 
regular inspection service to insure adequate local organiza- 
tion and methods is very desirable. In New York State (see 
below) such supervision goes so far as to take over the func- 
tions of the rural local boards, the latter being abolished. 

In the performance of its executive functions the state 
board of health acts in the same manner as the local board : 
it has the power to make regulations, to inspect and exam- 
ine, to deliberate, notify, warn, . advise, and, finally, if 
necessary, to institute legal proceedings. 



46 A MANUAL FOR. HEALTH OFFICERS 

STATE ORGANIZATION 

In general two different forms of state organization 
exist, according to whether the supreme power is vested 
in a board or in a commissioner. 

In nearly all of the states the former is the case. Thus 
in Massachusetts, where the earliest state board was estab- 
lished, that board consists of " seven persons, one of whom 
shall be annually appointed by the governor, with the 
advice and consent of the [governor's] council, for a term 
of seven years." The members serve without compen- 
sation (though this is not the case in all states), and the 
board has long been noted for its high personnel. Such 
a board must of course have an executive officer, analogous 
to the local health officer, to direct the work of its staff. 
This officer is usually the " secretary," though sometimes 
the president of the board or a specially appointed " health 
commissioner." 

The second plan is well illustrated in New York State, 
where a radical change was adopted in 1901, confirmed by 
the reorganization law of 1913, by the abolition of the 
state board of health and the substitution of a state " com- 
missioner of health " having all the powers and performing 
all the duties of the former board. For his guidance and 
support, the New York Commissioner has the assistance 
of an Advisory Council consisting of two laymen, one 
sanitary engineer, three physicians and the commissioner. 
In Pennsylvania a similar plan, with even more local power, 
is in operation. The New York plan combines the advan- 
tages of concentrated executive control with the stability 
of a competent deliberative board. 

Attention has recently been called 1 to the predominant 
influence which the medical profession has exerted and 
still exerts in state (as well as local) boards of health. 
Although that profession has unquestionably played a 

1 See footnote p. 14. 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 47 

large part in the development of public hygiene, and 
should have a representation on every such board, never- 
theless hygiene has widened and become more and more 
specialized until we can see that several other classes of 
men are needed on our health boards. The founder of 
modern public health science Pasteur it must be 
remembered, was not a physician, but a chemist, biologist 
and bacteriologist; and he has been followed by a company 
of other specialists in those sciences, as well as by sanitary 
engineers and social workers who have done much to 
further the public health. It is interesting to note that 
such facts were taken into account by the far-seeing State 
Sanitary Commission of Massachusetts over sixty years 
ago when it recommended that the state board include, 
besides two physicians, " one counsellor at law, one chem- 
ist, one natural philosopher, one civil engineer and two per- 
sons of other profession or occupation, all properly qualified 
for the office." And the importance of representation other 
than medical has increased since that time, for, as the 
public health specialist develops, the need for the medical 
man lessens. As for the chief sanitary executive of the 
state, while strict requirements as to professional training 
and accomplishment should be upheld, requirements that 
he be necessarily a physician might well be abolished, 
while professional sanitarians and others who in any proper 
way have achieved the requisite qualifications as sanitary 
administrators are entitled to an equal chance. 

Details of organization and procedure, differing as they 
do from state to state, need not be taken up here. Every 
well-organized state health department has, working under 
its general administration, divisions (actually if not nomi- 
nally) of vital records, of communicable disease, of general 
sanitary inspection, of foods and drugs, of water-supplies 
and sewerage, and of publicity, and the necessary acces- 
sory laboratories. It relies upon the attorney-general and 
legal department of the state for legal advice and services, 



48 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

and may cooperate to a greater or less extent with the 
state educational authorities, agricultural or livestock 
authorities and others whose activity bears in any special 
way upon the public health of the state. The Massachu- 
setts Department has a corps of Inspectors of Health, 
each resident in a district, who carry on investigations 
and furnish advice to the authorities of local communities. 
The New York plan of state supervisors for rural districts 
is described below. 

State Sanitary Supervision. Of recent years growing 
attention has been paid to the inadequacy of the sanitary 
service in rural districts throughout the country. This 
attention comes late, for, while the cities have been 
forced, by the conspicuous and obviously pressing nature 
of their public health problems, to make some sort of 
provision for health service, in the country districts the 
problems have not been so concentrated and apparent. 
Nevertheless it is now a fact familiar to those familiar with 
the conditions that rural health administration in this 
country is to a large extent inadequate, both as to funds 
and as to the methods of their expenditure. 

Statistics show that death rates in the rural districts 
are not decreasing equally with those in the cities, and in 
some cases are actually stationary. 1 

Moreover, conditions in the rural districts do not affect 
those districts alone, but have a pronounced bearing upon 
the health of the towns and cities and constitute a state- 
wide problem. This is clear when we consider the inter- 

1 " The January [1914] number of the State Charities Aid Associa- 
tion News, New York, prints an interesting chart comparing the fall in 
the death rates from all causes of New York City and Rural New York 
State (villages of less than 8000) for the period 1900-1913. During this 
time the city rate fell from 20.6 to 13.7 per 1000, while the rural rate 
changed from 15.5 to 15.4 per 1000. Because of this showing the State 
Grange recommended to the State Commissioner of Health that a divi- 
sion of rural hygiene be added to the State Health Department." 
Jour. Outdoor Life, April, 1914. 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 49 

communication, both of persons and of commodities, 
between town and country, which modern organization 
and transportation facilities have made possible. Thus 
the transportation of milk and other food supplies from 
rural to urban districts regular, great in volume and 
rapid in transit constitutes an open channel for the 
infections which occur in country districts. Again, defi- 
ciencies in rural sanitation may endanger city water- 
supplies drawn from surface sources in the country. And 
again, the interchange of persons between city and country, 
which is now very frequent country people visiting the 
city and city people spending their long vacations and even 
their short holidays in the country favors the inter- 
change of infections. 

The fact, alone that the flow of potentially infected 
food-supplies is from the country to the city and from 
single points in the country for wide distribution in the 
city overshadowing other considerations less clear and 
apparently less important, indicates that on the whole the 
city has the worse side of the bargain. And this is true in 
greater degree in instances where insanitation prevails in 
the country and at least fairly good sanitation in the 
city. 

Nor does criticism of rural districts apply only to strictly 
agricultural regions. It includes also many small towns 
of an industrial or semi-industrial character, grouped, fre- 
quently, about a small factory, communities which have 
not yet attained to the growth and organization of cities 
but which have typical urban problems without the reme- 
dies of urban sanitary control. It is concentration of popu- 
lation, not the mere size of the settlement, that constitutes 
the real problem. 1 In many respects these nascent con- 

1 The sanitary characteristics of communities of different sizes have 
been compared in a study by W. T. Sedgwick, G. R. Taylor and the 
present writer: "Is Typhoid Fever a 'Rural' Disease?", Jour. Inf. 
Diseases, 1912, vol. XI, no. 2, p. 141. 



50 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

centration centers present the most serious sanitary prob- 
lem in America today. 

Under present organization it cannot be expected that 
there will be much immediate improvement in rural sani- 
tary administration especially as rural communities them- 
selves are content with conditions as they are. The plan 
of joint sanitary administration outlined in the last chapter 
applies only to the larger and more developed towns and 
then only under favorable circumstances. Furthermore, 
it is interesting to note that in the field of education, where 
consolidated rural school districts have been established 
for the purpose of increasing efficiency, experience has 
shown the need of generally centralized control of rural 
administration, the county being indicated as the proper 

unit. 

The New York State Plan 

Great promise of the solution of this problem is now held 
forth in the recently adopted New York State plan. The 
State (except New York City) is divided into twenty dis- 
tricts each of which is placed in control of a "sanitary super- 
visor," who oversees the work of the health officers and is 
himself responsible to the State Commissioner of Health. 
The latter, with the assistance of his Advisory Council, may 
promulgate a sanitary code to apply uniformly throughout 
the districts. The Supervisors are independent of local 
influence and interference; they are experts giving their 
full time to the work and subject to no local control. The 
most primitive country community has the benefit of the 
most advanced methods of public hygiene. Furthermore 
the costs of supervision can be arranged to fall upon the 
state as a whole, so that the large cities (which, as already 
explained, derive a special benefit) pay their share. The 
pay of local health officers has been placed at a minimum 
of ten cents per capita per year in places of 8000 popula- 
tion and less. 

It appears that sanitary administration in future will be 



STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES 51 

much more centralized than at present. Such has been 
the experience of older countries, such as England, in their 
development. In other states plans similar to the New 
York plan have been proposed. The latter promises to 
prove the greatest single step forward in organization since 
the establishment of sanitary authorities in this country. 
If it brings forth the results now confidently expected it 
will undoubtedly be adopted, at least in principle, in other 
states. 



CHAPTER III 
FEDERAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 

The Federal authorities bear somewhat the same rela- 
tionship to those of the States that the latter do to the local 
boards of health ; in other words, their functions are prop- 
erly either interstate or related to the Union of States as a, 
whole and are not exercised except under conditions which 
cannot be effectively dealt with either by local or by state 
authorities. This is in accordance with the provision of 
the Federal Constitution that powers not expressly dele- 
gated by that instrument to the Federal Government are 
reserved by the individual states to themselves. Viewing 
the national public health scheme as a whole, the bulk 
of the executive power is lodged with the local boards of 
health; less with the state boards of health, which are 
therefore more advisory and less executive; and still less 
with the Federal Government, which is most advisory and 
least executive. 

ADVISORY FUNCTIONS 

Most of the advisory activity of the various I^ederal 
public health agencies is of a general nature. A great deal 
of investigation consisting in laboratory, statistical and 
field work is carried on as a basis for information which 
is distributed through the medium of printed reports for 
the benefit of the country as a whole. The collection of 
vital statistics on a nation-wide scale is an especially im- 
portant activity of this kind. The facilities possessed by 
the central government and its wide range of territory make 
possible the prosecution of researches which would be be- 
yond the resources of single states, while at the same time 

52 ; , 



FEDERAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 53 

unnecessary duplication among the latter is avoided. In 
all of this, however, there is cooperation with state and 
sometimes with local departments of health. 

General information and advice, then, directed both to 
public officials and bodies and to citizens, is the main 
channel for the dissemination of the valuable results ob- 
tained by Federal research work. 

Particular advice is also an important service rendered 
by the Federal agencies. Aid on request is given to state 
authorities more rarely to local authorities under 
unusual circumstances. A constant cooperation is kept 
up between the states and the Federal agencies. A con- 
spicuous example of aid on request was the assistance 
rendered by the Public Health Service (then the U. S. 
Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service) to the State 
of California when bubonic plague appeared in San Fran- 
cisco in 1900 although in that case the Federal officers 
were seriously handicapped by the strong adverse influence 
of commercial interests. 1 Other emergencies, such as the 
insanitary conditions incident to the floods in the Ohio 
and Mississippi Valleys in the spring of 1913, give occasion 
for Federal investigation and advice. 

EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS 

The executive functions are to be considered, as already 
suggested, as they relate to interstate matters or to national 
matters affecting the country as a whole or over wide areas. 
Under the former head fall the supervision of interstate 
transportation (sanitation as to water-supply, etc., on 
trains and boats) , and the supervision over meat and other 
foods, drugs, sera and other articles which are shipped from 
one state to another. (Power over the pollution of inter- 
state streams is unfortunately not as yet included in this 
category.) Under the head of national executive pro- 
tection is the Federal quarantine system. 

1 See p. 36 of the Memorial cited in footnote to p. 57. 



54 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

THE FEDERAL BUREAUS 

The United States has at the present time no unified 
national bureau or department of health analogous to the 
Comit Consul tatif d' Hygiene of France, the Imperial 
Gesundheitsamt of Germany or the Local Government 
Board of England. The activities carried on by the Federal 
government for the furtherance of hygiene and sanitation 
are distributed among several separate and distinct bureaus, 
as follows: 

In the Treasury Department: 

The Public Health Service (formerly the Public Health 
and Marine-Hospital Service), which performs more of the 
functions of a national health department than any of the 
other existing Federal bureaus. The Service has charge 
of the administration of the national maritime quarantine 
and of the national laws pertaining to medical inspection 
of immigrants; conducts investigations, in the various 
states, on infectious diseases, maintaining in this connec- 
tion a Hygienic Laboratory; and regulates the purity and 
potency of vaccines, antitoxins and serums manufactured 
for sale in interstatic traffic. Each year it calls into 
conference representatives of the state boards of health 
for discussion of scientific and administrative questions 
and the promotion of cooperation. It publishes weekly 
Public Health Reports, for circulation among health 
authorities and others, setting forth statistical and other 
data relating to national quarantine, communicable disease 
and mortality throughout the country, and other related 
subjects. In 1912 the Service was granted more general 
authority " to investigate the diseases of man " and the 
conditions related to them, including in scope "sanitation 
and sewage and the pollution ... of the navigable 
streams and lakes of the United States." 

The Hygienic Laboratory of the Public Health Service 
is conducted in four divisions, viz., bacteriology and pathol- 



FEDERAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 55 

ogy, chemistry, zoology and pharmacology, and carries 
on a great deal of important research work in those sub- 
jects, the results of which are set forth in the Bulletins of 
the Laboratory. 

The Public Health Service, the history of which is a long 
and creditable one which cannot be detailed here, may 
rightly then be regarded as the national bureau of preven- 
tive medicine. 1 

In the Department of Agriculture: 

The Bureau of Chemistry, the principal hygienic function 
of which is the highly important one of the investigation 
of the adulteration of foods, drugs and liquors, and the 
administration of the Federal Pure Food Act. 

The Bureau of Animal Industry contains, among other 
divisions, the Dairy Division, which carries on sanitary 
and economic investigations of the milk industry, and the 
Meat Inspection Division, which inspects meat entering into 
interstate traffic and the slaughterhouses where it is killed 
and prepared. 

(The Bureaus of Plant Industry and Entomology also 
publish occasional papers pertinent to public health.) 

In the Department of Commerce: 

The Bureau of the Census includes the Division of Vital 
Statistics, which collects, analyzes and publishes statis- 
tics of population, births and deaths, for the country as 
a whole and for its various cities, towns and other civil 
divisions. 

In the Department of Labor: 

The Children's Bureau, instituted in 1912, which conducts 
investigations and disseminates information dealing with 
the protection of child life, particularly as regards preven- 
tion of infant mortality. 

1 See Anderson, "Organization, Powers, and Duties of the U. S. 
Public Health Service To-day," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. 
Ill, no. 9, p. 845; also Wyman in Reprint, no. 49, from Pub. Health 
Rpts., 1910. 



56 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Besides the above the Medical Departments of the Army 
and Navy carry on investigations and make reports on 
phases of preventive medicine which are not infrequently 
of wider significance than their titles indicate. 

PROPOSED NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE 

That the Federal health conserving agencies lack co- 
ordination, that the one most approximating a national 
health department the Public Health Service is under 
the anomalous control of the financial department of the 
government, and that others are scattered among several 
departments and bureaus as we have just seen these 
facts are the basis of a growing demand for a unified 
National Health Service to be organized as a Department, 
or at least as a bureau, of the Federal Government. 

There was at one time, in fact, a National Board of 
Health. It was established by Congress in 1879, just after 
the yellow fever epidemics in the South, and was author- 
ized to " obtain information upon all matters affecting the 
public health." This board accomplished much useful 
sanitary work and started investigations in nearly every 
department of sanitary work, but through the failure of 
Congress to continue appropriations it was allowed to 
lapse in 1884. It was created under the stimulus of the 
prevailing epidemics and was dissolved with their passing. 

From that time to the present there have been proposals 
for the establishment of a national public health service in 
the broadest sense, to embrace all of the present agencies, 
correlate them and enlarge their scope. Several years ago 
the project was taken up by an organization formed for 
that particular purpose the Committee of One Hundred 
on National Health of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science. The demands took on a special 
vigor with the publication of Professor Fisher's Report on 
National Vitality and the introduction of the Owen Bill 
(first introduced in Congress in 1910 and re-introduced 



FEDERAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES 57 

each year since then), and the latter was followed some- 
what later by a detailed brief for it in the form of a Senate 
Memorial. 1 

There have also been plans proposed other than that 
contemplated in the Owen Bill, and the general object of 
establishing a national health department or bureau has 
been widely indorsed, the indorsers including the American 
Public Health Association, the American Medical Associa- 
tion and many other organizations and persons, private 
and public. Organized efforts for this object are now 
carried on from year to year. 

In the present agitation the true question relates not so 
much to the nature of the activities now carried on as to 
their coordination. The demand for a national health 
department should not be taken to mean that we have not, 
aside from questions of organization, a good national 
health service, for a very brief survey proves the reverse. 
Cartoons, such as have been published, showing " Uncle 
Sam " spending millions on the health of hogs and little 
or nothing to promote the health of human beings, are 
false and misleading. The difficulty is that the latter 
class of work is not so obviously organized as the former; 
being of a more diverse character, it has not yet been corre- 

1 See the following: 

"Work of the Committee of One Hundred on National Health," 
by Wm. Jay Schieffelin, Publication No. 628, American Academy of 
Political and Social Science, 1911. (The Committee has offices at 
105 East 22nd Street, New York City.) 

Report on National Vitality; its Waste and Conservation, prepared 
for the National Conservation Commission by Professor Irving Fisher, 
Bulletin 30, of the Committee of One Hundred on National Health 
(Government Printing Office, Washington), 1909. 

Memorial relating to the Conservation of Human Life as contem- 
plated by Bill (S. i) providing for a United States Public Health Ser- 
vice, prepared by Prof. Irving Fisher, assisted by Miss Emily F. 
Robbins, Senate Document No. 493, 62nd Congress, 2nd Session, 1912. 

(The latter two publications may be obtained on application to the 
Supt. of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington.) 



58 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

lated in one department. Nor should the present demand 
be taken to signify that local and state work is being directly 
held back pending re-organization at Washington. But 
the efforts to obtain such re-organization and thus even 
greater efficiency are evidently based upon sound arguments, 
and, when questions as to the particular form of re-organ- 
ization shall have been settled, will doubtless gain the 
desired end. 



CHAPTER IV 
UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 

To complete our survey of the public scheme we may 
now pass in brief review the highly important work carried 
on by the numerous unofficial organizations which in vari- 
ous ways are working for the promotion of public health. 
This work is far-reaching in its influence, meeting a multi- 
tude of needs which, owing to the limitations in principle 
or the deficiencies in practice of governmental organiza- 
tion, are not met by the public authorities. 

Such organizations are not simply philanthropic. Be- 
sides performing functions inappropriate to public author- 
ities, it is their indispensable part to take up activities 
which are as yet only in the experimental or preexperi- 
mental stage and to venture to test them out, thus exer- 
cising an initiative which might be deemed unjustified in 
an administrative organization spending public money. 
Eventually, if the enterprise succeeds and a new field for 
public activity is pointed out, then it may be transferred 
to the health authorities as a recognized department of 
administration. Thus possibilities are transformed first 
into actualities and then into permanent public functions. 
This has been the history of the anti-tuberculosis move- 
ment, for which the relative amount of public money spent 
is increasing from year to year; and it is now the history, 
in the working out, of child hygiene work. 

Even where the governmental functions are firmly 
established, voluntary organizations play a useful part 
through cooperation. Recommendations and criticisms 
from such sources are frequently of value. The health 

59 



60 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

officer furthermore depends upon local organizations of 
this kind to a greater or less extent for the spreading of 
information and the fostering of the public support which 
he needs. Civic and philanthropic societies thus act as 
mediators between health officer and public. 

In scope, such organizations range from the local to the 
national and international; in object, they are as diverse 
as the multitude of subjects related, directly or indirectly, 
to the public health. Only a summary of those of chief 
interest to the local health officer can be given here. 

NATIONAL 

The following are related directly to public health on a 
national scale : 

The American Public Health Association is the oldest 
and the leading organization of the country devoted to the 
advancement of public hygiene. It was founded in 1872 
and draws its members from the United States, Canada, 
Mexico, and Cuba. Its aims are: " the development and 
advancement of public hygiene; the correlation of princi- 
ples and practice; and the promotion of public hygiene as 
a distinct profession." The Association holds an annual 
meeting (varying the place of meeting from year to year) 
which is the mecca of American public health officials and 
experts. ... It is organized and meets for the reading 
of papers and discussion both as a general association and 
also in the following sections: laboratory, vital statistics, 
public health officials, sanitary engineering, and sociology. 
Important work, especially in the collection of data and the 
formulation of standards, is performed by the committees 
of the association. All persons engaged in official or techni- 
cal work in public health lines or interested in public health 
work are eligible for membership. 

The official organ of the association is the American 
Journal of Public Health, published monthly. The Journal 
is a running library on public health work and sanitary 



UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 6l 

engineering, and its volumes for completed years are in- 
dispensable works of reference to the health officer. The 
departments embraced are as follows: editorial; health 
department reports and notes; public health notes; re- 
cent articles on sanitary science and public health; papers 
of American Public Health Association; industrial hygiene 
and sanitation; personal notes; book reviews; and an 
index of current public health literature. Membership in 
the Association and subscription to the Journal are in- 
dispensable to health officers and other public health 
workers. Further information concerning both may be 
obtained from the Secretary, 755 Boylston Street, Boston. 
Subscription, $3 a year (3 months' trial, 50 cents). 

The National Association for the Study and Prevention 
of Tuberculosis, 105 East 22nd Street, New York City, acts 
as a central bureau of exchange for information regarding 
tuberculosis, conducts investigations, manages the sale of 
Red Cross Seals for the tuberculosis campaign, publishes 
books and pamphlets, encourages local work, and has an 
annual meeting the proceedings of which are published. 
In particular, it issues a monthly bulletin for those inter- 
ested in tuberculosis work and publishes the Journal of 
the Outdoor Life, a monthly periodical devoted to the pre- 
vention and cure of tuberculosis. 

The American Association for Study and Prevention of 
Infant Mortality, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, gathers 
data, issues printed matter, has a traveling exhibit, and 
meets annually, publishing its proceedings in an annual 
volume of papers and discussions. 

The National Housing Association, 105 East 22nd Street, 
New York City, conducts investigations, publishes books 
and pamphlets, and stimulates the formation of state and 
local societies for improving housing conditions. 

The American Medical Association has a section devoted 
to Preventive Medicine and Public Health and a Council 
on Health and Public Instruction. In its Journal public 



62 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

health matters are frequently discussed. In 1913 the 
Council called a conference of representatives of the fifty- 
odd national organizations related to public health for 
the purpose of forming a central organization to correlate 
their work. Office of the Association and Journal: 535 
North Dearborn Street, Chicago. 

The Committee of One Hundred on National Health 
has already been mentioned in Chapter III. 

The following is a brief directory of some of the other 
organizations which enter directly or indirectly into the 
field of public health. These organizations collect data 
and issue reports and other literature and invite oppor- 
tunities to cooperate and confer with officials and others 
desiring information or aid. 

National Child Welfare Exhibition Committee (advises 
on exhibits and lends material for same), 200 Fifth Ave., 
New York City. 

American School Hygiene Association ; Secretary, Dr. T. 
A. Storey, College of the City of New York, New York 
City. 

American Civic Association (fly, mosquito and smoke 
nuisances, etc.), Union Trust Building, Washington, D. C. 

National Municipal League (civic organization, etc.), 
North American Building, Philadelphia. 

American Association for Labor Legislation (publishes 
a volume on industrial diseases), 131 East 23rd Street, 
New York City. 

American Social Hygiene Association (sex hygiene), 
105 West 40th Street, New York City. 

Society of Sanitary and Moral Prophylaxis (sex hygiene), 
105 West 40th Street, New York City. 

American Society for the Control of Cancer (dissemi- 
nates knowledge concerning symptoms, diagnosis, treat- 
ment and prevention), 289 Fourth Avenue, New York 
City. 

National Organization for Public Health Nursing (ob- 



UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 63 

ject: " to stimulate the extension of public health nursing, 
to develop standards of technique, to maintain a central 
bureau of information"; publishes a quarterly and bulle- 
tins), 54 East 34th Street, New York City. 

American Statistical Association (publishes a Quarterly), 
491 Boylston Street, Boston. 

Departments of Child-Helping and for Prevention of 
Blindness, Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd Street, 
New York City. 

Department of Surveys and Exhibits, Russell Sage 
Foundation (makes health surveys and examinations of 
health department organizations and methods), 130 East 
22nd Street, New York City. 1 

Bureau of Municipal Research (makes examinations of 
systems and efficiency of health and other municipal de- 
partments and maintains a Training School for Public 
Service), 261 Broadway, New York City. 1 

Besides the above there are a number of organizations 
dealing with special phases of sanitation, with civics, chari- 
ties, medical research, and the like, which cannot be 
enumerated here. (For treatment of such subjects see 
the Survey, a weekly periodical devoted to social welfare, 
published at 105 East 22nd Street, New York City, 
which occasionally prints a directory of such organizations 
as mentioned above.) 

1 In considering the work of these organizations distinction should 
be made between a "survey of the public health situation" (which 
takes the figures readily available and forms judgments from these) and 
a thoroughgoing "public health survey" (which goes into local con- 
ditions in detail, making inspections, analyses, special statistical studies, 
etc.). Both forms of survey have a two-fold scope: on the one hand 
the sanitary conditions and problems, and on the other hand the organ- 
ization and efficiency of the health department. Altogether the aim 
of a survey may be expressed as an evaluation of actual conditions with 
recommendations for necessary improvements. Both of the above or- 
ganizations publish reports of the surveys which they have made in 
various towns and cities, which may be obtained on application. 



64 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Auxiliary Public Health Movements. We must note a 
number of auxiliary movements which contribute directly 
to the general public health movement. There is, for 
example, the recent action of some life insurance companies 
in educating policy-holders in hygienic precautions, in 
providing visiting nurse service for policy-holders, and in 
endeavoring to obtain improvement of sanitary condi- 
tions and administration. 

Then there is the movement of the employers, who are 
voluntarily paying increased attention to the hygiene of 
factories and labor. 

There is, furthermore, a movement on the part of em- 
ployees themselves. Trades organizations of all kinds are 
taking an interest in the hygienic problems of their partic- 
ular trades. Such organizations play an important part 
in furthering compliance with health-protective measures 
in factories by imposing upon their members health rules 
(e.g., forbidding improper spitting) and by arranging for 
talks to their members on prevention of disease. 

Again, there are trade organizations aiming at economical 
conformance with sanitary rules and at securing recogni- 
tion of sanitary trade standards; of such the New York 
Sanitary Milk Dealers' Association is an example. 

The certified milk movement, started a number of years 
ago (by physicians, however, and without any commercial 
object), with the object of obtaining and marketing under 
legal protection a high grade of milk is an excellent example 
of cooperation of physician, sanitarian and dealer. 

The latest phase of the publicity movement is now to be 
seen in the establishment of more or less permanent ex- 
hibits or museums of hygiene. Thus the American Museum 
of Natural History, at New York, has developed a depart- 
ment of sanitary exhibits, together with a central exchange 
bureau for bacteria cultures. The New York City Depart- 
ment of Health maintains a permanent exhibit illustrating 
its work. 



UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 65 

International Organizations. Finally, capping the public 
health scheme, there are various international associations 
and congresses, dealing with tuberculosis and other branches 
of public hygiene and dominated by the International 
Congresses on Hygiene and Demography. The latter are 
held at intervals of from three to five years and always on 
the invitation of a national government, and give occasion 
for the greatest gatherings of hygienists in the world. 
The fifteenth Congress, for which over 3300 members 
were registered, was held in Washington in 1912. An ex- 
tensive exhibition was held in connection with the Con- 
gress. Besides general lectures by men of eminence 510 
papers were presented before the nine sections, treating of 
all branches of science and practice in personal and public 
hygiene. The papers and resultant discussions are pub- 
lished in a set of transactions which constitutes a veritable 
library on those subjects. 1 

STATE 

Among non-governmental state organizations we may 
mention first the health officers associations which are be- 
ginning to spring up in various states and which evidently 
fill so fundamental a need that doubtless there will soon 
be no state without one. Such associations, while perhaps 
nominally open to members of boards of health, are pri- 
marily for the executive officer. The objects aimed at are 
stated in the constitution of one of these associations as 
" the advancement of knowledge relating to public health 
and sanitation and the encouragement of social intercourse 
among health board officials." These objects are ful- 
filled by: 

(i) Presentation of papers and discussion, which may 
be of a more local and informal character than in national 

1 Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 8 vols., Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 1913. 



66 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

organizations, and hence of a peculiar value to the mem- 
bers. 

(2) Improvement and standardization of methods, pro- 
cedures and forms (for records, reports, etc.), particularly 
as related to state laws and conditions. 

(3) Formation and securing of needed state legislation. 

(4) Raising the standards of administration through pro- 
fessional improvement of the members and maintenance 
of a reasonably high standard for membership. 

(5) Promoting useful as well as agreeable social inter- 
course among health officials, both state and local. 

(6) Cooperation with the state department of health, in 
every way promoting more effective relationship between 
state and local departments and officers. 

Meetings of state associations may be successfully held 
four or five times a year, a program of a few important 
topics with one or two leading speakers being arranged for 
each meeting. One of these meetings may well consist in 
an annual conference of state and local health authorities 
held at the state capital, with a more extensive program 
and committee reports. 

An active executive committee (which may act as a 
committee on program, resolutions and the like) is a prime 
necessity, as is also an enterprising membership committee 
with members working in all parts of the state. A few 
small committees on legislation, vital statistics, communi- 
cable disease, food and drugs, etc., are advisable. The 
plan of organization should be simple and the rules as few 
as possible. There should be a provision of state law 
that local boards of health defray the necessary expenses 
of their executive officers in attendance at meetings. 1 

1 Further information regarding the organization of health officers' 
associations may be obtained through the state departments of health 
in those states where such associations have been formed: Massachu- 
setts, New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Connecticut, Michi- 
gan, etc. 



UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS 67 

In addition to the class of associations just discussed 
may be mentioned the state medical societies, sanitary 
associations, civic societies, anti-tuberculosis societies, and 
the like, which touch directly or indirectly public health 
matters, and in which, according to circumstances, the 
health officer may or may not take an active part. 

LOCAL 

Cooperation with local organizations bearing on public 
health or civics is one of the important phases of the work 
of the health officer. Such organizations are frequently 
of much value in that they perform, or at least assist in, 
work which the health department has not resources and 
authority to carry on alone. This applies especially to 
local societies engaged in tuberculosis and infant hygiene 
work of any kind. There may also be advantages in co- 
operating with the local bureau of organized charities and 
with the dispensaries and social service departments of 
hospitals. Where the inter-relations are extensive a scheme 
of " cooperation without amalgamation " should be defi- 
nitely worked out, so that those social activities directly 
affecting public health may be properly correlated. By 
such a scheme, in detail, all the persons and organizations 
concerned may know exactly their relations to one another. 
It scarcely need be said that it is the health officer who 
should take the initiative and leadership in this broader 
phase of public health organization. 

It is the part of wisdom to win the good will of civic 
clubs, women's clubs, local improvement societies, and 
the like. Such organizations, for example, frequently may 
arrange and advertise " clean-up " days or weeks which 
save the health department a great deal of routine inspec- 
tion and notification and help to reduce the rubbish, fly 
and mosquito nuisances; may arrange for civic exhibits; 
and so forth. More important still, such organizations 
offer forums of discussion of civic health matters which 



68 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

are of material assistance in the publicity campaign. The 
support of boards of trade and other business organizations 
whose membership includes influential citizens should be 
obtained, and the value of public health as a fundamental 
factor in prosperity should be impressed upon them. 

In conclusion it may be said that the public health move- 
ment involves numerous inter-relationships, into which 
the health officer, without dissipating his energy, will 
enter just to the extent necessary most effectively to further 
his aims. This will vary according to circumstances. 



CHAPTER V 

THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 
THE SCIENCE OF PUBLIC HEALTH 

The importance of hygiene among the sciences and of 
sanitation among the practical arts is unquestioned. 
Health has ever been recognized as the chief basis for wealth 
and happiness and in this age is the subject of a science and 
administrative practice of its own. Hence we find the 
statesman Disraeli affirming that " the care of the public 
health is the first duty of the statesman." 

Public health matters until recent decades lay largely 
in the realms of speculation and crude empirical knowledge. 
Such was the case until the development of physics and 
chemistry paved the way for the modern science of biology, 
of which hygiology, or sanitary science, is one grand divi- 
sion. Although it is the youngest of the physical sciences, 
biology has grown apace and the sum of hygienic knowledge 
has so developed that if it were now thoroughly applied 
to the conditions of human life there would result a won- 
derful amelioration. Application of the knowledge we al- 
ready possess is perhaps a greater need of the time than 
the further extension of that knowledge. 

This is not the place for an exhaustive treatment of the 
principles of sanitary science, which, as the foundation of 
all sound sanitary practice, are in this volume for the most 
part taken for granted. They will be found treated at 
length in various other works. A brief review of funda- 
mental considerations must serve as introduction. 

69 



70 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The student of hygiene is concerned with those condi- 
tions which prevent the body that wonderful " physical 
mechanism " (as it is called by Huxley) from running a 
normal course in health from birth to old age. Strictly 
speaking " senility," or old age, is the only natural death, 
but a glance at the mortality tables, as we shall see pres- 
ently, shows that it is the given cause in very few cases, 
and that in the great majority of cases death is really 
premature. 

The conditions which cut down many lives in length, or 
efficiency, or both, and cause premature old age, debility 
or death, are of three classes: (i) defects and weaknesses 
in the physical mechanism, i.e., constitutional handicaps; 
(2) abuses in the care of it by the owner matters of 
personal hygiene; and (3) unfavorable environmental 
conditions. It is with the last-named the control, of the 
environmental factors through public hygiene that 
health authorities are concerned. 

Definitions. We may now set down several convenient 
definitions. General hygiene, or simply " hygiene," is " the 
whole science and art of the conservation and promotion 
of health both in individuals and in communities " (Sedg- 
wick). General hygiene is subdivided into: 

Public hygiene, the care of the health of communities by 
public authorities; and 

Personal hygiene, the care of the health of individuals 
by themselves. 

Practically the two classes of hygiene merge into each 
other. 

Sanitary science, or public health science, is the body of 
scientific principles governing public hygiene. (The term 
"preventive medicine" is also less accurately used 
in the same sense.) Those principles are practically ap- 
plied through sanitation, which includes all the sanitary 
arts, such as sanitary engineering, the various branches of 
municipal sanitation and administration, and the like. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 71 

It is with the art of practical sanitary administration 
that the present volume is concerned. 

The loose use of the word " sanitary " to denote merely 
cleanliness, absence of offence, and the like as in " sani- 
tary plumbing," " sanitary garbage cans," etc. should 
be avoided. 

THE PROBLEMS OF PUBLIC HEALTH 

Statistical Survey of the Problem of Prevention. Vital 
statistics (which will be discussed in the chapter on that 
subject) furnish the means by which problems of mortality 
and the prevention of sickness and death may be accurately 
gauged. For figures of a general nature we turn to the 
Mortality Statistics of the United States Census Bureau, 
from which the citations in this section are made. 

The most general index of mortality in any population 
is the annual death rate. That rate for the Registration 
Area of the United States in 1913 was 14.1 per thousand 
of population. The figure is on the decline, being for 
previous years as follows: 1890, 19.6; 1900, 17.6; 1905, 
16.0; 1910, 15.0; 1911, 14.2; 1912, 13.9. The rate 14.1 
(or the corresponding figure for later years) is a convenient 
one to remember, representing, as it does, the average 
death-rate of a group constituting three-fifths of the popu- 
lation of the United States at the present time; it is the 
most nearly representative National death rate that we 
have. It strikes an average among all kinds of commu- 
nities and between extremes of healthfulness and unhealth- 
fulness. In the rural l part of the Registration States the 
rate in 1913 was 12.7, but in the cities of those States, 
where urban congestion and unsanitary factors make them- 
selves greatly felt, it was 15.0. The rates for the largest 
Registration Cities ranged for 1913 from 8.4 to 20.8, many 
of the variances being explicable by differences in popula- 

1 From 1900 to 1909 the Census classffied as rural places with a popu- 
lation of less than 8,000 and since 1910 those under 10,000. 



72 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tion characteristics as well as in sanitation (a consideration 
which will be explained later on in the chapter on Vital 
Statistics). For the individual Registration States that 
year the rates ranged from 8.5 to 17.1. 

But such general rates tell us nothing as to premature 
and preventable mortality. To gain such knowledge the 
general, or total, mortality must be analyzed into its chief 
components. 

The extent of premature mortality may be roughly 
gauged, for example, by a study of the ages at time of death. 
The fact that the average age at death in the Registration 
Area in 1913 was 39.8 years indicates, though crudely, that 
many individuals fail to reach the traditional age of " three- 
score years and ten." Further study shows that the death 
toll on infants is especially heavy. This constitutes the 
important problem of infant mortality. Thus in the 
Registration Area in 1913, 25 per cent of all deaths occurred 
under five years and 18 per cent under one year of age. 
(Table I and Chart I indicate the incidence of mortality 
on the population groups of various ages; showing the 
high infant death rate, the minimum rate at the age of 
10 to 15 years, and, finally, the increasing mortality in 
later life reaching a maximum again at the most advanced 
ages.) 

Now that it is evident that the great majority of 
deaths occur at ages which must be considered premature, 
the all-important question for the sanitarian is: How 
many, and which of these deaths are practically preventable 
through public hygiene ? This leads to a consideration of 
causes of death. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 



73 



TABLE I 
MORTALITY ACCORDING TO AGE 

Population, deaths, and specific death rates, by age periods, for 
the U. S. Registration States, 1 1911. (Figures furnished by courtesy 
of the Bureau of the Census.) 







Deaths 2 


Age group 


Population 




Rate per 1000 






Number 


population of 
corresponding 








age 


All ages 


54,010,920 


740,018 


130 


Under i year 


1,183,384 


133,636 


112.9 


i to 5 years 


4,468,804 


52,553 


ii. 8 


Under 5 years 


5,652,188 


186,189 


32-9 


5 to 10 years. 


5,166,113 


15,973 


3-i 


10 to 15 years 


4,935,045 


10,898 


2 .2 


15 to 20 years 


5,098,472 


18,370 


3-6 


20 to 25 years 


C 206, Q2Q 


27,c86 


52 


2 5 to 35 years 


0,270,326 


CQ,O7Q 


6 4. 


35 to 45 years 


7,409,542 


65,896 


8.9 




4^ to tx years 


;, ^63, 88 <; 


73,040 


13 6 


55 to 65 years 


3.22O.ICX 


84,226 


26 2 


65 to 75 years 


1,832X30 


101,101 


re 2 


75 and over 


765,785 


106,352 


I38. 9 


Unknown age 3 . . . 




1, 208 






1 Includes District of Columbia, but excludes North Carolina. 

2 Exclusive of stillbirths. 

Unknown age not distributed. 

In the first place, in Chart I the chief preventable causes 
of death at the various ages are roughly indicated by the 
lettered brackets, as follows: 

A. Infant mortality (various causes). 

B. Communicable diseases of childhood. 

C. Tuberculosis and typhoid fever. 

In addition, there are also given, though not directly sub- 
ject to public health administration: 



74 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



D. Premature degeneration of circulatory, urinary, and 
other systems, and various constitutional causes; and 

E. Advancing debility of old age. 

Under the last two heads it must be remembered, however, 
that death is actually due to (and should be set down to) 
specific causes favored or brought on by the degeneration, 

CHART i. DEATH RATES BY AGES 

U. S. Registration States, 1911. (Based on Table I.) For 
explanation of " A," " B,"' etc., see text 

75 and over: 138.9 j 




ffl y 1 1 1.5 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 flO 65 70 75_ 
A B ~~cT~ ' r E? 



Ages 

constitutional defect, or debility. The practice of vital 
statistics prescribes that the specific cause rather than the 
general condition be used in describing deaths. Also, 
the distribution is by no means as exact as indicated in 
the chart, which is in this respect only roughly illustrative, 
and no note is made of the environmental conditions which 
affect all ages. 

In further analysis there are shown in Table II and Chart 
2. the death rates in the Registration Area, for 1906-1910, 
for certain specific causes of death. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 



75 



TABLE II 
DEATH RATES BY CAUSE 

Registration Area of the United States: Annual Averages, 1906- 
1910 inclusive. (From U. S. Mortality Statistics for 1911, Bureau 
of the Census.) Stillbirths not included. For explanation of the 
table, see the text. 

Specially noteworthy preventable causes (see p. 77) in heavy-faced 
type. 

Titles in brackets [ ] are disapproved by the Census Bureau as 
indefinite or otherwise undesirable, though necessarily retained for 
the present. 



Nos.i 



Cause 



Death rate per 
100,000 of 
population 



All causes 1511 .5 

28-35 Tuberculosis (total) 169 

Of the lungs 146 . 8 

Tuberculous meningitis 9.1 

Abdominal tuberculosis 6.0 

Pott's disease (tub. of spine) 1.5 

[White swellings] (tub. of joints) 0.7 

Other organs 2 2.1 

Disseminated tuberculosis 2.5 

79 Organic diseases of the heart 133 

92 Pneumonia (total) 103 

91 Bronchopneumonia 40 

104 Diarrhoea and Enteritis (under 2 years) .... 96 

120 Bright's disease 87 

39-45 Cancer (and other malignant tumors) 

(total) 73 

64 Cerebral hemorrhage, apoplexy 72 

151 [Congenital debility], icterus, and sclerema 
(including premature birth but not still- 
birth) 64 . 5 

150 Congenital malformations (stillbirths not 

included) 14 . 9 

154 [Senility (old age)] 29 



1 According to Detailed International List. 

* For recent years acute miliary tuberculosis is given separately by the Census; figures 
not available for 1906-10. 



7 6 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



Nos.i 



Cause 



i Typhoid fever 25 .6 

9 Diphtheria [and croup] 22.4 

10 Influenza 16 .4 

8 Whooping cough 11.5 

6 Measles 10.8 

7 Scarlet fever * 10.6 

14 Dysentery (amebic, bacillary) 6.5 

37 Syphilis 5.4 

18 Erysipelas 4.2 

20 Purulent infection and septicemia 3.8 

24 Tetanus 2.7 

4 Malaria . 2.6 

63 (in Acute anterior poliomyelitis [infantile par- 
part) alysis] 3 i.8 4 

13 [Cholera nostras] i .o 

61 (in Cerebrospinal fever (epidemic cerebrospinal 

part) meningitis) 0.9* 

38 Gonococcus infection 0.3 

5 Smallpox 0.2 

19 Other epidemic diseases o.3 6 

23 Rabies 0.2 

26 Pellagra 3 0.2 

57 Chronic lead poisoning 0.2 

58 Other chronic occupational poisonings 6 

59 Other chronic poisonings 0.5 

25 Mycoses o. i 

1 Transmission of ac. ant. poliomyelitis not well understood, that of pellagra undeter- 
mined. 

4 1911 only. 

8 The following communicable causes not included under " other epidemic diseases " 
had a rate of less than one-tenth of i per 100,000: typhus fever, relapsing fever, miliary 
fever, plague, yellow fever, leprosy, glanders, anthrax, " other chronic occupational 
poisonings." There were no deaths from Asiatic cholera. 

CHART 2. DEATH RATES FOR CHIEF PREVENTABLE DISEASES 

U. S. Registration Area, average annual rates per 100,000 population, 

1906-1910. (Based on Table II.) 

TUBERCULOSIS 



Death rate per 
100,000 of 
population 



PNEUMONIA AND BRONCHOPNEUMONIA 



143 



DIARRHOEA AND ENTERITIS 

UNDER TWO YEARS 

TYPHOID 

26 



COUGH 

MEASLES 



11.5 
11 - 



FEVER 
X 



11 



21 



x Syphilis, malaria, dysentery, tetanus, ac. ant. 
poliomyelitis, smallpox, cerebrospinal fever, 
" other epidemic diseases," rabies, gonococcus 
infection, chronic lead poisoning. For other dis- 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 77 

This table includes those causes of death having a rate 
of over 50 (omitting the group of "accidental or undefined" 
causes), senility, and all the communicable diseases. In 
the chart only the figures for the chief preventable diseases 
are given. 1 

The term " preventable " is used here and in general 
throughout this volume to denote that the disease is wholly 
or in considerable part preventable through practicable 
public health measures, thus leaving out of present consider- 
ation heredity, personal hygiene and prophylaxis, and other 
factors not dealt with directly by the public health official. 
Even so, the designation requires qualification in some 
instances. Thus, under pneumonia, those deaths which 
occur in infancy (about one-third) are largely preventable 
through infant hygiene work, while the remainder are only 
indirectly and difficultly preventable, so far as public health 
practice has thus far shown (see, however, discussion under 
Pneumonia, Part II, Chapter I). Even among those 
causes which may more freely be termed preventable there 
are vast differences in the degree of preventability. Malaria 

1 The last bar on the chart represents collectively the smaller figures, 
some of which require comment. Thus, the figure for rabies is proba- 
bly somewhat in deficiency of the truth on account of non-recognition 
of some of the deaths from this cause, and at any rate does not ade- 
quately indicate the importance of this absolutely preventable disease. 
Nor is the potential danger of smallpox shown in its present low death- 
rate. Regarding syphilis and gonococcus infection, the figures are 
again deficient. Most of the effects of venereal disease appear under 
forms the venereal origin of which is not often mentioned in the death 
certificate. The venereal diseases constitute a problem of preventive 
medicine of great magnitude and of extreme practical difficulty, in spite 
of which, however, some of the most advanced health authorities are 
taking administrative measures against them. The term " dysentery " 
is unsatisfactory, doubtless including a certain number of deaths which 
should properly be put down to " diarrhoea and enteritis." (For dis- 
cussion of the errors to which the various terms are subject, see Part II, 
Chap. IX.) In general, it must be added, the importance of a cause 
depends not only upon the amount of mortality produced by it but 
also upon the degree to which that mortality may be prevented. 



78 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

and smallpox could readily be wiped out by the thorough 
application of practical measures now known, and the 
same may be said of typhoid, with the exception of a stub- 
born " residual," but scarlet fever and diphtheria present 
deeper and less soluble problems. In tuberculosis and in 
infant mortality (due to pneumonia, diarrhoea and enteritis, 
and other causes) the reduction process, though clearly 
indicated, is especially complicated by considerations of 
personal hygiene and will, it appears, even under the best 
conditions be long and gradual. In measles and whoop- 
ing-cough, the extent of practical prevention has thus far 
proved slight. 

The effects of the communicable diseases on mortality 
are probably greater than is supposed even by students 
of mortality returns. The damage to vitality even in the 
non-fatal cases is doubtless a potent predisposing influence 
which aids in swelling the list of deaths from other causes. 
Such deaths, while frequently not ascribed in any degree 
to any of the communicable diseases, nevertheless may be 
due in part in many cases in great part to the effects 
of previous disease of the communicable class. It has, for 
instance, lately been shown by Woodruff l that typhoid 
predisposes to tuberculosis; and if to tuberculosis why 
not to diseases of the constitutional class? (Tuberculosis 
itself may, indeed, be considered as virtually a constitu- 
tional disease, being so widespread as to attack almost 
anyone whose vital resistance falls below the safe limit.) 
Even with the " minor " contagious diseases, there is 
evidence that these tend to permanently injure the heart, 
kidneys, and other vital organs, so that their effects may 
be felt years afterwards, in middle life. 

The health official has to consider, not only actual, de- 
monstrable, dira;/ mortality from the communicable diseases, 
but also their indirect contributions to the mortality from 

1 Woodruff, "Tuberculosis Following Typhoid Fever," Am. Medi- 
cine, 1914, N. S., vol. XI, no. I, p. 17. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 79 

other diseases, and, furthermore, the immense and incal- 
culable amount of pain, inconvenience and expense caused 
by the sickness from communicable causes. 

Prevention is Relative. - " Prevention " under present 
conditions, is a relative, not an absolute term. Many 
diseases may be reduced, but few absolutely prevented. 
While the term " preventable " tends to a justifiable 
optimism, it might, nevertheless, be preferable that in scien- 
tific language we speak rather of " reducible " diseases. 

It is on account of their preventability, or reducibility, 
that such diseases, no matter what their rates, are included 
in the table and chart. For, no matter what the general 
death rate and specific death-rates may be, the work of 
the sanitarian and health officer regards specifically the 
possibilities of prevention. 

Diseases not Subject to Public Health Measures. - 
The remaining causes of death in Table II are of the class 
of constitutional or environmental causes which are prac- 
tically uncontrollable or subject to control only or chiefly 
through personal hygiene. 

Organic diseases of the heart, Bright's disease, and cere- 
bral haemorrhage and apoplexy are largely manifestations 
of those degenerations or defects of the circulatory and 
urinary systems which can be retarded or compensated for 
only by the hygiene of private life, though even here, as 
we have already shown, there is an indirect effect of cer- 
tain communicable diseases of childhood and adult life. 

Congenital malformation and debility are great causes 
of infant deaths toward the prevention of which little has 
been accomplished; the reduction of venereal disease, 
with other measures, however, promises some progress in 
this direction. 

Cancer is a disease which is apparently on the increase, 
possibly because of the greater number of persons surviving 
to reach the cancer age of late middle life; the researches 
now being carried on give hope that the cause and means 



8o A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of prevention and cure may be ascertained in the near 
future. 

Influenza is a communicable disease the spread of which 
may be reduced through home isolation and personal 
prophylaxis, but which is impracticable of attack by public 
health authorities; thus, it is in the same class as pneu- 
monia, measles and whooping-cough, although with these 
last two, on account of their prevalence among school- 
children, reports from physicians are required and some 
attempt made at quarantine. 

The comparatively low position in the list of " senility," 
or old age, the only strictly natural cause of death, is inter- 
esting to note and it would probably stand considerably 
lower if, in all cases, the disease actually causing death 
were stated rather than the general term " old age." At 
any rate the term is, from a statistical standpoint, unsatis- 
factory. It would appear from statistical study that 
while old age is a contributory, or predisposing, cause of 
death in many cases and the main cause in many others, 
it is the sole cause in very, very few. Thus, it should be 
regarded, not as a specific cause of death, but rather as a 
condition potently favoring mortality. 

Fundamental Needs. Reasonable purity of air, water, 
and food and freedom from communicable disease have 
from ancient times been the great sanitary desiderata of 
the human race. They are evidently the fundamental 
requirements in any stage of society. The complex sani- 
( tary needs of today spring from these great roots, affect- 
ing not merely individuals or small groups, but very 
frequently the whole community, for which reason they are 
the subjects of public rather than of personal hygiene. 
While the individuals of the family may regulate their 
manner of eating, sleeping, and the like, with comparatively 
little ^reference to the conduct of others, they cannot so 
regulate the quality of the air, water, and food which they 
consume, nor can they assure themselves of freedom from 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 8 1 

the communicable diseases of their neighbors. The air 
which the citizen breathes may be that of the common 
atmosphere of the factory, the water and the food which 
he consumes may be drawn from common public supplies 
far beyond his inspection or even knowledge. 

The more complex the civilization the greater are the 
sanitary needs. Such needs depend chiefly upon two 
things: congestion, favoring much association between 
persons and families in close proximity to one another; 
and intercommunication, enabling ready and rapid inter- 
change of persons and commodities between communities 
at a distance from one another. Consider, for example, 
a rural district where the families have separate and inde- 
pendent water-supplies, raise their own foods, live on iso- 
lated farms, and have little communication, either by per- 
son or otherwise with one another or with persons outside 
of their limited environment. Under such conditions there 
are practically no problems of public hygiene. The hy- 
gienic problems are of a personal character, or at least 
limited to the family. But once such a community begins 
to concentrate itself in even the smallest hamlets, sanitary 
problems of a public nature begin to appear; and when 
intercommunication with the outer world begins, then the 
sanitary problems (as we have seen in a previous chapter) 
take on a state-wide character. 

While sanitary needs remain always fundamentally the 
same, the forms in which they appear are ever changing 
and ever new. In the progress of civilization from the 
simple to the complex, man produces for himself not only 
new conveniences and comforts but also, simultaneously, 
new inconveniences and discomforts. In making life in 
some respects more secure, he makes it in other respects 
more dangerous. A whole step forward may involve a 
half-step back. New problems grow, Hydra-like, even in 
the moment the old are cut away. In the bargain which 
man drives with his natural enemies he must take certain 



82 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

new disadvantages as part of the exchange. Sanitation 
can never be a finished art. 
Anomalous Position of Modern Sanitary Authorities. 

Sanitary authorities today, in their powers and methods, 
are subject to influences from two different quarters: 
(i) tradition, and (2) modern sanitary science. There are 
certain assumed duties which we may call the old public 
health, venerated by many officials as the foundation of 
their office and demanded, frequently, by public opinion. 
Side by side with these and at some variance with them 
are the activities which modern discoveries indicate as 
the main line of advance the new public health. The 
present in the public health field is, therefore, a stage 
of transition, of re-adjustment, of expansion. Hence, the 
inconsistencies in public health work, the great differences 
in balance and emphasis between one board of health 
and another, and the absence of a consensus of opinion 
as to what constitutes a rational program. One board 
lays the emphasis on plumbing and nuisance inspections 
while comparatively neglecting food supplies; another 
expends its chief energy on milk supervision, or stringent 
quarantine, or some other particular point. Measures 
zealously practised in one quarter are held in slight esteem 
in others. It is the object of this volume to examine into 
such discrepancies and, so far as possible, to strike a correct 
balance among them. It is the problem of the health 
officer to weigh and sift, to save what is valuable in tra- 
dition and experience while casting out the valueless residue, 
and at the same time to utilize those of the new principles 
which have been proved beyond doubt. 

THE OLD PUBLIC HEALTH 

We need not go deeply into traditional public health 
principles. They are familiar to all who are concerned 
with routine health department 'work and even to the 
general public. Epidemic disease was suppressed after it 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 83 

had appeared, rather than prevented in the true sense. 
The function of nuisance abatement loomed large, for the 
pythogenic, or filth origin, theory of disease taught what 
we now know to be untrue, that disease may originate 
in all kinds of filth. In other directions, such as in the 
supervision of food supplies, little was attempted. 

Surviving Fallacies. The chief consideration in con- 
nection with the old public health is that we must recognize 
the survival of the old theories in the popular mind and 
even in the minds of health officers themselves. Tradition 
gives way but slowly, and the continued adverse influence 
of the errors of the past is still strongly felt today. Hence 
the need for the re-education both of health officers and 
public. The surviving fallacies are all the more difficult 
to dislodge in that in many cases they contain the element 
of a half-truth. 

i . Sanitary Significance of Dirt 

The question of the sanitary significance of dirt has 
probably been the occasion of more loose thinking than 
any other topic in hygiene. Instinct, of course, teaches an 
abhorrence of decaying organic matter, and history gives 
evidence of the care exercised in the disposal of putresci- 
ble matter. Then, in the middle of the nineteenth century, 
was announced Murchison's " pythogenic " theory of 
disease, which held filth to be dangerous, not merely as 
a predisposing condition or as the possible vehicle of 
disease, but as the very source of disease. The materies 
morbi, or causative agent of disease, was thought to arise 
de novo out of filth. Today we know that this theory is 
false, but even today it still continues to exercise an 
influence. Many persons still unfortunately believe that 
diphtheria or typhoid fever or some other disease may 
arise from decaying garbage or may be caused by the 
much -dreaded sewer gas. 

Let us separate the truth from the error in the vague, 



84 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

general condemnation of filth, and discriminate between 
what is actually dangerous and what is merely unpleasant 
or mildly detrimental. Science now shows that there are 
various kinds of filth, some of which are deadly such as 
the undisinfected excreta of typhoid fever and other intes- 
tinal diseases and some of which are practically harmless, 
a fact recognized in the popular phrase " good honest 
dirt," and between the two extremes there are various 
degrees. 

Certain things are specifically dangerous: above all the 
disease-spreading privy vault; then, in a lesser degree, the 
neglected manure-pile breeding the disease-bearing fly, 
stagnant water breeding malarial or yellow-fever mos- 
quitoes, the unkempt dwelling harboring rats and other 
vermin, potential carriers of specific disease. Then again, 
more important, certain habits are dangerous, and personal 
uncleanliness in a broad sense stands convicted by scien- 
tific evidence as being the greatest single factor in the spread 
of many of the common communicable diseases. 

We may go even further and say that dirt is at least 
suspicious if not dangerous, and largely for the reason 
that the dangerous kinds of dirtiness and the innocuous 
kinds are likely to be all mixed up together. Dirty sur- 
roundings and dirty habits usually go together. A city 
with dirty streets is presumably one controlled by slovenly 
or indifferent people, and those are the class which sanita- 
rians have learned to fear. Again, it is doubtless true that 
dirt in itself exerts a depressing influence on the human 
organism, particularly that of the infant. 

Such facts clearly show that filth is, generally speaking, 
inimical to health and a subject for health administration. 
The present difficulty, however, is that there is in practice 
little or no discrimination among the different kinds of 
filth. In other words, the health officer whose resources 
are limited must recognize what forms of uncleanliness 
are most objectionable and attack those first. Thus, he 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 85 

will find that while a campaign for street-cleaning will 
produce little in the way of vital results, a campaign for 
sewers and the abolition of privy-vaults will result in great 
and immediate benefit to public health. Never should 
he be led to expend valuable energy, needed for more 
important matters, in pursuing merely superficial condi- 
tions, such as dirty alleys, faulty garbage collection, and 
the like. These may be real complaints and should be 
dealt with as effectively as may be, but they are, it must 
always be remembered, distinctly subordinate in the public 
health campaign. Let him rather wage war on the known 
modes of the spread of disease: dirty hands and food 
supplies, the unclean typhoid carrier, the insanitary privy- 
vault, and the like. 

The most damaging effect of false ideas as to dirt is that 
attention is distracted from more important things. Thus, 
we now know that the most dangerous kind of uncleanli- 
ness is personal uncleanliness, and persons who forget this 
and clamor instead about inadequacies in garbage collection 
and plumbing inspection are ignoring, and leading others 
to neglect, the real paths of infection. 

2. Sewer Gas and Foul Odors 

A special misconception of the class just referred to 
relates to the supposed dangers from sewer gas and foul 
odors. The emanations from sewage and other decom- 
posing organic matter have, erroneously, been held directly 
responsible for typhoid fever, diphtheria, malaria, and 
what-not; and the sewer-gas bugaboo is still apparently 
entertained by most people today. The strictness of 
plumbing regulations is a testimony to the importance 
ascribed to the exclusion of even minute quantities of sewer 
gas from dwellings. 

The theory of sewer gas as a source of disease has been 
exploded by researches which prove that it is practically 
free from elements especially detrimental to health and 



86 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

that the danger of air infection, even from foaming and 
splashing sewage, is practically negligible. 1 Nevertheless, 
the popular notion of the dangers from sewer gas still 
vigorously persists, being, as Rosenau says, " the residual 
legatee of Murchison's pythogenic theory." 

Of course, sewer gas is detrimental to comfort and may 
exert a depressing influence on the human organism. Foul 
odors presumed to arise from defective plumbing and the 
like should not be permitted to pass without inspection. 
They may indicate conditions dangerous to health, such, 
for example, as improper disposal of excreta, or broken 
drains giving rise to infection through flies, vermin, or 
food or water supplies. Also, the odors in question may 
really be due to escapage of illuminating gas, which, even 
in small quantities in the air of a dwelling-house, may be 
highly detrimental to health. 

But we no longer trace any special connection between 
sewer gas and disease, and it is to be hoped that popular 
alarms on the subject will soon cease. 

3. Stagnant Water and Miasms 

A connection between stagnant water and fevers is 
traditional. Related to it is mistrust of the upturned 
soil and of the night air in marshy regions. In general, 
residence in low, damp, or marshy regions or in the neigh- 
borhood of swamps has been thought unhealthful because 
of the supposed poisonous " miasms " arising therefrom. 
And, certainly, fevers have frequently attacked persons 
under such conditions. 

Sanitary science now explains the underlying phenomena 
of such experience. The fevers in question are usually 
either malarial or typhoid fever. The first is transmitted 
through the bite of the anopheles mosquito (and only 
thus) , and such mosquitoes breed in stagnant water. The 

1 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, pp. 
638-640. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 87 

same may be said of yellow fever, transmitted by another 
species of mosquito in the swampy regions of the south 
and the tropics. The upturning of soil incident to certain 
kinds of construction work means hollows for the accumu- 
lation and stagnation of water, while the presence among 
laborers (e.g., those from malarial districts of Italy and 
elsewhere) of malarial individuals who act as a source of 
infection of the mosquitoes is not unlikely. The suspicion 
of night air is explained by the fact that the anopheles 
(malarial) mosquito flies only by night. Witness the classic 
experiments of Sambon, Low and Terzi, who avoided con- 
tracting malaria in the malarial Roman Campagna by 
the simple precaution of keeping within their well-screened 
hut from before sunset until after sunrise. Thus science 
explains a popular suspicion by showing exactly what the 
danger to health is. 

In a somewhat similar manner an indirect connection 
may be traced between the upturning of soil and the occur- 
rence of typhoid fever. Consider that excavation work 
means the presence of laborers, some of whom may be 
mildly infected typhoid " carriers." Consider further that 
the sanitary arrangements may be very imperfect, and the 
infection of the neighborhood through flies, water, etc., may 
thus readily take place. The lesson, of course, is not the 
avoidance of excavations, as once was thought, but proper 
sanitation in connection with them. 

4. Imaginary Purification of Running Water 

As for water-supplies, stagnant water is on the whole 
less likely to convey infection than flowing. The saying 
" running water purifies itself " has been a disastrous one 
in the history of sanitation. Some popular tradition even 
asserts that water is purified after running seven miles. 
We now know that while indeed, through the aeration of 
splashing, chemical purification may be favored in a 
running stream, and the water made agreeable to sight 



88 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

*and smell, the same rule does not apply to bacterial purifi- 
cation. A sparkling water may still contain the germs of 
typhoid fever or other intestinal disease ; mere appearances 
are no criterion. The modern science of water bacteri- 
ology shows that purification from pathogenic germs is 
favored in standing rather than in running water. The 
principal purifying factors are sedimentation (or settling 
out of suspended matters) and time. Hence the value 
of storage of water supplies. In rapidly running waters 
these factors have no place, hence the greater danger of 
conveyance of infection. (See Part II, Chapter IV.) 

Further examples of the popular misconceptions so 
frequently met with, which the health officer has to combat, 
might be given, but enough has been said to clear the 
ground for a consideration of the duties of sanitary author- 
ities as pointed out by modern sanitary science. 

THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 

The sanitary science of today is characterized by definite 
qualitative and quantitative knowledge. Of this fact the 
great example is to be seen in the germ theory of disease 
and its far-reaching developments in sanitary and patho- 
logical bacteriology. Instead of " miasms," " influences," 
" poisons," materies morbi, and other vaguely surmised 
causes of disease, there is now definite knowledge of specific 
causative organisms: the bacilli of tuberculosis, diphtheria, 
typhoid fever, and the rest. The list of communicable 
diseases subject to control has been much lengthened. 
Distinctions have been worked out; we know that some 
diseases may creep like fire in the underbrush, while others 
spread like wildfire. 

Tuberculosis-, once supposed hereditary and non-pre- 
ventable, is now transferred to the list of preven tables. 
To that list the whole class of insect-borne diseases is 
added. Nuisances are scrutinized to ascertain whether 
they really favor or indicate the transmission of disease 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 89 

or whether they are merely objectionable on grounds of 
aesthetics, decency, or comfort. In the hygiene of air- 
supplies, instead of the theorizings which have left ventila- 
tion one of the least developed of the sanitary arts, there 
is definite and increasing knowledge as to the physiological 
effects of heat, humidity, dust and gases, and ventilating 
engineering is now a distinct and progressing art. In 
regard to water-supplies, bacteriology shows that the pres- 
ence of the specific germs of typhoid fever and other 
water-borne diseases must be guarded against and that 
mere absence of offensive odor and taste does not assure 
this; while bacteriology and chemistry join in furnishing 
the means of detecting the presence of the germs and of 
the sewage matters associated with them. As to food- 
supplies, the dangers of transmission of germ disease by 
articles of food (especially milk) are clearly recognized, 
while on the other hand deleterious contamination, fer- 
mentations, and decompositions are much better under- 
stood than formerly. In short, there has been built an 
imposing and still growing structure of sanitary science, 
of which epidemiology, sanitary bacteriology, sanitary 
chemistry, and the allied sciences are the component parts. 
In the new methods, both technical and administra- 
tive, the quantitative element is prominent. The question, 
" Is this or that detrimental to the public health? " is 
followed by the inquiry, " How detrimental? " Many 
things affect the public health and practical considerations 
forbid equal attention to all of them. In any particular 
instance the problem is whether administrative measures 
are advisable, and, if so, what they shall be and how far 
they shall go. Does terminal disinfection always pay? 
Which, judged from sanitary and economic standpoints, 
is the better course : pasteurization of milk or the elimina- 
tion of tuberculous cows? Such quantitative questions 
as these are common. Expenditure of money must be 
adjusted to probable results, and sanitary research and 



90 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

municipal budgets are coming into closer relation. The 
methods of the actuary are applied to public health work, 
and results, so far as they are economic, are estimated 
in terms of dollars and cents. The economic problems 
arising out of sanitary restrictions are receiving attention. 
The new public health applies principles, rather than 
formulas or customs. Problems are decided, not by 
dictum or on a priori grounds, but by actual test, in the 
laboratory, in the field, or at the statistical desk. Health 
departments are being overhauled and time-honored 
routines put to the test. 

Scope of the New Public Health 

The field of the new public health may be summarized 
as follows: 

I. General Administration. 

II. Registration (reports of communicable disease, vital 
statistics, etc.}. 

III. General Sanitation (housing, factory sanitation, 

nuisances, etc.). 

IV. Prevention and Control of Communicable Disease. 
V. Child Hygiene. 

VI. Supervision of Food and Water Supplies. 

VII. Other Functions (maintenance of hospitals, research, 
etc}. 

In comparison with the ideas of the old public health we 
see many changes and developments in the above. 

General administration and registration work, for ex- 
ample, have become so important as to merit separate 
classification. 

The old function of nuisance abatement is now reck- 
oned as only a subdivision of the general sanitary control 
of the new environment, in which the housing and factory 
problems now loom large. The old function of suppressing 
epidemics after their appearance has been enlarged until 
it now means the constant control, by scientific prevention, 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 91 

of communicable disease at all times. Sanitary authorities 
are even going further and in infant hygiene work are 
attacking disease which is preventable though not commu- 
nicable by methods which press into the realm of personal 
hygiene. 

The supervision of food supplies has been much extended, 
as may be seen from the present-day complex pure food 
laws. The regulation of milk-supplies has received an 
especially large share of attention. To this head has also 
been added the scientific control of water-supplies. 

The list does not include public works of the nature of 
sanitary engineering e.g., refuse collection and disposal, 
street-cleaning, sewerage (including plumbing inspection), 
and the like for the reason that these should be assigned 
to the engineering departments of municipal administra- 
tion. While these, like parks and water-supplies, indirectly 
affect public health, they are not primarily matters of health 
administration, and a natural division of activities requires 
that they be assigned to special city departments. 

The vantage point in the shift from old to new is indi- 
cated by Dr. H. W. Hill 1 (whose phrasing suggested the 
title of the present chapter) in the statement that " the 
old public health was concerned with the environment; 
the new is concerned with the individual. The old sought 
the sources of infection in the surroundings of man; the 
new finds them in man himself." There is much truth in 
this. Human conduct is the great factor in public hygiene, 
and also the most difficult to control. Persons and their 
actions (especially their habits) are more important than 
things and their properties. Even the problem of environ- 
ment is, of course, one of the modifications by man of the 
conditions surrounding his life, and not of mere passive 
protection against them. 

1 Hill, "The New Public Health," Press of the Journal-Lancet, Min- 
neapolis, Minn., 1913 (50 cents); also book of same title (Macmillan, 
1914). 



92 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Sanitary Education and Publicity. A notable charac- 
teristic of the new scheme is the education of the people 
in some of the elements of personal and public hygiene. 
Sanitary education implies not only sound instruction of 
the growing generation, but also popular enlightenment 
through systematized publicity work. The latter will be 
taken up later in a separate chapter. 

Some Uncontrollable Factors. The program which has 
been sketched by no means covers the whole range of 
factors affecting the public health, but only those suscep- 
tible of public control. The uncontrollable, or only partly 
controllable, factors should not be lost sight of in any 
estimate of administration and its results. 

The character of the population, for example, may pre- 
sent many such. Age and race distribution may favor or 
may work against measures of sanitary control. Thus, 
the large negro element in the South tends to produce an 
increased mortality which is combatted with difficulty 
by the sanitary authorities. Then there are climatic 
conditions: the long warm seasons of the South favor the 
life of pathogenic organisms in the environment and tend 
to increase the incidence of insect-borne diseases; while 
more severe and changeable climates favor affections of 
the respiratory system. Seasonal variations have their 
effects, as has been noted in the tendency of hot summers 
to increase infant mortality. Standards of living, which 
are notoriously subject to fluctuation, undoubtedly affect 
the public health. 1 Some of these influences affecting the 
general death-rate will be discussed more fully under 
Vital Statistics. 

Proportion in Work of Sanitary Authorities. The 
prime duty of sanitary authorities is to strive toward 
higher ideals of administration. In order to approach 

1 Although this subject is of considerable sanitary and sociological 
interest, it is little understood. There is reason to believe that the 
phenomena are not altogether what would be anticipated; for example, 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 93 

those ideals it is necessary to do certain things very well 
indeed, which means that the field for action must be 
carefully defined in order that energy may not be spent 
in ways of little profit. The usual health appropriation 
allows no room for expenditures which do not directly 
and demonstrably affect the public health and the health 
officer is to be congratulated who, without waste of money 
or effort, recognizes and accomplishes the essential for his 
community. 1 The law of diminishing returns must be 
taken into account. Outside of the things that may 
easily be distinguished as obvious duties there is a choice 
which requires discretion. The health officer feels himself 
drawn to go into publicity work, to co-operate with phi- 
lanthropies, perhaps to take counsel with civic reformers. 
These things may be good in a degree, but must be sub- 
ordinated to a well-balanced administrative program. 

Obstacles to Progress. Ignorance of sanitary needs 
and indifference to them are the chief enemies of sanitary 
progress. One role of the health officer is to point out 
both needs and remedies and to break the vicious circle 
of low standards, insufficient funds, and poor sanitation 
which not infrequently prevails. The first step is the 
preparation of a statement of needs, based so far as possible 
on reliable vital statistics, with a detailed scheme of pro- 
posed work with its cost. Judicious publicity on the 
situation and tact in obtaining the cooperation of the 

"hard times," instead of increasing death rates through privation, 
lowered nutrition, etc., appear, under some circumstances at least, 
to decrease them through enforced moderation in labor, food, and 
drink, enforced idling (in the open air), and reduction to simple, inex- 
pensive, and healthful pleasures. Industrial depression also tends to 
decrease birth-rates, which would mean a lower infant mortality. 
Some remarks on the question are included in a paper by W. T. Sedg- 
wick and the present writer: "On the Mills- Reincke Phenomenon, 
etc.," Jour. Inf. Diseases, 1910, vol. VII, no. 4, p. 489. 

1 See Chapin, "How Shall We Spend the Health Appropriation?" 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 3, p. 202. 



94 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

council or other governing body which fixes appropriations, 
are important considerations. When the results that will 
follow the accomplishment of a thorough public health 
program are pointed out, the cost should cease to be an 
objection. 

Local pride must be tactfully dealt with. Almost 
every community is under the impression, fostered perhaps 
by the utterances of prominent but uninformed citizens, 
that it is one of the healthiest spots in the United States. 
This impression is strengthened in numerous ways and is 
usually left untouched, if it is not supported, by the public 
press. It is an impression which people unconsciously 
wish to have strengthened, just as the individual likes 
to minimize any ailment he may have and avoids consult- 
ing the doctor, who, he knows, may prescribe some radical 
change in regimen. The average community will put 
up with a great many surface indications of radically bad 
conditions before it will turn its attention to the conditions 
themselves and their remedies. For one reason, such in- 
dications are usually scattered. One citizen or group of 
citizens has but a very limited view, and so long as there 
is no general " survey," conditions in the mass are un- 
known to the citizens as a mass. If a citizen or society 
with the reform spirit rises and proclaims the salient re- 
sults of investigation, he is likely to be treated at first to 
the same old indifference. If, however, he perseveres in 
urging a few striking points in such a way as to move his 
public without antagonizing it, he will eventually get a 
hearing. The problem then is to get a thorough survey 
and study of the facts, in which it may be necessary to 
obtain the services of a qualified sanitary expert not a 
mere passing " investigation " which leaves fundamental 
conditions untouched; and, finally, to get permanent 
remedial action. In this last object the health officer may 
have to consider what motives are to be urged for more 
and better public health work. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 95 

The Motives for Public Health Work. Indifference 
may go on until some appalling revelation or even a severe 
attack of epidemic disease compels attention. There are 
instances in which public health reform was precipitated 
by an epidemic. Thus the town of Montclair, New Jersey, 
experienced in 1894 a severe epidemic of milk-borne ty- 
phoid fever, as a consequence of which the town immedi- 
ately instituted thorough health work under a full-time, 
trained health officer and has had a health department 
of a high order ever since. Before going through such an 
experience it is but prudence to take stock of the situation 
in time. 

What motives may be appealed to for support of public 
health work? It has been proposed in some quarters to 
estimate the results of such work in dollars and cents and 
to use such an estimate as the basis of appeal. Given 
certain pecuniary values of lives, a rough estimate may be 
made of the economic saving in mortality and morbidity 
avoided. The money argument has been advanced by 
Irving Fisher and other economists and sociologists who 
aim to replace vague sentimental appeals by something 
more tangible. On this principle Whipple 1 has worked 
out in money terms the saving in sickness and deaths 
resultant from the substitution of pure for polluted public 
water-supplies. 

This method of appeal, however, has not, it seems to 
the writer, a wide range of usefulness. The fact is that 
as Chapin 2 says, " there is much in the world which cannot 
be measured in terms of money, though to so measure it 
is doubtless the tendency of the age." The money valua- 
tion is highly inexact and does not cover the whole question 
of benefits from health work. The lives of laborers may 
have a low economic value, yet are as much entitled to 

1 Whipple, "The Value of Pure Water." 

2 Chapin, "The Value of Human Life," Am. Jour. Public Health, 
1913, vol. 3, no. 2, p. 101. 



96 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the protection of the law as those of individuals of greater 
economic value. Of course, it is not to be denied that in 
dealing with finance committees certain money calcula- 
tions of proposed benefits may have some value and may 
be used for what they are worth. 

On the whole, it is best to base arguments for health 
work directly upon high ideals of administration and make 
quantitative statements in terms of lives saved (or to be 
saved) and sicknesses prevented, leaving to the imagina- 
tion the immensurable total saving in suffering, sorrow, 
economic loss, and the rest, which is implied. Such is 
the true use of vital statistics. Costs may be expressed 
in dollars and cents, but the natural and direct expression 
of results is in the saving of vitality. 

The Costs of Public Health Work. Owing to local 
differences it is impossible to set any hard and fast figure 
as a standard for health expenditures. Various estimates 
for the minimum wage which would be required by most 
health departments have, however, been made, while 
figures as to actual expenditures have been collected by 
Schneider. 1 The Committee on Activities of Municipal 
Health Departments, of the American Public Health Asso- 
ciation, set the minimum per capita appropriation required 
at 50 cents. 2 One authority (Park) asks for a minimum 
ranging from 50 cents to $i per inhabitant, according to 
the size of the city. The investigation by Schneider (in 
1913) showed that in 119 American cities, containing in 
1910 a population of 17,525,000, the yearly expenditure 
for prevention of disease was but 38.4 cents a head, the 

1 Schneider, "Activities of Municipal Health Departments," De- 
partment of Surveys and Exhibits of the Russell Sage Foundation, 
130 East 22nd St., New York City. 

2 Such figures should, and it is believed that those here quoted do, 
refer only to expenditures which are for prevention of disease through 
activities which are distinctly those of health departments, excluding 
expenditures for sewers, refuse disposal, and other activities which 
properly pertain to other departments of the city government. 



THE NEW PUBLIC HEALTH 97 

range for individual cities being from $1.22 down to eight- 
tenths of i cent per capita. In New York City, where 
health work has been organized on an efficient basis longer 
than in any other American city, and where health appro- 
priations are relatively generous, the per capita is 55 cents, 
but this is less than three-quarters of what the health 
commissioner certifies as necessary. The health depart- 
ment of that city has adopted the phrase, <l Public health 
is purchasable, and within natural limitations a commu- 
nity may determine its own death rate." It is obvious 
that health appropriations the country over should be 
increased. . This and expert service are the crying needs 
of the day. Given these, and effective organization 
and activity will follow. Aside from such general minima 
as have been mentioned above (which are merely sugges- 
tive) , each community must estimate its own requirements 
in each department of public health activity and appro- 
priate accordingly. 

Public Health Surveys and Programs. In the present 
pages we deal with the principles of public health prac- 
tice, leaving these to be applied to local needs, which 
may differ rather widely in different places. It is the 
first duty of the health officer if this has not already 
been done to make a survey of the local public health 
situation, to study local needs, and to formulate an effec- 
tive local program. In many instances it would be wise 
to secure the services of a public health expert for the 
special purpose of making such a survey. 1 

REFERENCES 

Sedgwick, "Principles of Sanitary Science and the Public Health," 
Macmillan, New York, 1905. 

Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene;" with chapters upon 
Sewage and Garbage, by Whipple; Vital Statistics, by Wilbur, etc.; 
Appleton, New York, 1913, is a good general reference book which 

1 See the references to organizations specializing in such work, 
p. 63. 



98 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

will frequently be cited in the following pages. Various other standard 
works on Hygiene may also be consulted. Of special interest to the 
health officer of the small town or country district is Brewer's "Rural 
Hygiene," Lippincott, Phila., 1909; also Dresslar, " Rural Schoolhouses 
and Grounds," U. S. Bur. Education, Bull. 12, 1914 (includes discus- 
sions on wells and privies). 

Allen, "Civics and Health," and Bruere, "The New City Govern- 
ment," both dealing with health from the standpoint of civics and 
municipal research. 

Kerr and Moll, "Organization, Powers and Duties of Health Au- 
thorities: An Analysis of the Laws and Regulations Relating Thereto 
in Force in the United States," U. S. Public Health Service, Pub. 
Health Bull. No. 54, 1912. 

The publications of the Federal Government, particularly the "Pub- 
lic Health Reports" (a weekly statistical review of national health 
conditions, containing also articles on sanitary methods and organi- 
zation, new municipal ordinances, etc., which may be obtained regularly 
by any health officer on application to the U. S. Public Health Service, 
Washington), and the Bulletins of the Hygienic Laboratory dealing 
with subjects of sanitary research and organization (may be obtained 
as above). The Department of Agriculture issues a monthly list 
of new publications, which will be sent regularly on request. For a 
general description of Federal publications see Price List 51, covering 
Health and Hygiene, obtainable from the Supt. of Documents, Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, Washington, D. C., to whom requests for such 
publications should be addressed. Most of the Federal publications 
are sold at low prices in order to defray cost of publication. 

Frequent reference is made throughout this book to the American 
Journal of Public Health, published by the American Public Health 
Association at 755 Boylston Street, Boston (subscription three dollars 
per annum), files of which are indispensable to the health officer. Pre- 
vious to 1912 this publication was called the Journal of the American 
Public Health Association, and still earlier, the American Journal of 
Public Hygiene. 



PART II 
PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 



CHAPTER I 
COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 

The most important group of duties falling to the health 
authorities is that under the head of communicable disease. 

Terms. It was formerly the custom to attempt to 
draw a precise distinction between the terms " contagious" 
and "infectious," but modern theory has shown the fallacy 
of such attempts. It is best to group all the diseases 
under present consideration under the term "communica- 
ble" (or "transmissible"), which means simply that they 
may be communicated from one person to another (or in 
some instances from an animal to man), and then to con- 
sider for each division the mode of communication of the 
disease. When it is seen that there are many such modes 
and many degrees of communicability, a much clearer and 
more practical conception will be obtained than through 
attempting to classify in hard and fast categories. 1 

Classification of Diseases. The following classification, 
adopted from Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hy- 
giene" and based primarily upon practical sanitary consid- 
erations, is used in the present chapter. 

1 So far as the terms can be defined with any accuracy, " infectious " 
would seem to apply to any disease caused by microbic invasion (Latin 
inficere, to put into, to taint), while the term " contagious " would 
mean " capable of being spread by (direct or indirect) contact." In 
popular parlance a contagious disease is one directly and readily com- 
municable "catching"; while an infectious disease is conveyed in 
some indirect manner. Neither term, however, has an accepted scientific 
significance, and the terminology suggested in the text is much pref- 
erable. (Cf. Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, 
page 317). 

101 



102 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

/. Diseases spread largely through secretions or dis- 
charges from nose, throat or mouth. 
II. Diseases spread largely through excreta. 
III. Diseases spread by insects and vermin. 
IV. Diseases having specific or special preventive measures. 
V. Miscellaneous diseases. 

CONTROL OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 

Reporting. 1 Physicians, persons in charge of schools of 
any kind (including Sunday schools), and under certain 
circumstances, parents or householders, should be required, 
under heavy penalty, to make a prompt report of each case 
(or suspected case) of communicable disease coming under 
their observation. As a general rule there is no difficulty 
in obtaining good reporting of cases of the acute commu- 
nicable diseases, though there is sometimes a tendency on 
the part of physicians to delay diagnosis for fear of being 
in the wrong. Reports of mild cases are also sometimes 
omitted where it is thought that unofficial home isolation 
will meet the situation; this is, of course, a very repre- 
hensible practice, though apparently not of frequent 
occurrence. 

It sometimes happens that a patient is affected with two 
or more distinct diseases at once e.g., scarlet fever and 
diphtheria. Such cases are known as "plural infections." 
In such cases double records should be made out and the 
rules for both diseases apply. 

SUSPECTED CASES. It should be distinctly understood 
that the public health should be given the benefit of the 
doubt in all instances: that cases may be reported as 
"suspected," that the health department will in such cases 
furnish a diagnostician (its own physician) to assume the 
responsibility of dealing with the case and settling the 

1 The English term " notification " is perhaps preferable, but the 
above is commonly used in this country. 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 103 

doubt, and that in exceptional cases the diagnosis may, as 
a result of later developments, be recalled. It is prefer- 
able to isolate a suspected case for a few days rather than 
allow it the opportunity to infect half-a-dozen others dur- 
ing that time. Such cases should receive daily medical 
scrutiny with use of the thermometer. 

REPORTABLE DISEASES. The list of diseases which 
physicians are by law required to report is best fixed by 
state law, but is sometimes, to some extent at least, left 
to the local board of health to determine. It should include 
all of the diseases mentioned in the present chapter and 
any others which may concern the public health. 

The reporting should be made as easy and systematic 
as possible for the physician. Postal card forms (except 
for tuberculosis, which the law frequently requires to be 
reported under seal) are most convenient. 

It may, for epidemiological purposes, be useful to require 
in the report the name of the milk-dealer serving the family. 

The practice of receiving reports over the telephone may 
be adopted provided prompt confirmatory notice is given 
in writing. It must be remembered that the law com- 
monly requires the written report and that the latter is the 
proper legal justification for the action taken by the health 
authorities. 

DEFECTS IN REPORTING. Satisfactory reporting of 
cases may be obtained through cultivating the cooperation 
of the local practitioners, explaining through circular letters 
and reports the necessity for prompt and full reports as a 
basis for the work of the health department. Occasion- 
ally prosecution of a grave offender is necessary. If the 
reporting is not up to the mark of practical perfection the 
fault may be laid at the door of the health officer himself, 
for upon him devolves both the power and duty of enforc- 
ing the law. 

By practical perfection we mean the prompt reporting 
of all recognized cases. But even this does not mean that 



104 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

actually all cases are brought to the attention of the health 
department, for, as will be explained later, there are num- 
bers of "missed," or unrecognized, cases, which never 
reach the records. 

Investigation and Action. Reported cases are at once 
made the basis of investigation and action by the health 
officer or by a trained inspector. The importance of 
promptitude in looking up reported cases is very great; 
immediate isolation, for example, may save several cases 
or an outbreak later. Again, milk or other food supplies 
may be in need of prompt protection. The specific action 
to be taken for each disease will be outlined later under the 
various heads. 

On his first visit the inspector fills out a blank form called 
a history of the case, on which are entered data concerning 
the circumstances of the case and possible sources of infec- 
tion. He prescribes whatever measures are necessary in 
the case and adds to the history a memorandum of them. 
This history is then placed on file at the office for reference. 
It not only furnishes information, statistical and otherwise, 
but also, with the physician's written report, constitutes 
evidence of legal justification for the action taken. 

Recording. The recording system for communicable 
disease must be full, easy to manipulate, and afford ready 
means for any statistical studies that may be necessary. 
The system may comprise: 

1. Original physicians' reports, filed in order of receipt. 

2. History cards, fifed by name or address. 

3. A book record, giving main data of the cases in same 
order as physicians' reports, dates of action taken, etc. 1 

4. A "spot map," showing locations of cases. 

1 Columns may be provided for the following items: Name, Case 
No., St. and No., Age, Disease, Date of Rpt., Physician, Milkman, 
Date of Attack, Number of School Children, School Attended, Reported 
to School, Libraries, Milk Station, etc., Outcome of Case, Disinfection 
Measures. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 105 

5. Physicians' reports of termination of cases, filed in 
order of receipt. 

Any good large-scale map of the town (such as may be 
obtained from the town engineer or a surveyor) may be 
used for the basis of the spot map ; the various diseases may 
be indicated by tacks or pins having heads of different 
colors (those known as " routing tacks" and furnished by 
stationers are useful) and when a case is terminated the 
location may be marked by a colored spot. The map may 
be run for a year and then be replaced by a new one to be 
started afresh. 

In addition to the above other forms will readily suggest 
themselves. Inspectors may, for example, run a record 
of inspections and disinfections performed. It may be 
desired to make special studies as to milk-supply, etc., but 
in general careful study of the above-mentioned records 
will give the essential understanding of the situation. 

Notification of Schools, etc. Cases of diseases of child- 
hood should be reported promptly by the health depart- 
ment to the school authorities by telephone. The names 
of school-children in the house should be reported; if 
there are no school-children the report should nevertheless 
be made so that the school authorities may confirm the 
fact to their own satisfaction. Communication should be 
made as to whether the patient is isolated at home or has 
gone to the isolation hospital. Termination of isolation 
and return from hospital should be reported in the same 
manner. The relation of communicable disease to the 
schools will be discussed later (page 254). 

The same data should be reported by telephone to in- 
fants' consultation and milk stations and public and private 
circulating libraries (page 263). 

It may also be desirable to report to large milk companies 
the names and addresses of quarantined families on their 
routes. 

If there is a local anti-tuberculosis society, tuberculosis 



106 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

should be reported to it by regular arrangement. Care 
should be taken, however, that no legal provision is vio- 
lated in so doing. The law usually provides that the data 
of tuberculosis reports shall be kept confidential, but there 
should be a proviso that they may be communicated by the 
health authorities so far as measures for the control of the 
disease require. Such a proviso would permit reports to 
unofficial anti-tuberculosis societies which would make the 
same sort of use of them that a health department might. 
Such reports should include statements of new cases, new 
reports of old cases, changes of address, deaths, disinfec- 
tions and related facts. The records of the society may 
from time to time be checked over against those of the 
health department to see that they agree. 

Reports made as above should be recorded in the com- 
municable disease record book. 

The reports required by law should also be made regu- 
larly to the state health department. 

THE MODERN THEORY OF INFECTION 

The great advances in sanitary science in the past few 
years have brought out the following principles, which 
are fundamental to all scientific considerations of the 
nature and transmission of infection. These principles 
are largely antagonistic to the older and now disproved 
theories of disease. 

1. Communicable diseases are caused by definite and 
specific organisms (bacteria, protozoa, etc.), which are 
transmitted from person to person in various ways. Many 
of these organisms have been isolated and identified; of 
others, not yet isolated, the existence is inferred by the 
characteristics of the disease. 

2. Cases of such disease never arise spontaneously (out 
of decay, etc., as once thought); the causative organism, 
derived from a previous case of the disease, must always 
be present. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 107 

3. However, it is now a recognized fact that the presence 
of the organism does not always produce the disease; in 
other words, pathogenic organisms may often be harbored 
by persons who exhibit few or no signs of the disease. 

This last statement, involving the theory of mild or 
unrecognized ("missed") cases and " carriers, " requires 
some explanation. It is known that the various pathogenic 
organisms vary in virulence; also, that the human subject 
varies in resisting powers. These facts were roughly formu- 
lated several years ago by Dr. Theobald Smith as follows: 

M 



in which D = the intensity of the disease, M = the strength 
of the microbic attack and V = the specific vital resistance 
of the person attacked; the greater the infection and the 
lower the vital resistance, the greater the intensity of the 
disease. The developments of more recent years have 
brought out clearly what might theoretically have been 
inferred from the formula, viz., that there are all degrees 
of intensity of disease, ranging from the most severe down 
to that so low that no disease can be detected. In other 
words, one subject, infected with a highly virulent strain 
of, say, B. typhosus, or having a very low vital resistance, 
may exhibit a highly severe case of typhoid fever; while 
another subject, also infected, but with a B. typhosus of 
low virulence, or else having high resistive power, may not 
exhibit any symptoms whatever. A person of the latter 
class, who, without exhibiting symptoms, harbors and 
sheds off organisms of a kind ordinarily pathogenic, is 
known as a carrier. A person standing between the two 
extremes, exhibiting some more or less mild symptoms, but 
not a typical case of the disease, would be an unrecognized 
or missed case. It is obvious that the last two classes of 
cases are highly dangerous factors in the spread of com- 
municable diseases; much more so in fact than the recog- 



I08 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

nized cases which are under surveillance, for the latter if 
the surveillance is adequate are of practically no danger. 
Some authorities hold that the chief part in the spread of 
many of the common communicable diseases is played by 
carriers and missed cases. And indeed, if we include with 
the missed cases the effect of cases in early but infective 
stages of the disease, not yet recognized, the combined 
effect of carriers, unrecognized cases and incipient cases 
accounts fully for the continuance of communicable diseases 
even in communities where the surveillance of known cases 
is beyond criticism. 

Since, then, "the clinical manifestations of an infection 
may vary from the typical description of the text-book to 
the very minimal dimensions which, possibly, only sero- 
logical analysis can detect" (Ledingham and Arkwright), 
the continuance and spread of a number of the communicable 
diseases is due to the following classes of infected persons: 

1. Carriers (no symptoms). 

2. Unrecognized (missed) easels (mild or atypical symp- 
toms) . 

3. Incipient but infective cases (undeveloped symptoms). 

4. Recognized (reported) cases (known by more or less 
typical symptoms or bacteriological test). 

To these might be added a small class, chiefly of the 
minor infections, which are recognized by family or physi- 
cian but not reported as required by law. 

THE CARRIER PROBLEM 

The other classes need no special comment, but the 
carriers require special remark. 1 We may preface our re- 
marks by saying that, of those persons classed as carriers 
in the widest sense of the term, by no means all carry viru- 
lent germs. Some strains of the diphtheria bacillus, for 

1 For a detailed treatment of the subject of carriers see Ledingham 
and Arkwright, " The Carrier Problem in Infectious Diseases," London, 
1912. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE IOQ 

instance, are non-virulent, as can be proved by laboratory 
tests on animals. While this is a fortunate fact, it some- 
what complicates the matter, for it is not always feasible 
to make the tests necessary for distinguishing. In our 
discussion of carriers we shall assume that most are carriers 
of virulent germs and that all are at any rate suspicious. 

There are in general two kinds of carriers. First, those 
who have had a recognized attack after which the person 
continues to harbor and shed off the germ; these are 
the chronic carriers, to the agency of which a number of 
epidemics have been traced in recent years. Chronic 
carriers are not infrequently "intermittent" carriers, i.e., 
there are periods when they are shedding germs and periods 
when they are not; this is a fact of special importance 
when a search is being made for carriers, for a person ex- 
amined during a non-shedding period may show negative 
results and be let off without suspicion. Secondly, there 
are persons who become infected without showing any 
symptoms and harbor the germ for a short time without 
apparent ill-effects to themselves; these are called by 
recent authorities transitory carriers. 

As to the frequency of carriers of the various diseases: 

Even when diphtheria is not prevalent I per cent of the population 
may be carrying the bacilli, and during outbreaks the number may be 
several times greater. Probably 25 per cent of all typhoid fever cases 
excrete bacilli for some weeks after convalescence, 1 and it is estimated 
that from I in 500 to I in 250 of the population are chronic carriers. 
.... There is no evidence that there are many carriers of measles or 
smallpox. 2 

The same authority estimates that 20 to 50 per cent of 
the population carry pneumococci and that the influenza 
bacillus is as widely distributed. In epidemics of cerebro- 

1 12 per cent (10 in 86 cases) have been found to be carriers three 
months after defervescence (experiments of Semple and Greig, 1908). 
J. S. M. (Cf. however p. 200 of present "volume.) 

2 Chapin, " Sources and Modes of Infection," 1912, p. 132. 



HO A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

spinal fever the carriers may be ten to thirty times as nu- 
merous as cases. In yellow fever, and especially in malaria, 
carriers may be numerous. In one-third to one-half the 
recovered cases of cholera the vibrio may be detected for 
more than ten days, though persistence over one month 
is very exceptional (Ledingham and Arkwright). In 
dysentery there are doubtless numerous carriers; this 
disease being comparable with typhoid fever, though the 
persistence of infection appears not to be so long. On the 
latter two diseases there is comparatively little evidence. 
Scarlet fever seems to be comparable to diphtheria in num- 
bers of carriers. The many only partly cured cases of 
gonorrhoea and syphilis may be classed as carriers. 

While the data on carriers are by no means full (espe- 
cially in those diseases of which the causative germ is un- 
known) the evidence shows the great part which they must 
play, and explains the failure of the present isolation meas- 
ures to obliterate the common communicable diseases. 
The presence or possibility of carriers and missed cases 
must always be borne in mind by the health officer. It is 
in this direction that future progress in control methods is 
to be looked for. 

In the possible cure of carriers little advance has as yet 
been made. In typhoid fever the germ-bearing urine may 
be internally disinfected by means of the drug urotropin, 
which is useful both in diminishing the incidence of the 
bacilluria and in curing it when established. When germs 
exist in the nose and throat it is possible that their 
numbers and the amount of danger may be diminished by 
the use of antiseptic sprays and gargles (e.g., hydrogen 
peroxide) , both by the carrier and by persons in association 
with him, or by special medical treatment to cleanse and 
disinfect the crypts of the tonsils. The efficacy of such 
measures for ridding the throat of germs does not, how- 
ever, appear as yet to be thoroughly established. 

The supervision of carriers is a difficult matter, but one 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE III 

now recognized as a duty of health authorities. 1 In the 
case of carriers of diphtheria, where the germs usually dis- 
appear (or may be made to disappear) in a few days, iso- 
lation is feasible, especially with school-children. There 
are, however, two kinds of carriers: (i) those existing in 
the general population and giving no history of having 
been in contact with a sick person ; such are usually carriers 
of germs of little or no virulence; (2) those who have had 
the disease or who have been in recent association with 
cases; these are the chief carriers of virulent germs and the 
class most to be watched by the health officer. Thus it is 
not feasible to isolate all carriers say of diphtheria in 
a community, though it is feasible to search out and isolate 
all school-children carriers in association with a known case 
of the disease. In the former case the isolation would be 
in many of the cases needless if not impracticable, but in 
the latter case we are isolating and excluding from school 
presumably virulent carriers in the class in which diph- 
theria is most easily spread, viz., children of school age. 

When the condition of germ carriage persists a long time, 
as in typhoid fever, it is practically impossible closely to 
restrain the carrier. In such cases it seems best to warn 
the carrier as to the danger of infecting other persons, 
to instruct him as to habitual and scrupulous cleanliness 
of the hands, and to maintain a sufficient degree of sur- 
veillance over his movements to see that he does not en- 
gage in handling foodstuffs or otherwise spread the disease. 
The last requirement would necessitate his submitting at 
certain intervals to some sanitary authority for bacterio- 
logical examination of discharges and renewal of instruc- 
tions. Since such carriers may remove from towns or even 
from the state, such surveillance might perhaps best be exer- 
cised by state health authorities in cooperation with one 
another. 

1 Cf. Sawyer, " The Prevention of Carriers," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
1914, vol. IV, no. 3, p. 217. 



112 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

It is of the greatest importance that local health author- 
ities be constantly on the lookout for carrier cases in the 
diseases in which bacteriological methods are available, 
i.e., especially diphtheria and typhoid fever. When such 
cases are discovered they may be dealt with locally or 
as suggested above in cooperation with the state author- 
ities. There should also be a steady effort especially 
through the extension of medical inspection in schools and 
even in dwellings in which known cases exist, and through 
extension of bacteriological diagnosis to detect those 
mild and atypical cases which would otherwise be missed 
cases. It must be remembered that physicians sometimes 
fail to report mild cases, yet these (with the carriers) are 
just the class which are most potent in spreading disease 
and most in need of effective control. 

THE SOURCES AND MODES OF INFECTION 

SOURCES OF INFECTION 

The causative organisms of the various communicable 
diseases are shed off in the excreta of the patient (e.g., 
typhoid fever), in the secretions of the upper respiratory 
passages (diphtheria, scarlet fever), in the sputum coughed 
up from the lungs (pulmonary tuberculosis), or in the 
products of sores (venereal disease). The desquamation 
(scales) from the skin may be infectious (e.g., in smallpox). 1 
The germs may also exist free in the blood of the patient 
and be carried to the victim through the medium of a 
blood-sucking insect (e.g., malaria, infantile paralysis). 

MODES OF TRANSMISSION 

Infection may be conveyed from person to person in the 
following ways: 

1 Contrary to former belief, modern evidence indicates that the 
desquamation plays little or no part in the transmission of scarlet fever 
and measles. These diseases may be classed with diphtheria as being 
spread probably entirely by the secretions from, the nose, throat, respir- 
atory passages and ear. (Cf. pp. 148, 151.) 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 113 

I. Contact. By contact infection is meant the transfer- 
ence of infectious matter from person 'to person directly and 
immediately, or nearly so. 1 For " contact infection" in 
this sense it is not necessary to have the actual touching of 
the. person which the terms "contact" and "contagious" 
are popularly taken to signify. 

Contact infection is the most obvious mode of transmission of the 
infectious diseases . . . the evidence is that it is the chief mode. . . . 
If contact infection can explain epidemiological phenomena, there is 
no occasion for assuming the growth of pathogenic germs outside of the 
body, or of infection by fomites or infection by air, or any other similar 
theory, and no such theory should be adopted as a working hypothesis 
unless pretty strong evidence can be brought to its support. (Chapin.) 

Just how does contact infection take place? The con- 
tact may be of the perfectly direct type, as in venereal 
transmission, but the more or less indirect types are of 
more importance to the sanitarian. There are countless 
ways in which unseen but dangerous amounts of discharges 
oral, nasal, intestinal, urinary, etc. may be passed 
from person to person. The starting point is the infec- 
tious person, whether he be a recognized patient or a 
carrier; the ending point is the portal of infection of some 
other person usually the mouth. "Perhaps 90 per cent 
of all infections are taken into the body through the mouth" 
(Rosenau), directly from the fingers or with food or drink. 

Among specific factors in contact infection, fingers play 
the chief part. The fingers of all persons, both sick and 
well, readily become contaminated with the various dis- 
charges, much more readily and frequently than is gen- 
erally imagined. From Chapin, who presents the evidence 
in detail, the following extracts (as well as the one above) 
are taken. 2 

1 Important Note. Whenever the term contact as a mode of in- 
fection is used in this book, it is to be taken, not in the limited popular 
sense, but in the above special sense. 

2 " Sources and Modes of Infection," 1912. 



114 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

First, as to finger contamination with excreta: 
It appears that the fingers of human beings, and secondarily every- 
thing that the fingers touch, are frequently contaminated with excre- 
mental matter. ... It appears that the fingers of careful people, 
and even of trained nurses, are infected in this manner. . . . There 
is much evidence that this mode of transference is an important, if not 
the most important, factor in the spread of [typhoid fever]. 

Again, as to contamination with the secretions of the 
nose and mouth and with the sputum: 

If one takes the trouble to watch for a short time his neighbors, or 
even himself, unless he has been particularly trained in such matters, 
he will be surprised to note the number of times that the fingers go to 
the mouth and the nose. . . . Who can doubt that if the salivary 
glands secreted indigo the fingers would continually be stained a deep 
blue, and who can doubt that if the nasal and oral secretions contain 
the germs of disease these germs will be almost continually found upon 
the fingers? ... In this universal trade in human saliva, the fingers 
not only bring foreign secretions to the mouth of their owner, but there 
exchanging them for his own, distribute the latter to everything that 
the hand touches. 

But there are also other modes of contact infection : 

Another important vehicle of transfer must be the common drink- 
ing cup. . . . The mouth is put to numberless improper uses which 
may result in the spread of infection. It is used to hold pins, string, 
pencils, paper and money. . . . Children " swap " apples, cake and 
lollipops. . . . Children have no instinct of cleanliness, and their 
faces, hands, toys, clothing and everything that they touch must of 
necessity be continually daubed with the secretions of the nose and 
mouth. It is well known that between the ages of two and eight years 
children are more susceptible to scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles and 
whooping cough than at other ages, and it may be that one reason for 
this is the great opportunity that is afforded by their habits at these 
ages for the transfer of the secretions. Infants do not of course mingle 
freely with one another, and older children do not come in such close 
contact in their play, and they also begin to have a little idea of clean- 
liness. 

Another variety of contact infection is "droplet infection " 
through the spray and droplets thrown 'out of the mouth 
and nose in coughing, sneezing and loud speaking. Such 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 115 

infection may take effect within a short radius say five 
or six feet from the person much more rarely in more 
distant parts of the room. 

Food and drink, and other articles may readily become 
.infected, and if these convey an immediate infection, it 
may properly be regarded as a kind of contact. 

Persons may act as "go-betweens," conveying infection 
- without themselves having the disease from sick to 
well; this is a kind of indirect contact infection. They 
may also convey by acting as carriers in the true sense. 
Nurses of communicable disease must therefore be regarded 
as potentially infectious. 

Such considerations apply to the whole community and 
explain why diseases spread by contact readily go through 
a family but do not so readily pass between families having 
no direct association. They also show why carriers and 
missed cases in a community are potent means frequently 
the chief means of spreading disease. 

In arguing the importance of contact infection relatively 
to other modes Chapin adduces two points of evidence: 
"the restriction of scarlet fever and diphtheria to single 
families in the same house, and the success of certain hos- 
pitals in preventing cross-infection, when contact infection 
is strictly guarded against." 

The preventives of contact infection at large are evident. 
Personal cleanliness is the prime desideratum and should be 
taught and encouraged so far as practicable by health and 
school authorities. 1 The care of the hands is especially 
important. The point is emphasized in a popular manner 
in the following : 2 

THE IMPORTANCE OF KEEPING HANDS CLEAN 
Probably the commonest way in which infections are implanted 
within our bodies is from hand to mouth. 

1 See rules on p. 263. 

2 Bull., Chicago School of Sanitary Instruction, Nov. I, 1913. 
Cf. p. 585 of present volume. 



Il6 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Our hands are more or less constantly coming in contact with in- 
fectious matter and they are more or less constantly going to our 
mouths; if not into them they handle and infect the things which are 
put into them. 

It is, therefore, intensely important that we shall always keep our 
hands as clean as possible by frequent washing. 

Hand washing is necessary: 

Immediately before eating. 

Immediately before handling foodstuffs, in course of preparation or 
serving. 

Immediately after necessary toilet attentions. 

Immediately after handling the sick or articles from a sick room. 

Immediately after handling any dirty article. 

Persons charged with the preparation or handling of foodstuffs and 
those engaged in the care of the sick should be especially careful about 
their hands. A cook with dirty hands is liable to infect every person, 
who eats the foods she handles. A nurse with infected hands can 
readily spread disease. 

In washing give special attention to the cleansing of the spaces under 
the fingernails. Use lots of soap, warm water and a good hard bristle 
brush. 

Keep your hands clean and you will avoid many unnecessary infections. 

Look to your cook's hands that's a test of her efficiency and of 
your safety at her hands. 

Immediately dismiss a nurse who is careless about the condition of 
her hands. 

These are simple, every-day matters but they count mightily. 
Dirty hands will hand you trouble. 

Again, in special relation to typhoid fever, the following: 
As far as unclean hands are concerned, our course, as regards typhoid 
infection, would seem to resolve itself into the two following proposi- 
tions: first, that inasmuch as no person can be absolutely certain that 
he is not a typhoid carrier (for, of course, it is well known that a healthy 
human being, and especially those attendant upon typhoid patients, 
may become a temporary typhoid carrier, even though he has not 
suffered from the disease itself) every one should, as far as possible, 
wash his hands with scrupulous care after any possible contamination 
with feces or urine, and, secondly, that no one should think of handling 
food, either for his own use, or for others, without carefully washing 
his hands. 1 

1 Richardson, " Dirty Hands and Typhoid Fever," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1914, vol. iv, no. 2, p. 140. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 1 17 

The simple precaution of following the above rules 
would automatically protect the individual and his neigh- 
bors and nearly if not entirely eliminate certain of the 
common communicable diseases. But so long as such pre- 
cautions are neglected by the vast majority of the public, 
just so long will disease continue to be spread by carriers 
and missed cases. 

In the sick-room and hospitals such considerations apply 
with special force. There scrupulous cleanliness, with the 
use of disinfectants as an additional safeguard, must con- 
stantly be practiced. 

As an example of the modern ''aseptic" method of pre- 
venting contact infection in common diseases, and prac- 
tical .disregard of air infection, the following remarks, 
referring to the Providence City Hospital, may be quoted: 

The authorities in the Providence institution believe that air-borne 
germs play a very small part in the dissemination of disease, and the 
barrier that is set up against the spread of infection is literally a " fight 
at the bedside of the patient." The figures show that this has been 
done with success. . . . 

[Gowns] are put on when there is occasion to approach closely to the 
bed or touch the patient, and taken off and the hands washed before 
leaving that patient. ... If a visitor touches anything in the room 
the hands must be washed. For measles and one or two other maladies 
whose precise method of infection is not understood the disinfectant is 
used after washing. . . . 

The features of the Providence City Hospital, then, that are novel 
are these, that, in a hospital for communicable diseases, the fight is 
made absolutely at the bedside of the patient, that the infection is 
considered as stopping there. The corridors are believed to be as free 
from contagion as those of any general hospital. And even into the 
wards and rooms a City Father in discharge of his duties of inspection 
could safely go. Ingress and egress from the hospital are practically 
free and in fact much of the machinery and red-tape that surrounds 
hospitals in general is eliminated in Providence. And there is further- 
more the belief in the cleansing properties of soap and water that ob- 
tains almost nowhere else. Walls that may be thoroughly cleaned, 
floors of battleship linoleum that is resilient, durable and hygienic 
and the cleansing of wooden floors so well that infection from the dust 



Il8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

is negligible, furnish an outfit that supplements the care practiced by 
all who enter. . . . l 

Of course it must be remembered that the above refers 
to a hospital where aseptic measures not generally prac- 
ticable in private dwellings may be enforced. With com- 
municable disease in dwellings disinfectants must be relied 
upon to remedy deficiencies in the cleanliness which is so 
strongly argued above, but which in general sanitary prac- 
tice is as difficult to obtain as it is simple to recommend. 

2. Food and Drink. Various articles of food and drink 
readily act as vehicles of infection, and may be classed as 
second only to contact infection in importance. Milk, on 
account of its liability to contamination and its property 
of nourishing or at least preserving pathogenic organisms, 
is especially liable; as is also water, which is readily polluted 
and may scatter infection broadcast. Many serious epi- 
demics have been traced to milk and water infection. 
Hence such supplies are properly subjected to special pro- 
tection. This mode is, of course, essentially an extension 
of contact infection to a wider circle of effect, so that meas- 
ures against contact infection also help to protect food and 
water supplies. 

3. Fomites. If germs are transferred from person to 
person by means of some object directly and without 
delay or nearly so the process is called, as already 
stated, contact infection. But if such objects retain infec- 
tion for some time and then transmit it they are known as 
fomites. 

A toy used by a diphtheria patient and sent to a distant town and 
there giving rise to the disease, the dress of a scarlet fever patient put 
away for weeks or months and brought out only to cause another case, 
a library book carrying the infection of smallpox from one household 
to another, . . . and the various objects in a room lately occupied by 
a case of any contagious disease giving rise to the same infection in 

1 Boston Transcript, " The Clinic " column, May 28, 1913. Cf. 
Chapin, " Studies in Air and Contact Infection- at the Providence City 
Hospital," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. ii, no. 3, p. 135. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 1 19 

newcomers, would all be recognized as fomites. The cup which carries 
the moist saliva from one school child to another, the borrowed pencil 
which transfers the fresh syphilitic virus from lip to lip, and the urine- 
moistened closet seat which infects the fingers and then the mouth of 
the next user, are not thought of as fomites but as the necessary media 
for that intimate mode of disease transference which is coming to be 
called contact infection. This distinction between the two classes of 
bearers of infection is somewhat arbitrary, and not very definite, but 
is eminently practical. . . . By infection by fomites is meant a trans- 
ference of infecting material on objects under such conditions that 
considerable time elapses, days at least, usually weeks, sometimes 
months. 1 

Fomites infection as thus denned is considered by 
modern authorities to be of much less importance than 
was formerly supposed. About the only exceptions to this 
statement are anthrax and tetanus (q.v.). Chapin sum- 
ming up the evidence concludes that " there is no good 
epidemiological evidence that any diseases except those due 
to spore-forming bacteria are to any great extent trans- 
mitted by fomites," and that ''other modes of transmission 
so much more satisfactorily account for the spread of 
disease, that there seems to be really little opportunity for 
infection by fomites." 

In any event measures which prevent contact infection 
also prevent any possibility of fomites infection which may 
exist. 

4. Air. Air was formerly considered the chief vehicle 
of infection, but now, like fomites, it is regarded as of far 
less importance than tradition has held. " There are only 
two diseases of man, viz., smallpox and measles, which 
may possibly be air-borne, in the sense that this term is 
generally used. . . . The more the transmission of the 
communicable diseases is studied, the less the air is im- 
plicated." (Rosenau.) Even with smallpox and measles 
there is a great deal that is obscure, and strict aerial trans- 
mission does not appear ever to have been clearly demon- 
strated. 

1 Chapin, op. cit. 



120 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

There is on the other hand evidence that air transmission 
in a rough sense does sometimes occur through the convey- 
ance of germs on floating atmospheric particles (dust or 
droplets). Droplet infection, however, is logically allied 
to contact infection (see above). As for the theory of 
transmission by dust, it is supported by some evidence, 
especially in regard to tuberculosis; but the dangers are 
apparently relatively small at any rate much less than 
was formerly thought. 

It is an interesting fact, incidentally, that expired air, 
once thought virus-laden, is proved under normal condi- 
tions of respiration to be sterile. 

It may be concluded that if the measures necessary to 
prevent contact infection are taken, the danger of infec- 
tion by air (including dust), with the possible exceptions 
noted, may practically be disregarded. 1 

5. Insects. Infection through insects is a mode which 
stands quite distinctly by itself. Malaria, yellow fever, 
plague, and other diseases are transmitted through the 
bites of specific insects, which act in such cases as "inter- 
mediary hosts" of the diseases. The insects involved are 
the malaria mosquito, the yellow fever mosquito, the plague 
flea, etc. Prevention involves suppression of the insects 
and, as a temporary measure, protection of the patient from 
access by them. Flies and other insects may also convey 
infectious material mechanically, as on their legs, but this 
is logically classed as a kind of contact infection. The 
ordinary cockroach has recently been shown capable of so 
conveying infection. 

6. Special Modes. Certain special modes of transmis- 
sion may be added. Thus, rabies is transmitted directly 
by the bite of the rabid' dog or other animal ; anthrax is 

*The subject is admirably discussed by Chapin: "The Air as a 
Vehicle of Infection," Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 1914, vol. Ixii, no. 6; and 
" The Relative Importance of Aerial and Contact Infection," Trans. 
XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. IV, pt. I, pp. 9-17. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 121 

most often transmitted from cattle to man by infection of 
skin lesions by the bacteria in hides; and hookworm is 
usually contracted through contact of bare feet or hands 
with polluted soil. 

When third persons convey infection from sick to well, 
it may either be by contact (e.g., by medium of the hands) 
or such persons may be true carriers of the germ, i.e., har- 
boring it themselves. 

In conclusion, as the chief mode of transmission of infec- 
tion we must rank contact in the broadest sense of the term. 
Milk and water supplies are also of great importance. Then 
come the disease-bearing insects, which, however, are some- 
what localized in distribution. Lastly, of distinctly minor 
importance so much so that in practice they can be 
almost entirely disregarded come air and fomites infec- 
tion as commonly understood; for it has been shown that 
much of the supposed air and fomites infection is in reality 
due to contact and the other modes of transmission. 1 

1 Valuable evidence as to the importance of contact and the relative 
non-importance of aerial and fomites infection is found in the ex- 
perience of the Providence City Hospital, which is operated on the 
principles advocated by Chapin. In that institution some cases are 
isolated in rooms and some in wards with mere barriers, to act as warn- 
ings, between the beds. The rooms open into a common corridor and 
the doors are always open, the nurses going from case to case. No 
disinfecting solutions are used for the hands, but strict cleanliness of 
the hands and aseptic precautions are insisted upon. The same nurse 
attends cases of different diseases. In the 18 months ending September 
i, 1911, there were but 7 cases of cross-infection among 365 patients 
in rooms. " These figures, which show fewer cases of cross-infection 
than in many isolation hospitals under the old system, make strong 
evidence against the theory of air-borne infection. ... It appears 
then that the chief means of spreading infection is not through the air 
or by means of fomites, but by means of contact either with carriers or 
the patients themselves." (Rpt. Committee on Communicable Dis- 
eases of Am. Pub. Health Assn., Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, 
no. 2, p. 119.) Cf. Doty, " The Control of Disinfection and the Influ- 
ence of Infected Rooms and Fomites in the Dissemination of Various 
Infectious Diseases," Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 
1912, vol. IV, pt. I. 



122 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Summary. The following summary shows some of the 
more important points .in which modern practice differs 
markedly from the traditional: 

1. Transmission of infection: emphasis to be placed 
upon contact, food, drink and insects. Air and fomites 
infection of little or no importance. 

2. Isolation: value lessened by presence of carriers which 
escape isolation; has, however, a definite use in restriction 
or spread of infection. A reasonable isolation adapted to 
the individual case usually preferable to rigid and sweeping 
quarantine regulations. 

3. Disinfection: chemical disinfection used as a pre- 
caution additional to scrupulous sick-room cleanliness. 
Infectious matter to be destroyed at the bedside; terminal 
disinfection of comparatively little, where any, value. 

4. Laboratory methods: increased use of the laboratory 
for diagnosis, treatment and prophylaxis (through sera), 
and determination of time of release of cases of commu- 
nicable disease. 

5. Chief administrative problems: control of carriers 
and of incipient and missed cases ; lack of exact knowledge 
as to channels of infection. 

6. Control by principles rather than rules. In the past 
it has been the practice of health authorities to for- 
mulate inflexible rules for the control of communicable 
diseases. Some such rules are practically necessary, yet 
to-day we see that good judgment in the health official 
is more important than blind adherence to traditional 
methods provided he has the thorough knowledge of public 
health science upon which to base that judgment. 

A public health official should be practically familiar with the in- 
fectious diseases, and with the means by which they are transmitted 
from one person to another, and he should not accept theories relative 
to the latter unless they are supported by scientific evidence. He must 
have the courage of his convictions in his efforts to protect the public 
health and should carry out only such measures as are reasonable and 
practical. Attempts to secure complete safety by' unjustifiable or 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 123 

spectacular methods usually defeat the end in view, and are not in 
accord with modern sanitation. . . . 

Success in public health work ... is frequently obstructed by 
attempts to follow specific rules and regulations in the management of 
outbreaks, etc., instead of being governed by the principles of sanitary 
science, a practical familiarity with which will enable a health officer 
to cope intelligently with any condition or emergency which may pre- 
sent itself. Specific rules and regulations never accurately fit all cases, 
and if followed tend to make a health officer an automaton. Whereas, 
if the principles upon which sanitary science is founded are fully under- 
stood and acted upon, but comparatively few rules or regulations are 
necessary. A policy of this kind, which deals in a practical manner 
with all measures relating to the public health, causes the minimum 
amount of annoyance to the public and to commerce. 1 

I. DISEASES SPREAD LARGELY THROUGH 

SECRETIONS OR DISCHARGES FROM 

NOSE, THROAT OR MOUTH 

In this class of diseases the first preventive measure 
applied to known cases is to destroy or disinfect the discharges 
in the sick-room and without delay. This must be done by 
an efficient nurse, who observes scrupulous cleanliness of all 
objects in contact with the patient, and especially of her 
own hands. The latter two measures we shall refer to here- 
after as prophylactic cleanliness. As an additional pre- 
caution, association with the patient is to be prevented 
through isolation. All of these diseases may be spread 
primarily by contact? and secondarily, in some instances, 
through food and drink. 

We shall now describe what is meant by disinfection and 
isolation, so that it will not be necessary to repeat the details 
under the head of each disease. 

Asepsis and Disinfection. The destruction or dis- 
infection of the infected discharges and of articles infected 
by them, during the course of the disease, in the sick-room 
or as near to it as possible, and without delay, is the great- 

1 Doty, " Prevention of Infectious Diseases," 1911, pp. 20-22. 

2 See note, p. 113. 



124 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

est single measure that can be adopted for the prevention 
of the spread of infection from the individual case. If 
this one measure were thoroughly carried out, in com- 
bination with proper isolation of the patient, the trans- 
mission of disease from known cases would be reduced 
to nil. In Appendix A will be found detailed instructions 
for disinfection. 

The necessity for such immediate and direct disinfection 
and for the maintenance of a clean and practically germ- 
less condition of the nurse's hands should be impressed by 
the health department officer who establishes the isolation. 
The processes for reaching the desired results should be 
explained in detail and arrangements made as to the vessels, 
etc., to be used. Health departments should, moreover, 
furnish free or at cost the disinfectants needed, as other- 
wise families are likely to obtain ineffective materials or 
stint in their use. 

Isolation. Isolation of the patient is a protective meas- 
ure, the value of which rests upon the fact that in practice 
the disinfection of all discharges cannot be insured, and 
that persons, if they were not excluded from the patient, 
would become infected by contact with the patient or- with 
undisinfected discharges or articles contaminated by them, 
both of which are common to sick-rooms. Also, as in 
smallpox and measles, a slight contact with the patient (or 
possibly air infection) may be sufficient to result in trans- 
mission. 

The following may be taken as the principal points of a 
proper isolation: 

i. The room chosen for isolation should be in as retired 
a part of the house as possible, preferably in an upper story, 
away from living and dining rooms and kitchen. It should 
contain no unnecessary furnishings, and carpets, curtains, 
upholstery and the like should so far as practicable be 
removed. 

The door should be kept closed and a small placard may 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 12$ 

be placed upon it as a deterrent to children and other 
possible intruders; this will serve the same purpose as the 
usual disinfectant sheet over the door, which is of no demon- 
strable value (see air infection, page UQf.). 

The sick-room should be screened, if necessary, to ex- 
clude flies and other insects. Flies in and about the sick- 
room should be killed as being possibly infected. Animal 
pets which are fondled by children may carry infection. 
It would be wise to give pets which have been so exposed a 
thorough washing. They may be isolated with the patient 
provided they are not allowed to pass out and mingle with 
the rest of the family, and should be washed at the close 
of the isolation. Cats should be regarded with suspicion 
as they are known to become occasionally true "carriers" 
of diphtheria, the infection being seated in the nose of the 
animal. 

2. One person preferably a trained nurse should 
act as nurse and should be isolated with the patient. If 
the mother of a family endeavors to act as nurse and at 
the same time cook and care for well children in the family, 
she is likely to infect the latter unless extreme care is 
taken. 

Upon the nurse devolves the responsibility for cleanli- 
ness and disinfection, and for maintaining strict isolation. 
If she has to leave the room she should have no association 
or contact with other members of the household. Other 
persons, with the exception of physician and clergyman, 
should be excluded. 

The nurse should be a person of sufficient intelligence 
and should be instructed in detail by the inspector. Printed 
circulars of instruction are useful for educated persons, but 
cannot in any case dispense with personal instruction. 

The nurse should guard against "contact" infection of 
the various kinds including "droplet infection." Thor- 
ough washing and disinfection of the hands is a prime 
essential. If the person acting as nurse cannot be isolated 



126 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

with the patient, she may wear a gown or wrapper and a 
head covering while in the sick-room, putting it off at the 
door when leaving the room. Care should be taken in 
regard to possible infection of the bath-room and toilet, 
e.g., through disposal of discharges. Patient and nurse 
should, if possible, have a bath and toilet separate from the 
rest of the family. 

The nurse -must see that all discharges which may con- 
vey infection are promptly disinfected or burned. Articles 
(including eating utensils and remnants of food) which 
may be infected must receive similar treatment. The dis- 
infection should so far as possible be performed in the sick- 
room, but it may be more convenient to place dishes, 
bedding, and the like in a vessel outside of the door, to be 
disinfected, e.g., by boiling. More reliance is to be placed 
in fire and heat than in chemical disinfectants, which may 
be expensive, dangerous, inefficient, or not adapted to use 
by unskilled persons. 

Finally, if a proper home isolation cannot be assured, the 
patient should be removed to the isolation hospital. 

Quarantine. We come now to the measures which 
apply, not directly to the patient, but to the persons about 
him and to the dwelling itself. 1 Although the best modern 
practice lays less stress on quarantine or even isolation than 
on proper asepsis and bedside disinfection, nevertheless 
quarantine measures, especially as applied to possible 
carriers in the family of the patient, are important. The 
following points pertain to quarantine: 

1 The terms " isolation " and " quarantine " are frequently confused. 
Isolation (or segregation) refers to the restrictions directly surrounding 
the patient. Quarantine is a broader term which covers measures 
applied to the premises and household. The terms are used in the 
present chapter in those senses. Quarantine in a still broader sense 
refers to restrictions placed on an area of some magnitude. Thus there 
may even be a national quarantine. The term applies in a special 
sense to the measures taken at ports to prevent introduction of infec- 
tion from foreign ports and at foreign frontiers. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 127 

1. It is customary to placard both front and rear of a 
quarantined house or apartment, with the warning that 
visitors are not to enter. If there are other families in the 
same house e.g., a tenement it is usually unnecessary 
and impracticable to apply the quarantine to families other 
than the one in question, but the quarantine of that family 
must be made perfectly clear. The placard warns persons 
not to pay visits or associate with members of the infected 
family, and the rear door sign is a special warning to the 
milk dealer. 

2. Milk bottles should not be permitted to enter or leave 
the house during the period of quarantine. It is a frequent 
custom to forbid milk dealers to leave bottles where there 
is a placard, but to pour the milk into a pitcher or other 
vessel put out by the family. There are some disadvan- 
tages in this: the vessel is subject to contamination and 
the uncapping of the milk by the delivery man is undesir- 
able. Hence it is better to permit milk to be delivered in 
bottles to quarantined families, with the proviso that no 
bottles be removed by the dealer. Then at the termination 
of the quarantine all bottles which have accumulated are 
disinfected (e.g., by boiling) under the supervision of the 
inspector, and returned to the dealer. 1 

3. In the restrictions on members of the household dis- 
cretion based on principle, rather than rigid rules, is re- 
quired. It may, however, be necessary to lay down certain 
rules for the guidance of inspectors. 

The chief restrictions usually apply to children. Under 
the heads of the various diseases will be indicated the 
exclusion measures applicable to school children; those 
not yet of school age should be restricted correspondingly. 
Children who have not had the disease may sometimes 
be sent to live elsewhere with relatives and thus be 
readmitted to school sooner than if they stayed at home 

1 Rule of Mass. Assn. of Boards of Health, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
1912, vol. ii, no. 12, p. 996. 



128 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

to await termination of the case. The quarantine of 
children should forbid their going off the premises or 
associating with children of other families. 

If isolation is good the restrictions on adult members 
of the household need not be onerous. Certain members 
may be given permits to leave the premises to go to work, 
purchase supplies, etc. Working persons need not ordi- 
narily be kept from work unless they are concerned with 
the handling of foods capable of becoming infected, viz., 
cooks, waiters, bakers, confectioners, etc. Such persons 
may be required to live away from home during the period 
of quarantine unless the case is removed to the hospital. 
As regards school-teachers, conductors, barbers and other 
persons whose work involves some degree of personal con- 
tact, if the isolation is good there seems to be no sufficient 
reason for keeping such persons from their occupations. 
If there is any real question the case may be sent to the 
hospital or such persons may go to live elsewhere during 
the period of isolation. Each case should be judged on 
its merits, and uncalled-for hardship should not be imposed, 
bearing in mind that healthy adults rarely act as conveyors 
of disease unless the degrees of contact at both ends of the 
line are intimate. 

4. As to other families in the same house, the restrictions 
may be less strict and should be based upon the probable 
degrees of association between families. The children are, 
of course, the chief consideration. If there is a good iso- 
lation of the case, and children in the quarantined family 
have positively not been exposed and keep to themselves, 
there need perhaps be no restrictions on the other families. 
But if it seems possible that there has been exposure, the 
children in such families should be kept out of school until 
the incubation period of the disease has expired or until 
(in diphtheria) negative cultures have been obtained. On 
the other hand, association between children in different 
families may be nearly if not quite as intimate as 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 129 

between children in the same family. If any continued 
association between families is suspected, the children from 
all families should be excluded from school and kept on 
the premises. Adults in the other families need not, as a 
rule, be restricted, but may be warned to exercise proper 
control over their children. Since this is frequently imprac- 
ticable, as in a tenement, much the better plan is to remove 
the case to the isolation hospital. A loose so-called quaran- 
tine of a large number of persons in a house is impracticable 
and its failure subversive of authority. Of course, in all 
cases members of associated families should be carefully 
watched for development of cases, and a search should be 
made for carriers and unrecognized cases when suspected. 
(For specific rules, see under the various diseases.) 

If an effective isolation and quarantine cannot be obtained 
at home the patient should be removed to the isolation hospital 
and possibly infected surfaces and articles should be 
promptly disinfected (see Appendix A). Hospital removal 
is desirable also when a case is found in a lodging-house or 
institution. Even in many instances where home isolation 
is perfectly feasible there are protection and benefit to the 
community and family and advantages to the patient in 
proper hospital treatment (see later, under the head of 
Isolation Hospitals). 

REVISITS TO CASES UNDER ISOLATION. In many in- 
stances it will be found advisable for the inspector to revisit 
cases which have been placed under isolation. Otherwise, 
in careless families or with mild cases, there is a great likeli- 
hood that the measures prescribed will not be entirely and 
effectively carried out. Even careful and intelligent people 
frequently need additional advice and guidance, and may 
get into difficulties if left entirely to themselves for an 
entire isolation period. The following practice may be 
adopted: Revisit each case (diphtheria, scarlet fever, etc.) 
within 24 hours after the first visit; revisit again, if neces- 



130 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

sary, after three or four days; then revisit at intervals of a 
week or so. The frequency of revisits must vary greatly 
according to the circumstances of the case; the recom- 
mendation just given might apply to an average case; 
some might require daily visits; others with excellent con- 
ditions no revisits at all. The revisits should be at irregu- 
lar intervals and unexpected times, and should, in general, 
be made more frequently in the beginning of the period. 

Revisits may be indicated in the inspector's daily or 
weekly reports, and may be shown upon the spot map of 
communicable disease as follows: on each pin or tack 
representing a case hang a small tag (price-tags are useful) , 
upon which dates of revisits may be noted in abbreviated 
form. 

APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES. The foregoing is not in- 
tended to serve as a complete code for isolation and quaran- 
tine, but simply to indicate the main considerations, which 
may be covered by any detailed rules that may be neces- 
sary. 

In imposing restrictions it is the natural and proper 
tendency of health officers to be on the safe side. It 
should, however, be remembered that not only the risk 
avoided, but also the damage or inconvenience incurred 
must be considered; and if the former is not commen- 
surate with the latter the restriction is unjustified. While 
the first duty is to the public, the individual should not be 
unduly burdened. Moreover, if restrictions are unreason- 
ably severe, disregard and disrespect are encouraged. 
Rigid traditional rules should give way to a flexible applica- 
tion of the principles of sanitary science, especially since 
the newer theories of infection have shown the limitations, 
ineptitude, or even the uselessness of the traditional cast- 
iron rules. The hardships and losses entailed by over- 
rigid measures i.e., through destruction of property, 
restraint of persons from business and school, nursing, etc. 
should be considered. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 131 

It scarcely needs be said that mild and atypical cases 
should be subject to the same measures as the severe and 
typical. It is just such cases that are most implicated in 
spreading disease. This is a point which the public does 
not understand. Mild cases may give rise to severe cases 
and vice versa. 

Surveillance of " Contacts." By contacts we mean 
persons who have been exposed to infection through direct 
or indirect contact with the patient. Such persons may or 
may not develop the disease. One of the important duties 
of the sanitary officer is to determine what persons among 
the associates of the patient should be considered as con- 
tacts, and to keep them under surveillance. A careful 
history of the case obtained by questioning patient and 
family should indicate the chief contacts. The main point 
in the surveillance is not usually personal restraint, but 
periodical medical observation. Thus children in a family 
where a communicable disease exists should be watched 
carefully, and be examined, say daily at first. This is a 
matter usually left to the attending physician, but when 
there is no physician, as when the contact is in another 
family and the family of the suspect does not see fit to 
obtain its own physician, it may be desirable for the board 
of health physician to oversee the person. It is feasible, 
of course, to apply the surveillance only to those cases 
where there is a considerable chance of the disease develop- 
ing. It is to be maintained until the maximum incubation 
period has elapsed since exposure. Such a period may 
be ascertained from Table III at the close of this 
chapter. 

Terminal Disinfection. Custom has held that one of 
the chief safeguards against spread of infection is terminal 
disinfection. By this is commonly meant gaseous disin- 
fection (" fumigation") of supposedly infected rooms and 
articles after termination of isolation through death or 
recovery of patient. The practice is based principally upon 



132 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the theories of air and fomites infection, both of which, as 
has already been stated, are now largely discredited; and 
in recent years both theoretical and practical reasons have 
been brought forward to show that terminal disinfection as 
commonly practiced is of very much less value than form- 
erly supposed. 1 

The argument against such terminal disinfection is based 
chiefly upon the following facts: the low vitality of many 
pathogens outside of the body; the prevalence of commu- 
nicable disease to the same extent where such disinfection 
is efficient as where it is inefficient ; and the non-increase of 
the disease in instances in which such disinfection has been 
abandoned. In Providence, R. I., terminal disinfection 
has been abandoned after certain diseases except when 
requested by the family; thus the number of disinfec- 
tions has been much reduced without any apparent ill 
result (see Providence health report). 2 In New York City 

1 Chapin, " Sources and Modes of Infection." Also: Chapin, 
" The Value of Terminal Disinfection," Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn. 
1911, vol. I, no. i, p. 32; Rpt. Supt. Health (C. V. Chapin, M.D.), 
Providence, R. I., for 1912, p. 96 ff.; Arms and Whitney, " The Treat- 
ment of Rooms after Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 10, p. 799. 

" Disinfection of rooms after diphtheria and scarlet fever was dis- 
continued in 1908 in this city of 235,000 inhabitants, ' living for the 
most part in tenements or apartments for two to six families/ It is 
possible, therefore, to make a comparison between the percentage of 
recurrences (second cases in the same family within sixty days) under 
the disinfection system and under the later system. For the last five 
years of disinfection there was a percentage of 1.48 recurrences of 
scarlet fever, and in the five following years, 1.53. For diphtheria 
the figures are 1.71 per cent during the first period and 1.75 per cent 
during the last. These results, Dr. Chapin believes, show that the 
costly and time-consuming practice of house disinfection has little or 
no influence on the spread of these two diseases." (The Survey, Nov. 
28, 1914, p. 214.) Of course, these results hold good only for diphtheria 
and scarlet fever. It would be rash to conclude that the same thing 
would be true with regard to tuberculosis and' other diseases of which 
the germs may live longer in the environment. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 133 

fumigation has been discontinued after recovered cases of 
diphtheria, cleansing measures being substituted. 

There is also a disadvantage in the fact that terminal 
disinfection makes fomites infection from rooms and ob- 
jects appear much more important than it actually is; also 
that people are confirmed in the idea that a final fumigation 
makes cleansing unnecessary and covers up all carelessness 
which may have existed in regard to bedside disinfection. 

There is, then, sufficient evidence for the opinion of the 
Committee on Communicable Diseases of the American 
Public Health Association in IQI2 1 "that terminal room 
disinfection, as at present practiced by the average board of 
health, has little effect in controlling the spread of infection; 
and that it appears, in so far as figures are available, that 
the percentage of return cases is practically the same in 
those communities where disinfection is .compulsory as in 
those where it is not required." 

So much for the usual routine fumigation. The only 
question now remaining is whether really efficient disinfec- 
tion would repay, in prevention of infection, the labor and 
money put into it. This question is not yet conclusively 
answered, but there are indications which would lead 
one to suspect that here too the answer will be in the 
negative. 

At present the practical health officer is justified in 
omitting routine terminal disinfection and insisting in- 
stead: first, upon careful bedside disinfection during the 
course of the disease; and, second, at the close of the iso- 
lation, upon appropriate disinfection (see Appendix A) or 
destruction of any specific surfaces or articles which may 
have become contaminated with infectious matter; the 
whole to be followed by sunning and airing. Of course 
the second set of precautions need be less extensive in 
proportion as proper care has been exercised during the 
illness. 

1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 388. 



134 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Terminal room disinfection may be of some use after 
tuberculosis, the germs of which are comparatively hardy 
and may be thickly scattered in the apartment of a 
careless consumptive. But in diseases like measles and 
scarlet fever, the virus of which is apparently very short- 
lived, it can be of very little, if any, use. The supposed 
value of such disinfection has been greatly exaggerated 
in the past, and even now it is not infrequently the futile 
and wasteful practice to fumigate whole houses, the only 
result of the process being the conferring of a false sense of 
security. 

Under unusual circumstances room disinfection is of 
course worth performing even if the added precaution is 
very slight. Thus the sudden appearance of a case of 
smallpox in a smallpox-free city might justify extreme pre- 
cautions which would not be justified as routine measures 
were the disease already established. As Chapin remarks, 
"A spark in the dry grass should be stamped out at any 
cost, but it is useless to waste time in extinguishing the 
smouldering flames left here and there as the line of fire 
is sweeping across the prairie." 

There is also some justification for fumigation after the 
removal of a case to the hospital, or after death, in the 
height of the disease, though even here very much the same 
remarks apply as apply to terminal disinfection strictly 
so-called. Where a thorough cleansing of surfaces and 
objects capable of being infected through contact of dis- 
charges or hands or otherwise, and disinfection of bedding, 
utensils, etc., can be secured, fumigation' may well be 
omitted in these cases also. 

The whole question of terminal room disinfection is at 
present under advisement of a special committee of the 
American Public Health Association, from which a report 
is soon to be expected. 

Isolation Hospitals. Difficulties in home isolation have 
led to the establishment of municipal hospitals for com- 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 135 

municable disease. 1 No community should be without 
such facilities. Expense need not be a deterrent, for several 
towns may unite in the erection and maintenance of a joint 
hospital, or it may be established under county authority, 
as has been done in some states. Automobile ambulance 
transportation makes it possible to make use of an institu- 
tion situated, if necessary, some distance away. 

There are advantages in hospital facilities both as to 
isolation and as to treatment. 2 If there is any question 
about home conditions, the case should go to the hospital. 
Moreover, school children in the family may then go back 
to school so much the sooner, and there is less chance of 
creating carriers in the family. Isolation hospitals will not, 
as Chapin points out, entirely "stamp out" disease, any 
more than home-isolation will, but they do have certain 
positive advantages. 

Health authorities should be vested with the power of 
compulsory removal to the isolation hospital, such power 
to be exercised, however, only after all means of persuasion 
have been exhausted and upon proper authority, e.g., 
certification of the health ofhcer (or health department 
physician) and the attending physician or isolation hospital 
physician that such removal is necessary. While such 
cases are infrequent, the law should be adequate and should, 
when necessary, be firmly employed. 

Public opinion should be educated on the advantages of 
the isolation hospital. Such an institution, built and 
managed according to the best modern ideas, should re- 
move the popular dread of the old-fashioned "pest house." 
Isolation hospitals may, if necessary, be located in populous 

1 Wodehouse, " An Isolation Hospital Built and Operated by a 
City Department of Health," Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, 
vol. I, no. 10, 677; Woody, " Municipal Hospitals for Contagious Dis- 
eases," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 9, p. 726. 

2 Chapin, Rpt. Supt. of Health, Providence, R. I., for 1912, p. 76; 
Roberts, "Quarantine or Isolation in "Diphtheria," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1911, vol. I, no. 5, p. 353. 



136 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

districts; there is no danger to the neighborhood from a 
properly conducted hospital, popular prejudice to the 
opinion to the contrary notwithstanding. 

CARE OF DEAD BODIES : FUNERAL RESTRICTIONS. 
Bodies of persons dead of communicable disease are tra- 
ditionally sources of infection. This was perhaps due to a 
false belief in air infection. From what is now known it is 
evident that a body enclosed in a coffin, especially when 
embalmed with the powerful germicides ordinarily used by 
embalmers (of which formalin is the usual basis), is not a 
source of infection. We now know that it is the living, not 
the dead, who spread disease. Public funerals after death 
from certain communicable diseases are frequently for- 
bidden, but the only apparent benefit lies in thus discourag- 
ing the association of well persons with the carriers who may 
exist in the household. 

We may now take up individually the diseases of the first 
class, bearing in mind that the preventive measures for all 
are in principle the same: isolation, bedside disinfection of 
discharges, and withal prophylactic cleanliness. 

DIPHTHERIA 

Diphtheria may be described as a specific local infection 
of the mucous membranes of the throat (pharyngeal diph- 
theria, "membranous croup") or nose (nasal diphtheria), 
or both, accompanied by more or less severe constitutional 
symptoms. The virulence varies from the mildest recog- 
nizable cases up to the most severe. 

The causative organism is the Bacillus diphtheria (also 
known as the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus), which may be 
artificially cultivated on a special culture medium 
("Loeffler medium") and may be identified by expert 
microscopic examination of the resulting culture. Some 
strains of diphtheria bacilli are non-virulent; in order to 
determine virulence animal inoculations are necessary. 
The absurd popular idea that diphtheria may arise from 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 137 

sewer gas and other foul emanations is still frequently met 
with. The germ derived from a previous case or carrier is 
the invariably necessary cause of the disease. 

Antitoxin. A powerful remedial and prophylactic agent 
is fortunately available in diphtheria antitoxin, a serum 
containing elements which, when injected into the circu- 
lation, neutralize the toxin (poison) secreted by the diph- 
theria bacillus. " Antitoxin is a specific and sovereign 
remedy. When given in sufficient amounts during the 
first 24 hours of the disease it reduces the mortality to 
practically nil. ... In order to obtain the full life-saving 
benefits of diphtheria antitoxin it should be given early in 
the disease. Time is the most important factor. When 
the damage to the cells has been done, it may be too late. 
It is not always advisable to wait for bacterial confir- 
mation." (Rosenau.) In severe cases especially, antitoxin 
should be administered early and in one large dose; and 
if it be administered intravenously there is a gain of some 
hours in the manifestation of the beneficial results, which 
are therefore greater than when the same number of units 
are administered subcutaneously. 

The antitoxin is an exceedingly valuable agent, not only 
for the cure of the patient, but also for the immunization 
of those who have been exposed to the infection ("con- 
tacts"). Just what persons in a family should receive 
prophylactic injections of the antitoxin is a matter for 
determination in the individual case, depending on the de- 
gree of exposure. Special attention is to be paid to chil- 
dren; adults are much less prone to develop the disease. 
Where there nas been direct exposure, an immunizing dose 
of 500 units, or preferably 1000 units (Rosenau) should 
be given. The protective effect gradually wears off, and 
the dose should be renewed every 2 or 3 weeks if exposure 
has been repeated. "Upon the first appearance of sore 
throat, fever, or other suggestive symptoms in persons who 
are exposed to diphtheria a full dose of 3000 to 10,000 



138 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

units should be administered without delay." (Rosenau.) 
The prophylactic use of antitoxin should, however, be gov- 
erned by the Schick test for immunity (see Appendix J). 

Contrary to what might be expected, the ordinary in- 
jection of antitoxin does not, according to Rosenau, hasten 
the disappearance of the bacilli; and recovery does not 
necessarily signify that the patient is free from infection, 
even though the throat symptoms have cleared up. 

Transmission. The germs are shed off in the sputum 
and nasal discharges of the patient, though other mucous 
membranes or abraded surfaces may become infected 
e.g., the conjunctival or vaginal mucous membrane, or 
open wounds in which case the discharges from these 
lesions are infectious. 

Contact infection (see page 113) is the chief mode of 
transmission, but transmission through milk and other 
food supplies readily takes place. The germs thrive in 
milk, and many epidemics of milk-borne diphtheria are 
on record. 

INCIDENCE. Diphtheria is chiefly a disease of child- 
hood, the great majority of cases occurring among infants 
and children of school age. It is a disease of the fall and 
winter months. This seems to be the effect of the season 
rather than of the congregation in schools. It is a fact that 
the heightened sensitiveness of the respiratory passages at 
this season, with the additional strain thrown upon them 
by poor ventilation, tends to make infection easier. During 
the summer months there is comparatively little diphtheria. 

Control. Measures under the following six heads should 
be adopted by health departments: 

i. Provide ready facilities for free bacteriological diagno- 
sis by means of diphtheria cultures. While many cases 
can be diagnosed positively on the clinical symptoms, there 
are also many of an atypical or suspicious nature in which 
the assistance of a cultural examination is indispensable. 
The examination should be made locally if a competent 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 139 

bacteriologist is available, for the transmission of cultures 
to a distance impairs and delays the results. Such examina- 
tions are, however, frequently made, for the smaller com- 
munities by state health department laboratories. 

The rationale of the cultural process is simple. A sterile 
swab is rubbed by the physician over the mucous mem- 
branes of both nose and throat, and is then passed lightly 
over the surface of a special culture medium ("Loeffler 
medium"). The latter is then incubated at body temper- 
ature (37 C.)i an d the culture is examined microscopically 
after 12 hours or so. The diphtheria bacilli, if present, are 
recognized by their microscopical appearance. A practice 
may be made of receiving cultures up to, say, 5 P.M., for 
examination and report next morning. 

The outfit for examinations includes a swab in a tube (two 
swabs if separate examinations are to be made for nose and 
throat), both sterilized, together with a tube of the sterile 
culture medium, both tubes being enclosed in a stiff en- 
velope, tube or box, with a blank slip for filling in the name 
and address of case and other data. The physician, after 
swabbing, inoculates the medium, and returns the used, 
possibly infected swab to its tube. In handling such out- 
fits after use, the danger of possible infection must be 
remembered and precautions taken accordingly. Swabs 
alone should not be received unless special provision is 
made for direct swab examinations, which are not recom- 
mended for routine work. Convenience may require the 
establishment of culture stations and collection incubators 
at special points. 

There are considerable practical difficulties in the cul- 
tural examination ; diphtheria germs originally present may 
be "overgrown" or "contaminated" by other forms, or 
may be present in very small numbers. Or it may be 
that they were missed entirely in the process of swabbing. 
Even if present, they may nqt be typical in appearance. 
Considerable skill is necessary on the part of the bacteriol- 



140 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ogist to render a definite decision, or such a decision may 
be impossible. The lesson to be drawn is that even under 
the best conditions as to culture and bacteriological skill, 
there is a considerable margin of uncertainty involved. 
While a positive cultural result may be taken as assuring the 
presence of diphtheria bacilli, a negative result does not neces- 
sarily signify that the bacilli are absent. Thus a positive 
clinical diagnosis should not be reversed because of the 
failure to obtain a positive culture. In fact, a reasonable 
presumption of clinical diphtheria, though opposed to a 
negative bacteriological finding, should be accepted. It 
is also clear how two cultures taken at or about the same 
time may turn out, one positive, the other negative; this 
throws no discredit on the method beyond the fact that in 
the latter case, for some reason, the germs were missed. 
What has been said applies to single negative cultures. 
Since, therefore, a single negative culture indicates very 
little, a negative decision should be based only upon at 
least two consecutive negative results. This, applies partic- 
ularly in connection with the release of cases from quar- 
antine (see below). 

The results of examinations should be reported to physi- 
cians-by telephone, say before 10 A.M., under the following 
heads : 

1. Positive. 

2. Negative. 

3. Doubtful, or suspicious (infrequent). . 

4. Contaminated (rare). 

5. No growth (rare). 

In the last three cases another specimen should be re- 
quested. 

Action should at once be taken in the positive cases, but 
a report in regular form within the legal period should be 
required from the physician in order that the action of the 
department may thus have his sanction in writing. 

2. Furnish a high-grade antitoxin at cost (free to indigent 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 141 

cases) for prophylactic as well as for curative purposes. 
Reliable antitoxin tested by the U. S. Public Health Ser- 
vice may be obtained from commercial manufacturers and 
some state health departments. If kept cold it will keep 
its strength practically unimpaired for several months, and 
after its time has expired may be exchanged for fresh. Its 
prophylactic use has already been explained. Physicians 
should be notified of the provisions made for distribution, 
and the antitoxin should be given out to indigent cases on 
the written certificate of the attending physician that they 
are unable to pay. 

Attention is called to the fact that antitoxin as ordinarily 
administered simply protects the individual without affect- 
ing the diphtheria bacilli with which he may be or may be- 
come infected. (Rosenau.) 

3. Isolate known cases and, so far as practicable, carriers, 
insisting upon proper disinfection of the infectious dis- 
charges. 

The isolation of known cases may be carried out in the 
usual manner, but carriers present a very difficult problem. 
A very considerable number of attendants on the sick and 
of persons in the family of the sick, and even some pro- 
portion of persons in the general population who have had 
no known association with the disease, harbor the diph- 
theria bacillus in the nose or throat, though they remain 
in good health. Graham-Smith (cited by Rosenau) found 
that 66 per cent of the members of the family to which the 
diseased person belonged were infected, this proportion 
varying from 10 to 100 per cent accordingly as isolation 
precautions were or were not taken. Other similar obser- 
vations may be cited. 1 Slack, Arms, Wade and Blanchard 2 

1 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, pp. 
146-148; also Ledingham and Arkwright, "The Carrier Problem in 
Infectious Diseases." 

2 " Diphtheria Bacillus Carriers in the Public Schools," Jour, Am. 
Med. Assn., March 19, 1910, vol. LIV, pp. 951-954. 



142 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

found that at least I per cent of 4500 healthy school children 
in Boston carried diphtheria bacilli without clinical symp- 
toms. Moss 1 found, among school children and general 
population in Baltimore, 3 to 4 per cent of carriers, or 20 
carriers per known case, remarking: " that this is far below 
the actual number is certain," for only single throat ex- 
aminations were made. This certainly indicates that the 
diphtheria bacillus is widely distributed. It is fortunate 
that such bacilli have ordinarily little or no virulence. 

The carriers of apparently the greatest importance i.e., 
those who, while themselves immune, harbor and distribute 
virulent bacilli are chiefly to be looked for within the 
association circle of the known cases. It is through them 
that the disease spreads, in spite of isolation, through un- 
traced paths. Thus when 25 cases of well-recognized diph- 
theria occurred in two of the schools of Davenport, Iowa, 
during 1911-1912, bacteriological examination showed that 
20 per cent of the other children of these schools were 
diphtheria carriers. The virulence test was positive in 90 
per cent of the cases. 2 

A strictly logical plan would involve. taking cultures from 
members of the family and others within the sphere of 
association of the patient, and then to isolate those who 
show the presence of the germs. This procedure, though 
it has been attempted, would of course involve many 
difficulties, and public sentiment, at least at the outset, 
would oppose it strongly. While sanitary measures should 
not be carried beyond the point where the restriction is 
more burdensome than the evil which it prevents, never- 
theless the isolation or at least surveillance of all 
carriers is indicated on scientific principles as the ideal plan 
and the one which should be approximated as nearly as pos- 
sible. Detection and isolation of carriers have proved their 

1 Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. IV, pt. 
i, p. 156 ff. 

2 Albert, in paper referred to below. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 143 

value in the control of institutional epidemics and should 
be extended to the general population so far as possible. 

However, the strict measures which might apply to a 
diphtheria outbreak cannot be applied to the endemic 
diphtheria which constantly exists in the population; in 
other words, we may culture the persons in association with 
known cases, but we cannot w r ell culture the entire popula- 
tion to locate many unrecognized carriers which certainly 
exist. As in many other sanitary problems, where the ideal 
is impracticable we must compromise by doing what is 
feasible and, within inevitable limits, effective. 

Again, there is no ready method of distinguishing between 
the carriers of virulent and non-virulent bacilli. Conse- 
quently prompt and sweeping action in regard to carriers 
must at the present time include many harmless carriers 
of non-virulent bacilli, who must be restrained at least 
until virulence tests of the bacilli can be made. 

In regard to outbreaks in the schools, health officers 
may take a fairly definite course of action. While the role 
of the schools in the dissemination of communicable dis- 
ease has undoubtedly been exaggerated in the past, still 
the school is a place of association of children from various 
homes and hence to a certain degree a danger point. It is, 
furthermore, the only place where numbers of children 
can well be medically inspected and cultured. Albert, 1 in 
a discussion of the carrier problem, stating that diph- 
theria carriers in the public schools have been successfully 
controlled in a number of our larger cities, recommends 
the following procedure: 

i . Whenever there is an outbreak of diphtheria among the children of a 
certain school, the throat (and in suspicious cases, also the nasal cavities] 
of every pupil, teacher and other person in such school 2 should be examined 

1 Albert, " Diphtheria Carriers and Their Relationship to Medical In- 
spection of Schools," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 10, p. 794. 

2 This procedure might perhaps be limited to the rooms or grades in 
which cases occur. Thorough examination would require two consecu- 
tive cultures in each case. J. S. M. 



144 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

both by inspection to note the condition of the throat and by bacteriological 
examination. 

2. Those with a "sore" throat should be sent home immediately and 
should not be permitted to return to school until proved by bacteriological 
examination not (or no longer] to be diphtheria carriers, or in case the bacilli 
persist in remaining after a thorough attempt at removing them, the patient 
should remain isolated until it is proved that the bacilli are not- virulent. 

The diphtheria carrier, rather than the premises, should be quaran- 
tined. The carrier should remain somewhat isolated from the other 
members of the family but such other members should be permitted to 
go in and out of the house to attend school or their places of business. 
It is advisable, however, to have the house placarded to serve as a 
warning or notice to have persons, not members of the family, stay out. 
The card may be labeled as follows: 

" Carrier of diphtheria here keep out" 

It is likewise advisable to place in the hands of the family a circular 
explaining what is meant by a diphtheria carrier and the danger of 
such and advising them to call a doctor to the house to treat the nose 
and throat in order to remove the carrier condition. In case the family 
prefers I believe it to be advisable to have the medical work done by 
the health officer, if not a practicing physician, at public expense. 

The following measures may be employed to rid the nose and throat 
of diphtheria bacilli: 

(a) Local Application of Disinfectants. The nasal cavities and 
throat should be sprayed with a mild disinfectant such as a solution of 
hydrogen dioxide (0.5 per cent by weight of absolute hydrogen dioxide 
which is the solution of hydrogen dioxide of the U. S. Pharmacopoeia 
diluted with 5 parts of water) or of some mild alkaline disinfectant as 
Carl Seiler's solution. 

The throat will permit of more severe measures than the nose. A 
solution of I per cent by weight of absolute hydrogen dioxide may be 
used as a gargle or the surface may be swabbed with a 5 per cent solution 
of silver nitrate. Care should be taken not to have such an excess of 
the reagent on the applicator that it will trickle to the larynx. 

The local application of such disinfectants usually succeeds in re- 
moving the carrier condition in a few days. 1 Sometimes, however, more 

1 Test cultures should of course not be taken for some time after the 
application of disinfectants. It should be added that the efficacy of the 
class of treatment here described is questioned by some authorities. 
Rosenau states that " careful attention to the hygiene and cleanliness 
of the mucous membranes may hasten their [the diphtheria germs'] 
disappearance, and this is favored by copious washing of the throat 
and nose with large volumes of physiological salt solution. Antiseptics, 
such as silver nitrate, applied locally, seem to be of little service." 
(" Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 148.) J. S. M. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 145 

drastic measures must be employed before the germs disappear. Know- 
ing that the crypts of tonsils afforded a good hiding place for the 
bacteria we have tried the disinfection of such by the use of a swab 
dipped in a 10 per cent solution of silver nitrate and well introduced 
into the crypts. By so doing we succeeded in getting rid of the bac- 
teria in 1 8 cases (all attempted) which remained as carriers after re- 
peated swabbing of the surface. Squeezing the tonsils and forcing out 
the exudate often existing in the form of plugs from the crypts has 
been tried with some success by Kretschmer, who succeeded in freeing 
13 patients from the carrier condition in which the more simple measures 
failed. 

(6) [Describes spraying with living cultures of staphylococci. 
Omitted here, as this procedure does not appear to be as yet thoroughly 
established.] 

3. Those who have no sore throat may remain in school until [and 
unless] the result of the bacteriological examination indicates that they are 
diphtheria carriers. If such is the case they should remain at home and be 
treated as mentioned under (2). 

It is stated that such measures have been effective in a 
number of instances. The writer just quoted states that 
severe outbreaks in four cities in Iowa were so checked, 
although similar outbreaks which had occurred previously 
had continued for months. Instances may also be cited 
from Cleveland 1 and elsewhere. 

It is certainly time that systematic detection of carriers 
took the place of the perfunctory and useless fumigation 
of school-rooms which is frequently considered the sole 
measure required for the protection of the school. 

The problem of carriers demands the careful attention 
of health officers, for it is at present the crux of the control 
of diphtheria. 

Outbreaks of diphtheria occur not infrequently in institu- 
tions asylums, hospitals and the like where it rapidly 
gains a foothold. The measures to be recommended in 
such instances are, according to Rosenau: first, a prophy- 
lactic dose of looo units of antitoxin to all persons in the 
institution; and, second, isolation of both cases and car- 

1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 9, p. 976. 



146 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

riers. The latter measure is the truly suppressive, for if 
not properly carried out the germs will persist longer 
than the antitoxin immunity. The latter must, however, 
be renewed, if necessary to keep it up, every ten days or 
two weeks. In the detection of carriers all persons in the 
institution, including both inmates and administrative 
force, must be examined culturally, the cultures being 
taken from both nose and throat, and all persons showing 
positive results (whether virulent bacilli or not) are to be 
isolated. The usual prophylactic measures are to be em- 
ployed, attention being paid to towels, eating utensils, ^ 
cups, glasses and other articles which may be used in 
common. 

Terminal disinfection is apparently of little value, espe- 
cially if proper care has been exercised during the course 
of the disease. 

4. Immunize Contacts. See under Antitoxin, page 137. 

5. Regulate the length of isolation by the culture method. 
No convalescent or carrier should be released until two 
consecutive negative cultures taken at least 24 hours 
apart have been obtained from nose and throat. 1 The 
duration of isolation under this rule will usually be ten 
days to three weeks, though some cases may be kept con- 
siderably longer. If the germs persist an unusual length 
of time virulence tests may be made, and if the culture 
proves non-virulent the case may be released. 

6. As regards school-children:' 2 - on account of the possi- 
bility of carriers, children (other than the patient) in in- 
fected families should be excluded from school during the 
quarantine, and should not be re-admitted until one nega- 
tive or non-virulent culture from nose and throat has been 
obtained from each child in the family. Such cultures 

1 Slack, " A Resume of Diphtheria Examinations made in the Boston 
Board of Health Bacteriological Laboratory in 1909," Jour. Am. Pub. 
Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, no. n, p. 819. 

2 Cf. remarks on school outbreaks, above, p. 143 ff. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 147 

should not be taken until 48 hours after the termination of 
isolation, so that any bacilli present may have time to 
develop. It would be advisable, where this plan is adopted, 
to keep up the placard and maintain the quarantine on the 
family until all the cultures have proved negative. 

As for children in non-infected families in the same 
house, if there has been much association such children 
should be excluded from school like children in the infected 
family. If, however, there has been little association and 
good quarantine exists, such children may be permitted 
to attend if they show negative (or non-virulent) cultures 
taken 48 hours after institution of the quarantine. 

If the case goes to the hospital, or the well children of 
the family go promptly to live away from home, they may 
return to school if their cultures taken 48 hours afterwards 
are negative. Children in the other families in the house, 
if there has been association with the patient, may be 
treated likewise. 

The practice in regard to these matters varies, and no 
absolute rules can be laid down. The above, however, 
represent good practice at the present time and serve to 
illustrate the principles involved. 

SCARLET FEVER 

Scarlet fever (scarlatina) is an acute febrile infection 
characterized by sore throat and a diffuse eruption which 
appears during the first day or two of the fever. After 
several days the inflammation in the skin, which gives the 
disease its name, gives way to a peeling of the superficial 
layer of the skin known as desquamation. The disease 
varies in virulence; most of the cases now seen are mild, 
some scarcely recognizable except by the desquamation; 
and desquamating but previously unrecognized cases are 
not infrequently found, e.g., in medical school-inspection. 
Popularly it is often thought t^iat "scarlatina" is a mild 
infection distinct from scarlet fever; this, of course, is in- 



148 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

correct, the two terms being interchangeable. Even in 
mild cases serious aftereffects upon kidneys and other 
organs are to be guarded against through care in convales- 
cence. 

The cause of scarlet fever is as yet unknown. Strep- 
tococci are constantly found in the throats of scarlet fever 
cases, but the etiologic connection has not been established. 

With scarlet fever, as compared with diphtheria, we are 
at a disadvantage, for we do not know the causative organ- 
ism, are unable to trace the paths of transmission, and have 
no specific antitoxin as a preventive and curative agent. 

Transmission. The chief source of infection in scarlet 
fever, so far as known, is the secretions of the mucous 
membranes of the nose, throat and respiratory tract. The 
infection enters the body by the same routes. Accord- 
ing to the best opinion to-day the desquamation (scales) 
plays little or no part in infection, especially in the latter 
stages. Hence desquamating patients may safely be re- 
leased provided sufficient time 'has elapsed and the condi- 
tion of the mucous membranes is normal. On the other 
hand, patients who have finished desquamating may still 
spread infection through abnormal discharges from throat, 
respiratory passages, nose, or ear, or other sequelae. Such 
facts are established by a study of the "return cases" oc- 
curring in a family after the return of patients discharged 
from the hospital. 

Since the cause of scarlet fever is unknown there is no 
way of determining just when each patient ceases to be 
infective. 

Scarlet fever is about as communicable as .diphtheria, 
i.e., less so than measles and smallpox. 

Carriers and mild and unrecognized cases are unques- 
tionably frequent, and play a great part in disseminating 
the disease. 

Scarlet fever is transmitted chiefly by contact in just 
the same way, so far as known, as diphtheria. Foods may 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 149 

also convey the infection; many milk-borne epidemics are 
on record. 

INCIDENCE. Scarlet fever, like diphtheria, is a child- 
hood disease, the great majority of cases occurring under 
fifteen years of age. Its seasonal incidence resembles that 
of diphtheria, the majority of cases occurring during the 
winter months. During the summer season it usually 
drops to a very low point. 

Control. Known cases should be isolated and dis- 
charges from nose and mouth disinfected, and efforts should 
be made to detect mild and atypical cases in the zone of 
association of the patient. Medical school inspection helps 
in locating such cases. Parents should be educated to be 
watchful for early symptoms in their children. 

Streptococcus vaccines have been used with apparently 
favorable results in immunizing persons against scarlet 
fever, but have not yet been tried out in this country. 1 

Terminal disinfection is apparently of little or no value, 
especially if proper bedside disinfection has been carried out. 

The period of isolation varies with different authorities. 
Very long periods are excessive and are a burden on the 
family, without apparent commensurate benefit to the 
community. No patient should, however, be released if 
inflammation of the throat or discharge from nose, ear or 
abscess persists, for the secretions in such instances may 
remain long infective. Cases may be released when 
abnormal discharges have ceased and the patient appears 
normal (even if desquamation is incomplete}; a minimum 
period of four weeks should, however, be maintained. This 
practice has been proved safe by experience in towns and 
hospitals. 2 

1 Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 164. 

8 Rpt. Committee on Communicable Diseases, Am. Pub. Health 
Assn., Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 387. 

Cf. the following: "In England,, where more work of this kind 
seems to have been done, it has been found that, by discharging patients 
when the throat and nose appear normal without regard to desquama- 



150 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

As to school-children : since there may be carriers in the 
zone of association of the case, it may be safest to exclude 
all children in the house (including those in non-infected 
families) during the period of quarantine. If, however, the 
quarantine is good, it is proper to permit children in the 
non-infected families to return to school one week after 
the quarantine has been instituted. (This allows time for 
development of the disease if they have been infected; if 
they have previously had the disease they may return at 
once.) Medical inspection of schools is an additional safe- 
guard in such cases. Children in the infected family 
should be excluded until the expiration of one week after 
the termination of isolation. 

If, however, the case goes to the isolation hospital or 
the well children leave home, they may, if free from symp- 
toms, return to school one week later. 

MEASLES 

Measles (morbilli) is an acute febrile disease character- 
ized by skin eruption and inflammation of the mucous 
membranes of the eyes, nose and respiratory passages. In 
itself it is usually not severe, but its complications and 
aftereffects (e.g., especially pneumonia) are to be feared. 
The fatality is greatest in infants and young children. 

tion, the average stay in hospital was reduced from 45 to 29+ days 
without any increase in the percentage of return cases. . . . Obser- 
vations in this country seem to show that patients with a nasal dis- 
charge but free from desquamation invariably cause return cases soon 
after release, while patients who are desquamating but free from nasal 
discharge do not so cause return cases." (Previous report of above 
Committee, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 2, p. 122.) Some- 
times the discharged patient develops a recurrence in the form of a 
" cold " and this is followed by a return case. The Committee recom- 
mends further study of the subject of return cases, as to whether the 
discharged patient had desquamation or nasal discharge or both, and 
as to whether the patient developed a " cold " shortly before the onset 
of the return case. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 151 

The importance of measles as a cause of death is shown 
in Chart 2, where it ranks with scarlet fever. 1 This fact 
is not generally recognized. Many measles deaths are 
inaccurately assigned by physicians to terminal conditions 
of pneumonia, etc., and are so classified. 

The cause is unknown. 

Transmission. Measles is one of the most highly 
communicable diseases known, ranking with smallpox. 
This has led many observers to believe that the virus is 
air-borne. This may be so in some instances, but contact 
(including droplets) infection from the secretions of the 
nose, throat, and respiratory passages is probably respon- 
sible for the great majority of cases. 

Contrary to former belief, modern evidence indicates a 
strong probability, if not altogether a certainty, that the 
desquamation is not a medium of infection. 

Measles is readily transmissible by contact and man is 
susceptible to even minute amounts of the infection, but 
the virus dies out quickly in the environment. Rosenau 
states that after two weeks following termination of isola- 
tion there is practically no danger of contracting the disease 
from the room in which the patient has been treated, even 
without disinfection. Fomites infection would therefore be 
rare. 

The incubation period is long (9 to n days, possibly 
14), and the disease is contagious for several days before 
. definite symptoms; it may also possibly remain contagious 
in convalescence. 2 

INCIDENCE. Measles is a disease of infancy and child- 
hood ; over half the fatal cases occur in infants under two 
years, and over 80 per cent under five years. When it 
occurs in later adolescence and adulthood, the fatality is 
very much less. 

1 A detailed statistical study of measles has been made by Crum, 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, nol'4, p. 289. 

2 See, however, note on next page. 



152 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Control. There are two great obstacles to the control 
of measles: its extreme contagiousness and the fact that it 
is contagious for some time before it can be positively 
recognized. 1 The prodromal symptoms are those of an 
ordinary coryza or cold in the head, symptoms so com- 
mon among children as ordinarily to give rise to no suspi- 
cion. Most of the harm is done before the diagnosis is made, 
and in many cases no physician is called at all. There 
may also be carriers and unrecognized cases, but probably 
less frequently than in scarlet fever, diphtheria and typhoid 
fever. 

For the reasons above set forth, the ordinary measures 
of isolation, etc., can accomplish but little. Neverthe- 
less it is worth while to do what is feasible to prevent 
infection from known cases. Even if but a compara- 
tively small number of cases and deaths are saved, the 
measures are justified. Health authorities should there- 
fore: 

i. Require reporting of cases, and quarantine them in 
a modified manner for 7 days from eruption and until all 
symptoms have disappeared. 2 The mildness of convales- 
cence and popular indifference toward the disease make a 
strict isolation in most cases impracticable ; but the patient 
should be required to remain on the premises, and a placard 
should be used to warn children from entering. Other 
children in the family are almost certain to take the dis- 
ease unless strictly separated. Terminal disinfection is of 
practically no value. 

Children in the infected family should be excluded from 

1 Recent studies indicate that measles may be infective as early as 
5 days before the appearance of the rash, though not before the appear- 
ance of prodromal symptoms. The appearance of the rash probably 
marks the height of infectivity. (Gray, H. F., " The Transmission and 
Administrative Control of Measles," Jour. Inf. Dis., Nov., 1915.) 

2 According to recent data " the infectivity does not extend beyond 
7 days after the appearance of the rash, and is probably shorter " 
(Gray, loc. tit.). Cf. p. 633. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 153 

school for 15 days 1 unless they can show medical certifi- 
cates that they have had measles. It is difficult to keep 
measles from spreading to other children in the family. 
Such children, if they have not already had the disease 
and have not been exposed, may be sent away from home, 
but the possibility of still further spreading the disease in 
case they may have been exposed must be considered. 
Children in other families in the house need not be excluded 
unless they have been exposed. 

2. Endeavor to obtain early recognition and medical 
treatment of cases. Parents should learn to treat all 
" colds" in children as suspicious, to keep such children 
separate from others, and to guard against contact infection 
until the nature of the "cold" is ascertained. Infection, 
by the suspect, of towels, handerchiefs, toys, eating uten- 
sils and other articles used in common among children 
should be avoided. Such home prophylaxis is also of much 
value as a protection against the other communicable 
diseases which frequently start with symptoms of a fever- 
ish cold or a sore throat. Publicity on such subjects is 
desirable. When parents take such matters more seriously 
a corresponding advance in prevention will result. 

3. Call attention of physicians and of parents of cases 
to the need of care in convalescence in order to avoid serious 
aftereffects. In this way the fatality rate may be reduced. 
The same precaution applies to whooping cough, light cases 
of scarlet fever and other mild diseases from which the chief 
danger is to be apprehended in the incidental effects upon 
heart, lungs, kindeys and other vital organs. 

1 Since the incubation period is long, it has been suggested that such 
children be allowed to continue at school for 8 or 10 days after exposure, 
then be excluded for a week to ten days, after which those who do not 
develop the disease may be allowed to return. This plan, according to 
Rosenau, is followed in certain districts in England. It assumes, how- 
ever, that the time and period of exposure are definitely known for each 
child, which is not always the case; and in any case safe leeway should 
be allowed. 



154 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

GERMAN MEASLES 

German measles (rubeola, rubella, rotheln) resembles 
measles in symptoms and transmission, but is a distinct 
disease and of less importance. It is chiefly of interest in 
relation to the schools. It may be made subject to similar 
measures, with a minimum quarantine of 10 days. 

WHOOPING COUGH 

Whooping cough (pertussis) is an infection caused by the 
bacillus discovered by Bordet and Gengou. It is of much 
greater importance as a cause of mortality among infants 
and young children than is popularly supposed; the mor- 
tality ranks with that of scarlet fever (Chart II, page 76), 
and is due largely to the pulmonary complications, chiefly 
pneumonia. Doubtless a considerable number of the 
deaths are put down to the latter instead of to the primary 
cause. 

Transmission. The virus exists chiefly in the expec- 
toration, but all secretions from nose and mouth are to be 
guarded against. Whooping cough is communicable from 
the earliest symptoms, during convalescence, and even after 
the subsidence of the characteristic cough, being most 
infectious during the early stages. Transmission is chiefly 
by contact. Domestic animals (dogs and cats) may become 
infected and transmit infection. Mild, unrecognized cases 
play a part in its extension. 

INCIDENCE. The great majority (95 per cent) of the 
fatal cases occur under five years of age, and over half in 
infants under one year. 

Control. Most of the remarks made under the head 
of measles apply in substance here. The obstacles to 
control are: that the disease is communicable before it is 
recognized; that the infective convalescent period is long, 
lasting possibly eight weeks; that the mildness of conva- 
lescence makes quarantine measures irksome and difficult 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 155 

to enforce; and that parents regard the disease merely as 
an inevitable and harmless incident of childhood. As in 
measles, however, health authorities should take what 
precautions are feasible, even if these are by no means 
ideal. Such are: 

1. To require reporting of cases. 

2. To institute a modified quarantine, as in measles. 
During the long period of convalescence the patient should 
be allowed a certain degree of freedom, provided he does 
not come in contact with other children or handle articles 
which may be handled or eaten by them. Fresh air is a 
helpful curative agent, and the patient may be allowed 
airings under adult care. It has been proposed that such 
patients be allowed freedom with the requirement that they 
wear some warning mark, such as a green or yellow arm- 
band. Infection of infants and old persons should be espe- 
cially avoided on account of the possible serious conse- 
quences. Either such persons or the patient may to 
advantage be sent away from home. The restrictions 
should be kept up until all symptoms have disappeared 
preferably several days longer; some authorities recom- 
mend a period of even eight weeks. 

Terminal disinfection is of no practical value. 
Well children in the family need not be excluded from 
school unless they have a suspicious cough. 

3. To inform parents as to the seriousness of the disease 
and the importance of early prophylaxis in case of sus- 
picious symptoms in children (see measles). Many cases 
are not considered serious enough to call a doctor. 

A vaccine (pertussin) may be used for both curative and 
prophylactic purposes, but its use is not yet established. 1 

LOBAR PNEUMONIA 

Pneumonia, an infection by the Pneumococcus, rivals 
and sometimes exceeds tuberculosis as the chief of all 
1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 8, p. 839. 



156 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

causes of death. Like tuberculosis it may be regarded as 
an infectious and communicable disease of which the germs 
are extensively distributed but which depends for its propa- 
gation upon lowered vital resistance of individuals rather 
than upon facilities for infection. Epidemics of pneumonia 
have, however, been noted, and in a sense it may be re- 
garded as a constantly pandemic disease to which we have 
become accustomed. 

Transmission. The pneumococcus may frequently be 
found in the mouths of healthy persons, who are not affected 
by it until some depression of vital resistance permits in- 
vasion by the germ. Even robust persons may succumb 
if their vital resistance is greatly depressed. On the other 
hand, each case should be regarded as a focus of fresh in- 
fection which may be communicated by the various ways 
of contact infection. It is possible that in many of these 
cases the germs are of a heightened virulence. It is also 
possible that there are unrecognized carriers of especially 
virulent pneumococci. Lack of proper ventilation, dusty 
atmospheres, exposure, intemperance and neglected colds 
are among the predisposing factors. 

INCIDENCE. The mortality from pneumonia is dis- 
tributed over all ages. Nearly one-fifth of the fatal cases 
occur under two years of age, nearly one-third over sixty 
and the remainder over the prime of life. It is one of the 
chief factors in infant mortality, and, since it may be almost 
entirely prevented by proper infant hygiene, we must to 
that extent at least place pneumonia among the diseases 
controllable through public hygiene. 

Control. The principles of prevention are : first and 
chiefly, keeping up the vital resistance of individuals; and, 
second, limiting so far as practicable the spread of the pneu- 
mococcus. The first of these lies largely within the control 
of the individual and is to that extent a matter of personal 
hygiene. The health authorities may, however, combat 
pneumonia in the following ways: 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 157 

1. By improving housing and factory conditions, especially 
as regards ventilation. 

2. By popular education on personal hygiene e.g., the 
value of fresh air, avoidance of "contact" infection, etc. 

3. By infant hygiene work. 

4. By advising prophylaxis in the individual case. Pre- 
cautions similar to those for tuberculosis should be taken - 
i.e., proper care of the sputum. Such measures are in the 
hands of the physician, nurse and family. 

CEREBROSPINAL FEVER 

This disease, which may also be called " epidemic cere- 
brospinal meningitis, " is an infection by the Meningococcus, 
an organism which attacks the meninges (membranes) of 
the brain and spinal cord. It is only one of .the infections 
known by the loose general term "meningitis," and should 
not be confused with others. In order to avoid confusion 
the above two exact terms and no others should be used 
(preferably " cerebrospinal fever"). 1 

Transmission. Cerebrospinal fever occurs sporadically 
(single cases) and epidemically (groups of cases). It 
occurs, like other diseases in which the infection probably 
takes place through the respiratory system, especially in 
the fall and winter months. 

It is supposed that the infective organism, the meningo- 
coccus, enters the system through the mucous membrane 
of the nasopharynx, and that the infection is spread through 
"contact" transference of the discharges and secretions 
from mouth and nose. 

INCIDENCE. Children and young adults are most 
susceptible. 

Control. Cerebrospinal fever offers great resistance to 
control on account of the large number of its carriers. ' One 
authority (Fliigge) estimates that healthy carriers of the 

1 See discussion of undesirable terms in the International List of 
Causes of Death. 



158 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

disease are ten times as numerous as recognized cases. It 
is believed that these carriers are the principal agents in 
the spread of the disease, and that the germ passes rather 
directly from one person to another, developing only in a 
comparatively small number of susceptible persons. On 
the other hand, when the disease is prevalent it may be- 
come very severe; thus in New York in 1904-1905 there 
were 6755 reported cases and 3455 deaths. 

As to control, 1 the large number of carriers greatly 
lessens the value of isolation of known cases, while the 
bacteriological detection of all carriers and their control 
is, under ordinary circumstances, impracticable. Neverthe- 
less, until more exact knowledge of the disease is obtained, 
health authorities should require reporting of cases and 
suspected cases, isolation until bacteriological disappear- 
ance of the meningococcus, and disinfection of the sputum 
and nose discharges. By these measures some secondary 
cases and fresh carriers may be prevented, especially if 
prompt steps are taken with the first cases reported. 

Chronic carriers should be kept under restrictive con- 
trol, should be given careful instructions for avoiding 
spreading the disease to others through their secretions, 
and should receive vaccine treatment (see below). 

Health authorities should provide facilities for bacterio- 
logical diagnosis (by examination of the spinal fluid) of 
cases and carriers. They should also be prepared to 
supply antimeningitis serum (a curative though not a pre- 
ventive) . Immunization may be effected through inocula- 
tion with a vaccine of killed meningococci. Chronic carri- 
ers should also be treated with the vaccine. 

TUBERCULOSIS 

Tuberculosis is the chief disease with which health author- 
ities have to deal. In 1911, in the Registration Area of 

1 Cf. Von Ezdorf, " Epidemic Cerebrospinal- Meningitis: Informa- 
tion Relative to Prevention of Spread of the Disease and Management 
of Cases," U. S. Pub. Health Rpts. } May 9, 1913. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 159 

the United States, it caused 11.2 per cent of all deaths. 
The disease has its roots deep in a complex of social and 
sanitary conditions which makes it also the most refractory 
of public health problems. 

The tubercle bacillus exists in several different types, 
the most important of which is the human type. The 
bovine type may also infect man through the medium of 
milk. The bacillus may invade any part of the body: 
hence the various forms of tuberculosis tuberculosis of 
the lungs, tuberculous meningitis, abdominal tuberculosis, 
generalized tuberculosis, etc. Tuberculosis of the lungs 
(synonyms: pulmonary tuberculosis, consumption, phthisis) 
is the commonest form; it caused 83 per cent of all deaths 
from tuberculosis in the U. S. Registration Area in 1911. 

The question as to the severity of the disease depends not 
only upon the virulence of the organism in any particular 
case, but also very largely upon the vital resistance of the 
person. The infection is very widely spread, and many 
persons undoubtedly harbor the bacillus without perceptible 
bad effects and practically without being sources of infec- 
tion to others. This fact, which is demonstrated by post- 
mortem findings of old healed lesions, is expressed in the 
saying current among German bacteriologists, "Everyone 
is a little tuberculous." The question of combating tuber- 
culosis is therefore largely though by no means entirely 
a matter of keeping up the vital resistance of individuals, 
both the well and the openly tuberculous. 

In short, the development of the infection depends upon 
two contrary factors: the amount of infection (i.e., the num- 
ber of bacilli, which perhaps also vary in virulence), and the 
vital resistance opposed to it by the system of the person. 
The balance between these two factors determines how far 
the pathological processes shall go. Hence there are all 
degrees of infection, from that which is unrecognizable in 
its mildness to the most rapid "galloping consumption." 
Hence, too, there may be accelerations, retardations, arrests 



160 'A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

and recoveries in the course of the disease. Thus, while 
tuberculosis is communicable, its development depends 
largely upon the state in which it finds the individual. 

Transmission. The bacillus is shed off, in pulmonary 
tuberculosis, in the sputum raised by coughing. It is most 
often spread by the various kinds of contact infection 
(page 113). Transmission through infected food (and per- 
haps water) is also possible. It is believed that "house 
infection" may take place, i.e., well persons may appar- 
ently contract the disease from apartments previously 
infected by a consumptive; but this probably occurs less 
frequently than is commonly supposed, for in many such 
cases the possibility of direct infection from a case is not 
excluded. While the role of dust in conveying tubercle 
bacilli is still in dispute, it would appear that this mode 
of infection, relatively to more direct modes, has been ex- 
aggerated. Nevertheless promiscuous spitting should be 
forbidden, and dust should be suppressed if for no other 
reason than that sharp, irritating dust particles render the 
mucous membrane of the respiratory passages susceptible 
to the infection. It is because of the latter reason that 
certain dusty trades strongly predispose to tuberculosis. 

Infection may take place either by inhalation or by in- 
gestion, i.e., either through the respiratory system or 
through the alimentary system. The question which of 
these modes is the more common is still in controversy. 
In the case of contact infection it is evident that the in- 
fection might take place in either manner. 

Tuberculosis may also be contracted through ingestion 
of milk and milk products from tuberculous cows. In 
this case it is the bovine type of bacillus which is trans- 
mitted. The danger from this source is largely restricted to 
children. English and German commissions and certain 
American authorities (notably Park and Krumwiede of the 
New York City Department of Health) have studied the 
matter extensively; as the result of such studies it may be 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 161 

stated that "perhaps 7 per cent of the tuberculosis in man 
is of bovine origin." 1 The great bulk of this consists of 
generalized, abdominal and glandular tuberculosis among 
children, scarcely any being of the pulmonary form. Such 
findings are the basis for legislation requiring the tuber- 
culin testing of dairy herds and the pasteurization of milk 
(see Chapter III). 

INCIDENCE. Tuberculosis falls with especial severity 
upon persons in the prime of life, about one-half of the 
deaths occurring among persons 20 to 40 years of age. 

In considering tuberculosis death statistics it must be 
remembered that some such deaths may be returned as 
due to other causes. There may be mistaken diagnosis, or 
the physician in doubt may, on account of popular preju- 
dice against tuberculosis, sign the certificate with some other 
cause. 

A striking feature of the tuberculosis problem is that it 
is intimately connected with the vital resistance of individ- 
uals as affected by many conditions. Thus it goes hand 
in hand with poverty, poor nutrition, overwork, worry and 
intemperance of all kinds, in short, with any condition 
which impairs health. Syphilis, typhoid fever and other 
diseases predispose to it. 2 Exposure, followed by pneu- 
monia or even a neglected cold, may be the introduction 
to incipient tuberculosis. Overcrowding is a favoring 
condition, by reason, not only of the greater chances of 
infection, but also of the physically depressing conditions 
accompanying it. It is observed that a large proportion of 
the cases and deaths occur in a relatively small proportion 
of the houses in a community. Poor housing, with deficient 
light and ventilation, is a contributory factor. Of special 
importance are the conditions in factories: poor ventila- 
tion, irritating dusts and vapors, promiscuous spitting, 
excessive length or severity of labor, and the like. While 

1 Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 124. 

2 See p. 78, regarding typhoid fever followed by tuberculosis. 



162 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

certain of these conditions can be dealt with by the health 
authorities, many are in the control of the public itself 
and can only be attacked by educational efforts. No other 
disease is so firmly entrenched in fundamental social con- 
ditions. 

Depression of vital resistance caused by any of such 
conditions may permit development of the latent infection 
which apparently exists in almost all persons. 1 

City life, with its congestion and attendant insanitary 
conditions favors tuberculosis; 2 but the disease prevails 
also in rural districts to a greater extent than commonly 
supposed, being favored there by under-nutrition, overwork, 
lack of ventilation in farm houses, etc. 

The various races show different degrees of incidence, 
owing doubtless to their modes of life as well as to differ- 
ences in racial susceptibility. Thus the negroes show an 
especially high death rate (405 as compared with 126 for 
whites, under condensed title "tuberculosis of lungs," 
Registration Area, 1911). Males show a markedly higher 
rate than females, doubtless because of more unfavorable 
conditions of labor and more numerous occasions of infec- 
tion. 

CONTROL 

As already implied, prophylaxis consists (i) in avoiding 
infection, and (2) in maintaining or increasing vital resist- 
ance. 

Avoidance of infection is only relative, for the tubercle 
bacillus is so widespread that few persons or none can avoid 
a certain minimum amount of infection. Nevertheless, this 
amount should be so far as possible reduced and all occasions 
of gross and obvious infection, as from direct exposure to 
sputum from careless consumptives, should be absolutely 
avoided. 

1 See note, p. 163. 

2 Brewer, " City Life in Relation to Tuberculosis," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 9, p. 163. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 163 

Vital resistance may be increased both through per- 
sonal hygiene and through sanitation of the environment, 
as outlined below. 

Tuberculosis is not hereditary (as was formerly thought) , 
and is seldom acquired congenitally. The fact that it 
tends to run in families may be explained by inherited 
predisposition, or by increased chances of infection from 
other members of the family, or both. Even with such a 
predisposition, however, if good conditions are maintained 
the individual may ward off the disease. 

There is no specific serum or other remedy for tuberculosis. 
The natural cure consists in building up the vital resistance 
of the patient to throw off the infection, through a well- 
regulated regimen of good food, rest, fresh air, cheerful 
surroundings, etc., a logical extension of the methods of 
proper living which play the chief part in prevention. 
Treatments with tuberculin (an emulsion of killed bacilli) 
are of use only when carefully administered in conjunction 
with the natural cure. Tuberculin is, however, of some 
value in diagnosis (in the von Pirquet cutaneous reaction, 
or "skin test," etc.). 1 

From what has been said it is plain that administrative 
measures must be of two kinds: 

(1) Restriction of the spread of the tubercle bacillus. 

(2) Promotion of the vital resistance of individuals. 

The first of these requires cognizance of recognized cases 
of tuberculosis and measures to prevent the spreading of 
the germ by such cases. Although many unrecognized 
cases will escape such supervision, and some recognized 
cases will disregard the rules imposed, nevertheless these 
measures will greatly diminish the chances of infection. 

1 Tuberculin diagnosis has a striking result in showing that almost 
all persons beyond infancy have at least a latent tuberculosis infection. 
Thus recent authorities (Hamman and Wolman, " Tuberculin in Diag- 
nosis and Treatment," 1912) state that .while the test is of considerable 
value under one year of age, it is of less value from one to two years, 
of little value in childhood, and none in adulthood. 



164 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Experience shows that the normal human system is capable 
of resisting small doses of infection when it would succumb 
to a heavier dose, and it is just these heavier doses which 
supervision over the germ-shedding patient prevents. 
This first class of measures also includes prevention of the 
spread of the bovine tubercle bacillus through milk. 

The second class of measures promotion of vital re- 
sistance is one which is largely in the hands of individ- 
uals themselves, for many of the conditions predisposing 
to tuberculosis are capable of control only through proper 
habits on the part of the person. But at the same time 
there are environmental conditions, in factories, tenements, 
schools, etc., which can and should be remedied only by the 
public authorities. 

Bearing in mind the above objects we may pass on to a 
consideration of the means for attaining them. 

i. Registration of Cases. It is essential that the local 
health department have a complete record of all known 
cases of tuberculosis in any of its manifestations. By far 
the greatest number of these will, as already indicated, be 
of pulmonary tuberculosis (consumption). Reports should 
be made by physicians on a special blank. Tuberculosis 
records should be kept separate from those of the other 
communicable diseases. Most laws prescribe that tuber- 
culosis records be kept, except as administration requires 
otherwise, private, a concession to the false reproach 
traditionally attached to the disease. A serial book record 
in which reports are briefly entered and numbered in 
the order of their receipt, and a card catalog of histories 
arranged alphabetically by name of patient, constitute 
(as for other communicable diseases) a convenient re- 
cording system. In the catalog it will be found best to 
subdivide the index, into "current cases, nurse's visits 
required," " current cases, nurse's visits unnecessary," 
"school children" (special classes), "cases gone to hospital 
or sanatorium" (each institution separately), "left town," 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 165 

"lost trace of," " suspected cases," "died," or the like; 
and shift the cards as occasion may require from one class 
to another. 

It is desirable also to keep an index and spot map of 
houses in which cases exist; in this way foci of infection 
are seen at a glance. 

On account of the difficulties of keeping track of tuber- 
culosis cases the following classes of reports should be re- 
quired, the responsibility in each instance being clearly 
denned. 

As to new cases: 

(a) Reports from physicians; 

(b) Reports from institutions and organizations under 
whose notice cases may come ; 

(c) Reports from keepers and proprietors of lodging- 
houses and hotels. 

As to cases already known, reports of removal: 

(a) Report from physician when a case moves away or 
passes from his professional care ; 1 

(b) Similar reports from institutions and organiza- 
tions; 

(c) Report from owner, lessee, tenant, or occupant of 

1 The only way in which this provision can be effectively carried 
out is by checking up the location of all cases by periodic inquiry of the 
physician, at least for those cases which are not visited frequently by 
the nurse. Note the following resolution of the New York City Depart- 
ment of Health, 1910: 

" It is hereby ordered that every physician having a case of pulmo- 
nary tuberculosis under his care be required to notify the Department of 
Health once a month, on cards furnished for that purpose, if patient 
still resides at original address given; if not, of any change of address 
of such patient, in order that the premises vacated may be properly 
disinfected by the Department. 

" And further ordered that every physician be required to notify 
the Department of Health in the same manner whenever a case of pul- 
monary tuberculosis passes from his professional care, or fails to ob- 
serve the necessary sanitary precautions, in order that the Department 
may assume surveillance of such a case." 



166 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

any dwelling or apartment, stating the removal of any 
tuberculosis patient therefrom. 1 

There is an unfortunate tendency with some physicians 
to slight the reporting of tuberculosis, owing perhaps to 
the impression that no special action is taken by the health 
authorities. Unfortunately, too, that impression is some- 
times correct. But where active measures are taken and 
the importance of reports is impressed on physicians, their 
cooperation is readily enlisted. Prompt reports (within 
48 hours or less) should be required. Physicians should 
be kept well supplied with the necessary blank forms. 
Where reporting is good a considerable number of duplicate 
cases will be reported i.e., the same case will be reported 
two or three or more times by different physicians, hospitals 
or dispensaries. Patients tend to go from one physician 
to another, hence such duplicate reports should invariably 
be required. The data so obtained should be entered in the 
file on account of the confirmatory history and the record 
of the movements of the patient which they furnish. As 
to hospitals, dispensaries and other institutions, it is best 
that the physician making the diagnosis of tuberculosis 
should be specifically required to make report over his own 
signature, thus relieving the institution authorities of 
responsibility. With cases admitted without diagnosis 
which is left to the interne such a provision is especially 
appropriate. In any case it is strictly the physician, not 
the institution, which makes or confirms diagnosis. 

It sometimes happens that a case is reported only a few 
hours before death. Such cases should be investigated in 
order to determine whether a diagnosis had not previously 
been made by the physician and the report neglected. In 

1 To carry out this provision, the person responsible for each dwell- 
ing or apartment should be notified of the existence of the case, so 
that such person may be held strictly accountable for notifying the 
health department when the patient moves (plan recently adopted in 
Montclair, N. J.). 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 167 

some cases it may be found that the physician in question 
was called in only a few hours before death; under such 
circumstances an effort should be made to determine 
whether diagnosis had not previously been made by some 
other physician who had failed to report. It is by such 
following-up that the most important instances of failure 
to report are discovered. 

All deaths from tuberculosis should be checked over to 
ascertain if the cases have been reported, and when reports 
have not been filed the matter should be taken up with 
the physician who signed the death certificate. It has been 
estimated that for every death from tuberculosis there are 
about three living dangerously infective cases; but there 
should be a greater number of cases on record, for some 
cases reported do not show a positive sputum and cannot 
therefore be classed as openly infective. 1 These latter 
cases may, however, be partly balanced by dangerous cases 
not under medical care. Of course the total actual number 
of cases in a community, including persons in some material 
degree infected but not dangerous and not under medical 
care, is considerably greater than reported numbers. 
Deficiencies in reporting should be dealt with as strictly 
as in any other communicable disease. Health officers 
should endeavor to win the full cooperation of the medical 
profession by indicating the high importance of this class 
of reports; but persistence in failure to obey the law after 
warning has been given should be dealt with by prosecution. 
In a small city known to the writer the annual number of 
reported cases of tuberculosis was increased, through the 
activity of the health officer, from 41 to 1 16 in two consecu- 
tive years (the number of deaths showing no increase). 
Where the number of reported cases is less than the num- 
ber of deaths in the same year, deficiency in reporting is 
to be suspected. 

1 Bishop, " Tuberculosis, A Public Health Problem," Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 329. 



168 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

BACTERIOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS. Official facilities for 
bacteriological diagnosis should be provided. While many 
cases are readily diagnosed clinically and should be reported 
without awaiting bacteriological examination, the latter 
is indispensable in at all doubtful cases. It consists in 
staining and microscopic examination of the sputum (or 
other discharge) for the presence of the tubercle bacillus. 
If the bacillus is present in considerable numbers, in the 
specimen, it may readily be positively recognized by the 
regular technique. A single negative result should not, 
however, be given too great weight, for it is possible (as 
was remarked in connection with diphtheria) that the 
bacilli may be few and escape observation, or that the sample 
is not a representative one. Therefore- two or more nega- 
tive results must be obtained before the absence of the 
tubercle bacillus can be asserted with reasonable certainty. 
Suspected persons should be examined at intervals of several 
weeks. In collecting specimens for examination for pul- 
monary tuberculosis, care should be taken that the true 
sputum i.e., the material coughed up from the lungs 
and lower respiratory passages is obtained. In special 
cases, when it is difficult to obtain a specimen through 
coughing, laryngeal swabbing may be resorted to and a 
smear made for examination. Regular outfits for collect- 
ing specimens, together with a blank form for name of 
patient and other data, should be provided. Many health 
departments not having bacteriological facilities for this 
purpose arrange that physicians transmit samples to the 
state laboratory for examination. 

2. Home Supervision. Once a case has been reported 
to the health authorities, it becomes their duty to take 
steps to prevent further infection from the patient. Some 
laws make the physician also responsible to a certain ex- 
tent for instruction of the patient in preventive measures; 
but, on the whole, the responsibility rests upon the health 
authorities themselves. Since the dangerous cases are the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 169 

"open cases" of pulmonary tuberculosis (other forms not 
usually being actively infectious), the precautionary meas- 
ures to be taken relate very largely to the proper care of 
the infectious sputum. The guarding against contact with 
the patient of other members of the family, and the for- 
bidding of the patient to engage in preparation of food for 
public distribution, constitute a second class of precautions. 
At the present time, and doubtless for a long time to come, 
the majority of patients especially those in the less ad- 
vanced stages will have to be left in their natural envi- 
ronment the home ; and measures will have to be largely 
concentrated there. And since strict isolation is nearly 
always impracticable as well as unnecessary (patients 
requiring stringent control being sent to a hospital or 
sanatorium), such measures will have to consist chiefly in 
supervision through instruction. 

THE TUBERCULOSIS NURSE. Under such circumstances 
the health authorities work largely through the public 
health nurse, whose functions have already been roughly 
described in the first part of this book. The tuberculosis 
nurse performs duties which in this case go far beyond 
those of the ordinary sanitary inspector. She instructs 
the patient as to the nature of his disease, especially 
with reference to the danger of its spread to others. She 
sees, above all, that scrupulous care is observed in the dis- 
posal of sputum, the rule simply being that all sputum 
and discharges from mouth and nose of the patient are 
destroyed. For this purpose it is convenient to use pieces 
of cloth which may be burned, or, better, the sputum cups 
or receptacles specially manufactured for that purpose. 
(The health department should provide such receptacles 
liberally and free of cost to patients; they may be pur- 
chased wholesale at low prices.) The precautions with 
regard to sputum apply to the patient when abroad in the 
streets as well as at hpme, a pocket sputum cup being used. 
The patient must further be instructed in the cleanliness 



1 70 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

to be exercised in keeping the hands free from infection, 
avoiding contact infection in the family, and avoiding con- 
taminating objects which may be used by other persons. 

While there is practically no danger in living with a care- 
ful consumptive, there is a great deal of danger with a 
careless one. The danger in personal association is always 
very great unless strict precautions are taken. Working 
in the same room or eating at the same table demand such 
precautions; sleeping in the same bed occasions a serious 
risk. A tuberculous member of the family preparing food 
for other members will infect the food unless extraordinary 
precautions be taken, and such precautions cannot com- 
monly be expected. The board of health of Montclair, 
N. J., has recently passed a resolution to the effect that 
children under sixteen years of age will not be allowed to 
live in a house where there is a case of tuberculosis unless 
extreme precautions are taken to prevent the spread of 
infection. 

Tuberculosis patients who are active sources of infection 
should be forbidden to engage in the preparation, for 
public distribution, of kinds of food liable to infection; 
they should not act as cooks, bakers, confectioners, and the 
like, whose products pass directly to the consumer and are 
consumed without further cooking. 

The nurse has a further duty to perform in giving the 
patient general advice, subject to the orders of the attend- 
ing physician, as to the course of life he should adopt for 
his own benefit. She may recommend a certain diet, 
help arrange for outdoor sleeping facilities, and the like. 
Indirectly, whatever aids in the cure of the case tends to 
the prevention of other cases. She should not, however, 
perform actual nursing service except of a minor sort; 
where such is needed the district visiting nurse should be 
called in. The function of the tuberculosis nurse is to 
gain the confidence of the patient, instruct and counsel, 
and see that her instructions are carried out. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 171 

The tuberculosis nurse may also perform a certain amount 
of incidental sanitary inspection, and can discover incip- 
ient, untreated, or unreported cases. 

In the selection of cases for visiting, a certain discre- 
tion, which depends partly upon the opinion of the attend- 
ing physician and partly upon the circumstances of the case 
as judged by the health authorities, must be observed. 
Thus there will be a certain number of cases, under the 
care of private physicians some perhaps in well-to-do 
families in which satisfactory precautions are observed 
and which it is a waste of time as well as an intrusion to 
visit. The cases requiring most attention are those marked 
by ignorance, carelessness, or wilful disregard of sanitary 
precautions. There is a certain proportion of such cases 
in every community. Some such patients are even va- 
grants, having no fixed abode and moving uncertainly about 
from day to day, being walking and (by most persons) 
unrecognized distributors of infection. These patients 
escape from the surveillance of the health authorities only 
to reappear from time to time at new points. They have 
the restlessness characteristic of some stages of the disease 
combined with lack of any feeling of responsibility. They 
have no physicians, no fixed associations, and constitute a 
sore problem of the health officer and tuberculosis nurse. 
Of such cases and others of the more dangerous class we 
shall speak later under the head of institutional care. 

The following, in some detail, are the duties of the tuber- 
culosis nurse. 1 

Each nurse should be on duty at least six hours daily, exclusive of 
one hour for lunch (Saturdays, three hours daily). The health depart- 
ment badge is worn when on duty. 

A series of forms, more or less according to local needs, are used for 
taking histories (for filing as already explained), for authorizing free 
sputum cups, for recommending cleansing, renovations, etc. 

1 Adapted (as also the ensuing section) from Monograph no. I of the 
N. Y. City Dept. of Health, Feb., 1912. Details may of course be 
altered, added, or omitted to suit local conditions. 



172 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



Each morning a list is made of cases, new and old, to be visited, and 
these are cleared up if possible during the day. 

The nurse cooperates with the health department physician or the 
health officer in investigating and recommending forcible removal of 
patients. In all such cases persuasion is first used in order, if possible, 
to obtain the patient's consent. 

Suspected cases and complaints (coming usually from charitable 
organizations) may be tactfully investigated by the nurse, who tries to 
persuade the person to go to the clinic or at least she endeavors to ob- 
tain a specimen of sputum. If the result of the latter is negative and 
the person declines to go to the clinic, the health department physician 
may be requested to make an examination. 
When on duty the nurse carries with her: 

Clinical thermometer; 

Watch with second hand; 

Fountain pen; 

History cards (for new cases found in district) ; 

Cards for referring patients to clinic; 

Circulars of information for consumptives and their families, and 
sweeping and dusting leaflets, in the language spoken in her 
district ; 

Sputum bags and paper napkins; 

Placards; 

Fumigation cards; 

Sputum bottles, for obtaining specimens of sputum. 
The first duty of the tuberculosis nurse is to exercise the necessary 
sanitary supervision over the cases of pulmonary tuberculosis living in 
her district. Almost the first question asked, when making a visit on 
a new case, is whether the patient is under the continued care of a pri- 
vate physician; if so, his name and address are obtained. In tracing 
cases on first visit or, if unable to obtain admission, when making a 
revisit, no messages are left with neighbors. The reason for the nurse's 
visit (i.e., that there is a consumptive on the premises) is only to be 
given to the family. The nurse furnishes the department of health 
with prompt, accurate and sufficiently frequent reports as to where the 
patient is, his general condition, whether the necessary precautions are 
being observed (sputum, etc.), if he is receiving medical care and where, 
the nature and condition of the house and rooms in which he lives, the 
number in the family, etc. She calls attention to any faulty conditions 
and recommends steps to be taken for their betterment. The case is 
kept under sanitary supervision and visited every few days until faulty 
conditions are corrected or recommendations .carried out. Certain 
cases under a private physician's care may be visited from time to time 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 173 

merely to ascertain if the patient is still on the premises and under the 
same physician's care. 

Circulars of instructions in the language of the patient are given to 
the patient or the family. 

In addition and more important the nurse personally instructs 
the patient and his family as to the precautions to be observed. All 
patients not under the care of a private physician are given a card to 
the tuberculosis clinic and urged to attend. All cases are revisited at 
least once in two months and advanced or refractory cases as much 
oftener as may be necessary. 

Any other suspicious cases of tuberculosis among the family and 
neighbors are traced and reported. Should the patient be a child 
attending school, the nurse reports whether or not he or she should be 
excluded from school. The welfare of any sickly or anaemic children 
is looked after and they are protected against infection as far as possible. 
If necessary their admission to a fresh-air school, a day camp, or a pre- 
ventorium is recommended on daily report. The nurse reports where 
treatment of rooms is required, and any necessary orders are issued by 
the office. Dirty and infected goods may be ordered disinfected without 
waiting for the termination of the case by death or removal. 

If the patient is at work, the nurse reports as to whether the work is 
harmful to him or her, or a menace to fellow workmen, or if he or she 
is likely to spread infection to the public (bakers, handlers of food- 
stuffs, cooks, etc.). If any work is done at the home the nurse makes 
sure that no one is endangered thereby. 

If the case is suitable for hospital or sanatorium care, she endeavors 
to induce the patient to enter an institution voluntarily, and submits 
a recommendation to that effect. All the above information is sub- 
mitted by the nurse on the history card. 

The nurse may be called on to deliver admission cards to tuberculosis 
hospitals to patients, and instruct them how best to reach the hospital, 
and as to outfit required. 

The nurse devotes a certain portion of her time to work in the clinic. 
She thus familiarizes herself with the medical aspect of her cases, and 
her presence tends to promote friendly relations between the clinic, the 
patients and herself. She also calls the attending physicians' attention 
to anything specially worthy of note regarding the patients and their 
home surroundings. 

The history card, already mentioned, gives a description of the 
house, the rooms, the family, the financial conditions, the physical con- 
dition of the patient, precautions observed, instructions given, and any 
recommendations. 

One of these cards is given out for every new assignment (including 



174 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

dead cases, those removed to the hospital or sanatoria, etc.). Duplicate 
histories are made out for all cases attending the tuberculosis clinic. 
Sometimes the patient will give a friend's or relative's address, where 
he has never lived. The history card is not filled out in such cases, 
unless the patient be seen. A new card is assigned whenever a patient 
changes his address, returns home after a considerable absence, or when 
conditions at home have changed. 

When cases under care of private physicians are visited to order dis- 
infection, etc., only the house history, location of rooms, how long the 
family has been in rooms, previous address, and name and address of 
physician or clinic caring for patient, are entered on the card. But 
when such cases are visited on complaint a full history is taken. 

All recommendations are entered on history card, it being the 
official medium for handing in all recommendations. 

Every nurse submits a daily report of her work for the preceding 
twenty-four hours. This report gives date, name, and district of 
nurse, total number of new visits, revisits, and extra visits, the name 
and address of each patient visited, and the hour when nurse reached 
the premises. On the reverse of the card is given a summary of the 
day's work, and the total number of hours on duty, subdivided into 
(i) on district, (2) at clinic, and (3) at office. At the close of each 
week, the totals of the various items in the summary on the daily report 
are entered on a weekly record sheet, which shows at a glance the 
amount and kind of work being done by each nurse. Each sheet 
covers a period of fifty-two weeks. 

Throughout, the nurse works in close cooperation with health de- 
partment, physician, clinic physician, health officer and inspectors. 
When the patient is bed-ridden and requires regular nursing she arranges 
for it with the district nursing organization. She also applies for 
charitable aid when necessary. 

DUTIES OF HEALTH DEPARTMENT PHYSICIAN RELATIVE 
TO TUBERCULOSIS. The health department physician acts 
as medical inspector in tuberculosis; he may also act as 
clinic physician. 

All suspected cases of tuberculosis that will not or cannot visit the 
clinic may be examined at their homes by the physician. These cases 
are reported to the department of health by lay organizations, citizens, 
district nurses, inspectors of other city departments, etc. The physi- 
cian submits a full history of the case on a history card. If a new case, 
a regular physician's report is also made out. Should the case prove 
not to be one of tuberculosis the words " not tuberculosis " are written 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 175 

on the upper left-hand corner of the face of the history card. Any 
recommendations and special notes are written on the card. Should 
cleansing, renovation, or disinfection be necessary, it is ordered. 

All special complaints, requests for hospital care, etc., are investi- 
gated by the physician, a history card being made out in every instance. 

Cases of pulmonary tuberculosis in children under sixteen years of 
age, in which the attending physician will not certify in writing that 
patient can safely attend school, where the patients will not or cannot 
visit the clinic, or where a specimen of sputum is refused, are assigned 
to the physician. They are visited and examined, and a history card 
made out with a recommendation as to what action should be taken 
by the department. In investigating cases reported by the tuberculosis 
clinic for exclusion or readmission to school, the inspector consults with 
and obtains all information possible from the clinic before visiting the 
child. 

The physician should also examine the children in the families of 
consumptives when there is no private physician. 

The tuberculosis clinic is sometimes requested to send a physician 
to visit a clinic patient who is too ill to attend the clinic. Such calls 
are assigned to the physician, who visits the patient, prescribes if neces- 
sary, and makes out a history card recommending suitable action (usu- 
ally removal to hospital). But the physician does not render continued 
medical service at the home. Monthly visits to patients living in lodg- 
ing houses are made by the physician on request of the nurse. Some 
of the cases requiring continued medical care but not sent to the hos- 
pital may be referred to the town poor physician. 

When forcible removal to hospital of a case of pulmonary tuberculosis 
is ordered, the physician makes all necessary arrangements, and is 
present at the removal. If in his opinion the patient is in a dying con- 
dition, he may suspend removal, submitting a written report to that 
effect. 

When notice is received that a given case of tuberculosis has recov- 
ered, and no physician's certificate is forwarded, the case is assigned 
to the physician to visit and make a physical examination. He sub- 
mits a history card as above stated. 

CLEANSING AND DISINFECTION. After the death or 
removal of a tuberculosis patient the room or rooms which 
have been occupied by him require attention. Deaths 
should be noted from the death certificates, and, as already 
mentioned, the law should require that physicians, land- 
lords, etc., give prompt notice of the removal of patients 



176 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

when known to them. In default of such procedure the 
removal of many cases is discovered only by the tubercu- 
losis nurse. 

The following processes should, so far as required, be 
applied to infected rooms: 

(a) Cleaning-up, involving scrubbing of floors and wood- 
work, removal of dust by moist methods or vacuum, and 
airing. 

(b) Application of simple disinfectant, such as crude 
carbolic or coal-tars in known strength, 1 to surfaces which 
have been exposed to infection by handling, etc.; appro- 
priate disinfection (or destruction) of miscellaneous articles 
which have been exposed to infection; similar treatment 
for bedding. 

(c) Formaldehyde fumigation, for disinfection of car- 
pets, fabrics and surfaces not susceptible of treatment under 
above heads. 

More or less general house-cleaning and disinfection may 
also be required. 

Between the time when the patient departs and the com- 
pletion of the measures ordered it is frequently the custom 
to placard the apartments with a warning that they are 
not to be reoccupied until the health department orders 
have been carried out and the placard removed by nurse 
or inspector. 

In some exceptional cases, when the apartment is in good 
order and the patient has stayed only one or two nights, 
cleansing and disinfection measures may be omitted. In 
other such cases a simple formaldehyde disinfection suffices. 

Formaldehyde disinfection is performed by the health 
department; cleansing and application of liquid disinfect- 
ants by the occupants, with assistance, if necessary, from 
health or charity authorities. Needed disinfectants should 
be furnished free of charge by the health authorities. 

1 See Appendix A. Coal-tars may be added to the soap and water 
used for cleansing. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 177 

In the course of weeks and months it is not unlikely 
that carpets, bedding, curtains, and other furnishings may 
become infected with tubercle bacilli, and special attention 
should be paid to articles of this class. Infected articles 
of this class which cannot be readily disinfected may, if 
of little value, be destroyed. The same rule applies to 
all articles of small value which have been in contact with 
or near the patient. 

Tubercle bacilli in dried sputum may live for months, 
and thus disinfection is of greater value after this disease 
than after others whose viruses die much more quickly. 
However, cleanliness is as important as simple disinfection, 
and thorough cleansing is far more truly disinfecting than 
a superficial so-called disinfection. 

3. Institutional Care. CLINICS AND DISPENSARIES. - 
Among the various kinds of institutions for the care of 
tuberculosis, we may mention first the clinic or dispen- 
sary. With the tuberculosis nurse the dispensary stands 
as the most important single local agency for the detection 
and treatment of the disease. Persons who cannot afford 
the services of a private physician will visit a clinic with 
much benefit. Through it, also, the nurse has a means of 
keeping in regular touch with the patients and their con- 
dition. The clinic is usually, though not necessarily, oper- 
ated in connection with a general hospital. The details of 
operation cannot be entered upon here. Patients in all 
stages may be kept under care, while the detection of in- 
cipient cases is an especially important function of the clinic. 

SANATORIA AND HOSPITALS. For incipient and only 
moderately advanced cases there is the sanatorium. We 
do not refer to the many private sanatoria which exist, 
but to the public sanatorium to which indigent persons and 
persons of small means may go for the "cure." Every 
community should be able to send its cases to such an in- 
stitution, whether it be maintained locally or by state or 
county. The regimen prescribed at the sanatorium has 



178 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the object, not only of cure, -but also of inculcating correct 
habits, so that when the patient returns home he will live 
according to hygienic principles, and by his example lead 
others to do so. 

Patients returning from sanatoria should be "followed 
up" by the tuberculosis nurse, as they tend to relapse into 
their former condition and habits. 1 

Advanced cases are usually, though not necessarily, cared 
for in a separate hospital. It is of the greatest importance 
that provision for the hospital care of advanced cases be 
made in every community. Where one community is un- 
able to maintain such a hospital alone, it may arrange with 
others to maintain a joint hospital, or there may be estab- 
lished a county institution. 2 

The most important effect of sanatoria and hospitals as 
regards the public health is the segregation of infectious per- 
sons. But the cure (so far as possible) of those persons and 
their return in a relatively able and lion-infectious condi- 
tion are also important considerations in the social problem 
due to tuberculosis. The object of segregation applies 
with special force to the advanced cases, which shed the 
germs in much greater numbers. It sometimes occurs 
that the curable cases are looked after while the very ad- 
vanced and potently infectious cases have comparative 
freedom to spread the disease. 

Progress in regard to segregation measures has been slow 
for the reason that the public has only lately become con- 
vinced that tuberculosis is a truly communicable disea.se, 
and that, while it may not be subject to the same rigid 
isolation as some other communicable diseases, it neverthe- 
less demands strict prophylactic measures. When the 
rules laid down for home life (see above) are obeyed and 
the patient can live a proper life at home without mate- 

1 This danger was brought out by investigations in Massachusetts. 
See Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 6, p. 494. 

2 See note, next page. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 179 

rially endangering others, then well and good. But if a 
proper regimen cannot be obtained at home, and espe- 
cially when the patient, through invincible ignorance or care- 
lessness, is a menace to others, then hospital segregation is a 
necessity. It follows that health authorities should have 
the power, when persuasion fails, to remove such cases to 
the hospital. The following are the grounds for forcible 
removal and hospital detention in New York City, which has 
practiced such removal since 1901: (a) that the patient's 
sputum contains tubercle bacilli; (b) that the patient 
either will not or cannot observe the necessary precautions 
as to disposal of sputum; and (c) that others (especially 
children) are exposed to infection. If all of these condi- 
tions exist removal is deemed necessary. In New Jersey 
a recent statute provides that the State Board of Health 
may lay down certain rules to be observed by tuberculosis 
patients, that such rules are to be imparted to the patient 
by the local health "authorities, and that if the patient per- 
sistently disregards them he may, upon due process of law, 
be removed to the segregation hospital. The law further 
makes mandatory the establishment of a tuberculosis 
hospital in each county. 1 

1 " The New Jersey bill providing for compulsory segregation of 
tuberculosis, has been signed by Governor Wilson and is now in force. 
The law is without doubt the most advanced state legislation on tuber- 
culosis that has ever been enacted in this country, if not in the world. 

" The new law provides that tuberculosis patients who refuse to 
obey the regulations laid down by the State Board of Health concern- 
ing the prevention of their disease, and thus become a menace to the 
health of those with whom they associate, shall be compulsorily segre- 
gated by order of the courts, in institutions provided for this purpose. 
If such a patient refuses to obey the rules and regulations of the institu- 
tion in which he is placed, he may ' be isolated or separated from other 
persons and restrained from leaving the institution.' The State Board 
of Health, working through the local boards is given the power to en- 
force the provisions through the courts. The law further provides that 
all counties in the State of New Jersey shall within six months from 
April ist, make provision in special institutions for the care of all per- 



l8o A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

It is unfortunate that there is a popular mistrust of 
tuberculosis hospitals we refer particularly to those for 
advanced cases on the part of patients. This mistrust 
is very likely owing to the fact that such hospitals are 
sometimes conducted in conjunction with general conta- 
gious disease hospitals, that they become known as hospi- 
tals for hopeless cases, and that patients returning from 
them describe the conditions as depressing. Some of these 
objections would be removed if cases in all stages were 
treated in the same institution, being simply separated in 
pavilions. Such an institution should be quite separate 
and distinct from the isolation hospital for other diseases; 
and if conditions were made as cheerful as possible there 
should be none of the present popular objections, and com- 
pulsory removal to the hospital would rarely be necessary. 
It might thus also be possible to avoid the name "hospi- 
tal" in favor of the more euphemistic title "sanatorium." 
Such institutions should be convenient to centers of popu- 
lation. 

sons having tuberculosis in these counties. The state treasury will 
subsidize each county to the extent of $3.00 a week for each person 
maintained in these institutions except those who are able to pay for 
the cost of maintenance. 

" The only other state which provides for compulsory segregation 
of dangerous cases of tuberculosis, is Maryland. The only city in 
the United States which has adopted a special ordinance providing for 
compulsory removal of dangerous tuberculosis cases, is San Francisco. 
A few other cities, such as New York, exercise this power under certain 
provisions of their sanitary codes, but no other city has any special 
ordinance on the subject. 

" New Jersey now [1912] has two county hospitals in operation, one 
in building and one about to be started. It is expected that the new law 
will materially increase the number of such institutions because of its 
mandatory character. Anti-tuberculosis workers will also watch with 
much interest the way in which the provisions for compulsory segrega- 
tion and detention work out." (Statement of National Association for 
the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, quoted in Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, May, 1912.) New York State also now has such a law 
(1914). 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 181 

OTHER AGENCIES. Mention at length need not be 
made of the various other agencies existing for the treat- 
ment or prevention of tuberculosis. There are day camps 
for tuberculous children and adults, outdoor sleeping 
colonies, "preventoria," and the like, conducted for the 
most part by voluntary organizations. The Association for 
Improving the Condition of the Poor, of New York City, 
has carried out some experiments to demonstrate how poor 
people may be cared for in their homes. 1 In the schools 
the "fresh air" movement has resulted in the establish- 
ment of open-air classes for children who are anaemic or 
not up to physical par, and separate open-air classes for 
children having latent tuberculosis. The essential points 
in the regimen are work and rest in very freely ventilated 
rooms (sitting-out bags and the like being provided in cold 
weather) and nutritious lunches. The results in physical 
gain obtained in such classes are in many cases very strik- 
ing. Diet kitchens and similar institutions which furnish 
milk and eggs at cost or free to needy tuberculosis patients 
deserve mention as parts of the general scheme. Play- 
grounds and all other agencies which tend to promote 
health and vital resistance are valuable factors in the anti- 
tuberculosis movement. 

The condition of the mouth and teeth of consumptives is of 
great importance, and dental clinics should be available, both 
for hospital applicants and for patients remaining at home. 

4. Popular Educational Measures. Popular education 
is of greater value in relation to tuberculosis than to per- 
haps any other preventable disease. Since many of the 
conditions favoring tuberculosis can be obviated or dealt 
with by the citizen and particularly those involved in 
personal hygiene the benefits of publicity are evident. 
Furthermore, the principles of prevention are simple and 
lend themselves readily to publicity methods. 

1 " The Home Hospital Experiment," 1914, Assn. Imp. Cond. 
Poor, 105 E. 22nd St., N. Y. City. 



1 82 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Various means of publicity suggest themselves. Leaflets, 
cards, posters, and other printed matter may be distributed 
at lectures, through the schools, in stores, and so forth. 
Then there should be lectures, preferably illustrated. 1 
Special benefits are obtained through informal talks given 
in schools, in factories, before labor organizations, clubs, 
and the like. If there is a local moving picture theater, 
the interest of the manager should be secured to show one 
or more of the films dealing with tuberculosis,' the perform- 
ances being publicly approved by the health officer. 

It is now the custom of the National Association for the 
Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis to appoint annually 
in the spring a "tuberculosis day," which should be the 
occasion of special efforts in publicity work, particularly 
through meetings, addresses, exhibits, etc., the health 
authorities cooperating with local organizations. In the 
schools brief talks suited to the intelligence of the various 
classes and emphasizing the value of the simple principles 
of personal hygiene may be given, and the pupils may 
write essays, perhaps for prizes. On this annual occasion 
the aim is not to obtain funds for tuberculosis work, but 
popular education pure and simple. 

Exhibitions or small exhibits, separate or in connection 
with general exhibitions, are of great value. They should 
be graphic, simple, and not "gruesome" but emphasizing 
hopeful principles, and may be the occasion of talks and 
distribution of literature. 

And in all of this the invaluable cooperation of the news- 
paper press should be obtained. For further remarks on 
publicity work see Chapter X. 

As to the ideas to be set forth, which should be simple, 
the following points should be specially dwelt upon : 

1 The Nat. Assn. for Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, 105 
East 22nd St., New York, furnishes a list of slides which may be ob- 
tained through it, also information regarding tuberculosis motion 
pictures. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 183 

(1) Warning as to the general nature of the disease and 
the conditions which favor it. 

(2) The importance of recognizing the early symptoms; 
and insistence on the fact that tuberculosis in its early 
stages is curable, while in the later stages arrest or cure is 
difficult when not impossible. One of the chief hopes in 
the tuberculosis campaign lies in the earlier recognition of 
cases (thereby promptly indicating sources of infection and 
leading to steps to restore the patients themselves to health). 
This depends partly upon the establishment and recogni- 
tion of dispensary facilities for the poor who would other- 
wise have no medical attention, but most of all upon the 
individual himself. 

(3) The value of hygienic habits regarding fresh air, 
proper exercise, food and rest, temperance in all things, and 
other conditions which promote vital resistance. These 
factors, in varying kind and degree, apply both in prevent- 
ing the disease in the well and in treating the sick. 

(4) Condemnation of the unnecessary, filthy and dan- 
gerous promiscuous spitting upon public sidewalks, in 
public buildings, and the like. The board of health should 
forbid it by an effective ordinance, to which public atten- 
tion should be called. While the virulence of tubercle 
bacilli in dust is still in dispute, it needs no argument to 
show that sputum from sidewalks may be tracked into 
houses on shoes and skirts, there to infect the floor upon 
which children play and very possibly the house atmos- 
phere. And since there is no way of recognizing who are 
tubercle-distributors and who are not, promiscuous spitting 
should be forbidden to all at all times. In the streets, 
persons may of course spit in the gutters; in public build- 
ings, offices, etc., destructible (or at least readily cleansable) 
cuspidors should be provided. The old-fashioned cuspidor, 
designed for appearance rather than facility of keeping 
clean, may be replaced by th impervious paper variety 
now on the market, or by sawdust in boxes, both of which 



1 84 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

require no disinfectants and may be periodically collected 
and burned. 

5. Sanitary Supervision of Dwellings, etc. Under this 
head we include supervision of dwelling houses (particu- 
larly tenements), factories, schools, etc., a subject which 
will be taken up in a later chapter. Cleanliness, light, and 
ventilation are the chief points. All measures promoting 
the general health of the population, being effective against 
tuberculosis, may also be mentioned here. 

6. Prevention of Tuberculosis Infection through Milk. - 
The proportion of tuberculosis derived from milk is esti- 
mated at about 7 per cent. This subject will be taken up 
in detail in Chapter III, under Milk Supplies. 

7. General Cooperation of All Anti-Tuberculosis Agen- 
cies. At the present time a great deal of work in the 
tuberculosis campaign is being carried on by voluntary 
organizations. Some of this is work which should be 
and in future will increasingly be maintained by the 
health authorities by means of public funds, though a 
certain proportion will doubtless fittingly remain under 
the control of private organization. The health officer 
should foster close cooperation with all of these, exchanging 
reports, data, etc. He should, moreover, in consultation 
with the various organizations, work out a detailed plan 
by which the whole work in tuberculosis is coordinated and 
systematic relationships and functions are established. 

In conclusion, we may note the progress already made in 
the tuberculosis movement and the hopeful auguries for 
the future. The most recent census mortality statistics 
show that the tuberculosis death rate for the Registration 
States decreased from 189 per 100,000 population in 1901 
to 159 in 1911. In New York City the decrease was from 
230 to 175. Hoffman has recently shown that since 1881 
the death rate from tuberculosis in American cities (ex- 
cluding the colored population) has dropped off fifty per 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 185 

cent. 1 While it would be quite unwarrantable to ascribe 
all of the decrease to sanitary control for allowance must 
be made for improved diagnosis, treatment, living condi- 
tions, etc. nevertheless the effects of the tuberculosis 
campaign are distinctly being felt. 

The proportion of public (as compared with private) 
funds now stands at about three-quarters of the total 
spent on tuberculosis work and is steadily increasing. 

The public attitude is hopeful, in that knowledge of the 
means of prevention is now much more widespread than 
ever before. It is doubtful, indeed, whether some of the 
popular propaganda has not been carried to an excess. 
Thus, for example, the idea of the communicability of the 
disease has given rise to the perversion of "phthisiophobia" 
(fear of consumption), which leads to unnecessary ostra- 
cism of practically harmless patients. Such fear has also 
made it unnecessarily difficult to establish sanatoria and 
hospitals near other dwellings. To dispel such ideas it 
should be taught that practically nothing is to be feared, 
even in the family, from a consumptive if the necessary 
precautions are strictly followed out; and that there is no 
danger from ordinary tuberculosis institutions. It is fre- 
quently advantageous to locate such institutions in built-up 
districts, and no reasonable opposition should be encoun- 
tered. 2 

While the future is hopeful, a word of caution is in order. 
The leaders in the tuberculosis movement deprecate over- 
enthusiastic expectations of declines in case- and death- 
rates. Many factors are involved social, economic, 
hygienic many of them beyond the control of the public 

1 F. L. Hoffman, " The Decline in the Tuberculosis Death Rate " 
(abstract of a paper read before the National Association for the Study 
and Prevention of Tuberculosis, May, 1913), Jour, of the Outdoor Life, 
December, 1913. (See also editorial in same issue.) 

2 See " The Effect of Tuberculosis Institutions on The Value and 
Desirability of Surrounding Property*' Nat. Assn. for Study and Prev. 
of Tub. (pamphlet, locts.). 



l86 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

authorities and each successive diminution of the rate 
becomes more difficult. Still, thorough application of 
principles now recognized will bring great, though gradual, 

results. 

REFERENCES 

The literature of tuberculosis is very extensive, and we can here 
give only a few leading references, necessarily omitting a number of 
works of value, especially those of a more or less popular character, 
as well as those on medical aspects, which would be included in a longer 
list. 

Perhaps the simplest general presentation (non-technical, but 
thorough) is contained in Knopf's ' Tuberculosis as a Disease of the 
Masses, and How to Combat It," International Prize Essay, obtainable 
of the Survey, 105 East 22nd St., N. Y. City (25 cents). Also printed 
in foreign languages. Especially useful as a basis for publicity. By 
the same author: " Tuberculosis: a Preventable and Curable Disease 
Modern Methods for the Solution of the Tuberculosis Problem " 
(Moffat Yard and Co.). 

Newsholme, " The Prevention of Tuberculosis " (Dutton). 

Von Behring, " The Suppression of Tuberculosis " (translated by 
Bolduan). 

Billings, " Handbook of Help for Persons Suffering from Pulmonary 
Tuberculosis " (J. W. Pratt Co.). 

Carrington, " Fresh Air and How to Use It " (Nat. Assn. for Study 
and Prevent, of Tub.). 

Rogers, " A Working Program for a Small City " (State Charities 
Aid Assn., 105 East 22nd St., N. Y. City). 

Carrington, " Tuberculosis Hospital and Sanatorium Construction " 
(Nat. Assn. for Study and Prevent, of Tub.). 

Various publications of the National Association for Study and Pre- 
vention of Tuberculosis, 105 East 22nd St., New York City (Ann. 
Transactions, Directory of associations, etc. and legislation in U. S., 
Journal of the Outdoor Life, Monthly Bulletins, etc., also Transactions 
of the International Congress on Tuberculosis, 1908). For information on 
special topics in the tuberculosis campaign (e.g., local organization, leg- 
islation, etc.) apply to the National Association. Various State Associa- 
tions also issue useful literature. 

Papers in Transactions of the X V International Congress on Hygiene 
and Demography, 1912, vol. IV, pt. I. 

Other diseases of this class such as influenza, common 
colds, mumps, etc. may be spread by contact infection, 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 187 

but do not require action by health authorities ; although in 
some places quarantine is required for mumps. Influenza 
("grippe") is readily communicable, has many carriers 
and is an important cause of death in infants and the 
aged, facts to which public attention should be called. 
Smallpox is considered under Section IV. 



II. DISEASES SPREAD LARGELY THROUGH 
EXCRETA 

TYPHOID FEVER 

Typhoid fever (enteric fever) is the principal of the dis- 
eases spread through the alvine discharges (feces and urine) , 
and constitutes one of the most serious sanitary problems 
in the United States to-day. 

Typhoid fever is an infection due to the Bacillus typhosus 
(or typhi), commonly called the typhoid bacillus, which 
enters the body through the alimentary canal and is shed 
off in the feces and urine of the typhoid patient. Typhoid 
fever does not arise spontaneously from filth, although 
propagated through infected filth; every case is derived 
from an antecedent case. While the bacillus primarily 
enters and proliferates in the mucous membranes of- the 
intestines, it produces a general systemic infection which 
attacks other organs, with more or less acute symptoms of 
fever, intestinal disturbance, collapse, etc. It is not infre- 
quently complicated with other diseases e.g., pneumonia, 
the deaths from which are sometimes reported as due to 
"typhoid pneumonia," an incorrect term. The effect of 
typhoid in lowering vital resistance produces a liability to 
other diseases, such as tuberculosis. 1 

1 Dublin (Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1915, vol. V, no. I, p. 20) estimates 
that in the United States " each year a minimum of close to 8000 deaths 
occur which can be attributed to the impairments which follow typhoid 
fever." 



1 88 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Transmission. The typhoid bacilli commonly leave 
the patient mainly in the feces and urine. 1 The feces must 
be regarded as infected throughout the duration of the 
disease, from even before the fever and until convalescence 
is complete. The bacilli commonly appear in the urine 
some time after the onset of the disease; hence the urine 
also should be regarded as infected throughout the course 
of fever and convalescence. 

The patient commonly ceases, during convalescence, to 
be infectious. In some instances, however, the emission 
of germs continues after recovery, in persons who become 
carriers. The whole theory of carriers and mild and atypical 
infection, as already discussed, applies to typhoid fever. 
Some cases are so mild that they pass unrecognized. In 
others, the patient is unwell, but does not feel ill enough to 
go to bed: ^these are the "walking typhoid" cases which 
are especially dangerous in spreading the disease. Finally, 
as first remarked, there are the recovered carriers who con- 
tinue to emit virulent typhoid bacilli in the feces or urine 
for weeks, months or even years after apparent recovery. 
"In about 4 per cent of all cases of typhoid fever the patient 
continues to shed typhoid bacilli in the urine or feces dur- 
ing and after convalescence " (Rosenau). There are also 
carriers who give no history of ever having had the disease. 
We shall allude to the carrier problem again presently. 

The bacilli shed by the sick or by carriers pass to the well 
in a variety of ways, direct or indirect, mentioned below. 
They enter the mouth with some article of food or drink, 
or simply by carriage to the mouth by infected fingers. 

The following are the principal modes of transmission: 

i . CONTACT. Typhoid fever is contagious in the sense 
that it can pass directly from patient to victim by certain 

1 As to other discharges: " The sputum does not ordinarily contain 
the bacilli unless there is a pneumonia or severe bronchitis. The bacilli 
may be eliminated with the discharges from abscesses, such as periostitis, 
months and even years after the disease." (Rosenau.) 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 189 

modes of contact infection (see page 113 ff.). For example, 
in Washington, D. C., careful investigations in recent 
years placed the amount of contact infection at 15 per 
cent or more of all cases. Incalculable harm has been 
done by the false statement that "typhoid fever is infec- 
tious but not contagious," implying that it is not trans- 
mitted directly from one person to another. All that is 
necessary is that the infected excreta contaminate the 
fingers of nurse or other associate of the patient, or some 
object by which the fingers may become contaminated. 
Thence infection by mouth is easy, directly from the fingers 
or through food or drink. Thus it may pass just as easily 
from person to person as diphtheria or scarlet fever. The 
patient or nurse may infect food to be eaten by other 
persons. Such is all true contact infection, chiefly through 
the agency of infected fingers. 

2. WATER. We pass now to the less direct but never- 
theless highly important modes of transmission. One of 
the chief of these is transmission through water. Water- 
supplies become infected through the improper disposal 
of the undisinfected excreta of typhoid patients, and may 
then spread the disease very widely. Many epidemics 
of water-borne typhoid fever are on record. To illustrate 
the vast dangers of water infection, note, for example, the 
Plymouth, Pa., epidemic (page 278), in which, through the 
infection of a town water-supply, a single case gave rise to 
1 104 cases with 1 14 deaths. 

Epidemics of water-borne typhoid fever have not infre- 
quently been foreshadowed by outbreaks of intestinal 
disease, the latter occurring some days in advance of the 
former. Thus at Rockford, 111., in 1912, in a population 
of 45,000 there occurred some 10,000 cases of diarrhceal 
disease, followed by 200 cases of typhoid fever. 

Ice may also be considered a possible vehicle of typhoid 
fevef, though there are no clear epidemics of ice-borne 
typhoid on record. In the one epidemic (Ogdensburg, N. Y.) 



I go A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

attributed to ice, the evidence is not at all convincing (page 
418). The reason that ice has not figured prominently in 
typhoid fever transmission doubtless is, that both the 
freezing and the storage of ice are b'acteriologically puri- 
fying processes. 

3. MILK. In milk we again find a dangerously ready 
vehicle of infection for typhoid fever. Typhoid bacilli 
readily live in milk and, except at low temperatures, thrive 
in it. The extreme severity of some milk-borne epidemics 
in which the original infection of the milk-supply was 
slight are explained by the multiplication of the bacilli in 
that medium. Many extensive epidemics of milk-borne 
typhoid have occurred (page 281 ff.). Supplies become in- 
fected through cases or carriers among employees in dairies 
or milk-handling establishments, or the infection may be 
introduced into the supply indirectly by employees who 
have been in association with patients or carriers. Milk 
bottles or other apparatus may become infected through 
the use of an infected water-supply for washing them. 
Milk bottles may also be infected in the families from which 
they are collected. In an instance under the observation 
of the writer such bottles apparently infected a washing 
tank and other bottles washed in it. 

Milk products and ice-cream are also potential vehicles 
of the disease. 

4. FLIES. Flies may readily convey infection from 
exposed infected excreta to food. This fact is expressed 
in the alliterative or catch-phrase "from flies and filth to 
food and fever." The conveyance of fecal matter on the 
feet of flies has been clearly demonstrated. The amount 
of infection by this means varies according to circumstances. 
In a well-sewered, clean community where the excreta of 
the sick are properly disinfected, comparatively few cases 
could be due to fly transmission. On the other hand a 
maximum of fly infection is reached where excreta are 
improperly disposed of, flies swarm, and food is exposed. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 



Such conditions obtained in the United States Army camps 
in the Spanish-American war, when, it is estimated by the 
army medical authorities, 15 per cent of the numerous 
cases were due to fly transmission. 

5. SHELLFISH. Oysters and other shellfish grown (or, 
in the case of oysters, "floated" for fattening purposes) 
in polluted waters may convey typhoid infection. 1 The 
typical example is the epidemic at Wesleyan University, 
Middletown, Conn., in 1894, where 25 (one-quarter) of 
those who attended banquets where infected oysters were 
served on the half-shell developed typhoid. 

6. RAW VEGETABLES AND FRUITS, AND OTHER FOODS. 
-Vegetables may become infected through fertilization 

with fresh night-soil or sewage. This mode of transmis- 
sion is not very common, but infection has been traced to 
water-cress grown in polluted water, and sporadic cases 
similarly arising unquestionably occur. Other foods (e.g., 
fruits, bread, cake, candy, etc.) subject to handling or 
other mode of infection, and eaten raw, may also convey 
the infection. 

.The following diagrammatic representation of the modes 
of spread of typhoid fever is adapted from Stiles and 
Lumsden : 

Fingers (direct or in- 
fecting food) 

Flies (infecting food) 

Water 
Excreta from U.^l:, toj M ilk(andmilk 

products) 
Shellfish (oys- 
ters, etc.) 
Vegetables, 
fruits, and 
other foods 
eaten raw 

1 Pease, " Relation of Oysters to the Transmission of Infectious 
Diseases," Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, 
vol. IV, pt. I. 



Typhoid 
patients 




or 
Typhoid 


to, 


germ 




carriers 





Foods 



to 



Mouths 

of 
persons 



IQ2 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

In general, water, milk, and contact infection are most 
common; transmission by flies, by shellfish, and by other 
foods eaten raw is less common, but still to be considered. 
Other and minor modes e.g., by soiled linen and other 
"fomites" suggest themselves. The importance of con- 
tact infection of the various kinds has been on the whole 
overlooked, though it has been emphasized in the catch- 
phrases "flies, fingers and food" (Sedgwick), "dirt, diar- 
rhoea and dinner" (Chapin). 

Contact infection is of particular importance in connec- 
tion with what is known as residual typhoid. The term is 
applied to the unexplained typhoid fever which still re- 
mains in a community having a pure or purified water- 
supply and in which all definitely known sources of the 
disease have been eliminated. This residual typhoid is 
spread by unseen contact infection, frequently from un- 
recognized cases, passing directly from person to person or 
indirectly through sporadic infection of food and drink. 
This simply means that typhoid fever, like a number of 
other infections, is endemic i.e., constantly present. 
The term "prosodemic" ("proceeding through the popula- 
tion") has been suggested in this connection by Sedgwick 
as emphasizing the unrecognized chain-like paths by which 
the disease is propagated. The term "normal," meaning 
"usual," is sometimes applied to residual typhoid, but 
is unfortunate in that it favors tolerance of a residual 
which may, through popular education in personal hygiene 
and through care on the part of health authorities, be still 
further reduced. 

INCIDENCE. Considering its preventability, typhoid 
fever occurs to an undue extent in the United States as 
compared with other civilized countries. In the Registra- 
tion Area in 1911 the death-rate was 21.0 per 100,000 popu- 
lation. Certain individual cities ran as high as 65, while 
the rates for others were under 5, a striking demonstration 
of the fact that the higher mortalities are avoidable. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 193 

McLaughlin (quoted by Rosenau) has shown that in 1910 
there was an excess of deaths in American cities, as com- 
pared with principal European cities, of 18.5 per 100,000, the 
contrasted figures being 6.5 and 25.0. 

The greater part of typhoid mortality falls on the middle 
periods of life (over half at 20-50 years, maximum specific 
death rate at 20-25). 

The fatality, or case mortality, of typhoid fever is usu- 
ally taken to be about 10 per cent, probably somewhat 
less- if the mild cases detected by advanced methods are 
counted in. Conversely, it may be estimated that, on the 
average, for each typhoid death recorded there are at least 
ten cases. 

The seasonal incidence of typhoid fever varies. Where 
the water-supply is typhoid-free, the greatest number of 
cases occur during the summer months, the numbers fol- 
lowing approximately the temperature curve. This may 
be explained by the more favorable conditions for the 
germ at large, by fly-infection, and by the more susceptible 
condition of the gastro-intestinal tract in warm weather. 
On the other hand, if the water-supply is much infected, 
there occur in addition to the summer rise irregular rises 
at various times, corresponding to the amount of infection 
gaining access to the water, currents (in lakes), the effects 
of freshets in washing infection from the banks of streams 
and bearing it rapidly, and other such factors. 

We need not discuss the question as to whether typhoid 
fever is rather a rural or an urban disease. It is both. 
While urban conditions are on the whole more favorable 
to its spread, bad conditions as to disposal of excreta in 
rural districts also favor infection. While the actual 
amount of typhoid in the country districts may be less, it 
may readily be communicated to city dwellers through milk 
and other food supplies and through vacation visits to un- 
sanitary farm places. Though- "vacation typhoid" has 
perhaps too often been made the theoretical scapegoat for 



IQ4 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

city cases occurring in the fall season, it has nevertheless 
a real significance, and due attention should be paid by 
vacationists and public authorities to the sewage disposal 
and water supplies of farms and summer resorts. 

In mining camps, construction camps, and primitive 
communities where there is improper disposal of excreta, 
typhoid fever may occur heavily. The remedy is proper 
care of cases, sanitary privies (see Chapter VI), and, when 
need be, an ti- typhoid inoculation. 

In dealing with typhoid fever statistics, one must bear 
in mind the possible inaccuracy of diagnosis (some cases 
being reported as "malaria" or the improper term "typhoid 
malaria") and the unfortunate tendency to report deaths as 
due to mere terminal symptoms e.g., pneumonia in- 
stead of the disease itself. The terms which are still occa- 
sionally met with, "intermittent fever" and "remittent 
fever," used as practically synonymous with typhoid, 
should never be used. "Enteric," the English term for 
"typhoid," is sometimes met with. 

Protective Inoculation. There is no specific serum 
remedy for typhoid fever. Immunity may, however, be 
conferred by a process similar to smallpox vaccination. 
Killed cultures of typhoid bacilli are injected at intervals 
of five days at least three times, whereby the subject 
develops an immunity. 1 This inoculation should be taken 
by all who nurse typhoid patients or are otherwise directly 
and unavoidably exposed. Results obtained in the U. S. 

1 The technique, however, varies. See Rosenau, " Preventive 
Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 94. Also: Hachtel and Stoner, 
" The Use of Anti-Typhoid Vaccine in Public Institutions and Among 
Civilians," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 3, p. 157; Force, 
" Institutional Vaccination Against Typhoid Fever," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 8, p. 750; Spooner's and Goltman's ac- 
counts of their experiences with anti-typhoid inoculation among nurses 
and the public in Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 
1912, vol. IV, pt. I; and a summary of the subject by Townsend in Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 11, p. 993. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 195 

Army have clearly demonstrated its high efficacy. In an 
encampment at San Antonio, Texas, during four months 
ending July 10, 1911, among 12,801 men inoculated no 
typhoid fever developed. The only two cases which oc- 
curred in the encampment were those of a teamster who 
had not been inoculated and of a hospital corps man 
who had not completed the required inoculations. During 
the same period considerable typhoid fever occurred in the 
civil population in the neighborhood. The record of these 
troops contrasts markedly with that of the Spanish-American 
War, when one-fifth of the troops developed the disease. 

It is advisable that persons who take the typhoid fever 
inoculation be in good health, for the process apparently 
has some tendency to revive old chronic affections (e.g., 
tuberculosis) and cause them to become acute. Instances 
of this tendency are, however, infrequent, and do not 
constitute a serious drawback in the use of this valuable 
prophylactic measure. 

CONTROL 

Sedgwick has epitomized typhoid prevention in the 
dictum that the problem is u to keep the excreta of A out 
of the mouth of B." In this definite sense typhoid fever 
is a filth disease. The dictum refers not only to the known 
case but also to the disposal of all excreta and sewage, for 
all must be considered as, potentially at least, infected. 
The same authority has further said that " every case of 
typhoid fever comes from somebody's ignorance or neg- 
lect." The statement certainly applies to all recognized 
typhoid cases and carriers; as for the undetected cases and 
carriers, they constitute a separate and distinct problem 
which will be taken up presently. 

The following measures should be carried out by the 
health authorities: 

i. Registration of Cases. Physicians should be re- 
quired to report typhoid fever, precisely as diphtheria or 



196 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

any other acute communicable disease. Histories of the 
cases should be regularly taken and studied. 

The local health authorities should make provision for 
ready bacteriological diagnosis, either locally or by a state 
laboratory. This is of great importance not only in the 
treatment of the case but also in the protection of the com- 
munity. The most effective method for early diagnosis 
is by blood cultures. According to this method a small 
quantity of blood is drawn and incubated by a special 
method which shows up the typhoid bacillus if present in 
any considerable numbers. Since the bacilli appear in 
the blood early in the disease, the diagnosis may thus be 
promptly established. Later in the course of the disease 
the blood serum has the property of causing agglutination 
(clumping) of typhoid bacilli, giving what is known as the 
Widal reaction, which is frequently used as a diagnostic test. 
In this test one or two drops of the blood may, if necessary, 
be dried and sent to a distance for examination. The 
method is simple, prompt and easy, but of little or no value 
in early stages of the disease. The reaction does, however, 
persist after recovery, and may therefore determine that 
suspected persons have had typhoid fever or are carriers. 1 
In comparing the blood culture method with the serum 
reaction method it should be remembered that the bacilli 
are present in the blood throughout the whole course of the 
fever, and may be detected in a large proportion of the 
cases, whereas the Widal reaction may not be constantly 
present even after the second week and may therefore 
more readily be missed. Hence for a complete diagnosis 
of an obscure case by the latter method the tests should, 
if negative, be repeated daily for some days. The feces 
and urine may also be examined for the presence of the 
bacilli (see below) . 

In connection with the blood tests it should be remem- 

1 It is important to note that persons who have had the protective 
typhoid inoculation also carry a positive Widal reaction. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 197 

bered that the methods are not infallible and that one 
negative result is not conclusive. In case of doubt as to 
clinical symptoms, while further tests are being awaited, 
the case should be regarded as possible typhoid and pre- 
cautions taken accordingly. 

2. Isolation and Disinfection. Since typhoid fever is 
truly communicable by contact, cases should be isolated 
and the feces and urine should be carefully disinfected. 1 
The sick-room, but not necessarily the house, should be 
placarded. If, under satisfactory conditions, visitors are 
admitted, they should not touch anything and should 

1 See methods, p. 582 ff . The following procedure has been adopted 
in the rural districts on the water-sheds of Baltimore: 

" Special disinfecting outfits are distributed to the homes of the 
patients by an inspector and full, printed directions for their use are 
left. The attending physician, nurse or attendant is also furnished 
with a copy of instructions. An inspector carries a ' standard package ' 
of disinfecting appliances to the house, unpacks it, makes up solutions 
and explains their use. Enough disinfectant is left for 4 weeks. After 
recovery of the patient the inspector removes the appliances, which 
may be used again. The outfit consists of: 2 five-gallon buckets, 
phenol (90 per cent), urinal, enamel basin, corrosive sublimate tablets, 
bed-pan, enamel measure, lactose bile outfit, mosquito netting canopy. 
Directions for the use of the outfit are very full and plain, including 
instructions to physician, attendants and inspectors, and a copy of the 
law applying to these cases. [ Cf. methods, p. 582 ff .] 

" When disinfection of stools is about to be discontinued a specimen 
of the stools is sent in the bile tube provided to the laboratory, where it 
is examined for typhoid bacilli. It is required that stools of a convales- 
cent be disinfected until the typhoid bacillus is no longer present. . . . 
It is the authors' belief that negative cultures should be required of 
typhoid cases just as much as of diphtheria cases. By careful disin- 
fection and examination until negative cultures are obtained, they 
believe that the starting point of what might be, otherwise, many cases 
of typhoid fever can be removed, and that this is the most important 
source at which to attack the spread of typhoid throughout the com- 
munity." (Price, Stokes, and Rohrer, quoted in Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1912, vol. II, no. I, p. 64.) Cf. Grandy and Andrews, " Munic- 
ipal Control of Typhoid Fever," Am. Jour * Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, 
no. 8, p. 746. 



198 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

wash and disinfect their hands if they do so; pains should 
be taken to impress people with the fact that the disease 
is truly contagious. In no case should children be per- 
mitted in the sick-room. If satisfactory isolation and dis- 
infection of discharges cannot be secured, the patient should 
go to the hospital; only thus can secondary contact cases 
be avoided. 

The isolation should not be terminated until the patient has 
ceased to shed the germs in feces and urine. The patient com- 
monly becomes free from infection during convalescence, 
but in the carrier cases the shedding of germs continues 
for a greater or less time afterwards. Discontinuance of 
the germs can be determined only by cultural examination. 
Rosenau recommends four consecutive negative examina- 
tions of feces and urine, but more practicable is the rule 
that no convalescent be released: 

until two consecutive negative examinations have been made of the 
stools and urine. If the patient's business brings him in contact with 
food supplies, four consecutive negative examinations of the stools and 
urine should be required. In case a person is found to be, in spite of all 
treatment, a chronic carrier of typhoid bacilli, he should be kept under 
competent supervision by the local board of health; he should not be 
allowed to engage in occupations requiring the handling of foodstuffs, 
and, in case he moves to another neighborhood, the local health author- 
ities of that neighborhood should be notified at once. 1 

Even so, while a negative result from the urine is of the 
greatest possible value, a negative result from the stools 
is of practically no value for the reason that the excretion 
by the latter channel is very frequently intermittent. 
Hence some authorities even recommend examination of 
feces monthly for one year for all convalescents. This 
consideration of intermittency emphasizes the possible 
dangers from every typhoid convalescent and the necessity 
of instructing such persons to exercise scrupulous personal 

1 Pamphlet of the Massathusetts State Board of Health on the con- 
trol of typhoid fever. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 199 

cleanliness. 1 The frequency of epidemics traced to carriers 
bears out this statement concretely. 

No true cure for fecal typhoid carriers is known. The 
administration of urotropine, a urinary disinfectant, may, 
however, be employed to rid the urine of germs in con- 
valescence. (For further remarks on carriers, see below.) 

In comparison with the present generally lax practice in 
relation to control of the individual case of typhoid fever, 
the measures just described will perhaps at first sight 
appear impracticable. They are, however, based upon 
the best indications of the preventive medicine of typhoid 
fever. When the strict measures which in the past have 
been applied to diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other con- 
tagious diseases are considered, it would certainly seem that 
the same kind of measures should be accepted when indi- 
cated (as they are) as necessary for the effective attack 
on this no less serious public health problem. The local 
health officer should therefore carry them out to the great- 
est possible extent that cooperation of the public and of the 
medical profession will permit. 

3. General Protection of Water and Food Supplies. 
The prevention of the pollution and infection of water 
and food supplies (especially milk) is a large and important 
part of the defence against typhoid fever. These subjects 
are treated in detail in Chapters III and IV. 

4. Popular Education. Much can be done through 
publicity as to the methods of prevention, particularly upon 
the following points: avoidance of suspicious sources of 
water and food, especially in traveling or on vacations' in 
rural districts; boiling of suspicious drinking water; home 
pasteurization of milk not so treated by the dealer; abate- 
ment of fly-breeding places and protection of foods from 
flies; general cleanliness, personal, domestic, and munici- 
pal ; the contagious nature of typhoid fever ; and the neces- 
sity for strict municipal control. 

1 Richardson, " Dirty Hands and Typhoid Fever," see p. 116. 



200 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

5. Typhoid Vaccine. Health authorities should en- 
courage the use of protective inoculations for those who 
nurse typhoid patients and for others (e.g., travelers and 
vacationists) who may be exposed, and should be prepared 
to furnish a reliable vaccine free or at cost. But the use of 
typhoid inoculation as a general protective measure among 
the public at large is not feasible. 

6. Carriers. "In about 4 per cent of all cases of 
typhoid fever the patient continues to shed typhoid bacilli 
in the urine or feces during and after convalescence" 
(Rosenau). 1 Such carriers may be called acute or chronic, 
according to whether they harbor the bacilli for a shorter 
or longer time. There are also "temporary" carriers who 
have never shown clinical symptoms but. who nevertheless 
harbor and excrete bacilli. Negative statements, how- 
ever, as to their clinical history, on the part of suspected 
persons, should be sceptically received; not infrequently 
past illness, especially if slight, is forgotten or concealed. 

In all these instances typical typhoid fever may be 
communicated by the carrier to well persons. It has been 
estimated that one person in every thousand of the general 
population is a carrier (Albert). 

We have already alluded in brief (section (2) above) to 
the detection and control of carriers after convalescence. 

In a search for carriers (e.g., at a dairy) Widal tests may 
be made of all suspected persons. Those who show a 
positive or doubtful Widal should then be subjected to 
bacteriological examination of stools and urine. In col- 
lecting samples for this purpose, the sanitary officer must 
be assured that the specimens actually are derived from the 
persons in question, for there may be deception on the part 

1 See also p. 109 of present volume. Richardson (Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 2) states that women carriers are five times 
as numerous as men and calls attention to the fact that women are more 
frequently employed in the handling of foods. He states that urinary 
carriers are more dangerous than fecal carriers. The latter, however, 
being intermittent, may escape detection. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 2OI 

of persons who suspect that they may harbor the bacillus. 
It should also be remembered that carriers are frequently 
intermittent and that a single negative result in stools 
is not conclusive. If a person is particularly suspected 
the examination should be repeated twice or more. 
By the use of tact, specimens for these examinations 
can usually be obtained. If, however, persons refuse, the 
health authorities should have power to restrain them 
until the examinations are permitted. 

There are a number of examples on record of epidemics 
caused by carriers. " Typhoid Mary," the cook who dis- 
tributed infection through a number of families by whom 
she was employed, is one of the best known examples. In 
New York City, in 1909, an epidemic of 380 cases was 
traced to a dairyman who was a typhoid bacillus-carrier 
of 46 years standing, thus illustrating the danger even 
from old cases (cf. page 284). 

The administrative control of carriers is a vexed question. 
Persons who have had typhoid fever should certainly not 
be permitted to engage in the preparation or handling of 
foods eaten raw, particularly milk and milk-products, 
until their freedom from infection has been thoroughly 
established (see (2) above). Detected carriers cannot 
practicably be isolated, but should be kept under strict 
surveillance. No effective means of curing carriers is at 
present known. The urine of urinary carriers may be 
disinfected with urotropine, but no treatment is available 
for the class of fecal carriers. The surveillance of carriers 
should include forbidding employment in any occupation 
in which foods eaten raw are prepared or handled; this 
would bar out the milk industry, cooking, baking, con- 
fectionery and ice-cream making, nursing, etc. The 
whereabouts and occupation of the carrier should be con- 
stantly known to the health authorities, and periodic ex- 
aminations of excreta should be made until a satisfactory 
number of consecutive negatives are obtained. Some 



202 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

authorities recommend such examinations monthly for 
one year for all typhoid convalescents. Extreme measures 
will have to be taken in order effectively to cope with the 
carrier problem. 

Carriers should be instructed as to the danger to others, 
and should carry out carefully instructions as to the cleans- 
ing and disinfection of their hands (page 584). 

The existence, at large, of unrecognized carriers lends 
special weight to all measures for simple but scrupulous 
cleanliness on the part of all persons who handle foods 
which may act as vehicles of infection, also to the general 
protection afforded by pasteurization of milk-supplies. 
The importance of the carrier problem in typhoid fever 
can scarcely be overemphasized ; upon its solution depends 
very largely the elimination of the mass, already referred 
to, of "residual" typhoid. 1 

Paratyphoid Fever. Paratyphoid fever is caused by 
the paratyphoid bacillus, which is similar to the typhoid 
organism but distinguishable from it by laboratory tests. 
Clinically, also, the disease is similar to typhoid, and fre- 
quently can only be distinguished from it by bacteriologi- 
cal examination. Many of the cases are doubtless reported 
as typhoid fever. As in typhoid fever, the germ enters the 
body by way of the mouth and alimentary tract and is 
shed off in the intestinal discharges. 

Paratyphoid fever does not occur as frequently as typhoid 
and rarely causes conspicuous epidemics. A peculiar 
property of the bacillus is its faculty for growing in meat, 
infecting the mass without affecting it in appearance, 
flavor, or odor (see page 400 f.). This fact argues strongly 
for aseptic methods of cleanliness, for thorough cooking of 
meat, and for protection of it before eating. Otherwise 
prevention is the same as for typhoid fever: isolation of 
cases and disinfection of discharges, protection of water 
and food supplies, avoidance of fly infection, etc. 
1 Cf. also p. io8ff. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 203 

REFERENCES 

Whipple, " Typhoid Fever," John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1908. 

Bolduan, " Typhoid Fever in New York City, together with a Dis- 
cussion of the Methods found Serviceable in Studying its Occurrence," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, nos. 5 (p. 339), 6 (p. 431), 7 (p. 538). 
(Some of the principles suggested are applicable to typhoid fever study 
in small cities). 

The Bulletins of the Hygienic Laboratory, U. S. Public Health Ser- 
vice, on "Typhoid Fever in the District of Columbia" (1907 ff.) illus- 
trate expert investigation methods and contain valuable data. 



CHOLERA 

Cholera (more accurately Asiatic cholera, to distinguish 
it from other cholera-like diseases) is spread in very much 
the same way as typhoid fever. It is caused by the Vibrio 
cholera ("comma-bacillus," from its shape), which enters 
the system by way of the mouth and leaves it in the bowel 
discharges (occasionally in the vomitus; not, however, in 
the urine). The vibrios may be detected in the discharges 
by bacteriological examination. 

The measures of prevention are in principle the same as 
for typhoid fever. It is "contagious" in the same sense 
that typhoid fever is contagious, and strict disinfection of 
discharges, body and bed linen and other articles must be 
practised. Cases should be treated in a special hospital 
and should not be released until two successive examina- 
tions of the stools at 5-day intervals have proved negative. 
In epidemics cholera carriers exist. Immunity from cholera 
may be obtained by an inoculation similar in principle to 
the protective typhoid inoculation, which should be applied 
to nurses, physicians, and other persons exposed. 

Since at the present time there is no cholera in the United 
States, the principal line of defence is the maritime quar- 
antine, which maintains certain regulations for detention 
and examination of suspects that need not be detailed 
here. 



204 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

DYSENTERIC DISEASES 

Under this head we may group a number of communicable 
diseases characterized by dysentery or diarrhoea of known or 
unknown cause. These diseases are all communicable in 
the same way as typhoid fever, and prevention demands 
isolation with disinfection of bowel discharges, and avoid- 
ance of contact, water, food, and fly transmission. To 
determine the cause in any case, laboratory examination 
of stools is required, though practically this may not be 
necessary. Carriers may be more or less numerous. 

First, there is bacillary dysentery, caused by types of 
the Bacillus dysenteric, which is closely related to the ty- 
phoid organism. The disease is truly epidemic in char- 
acter, and may be spread in the same manner as typhoid 
fever, but it is not so extensive in distribution. It has 
frequently been noted in insanitary ships, jails, etc. 

Again, there is a dysentery due to a protozoon parasite, 
Entamceba hystolytica, known as amcebic dysentery. It is 
chiefly a tropical disease. Although it does not occur in 
epidemics, it is spread in much the same ways as typhoid 
fever. 

Finally, there are various dysenteries and diarrheas of 
obscure causation, but communicable. Infants in partic- 
ular are affected by intestinal diseases or disorders which 
are infectious and in some cases communicable. These are 
sometimes known by the indefinite titles "infantile cholera," 
"cholera nostras, " "winter cholera, " "summer complaint," 
etc. Such terms are unsatisfactory as being obscure and 
signifying no more than diarrhoea or enteritis, which may 
be communicable or may be merely symptomatic. Cer- 
tain investigations have indicated that some forms of 
diarrhoea and enteritis in infants are communicable, and 
therefore infantile diarrhcea should be made reportable and 
isolation and special cleanliness should be observed in such 
cases. In many cases of infant diarrhoea the condition 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 205 

is induced by improper feeding or clothing or unhygienic 
practices; all of which will be discussed in Chapter II. 

Diarrhceal disease in the general population is frequently 
water-borne, and the occurrence of unusual numbers of 
cases of diarrhoea should raise a suspicion of the public 
water-supply. (See remarks under water transmission of 
typhoid fever.) Under such circumstances there may also 
occur secondary cases produced by contact infection, as 
well as numerous carriers. 

Control. Health authorities should require the same 
measures for diarrhceal diseases as for typhoid fever: re- 
porting; isolation (or at least measures of cleanliness and 
disinfection] ; and should arrange for laboratory examina- 
tions when desired by the physician. 

HOOKWORM DISEASE 

Hookworm disease (uncinariasis or anchylostomiasis) is 
due to infection of the intestine with a small worm which 
produces anaemia, emaciation, loss of strength and ambi- 
tion, and other forms of vital depression. Hence the name 
"miners' anaemia" and other similar designations of it. 
The disease is not only a seriously debilitating one in itself, 
but also strongly predisposes to tuberculosis and other 
infections. The eggs of the worm are shed off in the bowel 
discharges. The disease is chronic in character, the victims 
usually going about their usual occupations and frequently 
having no knowledge of their disease. 

The problem of hookworm disease is largely one of soil 
pollution. While it may be transmitted by contact, 
polluted water, or polluted food, the entrance atrium being 
in these cases the mouth, the great majority of cases are 
contracted in the following way. The eggs shed by the 
hookworm victim hatch into larvae, which infect the soil. 
These larvae get upon the skin of the hands of persons 
touching the soil or of the feet of persons walking bare- 
foot upon it. As soon as the larvae touch the skin they 



206 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

make their way through it, and then, by a roundabout 
route which need not be described here, to the small in- 
testine. There they develop into adult worms, cling to the 
mucous membrane, and produce eggs which, as already 
remarked, pass off in the bowel discharges. The passage 
of the larvae through the skin is attended with an inflam- 
matory irritation which gives rise to the name "ground- 
itch" for this stage of the disease. 

In the South (as in many tropical and subtropical coun- 
tries), where improper disposal of excreta frequently pre- 
vails, where the temperature is favorable to the parasite, 
and where persons frequently go 'barefoot, hookworm dis- 
ease is a very serious problem. Farther north, where these 
conditions are not so prevalent, it is not endemic; the fact 
that freezing kills the larvae also tends to natural prevention 
in the Northern United States. 

Control. The chief measure against hookworm disease 
is prevention of soil pollution. This requires the extension 
of sewers and the use of proper privies in unsewered villages 
and country districts. The promiscuous and improper 
disposal of excreta in any other manner must be strictly 
prohibited. Personal prophylaxis through cleanliness, 
avoidance of contact with polluted soil, avoidance of pol- 
luted water and foods, and boiling of water from suspi- 
cious sources, goes without saying. Popular enlightenment, 
followed up by rigid administration of sanitary regulations, 
is necessary for thorough eradication. 

Infected persons may readily be cured by administration 
of thymol or other suitable vermifuge. 

III. DISEASES SPREAD BY INSECTS AND 
VERMIN 

In this section we shall consider chiefly: malaria and 
yellow fever, transmitted through the bites of definite 
species of the mosquito ; diseases that may possibly be 
transmitted through the agency of biting flies; various 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 207 

diseases (e.g., typhoid fever) conveyed mechanically by the 
common house-fly; and plague, transmitted through the 
bite of the flea. 1 

MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES 
MALARIA 

The parasite (plasmodium) of malaria is conveyed from 
man to man by the genus Anopheles mosquito, and by no 
other means. The microorganism goes through certain 
parts of its life-cycle in man and through others in the 
mosquito, which is known as the intermediary host. It 
is acquired by the mosquito through biting the malaria 
patient, and is likewise transmitted to a new victim, after 
a sufficient number of days (about twelve) has elapsed for 
its development in the insect, through the bite of the in- 
fected mosquito. Several different varieties of malaria 
are known, caused by distinct microorganisms; these are 
known as quartan fever, tertian fever, and estivo-autumnal 
or tropical malaria, the first two of these names being de- 
rived from the number of days' interval at which the at- 
tacks recur. Carriers are thought to exist. 

The distribution of the malarial mosquito and of the 
disease is irregular, but the disease occurs most frequently 
in southern and tropical climates where there are swamps 
and other accumulations of stagnant water and where a 
long warm season favors mosquito-breeding. While some 
regions are malaria-free, in others the disease constitutes a 
very serious problem. In 1911, 1802 deaths were ascribed 
to malaria in the Registration Area. In addition to the 
actual mortality there is great damage in the general de- 
bility (cachexia) characteristic of the chronic state of the 
disease. 

1 For fly and mosquito suppression see Chap. VI. For fuller treat- 
ment of the subject of insects and disease see Rosenau, " Preventive 
Medicine and Hygiene," Doane, " Insects and Disease," and other sim- 
ilar works. Cf. references, pp. 468, 474 f. 



208 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

In malarial regions safety for the individual may be 
secured by living in screened houses and by protection 
against the bites of mosquitoes when out during the day. 
Where such protection is not feasible, prophylactic immu- 
nity may be secured by repeated doses of quinine. But 
these are only personal measures, inconvenient at the best, 
and in populated regions cannot take the place of general 
public measures. 

Control. The administrative measures for the control 
of malaria are : 

1. Registration of cases, which is furthered by affording 
facilities for diagnosis through blood examination. 

2. Effective screening of the patient against mosquitoes. 
Destruction of infected insects. 

3. Mosquito suppression (see Chapter VI). . 

YELLOW FEVER 

Yellow fever occurs under the same sort of circumstances 
as malaria. It iS likewise conveyed through the bite of a 
mosquito, the causative microorganism being unknown but 
presumably a pro tozoon somewhat related to that of malaria. 
Yellow fever is, however, transmitted by a definite and 
distinct species of mosquito, the Aedes (formerly Stegomyia) 
calopus. It is not conveyed by fomites e.g., clothing 
as was formerly thought, nor by any other means than the 
specific species of mosquito. The parasite requires about 
twelve days for its development in the mosquito, and the 
incubation period in the infected person is from two to 
five or six days. "All the experimental evidence thus far 
shows that the infection is absent from the blood after 
the third day, and that mosquitoes do not become infective 
after this period " (Rosenau). 

Control is much the same as for malaria. 1 There is, 

1 Attention is called, however, by Rosenau / to the difference in amen- 
ability to control between the two diseases. Malaria is more difficult 
to eradicate because the breeding places of the Anopheles mosquito are 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 209 

however, no bacteriological method of diagnosis and greater 
precautions should therefore be taken with suspected cases. 
The radical measure is of course mosquito suppression. 

REFERENCES 

Ross, " The Prevention of Malaria." 

Boyce, " Yellow Fever and Its Prevention." 

FLY-BORNE DISEASES 

Two possible modes of disease transmission by flies 
may be mentioned: 

(1) It is possible that biting flies (e.g., the ordinary 
stable fly) may convey infection through their bite, 
although there is no evidence that this mode of trans- 
mission of human diseases is anything but rare. 

(2) Acting mechanically, through the conveyance of 
infected matter on feet and proboscis, flies in general 
may carry the germs of typhoid fever, diphtheria, 
tuberculosis, infantile diarrhoea and enteritis, and other 
diseases. The ways by which infectious matter may be 
carried from privy-vaults and infectious discharges to milk 
and other food, infants' nursing bottles, and the like, have 
been indicated in previous pages under the head of typhoid 
fever, etc., and need not be elaborated upon here. 

While the amount of disease conveyed by the fly is not 
exactly known, it is quite large enough, under either of 
the above heads, to justify measures of fly suppression. 
For such measures see Chapter VI. 

more widely spread and difficult to detect and eliminate, those of the 
Stegomyia being practically confined to artificial containers in the 
neighborhood of human habitations; the Anopheles also travels farther. 
" Compared to yellow fever, the control of the malarial human host 
presents special difficulties. In yellow fever man is infective to the 
Stegomyia only a few days; in malaria the parasites continue in the 
circulating blood a very long time. In the case of malaria, then, we 
have to deal with chronic carriers, which, fortunately for us, does not 
occur in yellow fever. For malaria we Irave quinine as a prophylactic, 
whereas no known drug will prevent yellow fever." (" Preventive 
Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 220.) 



210 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

OTHER INSECT-BORNE DISEASES 

PLAGUE 

In the dissemination of plague, rats and rat-fleas play 
the most important part. This disease, caused by the 
Bacillus pestis, is " primarily a disease of the rat and sec- 
ondarily of man " (Rosenau). It is transmitted to man 
by the bite of the rat-flea. (Suspicion has also been 
thrown on other insects.) In man it occurs in the bubonic, 
the pneumonic, and the septicemic types. In the second 
type, plague pneumonia, the sputum is highly infectious 
and the disease may be transmitted by contact. In the 
other types the bacilli are contained within the body. Mild, 
ambulant cases occur ("pestis minor"). 

Control. Cases of the disease should be diagnosed as 
early as possible, for which purpose bacteriological facilities 
are indispensable. In emergency, traveling laboratories 
may be furnished by state or federal -authorities in order 
that the service may be available promptly on the spot. 
Cases should be isolated and disinfection of all discharges 
practised. Persons subject to exposure may be immunized 
with Yersin's antiplague serum, or, better, by inoculation 
with Haffkine's prophylactic. 

The radical public health measure is, however, destruc- 
tion of rats and of other rodents (e.g., as in California, 
ground squirrels) which may become infected and transmit 
the disease through their fleas. The numbers of rats in all 
populated districts are enormous and much economic 
benefit as well as sanitary protection results from their 
suppression. Rats also play a part in the propagation of 
trichinosis and other diseases of man. An extended dis- 
cussion of the methods of plague prevention through rodent 
extermination cannot be given here. 1 

1 See Rosenau: " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 
240 ff.; also " The Rat and Its Relation to the Public Health," Bull., 
U. S. Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service, 1910 (obtainable 
from the Surgeon-General, U. S. P. H. S., or the Supt. of Documents, 
Washington, D. C.). 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 211 

Other insects and vermin e.g., various fleas, ticks, lice, 
bed-bugs, etc. have been incriminated or are suspected 
of transmitting various communicable diseases. 

Typhus fever ("ship fever," "jail fever," "camp fever," 
etc.), for example, which was once widely prevalent, 
though now rare, in civilized communities, is transmitted 
solely through the bite of the louse. Typhus fever was 
once confused with (though now recognized as quite dis- 
tinct from) typhoid fever; it has in recent years been 
rediscovered under the name of " Brill's Disease." It is 
prevented through the elimination of the louse. Its oc- 
currence has naturally a close connection with filthy, over- 
crowded, unhygienic living conditions. Other diseases of 
this class, such as, e.g., relapsing fever (spread by ticks 
and other biting insects), are also rare under civilized 
conditions, being eliminated by cleanliness and freedom 
from vermin. 

The other diseases of this class are chiefly of interest to 
students of tropical sanitation and parasitology and to 
quarantine officials, and need not be mentioned here. 

IV. DISEASES HAVING SPECIFIC OR SPECIAL 
PREVENTIVE MEASURES 

SMALLPOX 

Smallpox (variola) is the most highly communicable of 
all the major diseases with which health authorities have 
to deal. But it is also, fortunately, the most surely pre- 
ventable, for vaccination furnishes the means of making 
whole communities practically immune. 

Transmission. The smallpox virus, the exact nature 
of which is unknown, is present in the skin lesions. It is 
so "volatile" that contact infection very readily occurs. 
Smallpox and measles are alike in their extreme contagious- 
ness. Smallpox has long been considered an air-borne 
infection. While there is evidence that this is to a certain 



212 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

extent true, the tendency of modern authorities is, to re- 
gard the radius of air infection as much smaller than form- 
erly supposed. Certainly air infection out of doors is prac- 
tically nil. Chapin, concluding a careful study of the 
evidence, asserts that "the evidence in favor of the aerial 
transmission of smallpox from hospitals is so slight that it 
should never influence a municipality in its selection of a 
hospital site." 1 

Not only the skin but also all discharges of any kind from 
the patient should be regarded as possibly infectious. 
Direct and indirect contact, fly infection, and even fomites, 
should be guarded against. The patient is infectious before 
the eruption occurs and possibly during the period of in- 
cubation. 

INCIDENCE. Smallpox may thrive anywhere at any 
time among susceptible persons of all ages and conditions. 
It shows no regularities of distribution, although it has a 
tendency to recur in waves separated by several years ; this 
may be due to the growth of fresh material in the popula- 
tion. Its virulence varies from time to time. Although 
smallpox is not endemic in communities in this country, 
it is constantly present in small foci here and there in various 
States, and no community is immune from the possibility 
of an epidemic. A warning of this fact is to be seen in 
the 1913 Niagara Falls epidemic, in which 196 cases 
occurred in that town of 30,000 population. Disastrous 
epidemics have in several instances in recent years been 
started by the introduction of a single case. The disease 
is so contagious that improvements in general sanitation 
practically do not affect it. 

Control depends upon vaccination, for isolation alone 
cannot practically be relied upon. Not only is smallpox 
extremely contagious, but "unrecognized cases . . . are 
so numerous that the isolation of the recognized cases 
often seems to be a complete failure" (Chapin). Such 
1 " Sources and Modes of Infection," 1910, p. 224. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 213 

mild or atypical cases may readily give rise to severe cases; 
hence their detection so far as possible is of great 
importance. Vaccination before exposure is a nearly per- 
fect protection. This holds good also of vaccination up to 
the sixth or eighth day of incubation; and even at this 
time it may modify the course of the disease. Persons in 
any stage of the incubation period should be vaccinated, for 
the exact date of exposure may not be known, the incuba- 
tion may be a prolonged one, and there is at any rate a 
chance of modifying if not of preventing entirely the devel- 
opment of the disease. Even when, as exceptionally 
occurs, the protection is not perfect and the disease is con- 
tracted, it is in the modified and milder form of varioloid. 
We refer, whenever vaccination is mentioned, to successful 
vaccination; a satisfactory "take" must be obtained, 
though two or more inoculations are required in some 
cases. 

Objections to vaccination are based upon the arguments 
that it does not invariably protect and that blood infections 
have resulted from vaccinations with poor vaccine or im- 
properly performed. While there is a small basis of fact 
in both the assertions, a glance at the benefits of vaccina- 
tion is sufficient to show that these vastly outweigh the 
incidental drawbacks. Anti-vaccination argument may 
therefore stimulate care in the application of the process and 
accuracy in the statements of health officers, but is no 
valid objection, as world-wide experience proves. "In the 
Philippine Islands in the past few years the United States 
authorities vaccinated 3,515,000 persons without a single 
death or any serious post-vaccinal complications." 1 
The indicated administrative measures are as follows: 
I. REGISTRATION OF CASES. This includes suspicious 
cases, and the health authorities should be prepared to 
furnish medical assistance in making diagnosis. Chicken- 

1 For a complete discussion of vaccination see Rosenau, " Preven- 
tive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. I ff. 



214 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



pox, on account of its resemblance to smallpox, should be a 
reportable disease, and in the presence of smallpox in the 
community physicians should be warned and suspicious 
cases of chickenpox should be medically inspected. 1 

Not infrequently cases of smallpox having no medical 
attendance come to light in public conveyances, lodging 
houses, and other places. Credible rumors of cases should 
be investigated. 

2. ISOLATION, with disinfection of mouth and nose dis- 
charges, feces, and urine (do not, however, use carbolic 
acid or cresols), should be practised. Although isolation 
in smallpox is only of secondary value, it is of use in less- 
ening the possibilities of infection, particularly when the 
cases are few. If a case of smallpox is introduced into a 
previously smallpox-free community, it is the duty of the 
health authorities to take prompt and stringent precautions 
in isolation and disinfection, as well as in vaccination of 
contacts as explained below. 

1 The differential diagnosis between smallpox on the one hand and 
chickenpox and other diseases on the other is important. Clinically, 
distinction is made primarily by the character of the eruption, and not 
by the constitutional symptoms, which may be absent or atypical. 
The smallpox eruption in the first stages is hard and " shotty " and 
extends into the true skin, while the chickenpox vesicles are superficial 
and easily broken. The eruption in chickenpox comes out in successive 
distinct crops (while that of smallpox never does), and there is compar- 
atively little eruption of chickenpox on hands and feet. (See Doty, 
"Prevention of Infectious Diseases," 1911, p. 58 ff.) Differentiation 
may also be effected by inoculation of some of the virus (heated to 60 C. 
for 30 minutes) into the skin of a well-vaccinated person: if smallpox, 
a typical " immediate " reaction occurs, i.e., in less than 24 hours 
(see Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 17). 
Histological examination of the pock and inoculation upon the cornea 
of rabbits, are additional differential methods (see Rosenau, .ibid., 
pp. 280-281). When there is any doubt in the mind of the practitioner 
or health department physician, the case should be treated as if small- 
pox and expert diagnostic aid should be at once secured. In places 
where smallpox occurs infrequently the state health authorities should 
be notified by telegraph or telephone and their assistance requested. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 215 

Isolation should be of the strictest character. Unless 
home conditions are exceptional, the patient should be 
removed to a special hospital, which it may be necessary 
to establish in a vacant house or even in tents. Such a 
hospital need not, however, be the desolate " pest-house " 
of former days, but may be a special department of a regular 
contagious disease hospital. As already remarked, a small- 
pox hospital, if properly conducted, need not be located at 
a distance from other habitations. Fly transmission should 
be guarded against by proper screening. On account of 
the difficulties and expense of establishing proper emer- 
gency hospitals for smallpox, every community should 
have access to a ward or hospital always prepared, in con- 
nection with a municipal or county isolation hospital. Iso- 
lation should be permitted in a private house only if it 
can be perfectly maintained and a trained nurse is in at- 
tendance. Articles which may have been infected by the 
patient before or after isolation should be destroyed or 
thoroughly disinfected, and if he is removed to the hospital 
the apartment occupied by him should be disinfected. 
The precaution of terminal room disinfection after recovery 
should also be practised. 

3. VACCINATION, as already remarked, is the measure 
upon which chief reliance is to be placed. Even the best 
isolation of cases cannot take its place. All persons who 
have possibly been exposed to a case of smallpox should 
promptly be vaccinated. Exception can only be made of 
persons who have had a positively successful vaccination 
but a short time previous. In nearly all cases vaccination 
will prevent the development of smallpox if taken promptly 
after exposure. Persons of intelligence may then be per- 
mitted to go without further official surveillance, though 
they should be advised to consult a physician if any symp- 
toms appear within two weeks from last possible exposure 
(accepted for practical purposes as the maximum incuba- 
tion period) . Such persons will probably do so, being appre- 



2l6 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

hensive; but if there is any question they should be kept 
under surveillance, being required to report to their own 
or the health department physician for medical examination 
each day for the period mentioned. Ignorant and careless 
persons should always be strictly required to submit to 
such surveillance. When a case of smallpox occurs in a 
crowded tenement, public building, or other place where 
there are many persons, every person who is suspected of 
having been at all exposed should be vaccinated, which 
may mean a very considerable number of persons. 

The health authorities should constantly keep on hand 
fresh vaccine virus from a reliable source, and should be 
prepared to obtain larger quantities at short notice. Virus 
may now be obtained which produces a successful vacci- 
nation in nearly 100 per cent of previously unvaccinated 
persons, but it must be exchanged for fresh virus at cer- 
tain intervals recommended by the manufacturer. Vac- 
cine virus which enters into interstate commerce must come 
from a manufacturer licensed by the Federal authorities. 
Provision should be made for free vaccination of indigent 
persons. 

The state authorities should be notified by telegraph of 
any case of smallpox appearing in a community, so that 
any needed cooperation may be obtained without delay. 
No pains or expense should be spared to stamp out the 
disease at the onset of the first case, a principle which also 
applies to other severe infections. If an epidemic threatens, 
a strong authority, centered in one person, should be es- 
tablished, and adequate emergency funds should at once 
be voted by the local government. It may be necessary 
to undertake a campaign for more or less general vaccina- 
tion. An ample supply of vaccine should be promptly 
secured, and free vaccination offered and performed for 
persons unable to pa}', and vaccinating physicians (espe- 
cially engaged if necessary) should make a canvass in the 
infected neighborhood. In a serious epidemic school chil- 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 217 

dren should certainly be vaccinated. Employees of hos- 
pitals, factories, workshops, hotels, etc., may require gen- 
eral vaccination. Cases should be removed to the isolation 
hospital, as has already been mentioned, so far as ac- 
commodations permit, but special emergency hospitals 
may be required. A diligent search should be made for 
concealed cases and for unrecognized cases; persons re- 
ported as having suspicious chickenpox should be medi- 
cally examined. 

What measures should the health authorities take at 
times when smallpox is not present? Since two successful 
vaccinations usually protect against smallpox for life, 1 the 
question is largely one of securing the vaccination of in- 
fants and school children. This is the vexed question of 
compulsory vaccination. The results of compulsory vac- 
cination as practised in foreign countries (particularly in 
Germany, where it is compulsory for infants before the 
end of the first year of life and again at the twelfth year) 
indicate clearly the great benefits of the measure (Rose- 
nau). In countries where it has been left merely optional, 
other conditions being comparable, the incidence of small- 
pox has been many times greater. If vaccination of the 
growing generation is neglected, there develops a large un- 
vaccinated and non-immune population the numbers of 
which run a certain risk of coming in contact with unrecog- 
nized cases of the disease. The importation of such a case 
into such a community may readily start an epidemic more 
difficult to control than it would be if the whole population 
had at least a moderately good vaccinal status. While 
such facts indicate the desirability of vaccination of in- 
fants and children, and the Supreme Court of the United 
States and other courts have held such a requirement to 
that effect to be constitutionally valid, nevertheless there 

1 To secure complete immunity persons should be revaccinated on 
an average of every seven years. (Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine 
and Hygiene," 1913, pp. 15, 17.) 



2l8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

is considerable public sentiment, growing in intervals of 
absence of the disease, to the contrary. 1 

In some states the power to require vaccination of school 
children rests with the school authorities. The health 
authorities should favor such a measure. Some publicity 
may be desirable. In places where vaccination of children 
before admittance to school is required, there is likely to 
be considerable friction in enforcement unless a " conscience 
clause" in the law permits parents to exempt their children 
on the ground of personal objections. The least that can 
be done by health authorities is to inform the public as to 
the value of vaccination, supply reliable vaccine at cost 
(free to persons unable to pay) , recommend the vaccination 
and revaccination of infants and children, and reserve the 
power to enforce vaccination so far as deemed necessary 
in the immediate infection area of each case that may 



appear. 2 



RABIES 



"Rabies [hydrophobia] is an acute, specific, rapidly fatal 
infection communicated from a rabid animal to a suscep- 
tible animal, usually through a wound produced by biting. 
Man always contracts the disease from some lower animal, 
usually the dog. " (Rosenau.) 

Notwithstanding the fact that this dread but wholly pre- 
ventable disease occurs in the United States, both in 
animals and in man, to an alarming extent, very little 

1 In Minnesota the state health authorities have acceded to popular 
clamor against vaccination laws and have even given up isolation in 
smallpox, maintaining that protection is purely an individual matter^ 
the option lying with the person as to whether he does or does not care 
to protect himself by means of vaccination. 

2 The laws relative to vaccination in the United States are many and 
varied. In the majority of states its adoption is optional with the 
local health authorities. See " Vaccination: an Analysis of the Laws 
and Regulations Relating Thereto in Force in the United States," 
Public Health Bull. No. 52, U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, 
D. C., 1912. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 219 

control is exerted over it. This state of affairs is due to 
failure of health officials and public to realize the impor- 
tance of the disease and to recognize it when it appears. 

Transmission. The virus exists in the saliva of infected 
animals (possibly 8 days before symptoms) and is usually 
transmitted to man through bites. The usual source is 
the dog, though other mammalian animals are suspectible 
to it and may both contract and transmit the infection. 
Among these are mentioned cats, wolves, foxes, skunks, 
cattle, sheep, goats, horses, and swine. But inasmuch as 
infection under ordinary circumstances is from the dog we 
shall confine our discussion largely to that source. 1 

Infection is not necessarily by biting, the mere lick- 
ing of the bare hand or face by a rabid animal may result 
in infection if cuts or abrasions exist. Even where such 
breaks in the skin are not visible to the eye, infection is 
possible. Hence the rule is to handle any sick dog with 
thick gloves and to protect one's face, until positive that 
the sickness is not rabies. Bites through the clothing may 
result in infection, though not so readily as those on the 
unprotected parts of the body. Bites upon the face are 
particularly dangerous, for the virus has there quicker 
access to the nervous system, which is its object of attack. 
Infection may take place in dissections of the bodies of 
animals which have died of the disease, the virus existing 
in the nervous system. 

The incubation period of rabies in man is 40 days on the 
average, but varies from 14 days to a year or more (Rose- 
nau). In dogs the average is 21 to 40 days. This long 
period is fortunate for preventive treatment, but unfor- 
tunate in that it diverts popular attention from the disease 
between occurrences and makes general measures of pre- 

1 Wherever in this section the word " animal " is used it is meant 
to apply chiefly to dogs. The measures recommended for control of 
rabies in dogs may be adapted to apply when necessary to rabies in 
other animals. 



220 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

vention more difficult to enforce. A dog runs through a 
town and bites a number of persons and dogs; there is an 
excitement which soon dies out. In the course of several 
months some more dogs develop rabies, again some 
excitement, several dogs are killed, and then again the 
matter is forgotten. In the long run a grave problem is 
much under-rated simply because the cases are so dis- 
tributed. 

INCIDENCE. Rabies may develop in any person bitten 
by a rabid animal (unless the Pasteur treatment is given 
see below), and if it does develop is invariably fatal. It 
occurs to an absolutely unwarranted extent in the United 
States: in 1911 there were 1381 localities in which rabid 
animals were reported and 98 deaths in man (Rosenau), 
and it is apparently on the increase in many regions. 
Rabies undoubtedly occurs to a greater extent than is 
shown by the figures, for there may be failure to rightly 
diagnose sporadic cases. Some deaths from rabies have 
probably been ascribed to cerebrospinal fever and other 
diseases. For example, a patient taken to a hospital with 
slight temperature and pain becomes violent and dies in a 
few hours. No diagnosis, and on autopsy nothing found 
except congestion of the brain. The suggestion of rabies 
is made. Animal inoculations are made and prove the 
case one of rabies. It is a great chance in such cases that 
the disease goes unrecognized. With children symptoms 
may be even more puzzling. Young children may be 
slightly bitten by rabid dogs without the knowledge of the 
parents. And frequently the dog-bite which caused the 
infection happened so many weeks before that it has been 
entirely forgotten. 

Moreover, to the actual mortality from an agonizing 
and unnecessary form of death must be added the time and 
money incident to taking the Pasteur treatment in hundreds 
of cases, and the grave anxiety involved. 

Such facts indicate the gravity of the rabies problem. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 221 

Rabies occurs at all seasons, though the popular idea that 
rabies is a hot-weather disease is true in that dogs run more 
freely at large in the summer season and thus incur and 
transmit infection more readily. Distemper, which is 
sometimes popularly confused with rabies, is also perhaps 
more prevalent in hot weather. 

Recognition of Canine Rabies. The symptoms of the 
disease in dogs are sketched in the information given on 
page 224 (footnote), and should be recognized by all per- 
sons having charge of dogs, as well as by health officers and 
inspectors. 

Dogs suffering with rabies may not by any means show 
all the text-book symptoms, nor do they always behave 
as the popular idea of a mad dog would lead one to expect. 
They do not fear water (though paralysis of the throat 
muscles in the late stages of the disease may hinder them 
from drinking it) ; hence the term hydrophobia, signifying 
"fear of water," is incorrect. The one unfailing symptom 
is the paralysis which, beginning with the hind-legs, in- 
variably develops before death. 

In the furious type of rabies the animal is highly restless 
and has a tendency to run long distances biting any per- 
sons and other animals in his way. This is the popularly 
recognized mad dog. But in the dumb type of the disease 
the animal is quiet and depressed and does not show the 
same tendency to wander and bite, though if a wound is 
received from this type it is as dangerous as from the other. 
The following account, by a physician, is illustrative: 

A man came to my office some years ago with a small punctate wound 
of the face. He stated that he had been called by one of his neighbors 
to shoot a sick dog. In pulling the dog out of the kennel he received a 
wound, he did not know whether from a tooth or from the dog's 
paw. I asked him to. describe the dog's condition, and he made the 
following statement. The dog had been sick for several days, refusing 
to eat, and remaining in his kennel. - He also stated that the dog had 
a broken jaw and could not close his mouth; the tongue was quite 
black. 



222 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

This man died five weeks later a horrible death from hydrophobia. 
Had I then known that the supposed broken jaw was the paralysis of 
this [dumb] form of rabies my patient might have received the Pasteur 
treatment, and not have been a victim of this disease. 

And, it might have been added, if the owner of the dog 
had had some conception of the symptoms of rabies the 
proper care might have been taken and the infection might 
thus have been entirely avoided. 

DIAGNOSIS. Diagnosis on the symptoms is uncertain 
and should be confirmed by laboratory methods. The 
first of these is the microscopic examination of the brain 
substance for the presence of the "Negri bodies." The 
finding of these bodies shows at once the existence of rabies. 
Failure to find them does not, however, necessarily signify 
that the animal did not have rabies, for they may miss 
detection. If the Negri bodies are not found it is necessary 
to make animal inoculations, which are the most reliable 
test, but generally several weeks will be required for the 
disease, if present, to develop in the test animals. 

// a dog is suspected of rabies it should not be killed (un- 
less safety requires) but should be securely chained (a 
rope may be chewed through) within an enclosure which 
will exclude all persons and other animals. If suffering 
from rabies, the dog will develop paralysis and die, usually 
in four or five days. If, on the contrary, the dog is alive 
and sound at the end of ten days, it may then be released 
without danger. 

If necessary to kill the animal, the brains should not be 
blown out, but the head should be kept as nearly intact as 
possible. The carcass (if the dog is large, the head only) 
is then packed in ice in a watertight container and for- 
warded by rush service to a laboratory for the examina- 
tions which have already been described. The head should 
be severed as close to the thorax as possible, with sharp 
instruments (knife and saw). In order to avoid infection 
the operator should protect the skin of the hands with thick 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 223 

gloves and exercise cleanliness followed by disinfection of 
gloves, implements, and hands. The carcass after sever- 
ance of head should be burned or deeply buried. 

Prevention. Eradication, prompt and practically abso- 
lute, will result from drastic measures relating to the con- 
trol of dogs. In England and Australia, owing to such 
measures, rabies is now non-existent. The use of Pasteur 
preventive treatment is of the greatest importance in per- 
sonal prophylaxis, but has nothing to do with the proper 
eradication of the disease. 

We shall speak first of the general measures which should 
be taken by health authorities. 

i. MUZZLING AND QUARANTINE. The most immedi- 
ately effectual measure is to require the muzzling of all 
dogs at large and the killing of all ownerless dogs. Such 
measures must be strictly and universally enforced over a 
wide area, such as the state, and there must be active dog- 
wardens to capture the stray and ownerless dogs and dogs 
whose owners allow them out without a muzzle. Such 
measures, in conjunction with a national quarantine of six 
months against dogs entering the country, has freed Eng- 
land entirely from rabies in dog or man. Two years of 
such a regime will practically exterminate the disease, and 
then, unless it reappears, the muzzling (but not the quar- 
antine) may be discontinued. 1 

Leashing as a requirement has been sometimes tried, but 
appears not to be entirely effective. 

The above measures of general muzzling for a certain 
period and a national quarantine are undoubtedly the most 
radical and effective. They require, however, a general 
law generally enforced. Strong state laws (cf. page 231) 
should be adopted and should ultimately lead to such com- 
plete control. Meanwhile measures of the following classes 
will afford a certain degree of local protection. 

1 For further information see Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and 
Hygiene," 1913, p. 36 ff. 



224 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

2. REGISTRATION OF DOGS. It is essential that all 
dogs be registered (licensed). The registration should be 
controlled by the health authorities as a fundamental step 
in the prevention of rabies. Inasmuch as dogs constitute 
the principal reservoir of rabies infection, this consider- 
ation should outweigh all others, and the health authorities 
should be vested with this means toward the suppression 
of a disease which falls in the regular category of commu- 
nicable diseases. Registration should not be entrusted to 
humane societies or other unofficial bodies. 

Registration is not merely an indexing of the canine 
population, it is more especially for the purpose of fixing 
a certain responsibility upon the owners of dogs. The fee 
charged should not be so high as to make the keeping of a 
dog a luxury, but should be high enough to ensure a distinct 
interest on the part of the owner and to discourage the 
keeping of dogs by irresponsible persons. Registration has 
a special value in that it enables the health authorities to 
reach the owners with educational measures (see below) . 

Registered dogs should be tagged with a tag distinctive 
for each year, and all untagged dogs on the streets should be 
taken up by a vigilant dog warden, to be destroyed if not 
claimed and registered. Upon this depends the whole 
operation of the law, the greatest value of which lies in doing 
away with stray and ownerless dogs. It is just this last 
class of animals which, wandering about and picking up 
and distributing any rabies infection which may exist, is 
most dangerous. 

3. INSTRUCTION OF DOG-OWNERS. Every person regis- 
tering a dog should receive printed information (preferably 
printed on the license receipt so as to be kept for reference) , 
to be explained orally if necessary, giving (i) the ordinances 
relative to the keeping of dogs (see page 229), and (2) the 
symptoms of rabies. 1 It is a fact that scarcely any of the 

1 The following form, headed " RABIES," may be used: 
" Rabies is an infectious disease which may attack dogs, cats, and 
other warm-blooded animals and which may be communicated to 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 22$ 

persons responsible for the care of dogs are acquainted with 
the symptoms especially the early symptoms of the 

human beings, in whom it is usually called hydrophobia. It may occur 
at any season, winter as well as summer. 

" The onset of rabies in the dog is sometimes unrecognized by its 
owner as there are considerable variations in the symptoms, and many 
of the cases do not show the violent symptoms popularly associated 
with the ' mad dog.' It should be remembered that rabies makes the 
dog sick and causes him to act strangely, dying within a few days 
usually four or five. 

" Two forms of the disease commonly occur: the quiet or dumb form, 
and the active or violent form. In the first the dog is depressed and drowsy 
and shows little or no tendency to bite or run away. The lower jaw is 
slightly dropped, and although the animal laps liquids freely he is 
unable to swallow them. He may be thought to have ' a bone in his 
throat ' because he docs not care to eat. Weakness of the hind legs 
sets in, and the animal dies within a few days. 

" In the second form the animal is restless, sometimes irritable, and 
sometimes unusually affectionate (in the onset). The voice is changed 
to a peculiar howl. Frequently the dog runs away from home. Later, 
weakness of the legs sets in, and death follows within a few days. Some 
cases show symptoms belonging to both these classes. It is important 
to remember that mad dogs show no fear of water and are able to eat 
and drink until paralysis of the throat sets in. This is sometimes early 
in the disease, as in the dumb form. In other cases it may not occur 
until just before death. 

" It should be remembered also that the secretions from the mouth of 
the rabid dog are poisonous whether he shows any tendency to bite or not. 

" The only safe rule to follow is to be careful in handling any sick 
dog until absolutely sure that he has not rabies, to wear heavy gloves 
in handling such a dog, and to avoid the secretion from the mouth. 

" In case of infection from the saliva of a dog suspected of rabies, 
the wound should be washed out at once and a physician consulted as 
soon as possible. 

" If a dog is sick with an unknown disease or is suspected of being 
rabid he should be securely chained (if this can be done without undue 
risk) and the Board of Health notified. If a dog suspected of being 
rabid is running wild and biting persons he should be killed as quickly 
as possible and the carcass held for examination by the Board of Health." 
(Adapted from form used in Orange, N. J.) 

The Massachusetts law prescribes that " every license issued to the 
owner of a dog shall have a descript-ion of the symptoms of hydro- 
phobia printed thereon," such description to be supplied to the local 
authorities by the state health department. 



226 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

disease, and inculcation of such knowledge would prevent 
many if not most of the cases of bites by rabid animals. 

4. LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY OF DOG-OWNERS. The 
owners of dogs should be made legally and explicitly re- 
sponsible for any and all damage inflicted by their dogs. 1 
This would include the cost of the Pasteur treatment taken 
by persons bitten by a rabid or supposedly rabid dog. 

The measures to be taken by the health authorities in 
specific cases are as follows: 

i. REPORTING OF DOG-BITES. Every case of a person 
bitten by a dog should be reported to the local health 
office by any person having cognizance of the fact. This 
would apply particularly to physicians called upon to treat 
wounds, 2 and to the police, who are frequently appealed to 
in such cases. The majority of persons bitten are children, 
and there is danger that some of these cases will go unre- 
ported unless public attention is called to the necessity of 
reporting even minor bites by animals. The health au- 
thorities should locate the dog, order it (if possible without 
danger to persons) to be secured with a chain (not a rope, 
which may be chewed through by the animal) or penned up, 
and kept from the access of children and other persons for 
ten days. In some instances it may be advisable to re- 
move the animal to the pound or some other place where 
a good surveillance can be maintained. Careful inquiry 
should be made to obtain the names and addresses of all 

1 Such a law has been adopted in Ohio. See note, p. 232. 

" Wounds produced by the bite of an animal in which there is 
any suspicion of rabies should at once be cauterized with fuming nitric- 
acid. The acid is best applied with a glass rod very thoroughly to all 
parts of the wound, care being taken that pockets and recesses do not 
escape. Thorough cauterization at once reduces the danger of wound 
complications, and experience demonstrates that wounds so treated at 
,once, are practically never followed by rabies. ... In the absence of 
nitric-acid the actual cautery may be used. ... In any wound pro- 
duced by the bite of an animal the rule is to cauterize unless sure that 
the animal is not mad." (Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hy- 
giene," 1913, p. 40 f.) 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 227 

persons who may have been bitten. The dog should not 
be killed unless necessary for safety. 

If it is necessary to kill the dog, or if it dies while under 
observation, the carcass or head must be sent to the labo- 
ratory for examination (see page 222). A great many cases 
of dog-bite occur in which the animal is not rabid, but the 
above precautions should always be taken if any persons 
have been bitten. 

Dogs, not rabid, which are so vicious as to be unsafe at 
large should be dealt with by police regulations requiring 
them to be penned up or chained. 

If the animal lives until the expiration of the surveillance 
period, no further action need be taken. 

But if a positive diagnosis of rabies is made or if the animal 
dies or is killed with suspicious symptoms (even if the 
laboratory test 1 turns out negative), then immediate action 
is to be taken as follows : 

(a) The persons who have been bitten should take the 
Pasteur preventive treatment. 2 Great pains should be 
taken to locate all persons who have been bitten by the 
animal and to obtain an exact account of the circumstances 
in the various cases. (If the animal has run in from another 
community the health officer of that community should be 
notified.) It is the duty of the health officer to urge the 
treatment in all positive cases and advise it in all doubtful 
ones. If the person has not been actually bitten but has 
had the face or hands licked by a dog which subsequently 
was proved rabid, he may be told that the danger is slight 
but that to be on the safe side the treatment may be taken. 
On the other hand, there is trouble and expense (as well as 
a slight danger of paralysis as a complication) connected 

1 Reference is to the examination for Negri bodies, which can be 
made without delay. Animal inoculations take longer. See p. 222. 

2 The treatment is generally furnished by state and large municipal 
laboratories, and by several commercial manufacturers. The doses 
may be sent to a distance and administered by a local physician. 



228 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

with Pasteur treatment and it should therefore not be ad- 
vised indiscriminately. 

The treatment reduces the mortality in persons bitten 
by rabid dogs to 0.5 per cent or less. Since immunity can 
be produced by the Pasteur treatment within a consider- 
ably shorter time than the incubation period of rabies, it is 
evident that if the treatment is started early it is a highly 
effective measure of protection. 

The question of expense not infrequently arises. Poor 
persons are unable to pay the cost of the treatment, and 
cases are not unknown where lives have been lost through 
omission on this account. There should be no hesitation 
whatever in so serious a matter. Provision should be made 
by law that the expenses of treatment for persons unable to 
pay should be paid out of the community poor funds. 
Delay and red tape should be obviated so that no person 
need hesitate on account of the expense or the question 
who is to defray it. The owner of the rabid animal should 
ultimately be liable for such expenses, which may be 
recovered later, after the treatment has been begun. 

(b) The animals which have been bitten (or are suspected 
of having been bitten) should be killed by the owner at the 
direction of the health officer. (It is assumed that care 
has been taken to get a complete list of such animals.) 
Most owners can be persuaded to destroy their dogs if 
they are told that there is a strong possibility of rabies 
developing. Valuable animals may as an alternative be 
kept under strict surveillance, confined and subject to in- 
spection by the health authorities for six months. Such 
confinement requires the animal to be secured with a metal 
chain or to be kept in a secure pen away from access of 
persons. The owner must immediately report any un- 
usual behavior or symptoms of the dog, and if it develops 
rabies it must at once be destroyed and the kennel or pen 
disinfected. Such quarantines are usually difficult to keep, 
for the animal becomes restive and may be surreptitiously 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 2 29 

taken out for an airing. They should only be resorted to 
exceptionally; there should be careful oversight and any 
infringement should be at once prosecuted. It is desirable 
that the health authorities have power conferred by law to 
kill such animals if the quarantine be not satisfactorily kept. 

The cooperation of the police must be secured, for upon 
them the health authorities must rely for a great deal of 
information and support. 

2. RABIES (OR SUSPECTED RABIES) IN ANIMALS TO BE 
REPORTED. This requirement applies particularly to dogs. 
Every person having custody of a dog should report at once 
to the health authorities any suspicious symptoms (see sec. I 
of the ordinance in footnote below). Through effective 
education of dog-owners it should be possible to enforce 
such a requirement. An inspector may see the animal and 
if necessary call in a veterinarian or take other steps to 
establish a diagnosis (see page 222). If no persons have 
been bitten and the symptoms are very suspicious of rabies 
the animal should be killed. The carcass should be dis- 
posed of with care, and the kennel or pen should be de- 
stroyed or disinfected. The steps to be taken when persons 
or other animals have been bitten have already been 
described. 1 

1 The following may serve as an example of an ordinance covering 
most of the points mentioned in these two sections. Such provisions, 
as will be explained presently, should be enacted in state law. 

" i. Whenever the owner or person having the custody or possession 
of any animal shall observe or learn that such animal has shown symp- 
toms of rabies, or has acted in a manner which would lead a reasonable 
man to a suspicion that it might have rabies, such owner or person 
having the custody or possession of such animal shall immediately 
notify the Board of Health or the Health Officer, and shall allow the 
Health Officer or other official of the Board of Health to make an in- 
spection or examination of such animal, and to quarantine such animal 
until it shall be established to the satisfaction of said official that such 
animal has or has not rabies. 

"2. Whenever it is shown that arty dog has bitten any person, 
the owner or person having the custody or possession thereof shall, 



230 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Needless to say, reporting of rabies in human subjects 
should be required. 

3. POWER TO DECLARE QUARANTINE. Where an epizo- 
otic outbreak of rabies exists or threatens, the local health 
authorities should have the power to declare a quarantine 
of dogs in the district under its jurisdiction. Such quaran- 
tine may require restriction of dogs to premises, or leashing 
or muzzling. It must be strictly enforced by alert inspec- 
tors or dog- wardens, with the power to take up the dogs in 
cases where the order is not complied with and to hold them 
until a fine is paid or to destroy them if not claimed. 
While quarantines are frequently a matter for areas larger 
than local municipalities, such local quarantines have a 
certain value. 

upon order of the Health Officer, quyantine it and keep it tied up or 
confined for a period of two weeks fio days sufficient Author] and 
shall allow the Health Officer or other official of the Board of Health to 
make an inspection or examination thereof at any time during said 
period. 

"3. If it shall appear to the Health Officer or other official of the 
Board of Health upon examination as aforesaid, or otherwise that a dog 
or other animal has rabies, he may kill it forthwith. 

" 4. Whenever any animal shall be bitten by another animal having 
rabies, the owner or person having the custody or possession of the 
animal so bitten shall, upon being ififormed thereof, either kill such 
animal or quarantine it and keep it tied up or confined for a period of six 
months, and the Health Officer or other official of the Board of Health 
shall have power, in his discretion, to kill or quarantine the animal so 
bitten, in case the owner or person having the custody or possession 
thereof shall fail to do so immediately, or in case the owner or person 
having the custody thereof is not readily accessible. 

" 5. Any person violating any one of the provisions of this ordinance 
shall forfeit and pay a penalty of twenty-five dollars for each offence." 
(Ordinance of Orange, N. J., Board of; Health.) 

(Note that the general term " animal " is used in sees. I, 3, and 4. 
Laws should be so worded in order that measures usually applicable 
to rabies in dogs may by extension be applied to the occasional occur- 
rence of rabies in other animals.) 

Other provisions, e.g., power to declare quarantine, etc., as suggested 
in the discussion, should be incorporated in state or local law. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 231 

The question of the control of simply vicious dogs is re- 
lated to public safety rather than public health and can- 
not be taken up here. It may be dealt with by police 
ordinances. 

NECESSITY FOR STATE-WIDE CONTROL. Notwithstand- 
ing that a local health department may wield all the powers 
mentioned above, the rabies problem is by no means en- 
tirely solved. It is a matter demanding also state and 
federal control. The reason for this is that, no matter how 
strictly local regulations may be enforced, a single com- 
munity is always at the mercy of the rabid dogs which may 
enter it from neighboring communities. Rabies occurs 
very frequently in the wandering dog the stray without 
care or restraint. Such dogs, driven by the restlessness or 
frenzy characteristic of the disease, frequently travel many 
miles. In their journey they may pass through several 
towns, biting and infecting persons and animals as they 
go. Every health officer of experience knows that this is 
not an uncommon experience. Sometimes children are 
"nipped" by such an animal, which then disappears; and 
the incident is lightly passed over and forgotten until, 
several weeks later, cases of rabies develop in human sub- 
jects and dogs. The dangers are too obvious to require 
elaboration. The question is, how can a community pro- 
tect itself from such occurrences? We are forced to 
answer, it cannot. There should be general enforcement 
of uniform law throughout the state, state authorities 
should have power to declare regional quarantines and 
other measures, and all states should cooperate in action. 1 

1 Several states have now some measure of control. "Massa- 
chusetts has an admirable law. Every city and town is required by 
law to have an inspector of animals who is responsible to the State 
Cattle Bureau, and who has, as one of his duties, the killing or quar- 
antining of animals exposed to rabies. As a result of this law there 
has been a remarkable decrease in rabies during the past year. . . . 
New York has a law which gives the right to the State to enforce quar- 
antine and muzzling of dogs where necessary. . . . Pennsylvania has a 



232 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Ultimately there should be federal quarantine restrictions 
on the importation of dogs, which, combined with muzzling 
until rabies shall have disappeared, would completely ex- 
tirpate the disease (see page 223). 

State legislation should cover the whole subject in detail 
and might well embody the following points, as a summary 
of what has been said: (i) Registration (licensing) of all 
dogs, (2) Information to dog owners, (3) Legal responsi- 
bility of dog owners, (4) Free treatment of indigent per- 
sons bitten by rabid animals, (5) Reporting of all dog- 
bites, (6) Reporting of rabies or suspected rabies in beast 
or man, (7) Surveillance of animals, local or district 
quarantine, muzzling, etc., under control of local or state 
authorities, as circumstances may require. Some of these 
provisions would be left to local authorities for execution, 
with power of supervision by state authorities and of inter- 
vention by them in case local action is inadequate. 



similar law, and also provides a fund for reimbursing persons whose 
cattle, horses, sheep, or swine may be killed by reason of their having 
been bitten by rabid dogs. Pennsylvania also provides free treatment 
for all persons exposed to rabies from any animal at the expense of the 
poor district of the county. ... In Ohio, dog owners are liable for 
damages done by their dogs. County commissioners may pay the 
whole or part of the expenses incurred by a person in undergoing treat- 
ment for the bite of a rabid animal. . . . District of Columbia has a 
general muzzling law of all dogs, which went into effect August n, 
1910. This ordinance has just been renewed for another year. The 
effect of the general muzzling law has caused a marked reduction in 
the number of cases of rabies." (Hallett, F. S., " Rabies: Its Preven- 
tion and Control," Proceedings of Third Annual Conference of State 
and Local Boards of Health of New Jersey, 1912.) In Connecticut 
cases of animal rabies are reported by health officers to the State Com- 
missioner on Domestic Animals, who has authority to take charge of 
the situation and make any necessary regulations concerning dogs. 
An Act of 1909 also provides that when a licensed physician certifies 
to the selectmen of the town in which the injury was received that 
Pasteur treatment is necessary, they shall bear the expense of such 
treatment. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 233 

In conclusion it may be said that, in the adoption of pro- 
visions for the control of rabies, health authorities will 
meet with a good deal of well-intentioned but erroneous 
opposition on the part of "dog-lovers." Such opposition 
may be met with tact in stating that rabies cannot be 
stamped out except by strict measures of control extending 
over some years and that the safety of man outweighs 
restrictions on the comfort of the animal. Furthermore, 
the suppression of rabies benefits the animals themselves 
and results in a considerable saving in live-stock. A well- 
informed general public opinion, both of those who own 
dogs and of those who do not, should support effective 
measures for the control of this dread but wholly prevent- 
able disease. 

REFERENCES 

Bull. no. 65, Hyg. Lab. U. S. Pub. Health Service. 

Farmers Bull. no. 449, Dept. of Agriculture. 

Papers by Albert and Cumming in Transactions of the XV Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography, 1912, vol. IV, pt. I, 
Govt. Printing Office, Washington, 1913. 



VENEREAL DISEASE 

The venereal diseases are now considered as one of the 
major problems in communicable disease. But thus far 
the steps made toward treating venereal disease as a public 
health problem have been limited, the reason being that 
it is so deeply rooted in private life and so closely inter- 
woven with the passions and morals of the individual. 
The fact that knowledge of the modes and chances of in- 
fection fails to deter many persons from exposure to the 
risk of contracting these loathsome diseases indicates the 
force behind their propagation. 

The two chief diseases under this head are syphilis 
(cause: a protozoon, the Treponema pallidum) and gonor- 



234 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

rhcea (cause: the Gonococcus). To these we may add, as 
secondary, though important, chancroid. 

Transmission. While venereal transmission of these 
diseases is the common mode, transmission also takes place 
by other modes of contact. Thus syphilis may be trans- 
mitted through kissing and by towels, cups, eating utensils, 
barbers' implements and other objects, in such manner 
that the mucous membrane of the mouth, lips, etc., or skin 
abrasions, become infected. Again, gonorrhoea, especially 
in the form of gonorrhceal inflammation of the eye, is com- 
municable by means of infected towels, toilet fixtures, etc. 
Thus innocent persons contract the infections more fre- 
quently than is commonly supposed. The largest class of 
the innocently infected consists of women who are infected 
by their husbands. It has been stated that the greater 
part of the cases in the practice of gynecology, including 
operations for diseases of the female genital system, are 
the result of gonorrheal infection. Still another manifesta- 
tion of gonorrhceal infection is gonorrhceal ophthalmia 
neonatorum (see below, ''Preventable Blindness"). Alto- 
gether, gonorrhoea, while popularly regarded as a trivial 
infection, "is one of the serious infectious diseases, and the 
gonococcus occupies a position of high rank among the 
virulent pathogenic microorganisms. From an economic 
and public health standpoint, gonorrhoea does not fall very 
far short of syphilis in importance; in fact, some give it 
the first place." (Rosenau.) 

The prophylaxis to be observed by the patient includes 
not only abstention from venereal transmission, but also 
measures to avoid contact infection of innocent persons by 
the means already suggested. Such measures include 
personal cleanliness, careful washing and disinfection of 
the hands, the use of individual towels, cups, glasses, etc., 
as long as there are discharges or open lesions. The clean- 
liness and disinfection of privy and water-closet seats and 
other toilet fixtures should be looked after. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 235 

INCIDENCE. Reliable statistics of venereal disease are 
at the present time scanty, and estimates should be taken 
with caution. Even the deaths are rarely ascribed pri- 
marily to syphilis or gonorrhoea, but to some terminal 
condition, which is either the only thing the physician 
perceives or the only thing considered sufficiently euphe- 
mistic to inscribe on a public record of death. However, 
the direct mortality is not the only, nor the worst, effect 
of these diseases; most of the damage is insidious, elusive 
and indirect. 

In the absence of public statistics we turn to hospital and 
medical records, the revelations of which can, however, 
be only briefly alluded to here. The end-results of syphilis 
in the patient may be general paresis, arteriosclerosis, 
locomotor ataxia, aneurysm, etc. The disease also tends 
strongly to produce susceptibility to tuberculosis and other 
infections and diseases. The effect on the offspring may 
be even more severe. To hereditary syphilis are due many 
deaths of infants put down to congenital malformation, 
congenital debility, and the like; while infants who sur- 
vive are blighted with various impairments and affections. 
Gonorrhoea is remarkable for the multiplicity of its forms 
of infection and for its long persistence. Gonorrhoeal 
arthritis and sterility are among the more serious develop- 
ments. Its effects in the female system have already been 
alluded to. The thorough cure of gonorrhoea is a difficult 
matter; the infection may persist for years. In children's 
hospitals gonorrhceal infection may become epidemic, 
constituting an obstinate problem. 

Control. From the sanitary standpoint the venereal 
diseases should be subject to the same sort of control as 
other serious communicable diseases which require certain 
restrictions to be laid on the infectious person. Practically, 
however, the connection of the diseases with the deeply 
rooted "social evil" and its intrenchment behind the walls 
of private life have stood as an obstacle to the adminis- 



236 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

trative measures which would otherwise be taken. We 
shall briefly outline the measures thus far proposed. It 
scarcely need be said that health authorities can only 
undertake to deal with the purely sanitary features of the 
problem: 

1. REGISTRATION OF CASES. The logical first step is 
to obtain knowledge of the problem through reports from 
physicians. Voluntary reporting alone will not accom- 
plish much, but procedure may be taken, as has been done 
in New York City, by progressive steps: first, voluntary 
reporting by physicians of their private cases, with the 
understanding that the data are merely to gain knowledge 
of prevalence, and obligatory reporting of cases treated in 
hospitals and dispensaries; eventually, obligatory report- 
ing of all cases. 1 As a concession to privacy, the reports 
may at first, at any rate be made under numbers 
indicated by the physicians instead of by name. There 
are indications that eventually a complete registration of 
the venereal diseases may be built up. 

2. LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS. It is highly important 
that the health department afford laboratory diagnosis. 
The following tests are available : for syphilis, the Wasser- 
mann serum reaction and the microscopic examination for 
the treponema; for gonorrhoea, the complement fixation 
test and the microscopic .examination for the gonococcus. 
Such examinations should at least be made free of charge 
by state laboratories as they are now made in several of 
the larger cities, on condition that full information (in- 
cluding name) of the case be furnished by the physician. 

1 In Montclair, N. J., hospitals, dispensaries and other institutions 
are required to report cases of venereal disease within twelve hours, and 
private physicians are requested to do so. Information is confidential 
and records are not open to the public. The health department makes 
free laboratory tests for diagnosis, requires treatment (alternative, 
isolation), and provides treatment free of charge for indigent cases. 
Venereal diseases are also reportable in California, Michigan and 
Vermont. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 237 

3. SUPERVISION OF CASES. When a registration of 
cases has been secured it is the next logical step to insure 
as far as practicable that each case is prevented from ex- 
tending infection. The chief object is to prevent the 
infection of innocent persons in the ways which have al- 
ready been mentioned. 

For cases under the care of a private physician the in- 
struction of the patient as to the dangers of spreading the 
infection and the precautions to be observed should be 
attended to by the physician. It is evident that the con- 
trol over private cases must be secured through the physi- 
cian and with his cooperation. The emphasis in treatment, 
from the public health standpoint, should be placed upon 
freeing the patient from infection as well as merely abating 
painful symptoms. Many cases unfortunately leave the 
physician's care before that end is attained, and, while 
control of them is lost, remain sources of infection. 

In regard to hospitals and dispensaries, efforts should be 
made to increase the facilities for treatment. Such treat- 
ment, from the standpoint of the sanitary authorities, 
should be directed toward rendering the patient non-infectious. 
Many patients obtain the cheapest possible medical treat- 
ment and leave off as soon as acute symptoms subside, 
but while they are still infective. Again, other cases, self- 
treated, never see a doctor. Thus there is a class of per- 
sons who, apparently healthy but really dangerous, are 
virtually carriers of venereal disease. There should be 
some way of securing the continued treatment of such until 
they are completely cured and non-infective. Many 
hospitals refuse patients with acute venereal disease, yet 
the public health requires adequate hospital treatment. 
Genito-urinary clinics are needed in places where they do 
not now exist. The aim of the health authorities should 
be eventually to enforce the treatment of all venereal 
cases private, dispensary, and hospital until they are 
rendered non-infective, and to keep them until that time 



238 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

under supervision with the requirement of prophylactic 
measures for the protection of other persons. 1 

It may be added that the measure of regulating prosti- 
tution through medical inspection and licensing of prosti- 
tutes, which has frequently been tried in European cities, 
has met with but partial success and has never found a 
foothold in the United States; partly because it tends to 
defeat its own object by making vice safer, partly because 
it involves official recognition and condoning of vice, and 
partly because it does not reach, but rather increases, 
clandestine prostitution. Even where such regulation is 
practiced, medical inspection is far from being a complete 
safeguard. 

Other proposed measures cannot be detailed here, e.g., 
formal sex hygiene teaching and publicity. It need only 
be sajd that these involve serious difficulties and should 
be considered with circumspection. 

In fine, it may be said that the control of venereal dis- 
ease the "black plague" while a public health prob- 
lem, is also and fundamentally a social and moral 
problem closely interwoven with alcoholism and other 
evils. There is at the present time a movement against 
the social evil, which has given rise to many unsound pro- 
posals, as well as to some good ones, a situation which 
calls for careful discrimination. 

REFERENCES 

Bolduan, " Venereal Diseases The Relation of the Public Health 
Authorities to their Control," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, 
no. 10, p. 1087. . . 

Reports of Committee of American Public Health Association. 

1 The Board of Health of Montclair, N. J., has recently adopted the 
following regulation: 

" Every person residing in or working in the Town of Montclair who 
is found to be affected with a venereal disease shall immediately take 
proper treatment for the cure of such disease, or be isolated." 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 239 

PREVENTABLE BLINDNESS 

OPHTHALMIA NEONATORUM 

Ophthalmia neonatorum is a term covering all inflamma- 
tions of the eyes of newborn infants. Such inflammations 
are accompanied by more or less discharge and destruction 
of tissue and may cause permanent and needless blindness. 
In this, gonorrhceal infection at time of birth is the largest 
single factor. There are also other causes of preventable 
blindness e.g., various infections, trachoma, poisonings 
(wood alcohol, excessive use of alcohol or tobacco, lead, 
etc.), accidental injuries, etc. but the following discus- 
sion will be limited to the chief preventable cause: ophthal- 
mia neonatorum. A few remarks will also be devoted to 
trachoma. 

There are 64,000 registered blind persons in the United States. Of 
these about 10 per cent (between six and seven thousand) are blind as 
the result of ophthalmia neonatorum. From 25 to 30 per cent of all the 
blind children in all the blind schools of this country owe their affliction 
to gonorrhoea. It has been estimated that probably one-half of the 
blindness in the world is preventable. 1 

There are no complete statistics on ophthalmia neona- 
torum. It has, however, been ascertained through figures 
collected from physicians that it may occur in eleven cases 
per thousand births. 2 

Transmission. Ophthalmia neonatorum at time of 
birth is usually a gonorrhceal infection contracted from the 
mother. Gonorrhceal and other infection after birth may 
also take place through contact of infected hands, towels, 
etc. If such infections are permitted to develop and con- 
tinue the eyesight is always menaced and frequently de- 
stroyed. 

1 Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 60. 

2 Monograph Series of the Am. Assn. for Conservation of Vision, 
vol. I, no. i. 



240 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Control. Ophthalmia neonatorum is absolutely and 
entirely preventable. The principle of control is to dis- 
infect the eyes of all newborn infants by appropriate 
prophylactic treatment. Even if the inflammation has 
developed it may be checked by proper treatment. 

The following administrative measures should be adopted : 

i. PROPHYLACTIC TREATMENT OF EYES OF THE NEW- 
BORN. The law should provide that at time of birth the 
eyes of all newborn infants be treated with prophylactic 
solution. The physician and midwife should be relieved 
of the uncertainty and responsibility of deciding whether 
or not the treatment is necessary in any given case by being 
required to apply it in all cases. 

The treatment usually recommended is an application of 
silver nitrate solution according to the Crede method. 1 

Health authorities should distribute without charge to 
physicians and midwives small outfits of silver nitrate solu- 
tion with a glass rod or dropper and printed instructions. 2 

1 This consists in dropping into each eye of the newborn infant 
immediately after labor a drop of a I per cent solution of silver nitrate, 
in such manner that the solution comes in contact for one-half minute 
or longer with every portion of the conjunctival sac. C rede's original 
method called for a 2 per cent solution, but this is apt to be irritating 
and the I per cent solution for routine use appears to afford adequate 
prophylaxis. Other silver compounds, such as argyrol (20 to 25 per 
cent), protargol (5 to 10 per cent), or sophol (5 per cent), are said to be 
as effective as silver nitrate and less irritating. A second application 
should never be made during the following twenty-four or thirty-six 
hours, even if slight redness and swelling of the eyelids with mucous 
secretion should follow the first application; repeated applications may 
cause serious inflammation (" silver catarrh "). 

The solution is kept in a dark-colored vial with ground glass stopper, 
having a neck about half an inch in diameter. For the dropping may 
be used a dropper and bulb or a glass rod about six inches long and very 
smooth and round at each end. The silver solution will keep for many 
months, but it is best to renew it about once in six weeks. Outfits 
should be stored in a dark, cool place. 

2 Such prophylactic outfits, together with a circular of instruction 
in detail, are issued to physicians by the health authorities of Massa- 
chusetts, New Jersey, Vermont, Rhode Island, New York, District 
of Columbia, and other states. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 241 

Midwives require careful instruction, in most cases oral, 
and should be supervised to see that they carry out the 
routine prophylaxis properly. 

2. REPORTING OF EYE INFLAMMATION IN INFANTS. - 
All cases of inflammation of the eyes of the newborn ap- 
pearing within one month after birth should be required 
to be reported to the health officer by physicians and mid- 
wives. This requirement enables the health authorities 
to ascertain the extent of the disease and also to ensure 
proper treatment of all cases. If the case is under the care 
of a regular physician, no further steps need be taken un- 
less further information is desired. But if it is not known 
that this is the fact, the case should at once be looked up 
to ascertain the nature of the infection and what treatment, 
if any, is being applied. Cases are sometimes reported 
by midwives in families too poor to engage a physician; 
such cases may properly be referred at once to the town 
poor physician, who may be assisted by the district nursing 
association if- nurse's services are required in the treat- 
ment. 

Diagnosis of the conjunctivitis should be made without 
delay, by microscopic examination of a stained smear of 
the discharge. Such examination may be made by the 
health department bacteriologist. The following advice 
for treatment according to the bacteriological diagnosis is 
given by Rosenau: 

If the inflammation is due to the gonococcus, a 2 per cent silver 
nitrate solution should be used. In certain mild, non-gonorrhceal 
infection 0.5 per cent is usually sufficient. If the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus 
is found, diphtheria antitoxin should be given without delay. If the 
diplococcus is present, a weak solution (i grain to the ounce) of zinc 
sulphate should be instilled frequently. 1 

STATE LEGISLATION. State legislation is highly de- 
sirable. 2 While the aggregate number of cases constitutes 

1 " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 64. 

2 The following provisions of the New Jersey law (as amended in 
1910) may serve as an example of the character of such legislation: 



242 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

a serious problem, the number occurring in any one local 
community may escape observation, with the result that 
measures of control are neglected. 

AUXILIARY MEASURES. The radical, but not the most 
direct and practicable, means of eliminating ophthalmia 
neonatorum is the suppression of gonorrhoea as a venereal 
disease (q.v.). The education of ignorant midwives in 
their duties regarding this disease (as well as in the general 
technique of their profession) is frequently a grave need. 
Finally, the prompt reporting of births, permitting an 
infant hygiene nurse to see infants shortly after birth, is 
essential. 

TRACHOMA 

Trachoma is an infectious granulation of the eyelids, 
communicable by contact. It is a chronic progressive 

1. " That should one or both eyes of an infant become inflamed, 
swollen or reddened, or show any unnatural discharge at any time 
within two weeks after its birth, and no legally-qualified practitioner of 
medicine be in attendance upon the infant at the time, it shall be the 
duty of the midwife, nurse, attendant, or relative having charge of 
such infant to report the fact in writing within six hours, to the local 
board of health. ..." 

2. Local board of health to direct parents or persons having charge 
of such infant to place it immediately in charge of a legally qualified 
physician or (in indigent cases) of the town physician. (In Massa- 
chusetts the board of health " shall take such immediate action as it 
may deem necessary.") 

3. Copies of law to be printed by State health authorities and sup- 
plied to local boards of health, the latter to distribute a copy to every 
physician, midwife, and nurse in their several districts. 

4. Penalty, $50. (Provision should also be made for imprisonment 
in case fine is not paid.) 

5. Date to take effect. 

In Massachusetts, physicians as well as midwives, etc., are required 
to report (Revised Laws, ch. 75, sees. 49, 50).' 

The legislation up to 1911 is summed up by Kerr, " Ophthalmia 
Neonatorum: An Analysis of the Laws and Regulations Relating 
Thereto in Force in the United States," Pub. Health Bull. no. 49, 
U. S. Pub. Health Service, Oct., 1911. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 243 

disease which threatens vision. Although rigidly excluded 
by the immigration service, cases are not infrequently 
found in the United States. It should be reported and 
measures prescribed by the health authorities to prevent 
its extension. It is favored by crowding and personal un- 
cleanliness. Since it is spread by rubbing the eyes with 
infected towels, handkerchiefs, fingers, etc., prophylactic 
measures consist in the avoidance of transferring infection 
in such ways. The patient should have his own towels, 
handkerchiefs, washbasin and the like, and should observe 
personal cleanliness, avoiding such contact as might trans- 
mit the disease. It should be excluded from schools. 

V. MISCELLANEOUS DISEASES 

INFANTILE PARALYSIS 

Infantile paralysis (Acute anterior poliomyelitis) is an 
acute infection of the nervous system affecting partic- 
ularly the spinal cord. The virus is described as consist- 
ing of mrhute globular bodies. The disease is not as yet 
well understood, but great attention has been directed 
to it in recent years on account of the outbreaks which 
have occurred. The partial paralysis from which the 
disease is named persists permanently in many cases. 

Transmission. Of the possible modes, contact, largely 
through carriers, is indicated by the bulk of the evidence. 
It is supposed that the virus is discharged by way of the 
nose and mouth of the patient and enters the system of the 
victim through the upper respiratory mucous membranes. 
Thus the disease would be spread in the same way as diph- 
theria and scarlet fever. There is, it is true, difficulty in 
tracing out chains of cases so developed, and the disease 
does not exhibit the same distinct seasonal distribution 
as those above mentioned ; but such irregularities may well 
be explained by the existence of numbers of carrier cases. 

Some observers have worked on the theory that infan- 



244 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tile paralysis might be an insect-borne disease and have 
reported experiments in which the virus was experimen- 
tally transmitted from monkey to monkey by the bite of 
the stable fly (Stomoxys calcitrans). Others, however, have 
obtained negative results with similar experiments, and 
further trials by two of the first experimenters also re- 
sulted negatively. This leads one to doubt that the fly 
spreads the disease practically at all in nature. 

Other possible sources and modes of infection are also 
subjects of theory. It is possible that distemper of dogs 
is caused by the same infection. 

The practical impossibility, as yet, of detecting and 
dealing with carriers is a great obstacle to control. 

INCIDENCE. Apart from greater recognition, infantile 
paralysis has apparently been on the increase in recent 
years. In the Registration Area in 1911 there occurred 
1060 deaths, which argues the existence of an indefinitely 
greater number of cases. The disease not only attacks 
infants, but older children and (though less frequently) 
adults may contract it. The incidence fluctuates from 
year to year and from place to place. 

Control. Until more is known about the modes of 
transmission, cases should be reported and isolated in the 
usual manner, with disinfection of all discharges from the 
body. Insects should be excluded by screens. For pro- 
phylaxis on the part of the nurse, physician and other per- 
sons possibly exposed to infection, gargles, sprays, and nose 
washes of I per cent peroxide of hydrogen are recommended. 
(Rosenau.) The proper duration of isolation is entirely 
unknown, but it seems wise to keep children at home from 
school for three weeks after recovery from acute symptoms ; 
a longer time would probably be safer. 

As an auxiliary measure the suppression of flies (which 
include the stable fly) should be adopted (see Chapter VI). 
House and street dust should be kept down. " During 
epidemics children should be kept away from public 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 245 

gatherings, prohibited from using public drinking cups and 
special attention given to the diet to prevent gastrointes- 
tinal disorders, for many a case of infantile paralysis starts 
with a digestive upset." (Rosenau.) 

There is great need of further knowledge from epidemi- 
ological study of cases and carriers as well as from labo- 
ratory experimentation. 

CHICKENPOX 

Chickenpox is a mild disease of the class of commu- 
nicable exanthemata (or eruptive diseases). It should be 
made reportable for the reason that it may be confused 
with smallpox. In the presence of smallpox suspicious 
cases of chickenpox should be examined in order to make 
sure they are not smallpox. The differential diagnosis of 
the two diseases is mentioned under the head of Smallpox. 

Children having chickenpox should be reported by the 
health department to the school authorities in order that 
they may be excluded. Chickenpox is subject to home iso- 
lation and disinfection at the will of family and physician. 
No restrictive measures are taken by health authorities. 
The mortality is slight, complications and sequelae rare. 

SEPTIC SORE THROAT 

A milk-borne disease of peculiar interest is "septic sore 
throat," a severe type of tonsillitis which has occurred in a 
number of epidemics. The infection is presumed to be a 
streptococcus infection from human cases, though strepto- 
cocci found in udder inflammations of cows have also been 
suspected. The most conspicuous epidemic in this coun- 
try occurred in Boston and vicinity in 1911 (1400 cases). 
It has been instructively studied by Winslow, 1 who con- 
cludes: "The lesson to be drawn- from the outbreak is that 
even a most carefully supervised milk supply is open to the 

1 Jour. Inf. Dis., 1912, vol. X, no. i, pp. 73-112. 



246 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

danger of grave infection from carrier or unrecognized 
cases of disease. The only real safeguard against such 
catastrophes lies in pasteurization, carried out by the hold- 
ing system and preferably in the final package." 

Cases of septic sore throat should be reportable with the 
name of the milk dealer. Cases should be excluded from 
schools. On epidemics see page 288. 

TETANUS 

While tetanus is today not ordinarily transmitted directly 
from person to person, it is a dangerous infectious dis- 
ease, the germs of which are widely spread in the environ- 
ment, and hence requires notice here. Tetanus is an acute 
and (in the absence of antitoxin treatment) fatal intoxi- 
cation of the nervous system, characterized by muscular 
spasms (hence the popular name "lock-jaw"), and caused 
by the toxin of the tetanus bacillus. 

Tetanus is almost always a wound infection. It may, 
however, gain admittance through contaminated bacterial 
vaccines, antitoxin sera, vaccine virus and other products 
used in human therapy, though since the institution of 
more careful supervision of biological products this rarely 
occurs. Tetanus has in a few cases occurred as a com- 
plication of vaccination, due either to impure virus or 
wound infection. Gelatin may contain tetanus spores, 
and when used for subcutaneous injection as a haemostatic 
should be thoroughly sterilized. "Idiopathic tetanus" is 
the term used when the site of the germ in the system is 
undetected. 

The bacillus is harbored and thought to grow in the 
intestinal tracts of herbivorous animals, notably the horse; 
it passes off in the manure, forms highly resistant spores 1 
and through conveyance by manure, dust, flies, etc., be- 
comes very widely disseminated. It is one of the very few 
infectious diseases, the germs of which exist in considerable 
i See p. 571- 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 247 

numbers for long periods of time in the soil, dirt, dust, etc., 
in the environment. 

1336 deaths from tetanus occurred in the Registration 
Area in 1911. Nearly all of these might have been pre- 
vented had wounds been properly treated or tetanus anti- 
toxin administered in time. 

Control. The prophylaxis of tetanus rests with the 
physician. The first precaution is the proper surgical 
treatment of ivounds. Punctured, lacerated and contused 
wounds are more susceptible than clean-cut or superficial 
wounds, for the reason that the bacillus being a strict 
anaerobe develops only in the absence of air and oxy- 
gen. Even small wounds, by splinters, etc., may develop 
tetanus if conditions are favorable to it. Rough wounds, 
such as those caused by rusty nails and by gunpowder 
explosion, are particularly dangerous. The objects of the 
surgical treatment are to cleanse, or even disinfect the 
wound, and to avoid anaerobic conditions. 

The second precaution is the prophylactic use of tetanus 
antitoxin. This means the prompt administration of a 
small dose at least 1500 units in the case of all sus- 
picious wounds. The promptness of administration is 
important for the reason that once symptoms appear the 
damage is largely done. 1 It may be necessary to repeat 
the dose every ten days or two weeks in order to keep up 
the immunity in case the wound does not heal well. 

The duties of the local health authorities embrace educating 
the public as to the importance of obtaining proper surgical 
treatment of wounds, and supplying and encouraging the 
use of antitoxin (free in the cases of indigent persons). 

1 However, the administration of heroic doses late is sometimes 
successful. " As soon as symptoms appear 20,000 units or more of 
tetanus antitoxin should be introduced directly into the circulation by 
intravenous injection; some antitoxin may also be injected into the 
nerves leading from the wound. In tetanus, as in diphtheria, time is 
the-important element. A few units introduced early are worth more 
than thousands late." (Rosenau.) 



248 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Dangerous Fourth-of-July celebrations should be dis- 
couraged. 1 

GLANDERS 

"Glanders, or farcy, is a widespread communicable 
disease of horses, mules, asses and other animals, and is 
readily communicated to man. In both man and horses 
it is remarkable for its fatality. This disease is charac- 
terized by the formation of inflammatory nodules either 
in the mucous membrane of the nose (glanders) or in the 
skin (farcy)." (Rosenau.) 

The cause of glanders is the Bacillus mallei, which is 
usually communicated from animal to animal or to man 
(occasionally from man to man) through contact infection. 
The germs are shed off in the discharges from mouth and 
nose, and enter the system through the skin or mucous 
membrane. 

The diagnosis of glanders may be made according to any 
one of five methods, the most satisfactory of which is the 
complement fixation (serum) test. 2 Mallein in skilled 
hands is useful, but not accurate in all cases. 

The germ is destroyed by the usual disinfection methods, 
but thorough cleanliness is necessary in order to do away 
with the filth in which it may be embedded. 

Control. The radical measure is the elimination of 
glanders in horses. Frequently the health authorities are 
charged with this responsibility. All cases of glanders in 
beast or man should be promptly reported by veterinary, 
physician or owner of animal. If necessary, provision 

1 Under the leadership of the American Medical Association a 
highly successful campaign has been carried on in recent years against 
the dangerous accidents incident to Fourth-of-July celebrations. Not 
only has there been brought about greater precautionary treatment 
of wounds and prophylactic use of antitoxin, but the occurrence of 
accidents has been diminished through saner methods of celebration. 
This is true preventive work of an important kind. 

2 Described in Bull. 136, Bureau of Animal Industry, Dept. of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 249 

should be made for serum diagnosis. Any animal affected 
with the disease should be at once destroyed and the carcass 
properly disposed of, and the stable should be vacated 
and disinfected (see Appendix A). Suspected animals, 
other animals in the stable and animals which have been 
otherwise exposed should be segregated in a separate stable 
and subjected to the blood serum fixation test; those 
reacting should be destroyed, carcasses properly disposed 
of and stable disinfected. Surveillance of the remaining 
animals, with blood serum tests every three weeks, should 
be continued until the infection has been eliminated. 
Needless to say, each animal under surveillance should be 
isolated, with separate troughs, harness, brushes and other 
utensils. 

In disinfection pay special attention to troughs, water 
buckets, bits, halters and other articles readily infected 
by secretions of nose and mouth. Those handling infected 
animals, carcasses or articles should wear gloves which 
may be destroyed or disinfected and should avoid possible 
infection by nose and mouth. 

Vigorous measures are necessary for the control of 
glanders, which frequently means great pains and expense 
and the destruction of valuable animals, but the authorities 
should not hesitate to proceed firmly and thoroughly. 

Glanders among horses frequently occurs in epidemics, 
during which it is spread by watering troughs, hitching 
posts and other media of contact. It is therefore some- 
times necessary to close all such troughs and to place warn- 
ings on public hitching places. The existence of many 
mild and missed perhaps even carrier cases among 
horses makes the disease difficult to control except by strict 
measures. 

The prevention of infection from a human case of glan- 
ders would consist in disinfection of sputum and dis- 
charges from the nose, and measures to avoid infection of 
other persons by contact. 



250 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ANTHRAX 

Anthrax is another of the diseases which may be trans- 
mitted from animals to man. It is primarily a disease 
of horses, cattle, sheep and other cloven-hoofed animals, 
caused by the Bacillus anthracis. It is known also as 
splenic fever, wool-sorter's disease (anthrax of the lungs), 
and malignant pustule (anthrax of the skin). The follow- 
ing modes of infection may be mentioned: by the skin, 
i.e., through abrasions, etc.; by the lungs, apparently 
through inhalation of spores; by the digestive tract, 
through eating raw or incompletely cooked infected meat; 
ordinary flies may convey the germ to the skin, and the 
disease may be inoculated through the bite of the stable 
fly. Anthrax spores have been found in pastures where 
infected animals have been confined. Persons working 
about the carcasses of slaughtered animals, butchers and 
persons who handle hides and hair of infected animals 
may be infected. Veterinary surgeons may contract 
the disease through accidental infection in autopsies. 
It is a rapidly fatal but fortunately not a common 
disease. 

Control. The control of anthrax is a question of the 
disease in animals. In infected animals the germs exist in 
great numbers in the internal organs, expecially the spleen, 
and in the blood, which turns dark. On being exposed to 
the air the bacilli form highly resistant spores; 1 hence 
great care should be taken to avoid opening any infected 
carcass or letting the blood. Infected carcasses should 
either be burned or be buried to a depth of at least three 
feet so as to avoid soil infection. In large slaughter- 
houses they may be "tanked," i.e., subjected to prolonged 
exposure to steam under pressure. 

Hides, horse-hair and other raw material used in trades 

i See p. 571. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 251 

and liable to contain the infection of the resistant anthrax 
spore should be disinfected before use. 1 

PELLAGRA 

Pellagra is a disease of obscure causation which has 
become prominent of recent years. In 1911, 659 deaths 
were ascribed to it in the Registration Area, and Lavender, 
of the U. S. Public Health Service, estimates that there 
are now between 25,000 and 50,000 pellagrins in the 
United States. 

There are two principal theories as to the causation: 

(1) that it is due to the ingestion of spoiled corn or maize; 

(2) that it is a communicable disease transmitted by the bite 
of an insect. 2 It is on the first of these theories that pre- 
ventive measures looking to corn supplies have been adopted 
in Italy, which is one of the centers of the disease. Ob- 
servers working on the insect theory have brought forward 
evidence tending to convict the Simulium fly, the Stomoxys 
fly (or ordinary stable fly) , the house fly or some species of 
mosquito, which, however, is not conclusive. It has also 
been observed that pellagra is more prevalent where pov- 
erty, uncleanliness, overcrowding and other poor social 
conditions are present. As the result of recent investiga- 
tion, the Thompson-McFadden Pellagra Commission of 

1 The following method is recommended by Pouder (Lancet, London, 
vol. CLXXXI, no. 4601, pp. 1247-1314), as quoted by Rosenau: 

" The dry hides are placed for 24 hours in a " soak " which is made 
to contain I to 2 per cent of formic acid and 0.02 per cent of bichlorid 
of mercury, and then salting them with sodium chlorid. The action 
of the " soak " is to swell up the fibers of the hide by causing them to 
absorb water, the result being that the hide returns to a condition 
closely resembling that in which it was taken from the animal's carcass. 
This permits the bichlorid of mercury to permeate and exert its germ- 
icidal action." 

2 Since the above text was put in print it has been definitely proved 
that pellagra is essentially of dietary origin, being preventable or reme- 
diable by including in the diet suitable proportions of the fresh animal 
and leguminous protein foods. (Goldberger, Jos., " Pellagra: Causation 



252 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital 
has recorded itself as discarding the spoiled maize theory; 
the evidence favoring the theory that the disease is conveyed 
by a blood-sucking insect, very possibly the stable fly. 

Solution of the problem raised by pellagra must be sought 
in the outcome of such researches, as recorded in current 
medical and public health literature and in the proceedings 
of the National Association for Study of Pellagra. 

LEPROSY 

(Lepra) 

Leprosy is occasionally met with in the United States, 
though conditions are unfavorable to its spread in this 
country. It is caused by the Bacillus leprcE and is com- 
municable, though to a less extent than popularly supposed. 
The mode of infection is probably always by direct contact, 
but "prolonged and intimate association with a leper 
ordinarily seems necessary to contract the infection." 
(Rosenau.) 

Leprosy should be reported. Prophylaxis consists in 
cleanliness, care of infected discharges and the usual 
measures to prevent ordinary contact infection. Partic- 
ular attention should be paid to the nasal secretions, which 
at one stage or another become infective in the great ma- 
jority of cases. Some degree of isolation may be neces- 
sary for some cases, though (according to Rosenau) there 
should be, in this country, little objection to giving liberty 
to a careful leper of cleanly habits. Segregation of lepers 
in institutions is the commonly accepted administrative 
measure. The disease is not invariably fatal, but may be 
treated like tuberculosis, which in certain respects it re- 
sembles. 

and a Method of Prevention,'* Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Feb. 12, 1916, 
vol. LXVI, p. 471, and other papers by the same.) This disposes of 
the theories as to communicability. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 253 

Dr. H. W. Hill 1 has pointed out the non-identity of 
modern leprosy and Biblical leprosy, with the statement: 

Modern leprosy should never be called by that name, but always 
designated as lepra; and every effort should be made to point out that 
it is produced by a well-known germ, belonging to the tuberculosis 
group; and is in clinical effect a second cousin, so to speak, of tubercu- 
losis, but much more infectious a disease to be supervised and pre- 
vented from spreading, of course, but calling for no panic-stricken flights 
from its neighborhood and no especial hardships or cruelty to its unfor- 
tunate victims. 

MENTAL DISEASES 

We may here mention the various insanities and psy- 
choses which are chiefly due to syphilis, alcoholism and 
heredity. While this class of disease is not at present 
subject to direct attack by health authorities, it may never- 
theless be said that preventive methods may reduce one 
set of the underlying causes syphilis, typhoid fever 
and other infectious diseases; while sanitation tends to 
improve some of the conditions which favor another 
alcoholism. 

OTHER DISEASES 

Some other diseases which are spread by milk or meat 
are mentioned under the head of Food Supplies. Tropical 
diseases and other diseases of interest chiefly to the para- 
sitologist or quarantine officer are omitted. In case of the 
appearance of a rare communicable disease, local author- 
ities should notify the state and Federal authorities and 
be guided by their advice. 

Industrial poisonings are mentioned under the head of 
Factory Hygiene. 

The control of the drug habit through registration of 
cases and restrictions on the sale of habit-forming drugs 
has recently been taken up by some local health author- 

1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 7, p. 605. 



254 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ities, and was extensively discussed at the 1914 meeting of 
the American Public Health Association. 1 

Progressive health authorities may also interest them- 
selves in the movement for suppression of patent medicines 
and quack frauds which has been ably begun by the 
American Medical Association and the press. 

THE SCHOOLS IN RELATION TO COMMUNI- 
CABLE DISEASE 

School Exclusions. Cases of diphtheria, scarlet fever, 
measles, whooping cough, chickenpox, mumps, etc., should 
be promptly reported by the health office to the school 
authorities (see page 105) in order that the latter may see 
that the rules as to exclusions of children in infected families 
and houses are strictly obeyed. The rules should be made 
by the health authorities (unless there is a system of medical 
inspection in the schools, in which case the medical inspec- 
tor should be consulted) and should be enforced by health 
and educational authorities in cooperation. 

The rules for exclusion adopted vary with different 
authorities, but under each of the principal diseases, in 
previous pages, we have given some indication of the best 
practice. For others the practice may be inferred from the 
nature of the disease. There are a number of minor con- 
tagious affections of children which the health department 
leaves entirely to medical inspectors of schools. 

The same rules should apply to all public, parochial and 
private schools, Sunday schools and other occasions of 
commingling of children. Such rules apply with special 
force to the primary schools, where children mingle inti- 

1 Terry, " Drug Addictions, A Public Health Problem," Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. I, p. 28. Cf. Wilbert and Motter, 
" Digest of Laws and Regulations in Force in the United States relating 
to the Possession, Use, Sale, and Manufacture of Poisons and Habit- 
forming Drugs," Pub. Health Bull. no. 56, U. S. Pub. Health Service, 
1912. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 255 

mately; in the high school there is comparatively little 
association and the rules need not there apply except under 
unusual conditions. 

As to the exclusion of teachers living in infected families, 
each case should be judged on its merits. There is less 
contact between teacher and pupil than between pupils, 
and the restrictions on teachers (except, perhaps, in the 
kindergarten grades, where chances of contact are more 
frequent) need not, therefore, be so strict. If the condi- 
tions are satisfactory, they may be permitted to continue 
at their work. Otherwise, the case may be sent to the 
hospital, or the teacher may live elsewhere during the course 
of the disease. 

Closure of Schools. The question of closing the schools 
in order to check epidemic disease presents itself at times 
to the health authorities, particularly in connection with 
measles. Similar question arises in regard to Sunday 
schools, moving picture theatres, children's parties and 
the like. It is a question not to be lightly decided, for the 
closure of schools means a loss to the community warrant- 
able only by grave reasons. 

The problem is really one as to the role of the schools in 
the propagation of communicable disease. The popular 
idea that the schools are great distributors of disease is 
not clearly confirmed by careful observation and study. 
The chief argument for it is the increase of scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, measles, etc., during the school year, but this 
fact is by no means conclusive, for these diseases all affect 
the respiratory system and we know that all respiratory 
diseases are much more prevalent in the winter season. 
Thus there may be merely a coincidence between the 
school term and the winter season. There is, of course, 
no question but that infection does take place through 
association of children in the schools, but the amount of 
it, as compared with infection through association outside, 
has probably been exaggerated. 



256 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The fact that there are considerable numbers of cases 
in the schools does not necessarily signify that they origi- 
nated there. If there is a school focus of infection it will 
appear in one class-room, one grade or one school, and may 
be dealt with separately by rigid medical inspection (in 
diphtheria, culturing) and exclusion of contacts. Nor 
does the dying-out of an epidemic after school closure neces- 
sarily mean that the latter was the cause of the cessation, 
for epidemics frequently die out of themselves for lack of 
further susceptible human material in their path. Measles, 
for example, recurs in seemingly inevitable waves every 
few years, sweeping through the community in spite of the 
most rigid measures. 

It is in any case bad practice to close schools and keep 
them closed for weeks without any apparent benefit. If 
there is any benefit in school closure it will be noticed 
immediately after the lapse of the incubation period of 
the disease (say two weeks for measles). But experience 
frequently shows that there are other factors than the school 
at work, and that it is useless to keep the latter closed for 
long periods. 

Let us consider the apparent effects of closing school, and 
in doing so observe the important distinction between 
urban and rural conditions. 

I. In urban districts there may be just as many oppor- 
tunities for contact in play in the streets and houses as in 
school perhaps more. Furthermore, the school is the 
only place where medical inspection can be performed, and 
if the school is closed this important means of detecting 
carriers and mild cases is cut off. 

Children associate most closely in their play; hence, ap- 
parently, it is the association rw play occasioned by the 
school, rather than the comparatively small amount of con- 
tact in the classroom, which favors spread of infection. If 
this opportunity for play association be compared with the 
opportunities for such association in homes, streets and 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 257 

elsewhere (for which there is more time when schools are 
closed), it will be seen to constitute but a part of a wider 
problem which is solved only in part often, perhaps, in 
comparatively small part by school closure. (It is as- 
sumed that the opportunities for contact infection in the 
school plant through common drinking cups, roller towels, 
etc. have been so far as possible removed.) 

Many of the best authorities now believe that the reduc- 
tion of opportunities of contact infection in the school 
and careful medical inspection of school-children to detect 
incipient cases rather than school closure are the most 
effective ways of controlling communicable disease even 
when epidemic. In spite of popular clamor, observant city 
health officers are becoming less and less inclined, on the 
whole, to order closure of schools. 

A recent paper 1 sums up the above view in an admirable 
manner. From it the following quotations are taken. 
(In quoting some of the phrases have been combined for 
the sake of concentration.) 

The arguments in favor of closing the schools seem to be based 
chiefly upon tradition and public demand and not upon careful study 
of the manner in which infection is transmitted in and out of schools. . . . 

There is undoubtedly a rise in the curve of incidence of the commoner 
communicable diseases of childhood shortly after the opening of the 
schools in the autumn, and the natural inference is that the opening of 
the schools is the cause of this rise, but a more careful study of the 
curve shows that this is not the fact. 

[As further data tending to diminish the importance attributed to 
the schools, figures are given showing that there are more cases of 
scarlet fever during the years before children enter school than after.] 

In two instances lately [in Newton, Mass.] where the outbreaks 
were due to missed cases which were in the schools for some time before 

1 Curtis, " Shall We Close the Schools During Epidemics?" Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 2, p. 135; see also Chapin, Rpt. 
of Supt. of Health, Providence, R. I., for 1912, pp. 34-41; Roach, 
" The Role of the School in the Spread of Scarlet Fever," Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 6, p. 450; Note regarding English study, 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 4, p. 313; Editorial, Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 3, p. 168. 



258 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

discovery, the first cases found were not children who sat near the in- 
fecting cases nor were they in the same grade, but were those who were 
their playmates and companions out of school. More recently, in an 
outbreak of diphtheria, the cases were similarly infected. ... So far 
as they go these instances seem to show-that infection is not contracted 
in the school-room as frequently as is usually supposed. 

If the schools are closed when an outbreak occurs, the children are 
turned loose from supervision; they mingle freely with one another 
in the streets, on playgrounds and in one another's houses. They are 
enjoying themselves thoroughly and are unwilling to admit that they 
feel ill, lest they be kept at home and prevented from having a good 
time. For this reason they will not say they feel ill until they are 
possibly well advanced and they may be active sources of infection for 
some time before it is discovered that they are ill. . . . 

If the schools are kept open and the children continue in the class- 
rooms as usual, they are under strict observation and examined daily 
by the school physicians, suspicious and infected cases being sent home 
for observation or treatment. ... It seems, therefore, that keeping 
the schools open offers the best chance of safety for the scholars both 
collectively and individually. . . . 

The school physician and nurse should be detailed to the school 
where the outbreak has appeared and instructed to examine every child 
daily, 1 excluding such as appear ill or suspicious. This can be done 
with very little disturbance of the school work. A note must be sent 
to the parent stating that the child seems, or is, ill and must be seen by 
the family physician. Suspicious cases must be ordered to remain at 
home until further notice, and, if necessary, must be visited later in 
order to settle the diagnosis. Absentees must be rounded up and ex- 
amined in order to find out why they have been kept at home. If 
they are ill, they must be isolated, and, if well, urged to return to school. 
... In small cities the school physician can be detailed to the affected 
school during the outbreak, leaving the other schools in his district to 
be covered by one of his colleagues. 

Even if extra help should be required the extra expense incurred will 
be more than offset by the shortening of the duration of the outbreak 
and the lack of disturbance to the schools. 

When the schools are closed certain expenses such as salaries, etc., 
continue without any return and there is also an added economic loss 
from the lessening of the time for instruction, so that the children in 
the affected school or schools are behind others in the same grade in the 
unaffected schools. 

1 Such examinations should be made before the children enter school 
each day. J. S. M. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 259 

[The author then discusses the necessity of persuading school com- 
mittees (when vested with this power) to keep the schools open and of 
inducing parents to keep their children in attendance.] 

2. In rural districts, on the other hand, adequate medi- 
cal inspection is not so readily obtained, while closing the 
schools does operate to scatter the children and hence 
lessen the opportunities of infection. The case here is 
summed up in an editorial in the American Journal of 
Public Health. 1 After remarking that in country districts 
the health officer is commonly a part-time physician whose 
medical practice would make the greatest demands at just 
those times of epidemic when he would be most needed 
as medical inspector, the writer concludes: 

In the 'country the children come to school from widely separated 
homes. They live in little scattered groups whose members should be 
quite free from risk from the outside. The school brings them together. 
At their homes they do not gather in great groups on the streets. The 
situation is radically different from that in the city, and it would seem 
that the greater contact is in the school. 

The rural school would be of less consequence as a focus were a system 
of adequate inspection possible. But here again is a weak spot in rural 
health administration; good school inspection is costly and in the coun- 
try it is difficult to maintain of standard quality. 

Under these circumstances and until the efficiency of rural health 
work can be maintained at a high standard, may it not be well to recog- 
nize a differing environment and allow that schools and churches, even, 
. . . may be closed in times of serious outbreaks as a measure for the 
protection of the people? 

3. The matter may be summed up in saying that in. 
sparsely populated country districts, where the children do 
not associate to any general extent except at school, clo- 
sure may be effective; but that in towns and cities where 
there is certain to be a great deal of association in any 
case, it is of doubtful if of any value. In the latter case, 
taking into account the educational and economic losses 
involved, it would appear, on the above argument, inad- 

1 1914, vol. IV, no. 5, p. 436. 



260 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

visable to close schools, reliance being placed instead on 
careful medical inspection. 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOL-CHILDREN 

Medical inspection systems now exist in many public 
schools and should be universal. Such inspection has 
two objects: (i) the general physical welfare of each child, 
and (2) the detection and exclusion of communicable 
disease. The former object consumes the greater effort 
and expense, but only the latter will concern us for the 
present. 

Detection and Exclusion of Communicable Disease. 
Medical inspection of schools plays an important part in 
that surveillance over childhood which is one of the founda- 
tions of the control of communicable disease. The factors 
in such surveillance are: the parents, the family physician, 
the health authorities, the teacher, the school medical 
inspector and the school nurse. How important is the 
part played by each of these? The parents frequently fail 
to recognize incipient cases of communicable disease in 
their children. The family physician has no opportunity 
to detect such disease unless called by the family; fre- 
quently he is called late or not at all. The health author- 
ities in their turn depend upon official notification from 
physicians. In the school, the teacher may, or, more 
frequently, may not, be able and apt to recognize suspicious 
symptoms in children; her chief concern is for instruction, 
not physical inspection. But the medical inspector is a 
specialist, one of whose principal objects is to detect in- 
cipient or atypical communicable disease; and if he is 
assisted, as he should be, by the school nurse, his effective- 
ness is greatly enhanced. Medical inspection is therefore 
a main barrier against communicable disease. 

The ideal plan is to have the physician visit the school 
in the morning as soon as possible after opening. Sus- 
picious cases have meanwhile been singled out from the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 261 

classes by the school nurse by means of a general inspec- 
tion, and kept in a special room for examination by the 
physician. Such inspections should be performed early, 
so that any excludable cases may be detected before the 
pupils mingle together in classes and play. Teachers 
should receive simple instructions on the early symptoms 
in children. The school nurse "follows up" pupils for 
whom examination by family physician or home treatment 
has been indicated, in order to see that the parents give 
proper attention. Complete medical inspection of each 
pupil is made once a year. Such an ideal plan may not 
be possible in all communities, but should be adopted as 
far as possible. For further details see the references 
below. 

Medical inspectors should be required personally to re- 
port all cases promptly to the health department, using a 
special form for that purpose. 

(For further details and discussion of medical inspection of schools, 
with references, see Chapter II.) 

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND SANITATION 

School Sanitation. The most popular measure for 
restricting communicable disease in schools is room fumi- 
gation. This process is supposed to wipe out all infection 
and gives a sense of security to parents and teachers, which, 
however, we now know is false. It is safe to say most of 
the room fumigation as ordinarily performed in school- 
buildings today is ineffective if not needless. The present 
day science of epidemiology shows that the source of in- 
fection in schools is not the atmosphere of an " infected 
school-room" but the mild and unrecognized cases of com- 
municable disease which spread the disease by contact 
infection among the children. It is a common experience 
to go to great pains and expense to disinfect school-rooms 
only to have fresh cases appear as if no "precautions" had 
been taken. 



262 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The best safeguards are cleanliness and a simple use of 
disinfectants. Things frequently handled or touched 
e.g., door-knobs, railings, gymnastic apparatus, toilet fix- 
tures and the like should be cleansed thoroughly once a 
week and should be gone over each day with a cloth wet 
with formalin solution, coal-tar mixture, or other reliable 
disinfectant. Water-closets should be kept scrupulously 
clean and the seats, door-knobs, chain-pulls, etc., should be 
disinfected daily in the manner just described. If, in spite 
of the cleansing, a deodorant is needed in toilet rooms 
they may be whitewashed or one of the deodorants men- 
tioned on page 591 may be used. 

Dust should be wiped off furniture with damp cloths 
(not feather dusters, which merely move dust without 
removing it). As to the floors, floor-oil is an effective dust- 
eliminant. Black-board chalk should be removed after 
school hours with wet cloths, not erasers. 

Common drinking cups and common towels should be 
absolutely tabooed; sanitary fountains and paper towels 
may be substituted. Instead of the common soap cake, 
liquid soap apparatus may be used. 

Why fumigate desks (which are used by the chil- 
dren individually, not in common) and other furniture 
(which is scarcely touched by the children at all) when 
the amount of infection spread by these is apparently so 
small as to be negligible, and at the same time neglect 
as is frequently the case the real means of common 
contact? 

Instruction in Hygiene. School instruction should not 
only include a course in general hygiene but should dwell 
especially on the means of avoiding contact infection. 
This should begin with the youngest children even in 
kindergarten, where the teachers may inculcate habits of 
personal cleanliness and avoidance of spreading one's 
secretions or taking up those of others. As soon as children 
can read sufficiently well they may be given cards contain- 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 263 

ing simple precepts of the kind illustrated in the following 
example : 1 

REMEMBER THESE THINGS 

Do not spit if you can help it. Never spit on a slate, floor or side- 
walk. 

Do not put the fingers into the mouth. 

Do not pick the nose or wipe the nose on the hand or sleeve. 

Do not wet the fingers in the mouth when turning the leaves of 
books. 

Do not put pencils into the mouth or wet them with the lips. 

Do not put money into the mouth. 

Do not put pins into the mouth. 

Do not put anything 'into the mouth except food and drink. 

Do not swap apple cores, candy, chewing gum, half-eaten food, 
whistles or bean blowers, or anything that is put into the mouth. 

Never cough or sneeze in a person's face. Turn your face to one 
side. 

Keep your face and hands clean; wash the hands with soap and water 
before each meal. 

LIBRARIES 

Epidemiology teaches that the dangers of transmission 
of disease by books are comparatively small. Neverthe- 
less some precautions are advisable. First, cases of com- 
municable disease (and terminations of cases) should be 
reported by the health authorities to the circulating librar- 
ies, public and private. Then books returned from quar- 
antined families should be subjected to disinfection (see 
Appendix A). If they are of little value, and especially 
if they have been handled by the patient, they should be 
burned, preferably without being taken away from the 
house. 

1 Composed by C. V. Chapin, and used in the public schools of 
Providence, R. I. Placards bearing the same text are posted in con- 
spicuous places in the school-rooms. In the public schools of New 
York City jingles on such texts have been printed on cards and circu- 
lated. Such verses doubtless fix themselves more firmly in the minds 
of young children than abstract prose texts. 



264 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

With tuberculosis there is some slight possibility of trans- 
mission by books. Tuberculosis patients need not, how- 
ever, be forbidden to use library books if such books are 
effectively disinfected by the health or library authorities. 
Clean and careful consumptives can probably use books 
without special danger to other persons even without dis- 
infection. 

GENERAL REGULATIONS AGAINST CONTACT INFECTION 

Under the head of contact infection were suggested some of the gen- 
eral modes of infection among the public, involving hand-to-hand and 
hand-to-mouth transmission. We may here mention some of those 
which should be dealt with by sanitary regulation. 

Common Drinking Cups, Roller Towels, etc. 1 The common drink- 
ing cup has long since been convicted as a medium of infection, and 
should be abolished in all public places, as has been done by various 
state and local laws. In its stead may be substituted the automatic 
drinking fountain or individual cups. Paraffined paper cups which 
may be discarded after use -are to be recommended when not too ex- 
pensive. Bubbling fountains should be so designed that it is impossible 
to apply the mouth before the water begins to flow. Ordinances 
should enumerate specifically the places schools, hotels, railroad sta- 
tions, parks, theaters, libraries, churches, municipal buildings, public 
institutions, factories and the like where the regulation is to apply. 
This is most properly a subject for state legislation, for the state author- 
ities alone can properly enforce it in railroad trains and steamboats. 
Local authorities should, however, enforce the state law, or, if necessary, 
pass their own ordinances. Common drinking cups and common towels 
have been abolished by Federal authority in interstate railroad trains, 
and vessels and stations. 

At soda fountains, thorough washing of glasses should be insisted 
upon or paper cups substituted. The washing of glasses in saloons 
is also a matter for inspection. 

The objections to the common drinking cup apply with equal force 
to the common or roller towel, which in addition plays a role in the spread 
of diseases of the eye. Towels used in schools, public lavatories, hotels, 
restaurants, department stores, etc., and the common bar towel, fall 

1 Cf. Kerr and Moll, " Common Drinking Cups and Roller Towels: 
An Analysis of the Laws and Regulations Relating Thereto in Force 
in the United States," Public Health Bulletin no. 57, U. S. Public 
Health Service 1912. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 265 

under this ban. Individual towels which are used only once before 
being washed, or the paper towels which are now supplied at a low cost 
by manufacturers, should be substituted. In this connection it would 
be well to abolish common soap cakes and toilet articles, particularly 
in schools, where the possibilities of contact infection are most to be 
guarded against. Liquid soap apparatus for lavatories may readily 
be substituted. 

Among other possible mediums of contact infection to which atten- 
tion may be drawn though of secondary importance are finger- 
bowls, the forks used in free lunches, cigar-cutters (the cigar being 
moistened with saliva before cutting), lung testers, and suction shuttels 
in textile factories. Milk tickets which are used more than once 
should be forbidden. The possibility of contamination of ice-water 
tanks through unclean methods of handling the ice should not be over- 
looked, nor the contamination of bread and other foods through im- 
proper handling. Various other modes of public or semi-public contact 
infection will suggest themselves. 

Barber Shops. Skin diseases and other affections may be acquired 
in barber shops. No person affected with venereal disease should be 
permitted to act as a barber. The following rules (Ordinance of Mont- 
clair, N. J., Board of Health) indicate the kind of regulation that may 
be applied to barber shops. 

SEC. i. Every barber shop within the Town of shall be 

open to this Board for inspection at any time, and the following 

rules shall be observed therein: 

(a) All barber shops, together with all furniture, shall be kept 
in a clean and sanitary condition. 

(b) Mugs, shaving brushes, razors, scissors, clipping machines, 
pincers, needles and other instruments shall be sterilized, either 
by immersion in boiling water or in alcohol of at least sixty per 
cent strength, after each separate use. Combs and brushes shall 
be thoroughly cleaned with soap and water after each separate 
use. 

(c) Clean towels shall be used for each person. 

(d) Alum, or other material used to stop the flow of blood, shall 
be applied only on a clean towel or other clean cloth. 

The use of powder puffs and sponges is prohibited, except that 
a sponge owned by a customer may be used on him. 

(e) Every barber shall thoroughly cleanse his hands immediately 
before serving each customer. 

(f) Every barber shop shall be well ventilated and provided 
with running hot and cold water. 

(g) No barber shop shall be used as a sleeping room. 



266 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

(/*) A copy of this article shall be kept posted in plain view in 
every barber shop. 

SEC. 2. Any person violating any of the provisions of this 
article shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit and pay a penalty of 
ten dollars for each offense. 
[Provision recently added:] 

No person shall hereafter operate a barber shop until he has 
filed with the Board of Health a certificate signed by a regularly 
licensed physician, who is approved by the Board, that all persons 
who wait upon customers in his establishment have been exam- 
ined by the said physician within 30 days and show no evidence of 
any communicable disease. Such examination shall include any 
tests that the Board may, by resolution, prescribe. Like certifi- 
cates must thereafter be filed every three months on the first days 
of January, April, July and October of each year for examinations 
that have been made of all such persons during the previous 
month, and additional certificates must be filed for all new em- 
ployees as soon as they begin their duties. All certificates must 
be on forms furnished by the Board and must give the name of 
every person examined. [Penalty, $25.] 

Public baths and swimming pools have been suspected of transmitting 
eye affections, typhoid fever and other diseases. They may be dis- 
infected and at the same time rendered sweeter, with a very consider- 
able saving of water which would otherwise have to be changed, by a 
dose daily to weekly of I to ij pounds of bleaching powder (hypochlo- 
rite of lime) per 100,000 gallons. 1 

Some health departments attempt to regulate " rummage sales " 
of old clothes, the stocks of rag-dealers and the like, requiring a so-called 
disinfection of the articles. Efficient disinfection is impossible without 
great trouble and expense, and the modern disproof of the importance 
of fomites infection indicates that the supervision of such matters is, 
in any large view, a waste of time and labor. Better to put more at- 
tention on the real and obvious modes of contact infection. 

EPIDEMIOLOGY 

(The following section is introduced not only for its particular sug- 
gestions in dealing with epidemics, but also for the general indications 
which it gives regarding the various modes of disease transmission.) 

The practical study of the characteristics of epidemics, or, more 
generally speaking, of the modes of transmission of communicable 
diseases, is known as epidemiology. This science, in spite of its some- 
what imposing name, consists simply in the application of common 
1 Hooker, " Chloride of Lime in Sanitation," 1913, p. 29. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 267 

sense, joined with a basic knowledge of the modes of transmission, to 
the problems arising in practical public health work. It is a species of 
scientific detective work. We can here give merely a sketch of the 
methods to be followed. 

TERMS. Any outbreak of communicable disease may be termed 
an epidemic. The following allied terms are also applied to commu- 
nicable disease: 

Endemic. Constantly present in a community to a greater or less 
extent. 

Pandemic. Epidemic over wide areas. 

Prosodemic. Spreading continually from person to person in a 
chainlike fashion (Sedgwick and Winslow). 

Epizootic. Attacking many animals at once; said of diseases 
analogous to epidemic diseases among men. 

These terms may be used substantively as well as adjectively. Thus 
we speak of an " epidemic " or of an " epidemic disease." 

The Prevention of Epidemics. The importance of scientific safe- 
guards against the occurrence of epidemics cannot be overestimated; 
anyone who has surveyed the history of the numerous epidemics which 
have occurred even within recent years is struck with their disastrous 
effects. The cases in individual milk-borne epidemics not infrequently 
run up into the hundreds (or even, as in the instance of typhoid fever 
in Boston, 1908, into four figures) ; hundreds or thousands of preventable 
cases occur every year in communities having polluted water-supplies, 
while the constant succession of contact cases occurring everywhere 
often outweighs even the other two classes. 

Care and watchfulness on the part of the health authorities will pre- 
vent many an epidemic, or at least check it in the beginning. Health 
officers should be familiar with the " normal," 1 or usual, rates of occur- 
rence and distributions of the various communicable diseases. Ob- 
servation shows that in any given community the cases of, say, scarlet 
fever or diphtheria occur each year with considerable regularity as to 
numbers in the various sections of the town and are pretty evenly dis- 
tributed among the schools and on the routes of the various milk dealers 
(taking into account the number of customers served by each). There 
are also important " normal " seasonal distributions. Thus scarlet 
fever, diphtheria and other diseases in which the infection is spread 
through the secretions of the nose, throat and respiratory system, and 
which are contracted through those channels usually show a regular 
increase beginning in September or October, rising to a maximum in 
mid-winter, falling off during the spring, and remaining at a minimum 
during the summer months. Measles, however, is somewhat an excep- 
1 For comment on this term, see p. 501. 



268 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tion in that the winter maximum does not usually occur until late 
winter or early spring. Typhoid fever, in communities where water- 
borne typhoid is eliminated and only the " residual " l remains, has a 
low incidence during the winter months, but gradually rises during the 
summer, its incidence closely following the curve for temperature. 
The curve is smooth and regular, and only in communities having in- 
fected milk and water supplies do there occur marked and irregular 
increases at all seasons of the year. 2 

If the health officer is familiar with such basic considerations and 
keeps a careful watch over the occurrence of cases in his district, he 
will at once note any considerable irregularity which may be the first 
signal of an incipient outbreak. For this purpose the records and charts 
recommended in the early part of the present chapter are adequate, 
though in the larger cities they may be supplemented by special means, 
such as a separate chart for milk dealers, etc. 3 On the " spot map " 
foci of contact infection may readily be detected. Since it is the first 
cases in an epidemic which are of the greatest importance in control, 
the necessity of constant watchfulness to detect such cases is evident. 

INVESTIGATION OF EPIDEMICS 

If an epidemic is recognized to be present, a systematic investiga- 
tion must be made, with the following objects in view: 4 

1. To ascertain whether or not the disease is actually present, and if 
so, whether as a general epidemic or as a local outbreak. 

2. To discover the cause. 

3. To remove the cause. 

4. To prevent further spread of the disease. 

1 See the section on Typhoid Fever. 

2 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene, 1913, p. 79. 

3 Such records should of course be considered with reference to the 
number of customers served by each dealer. The natural chances of 
occurrence of cases on the routes of dealers supplying various numbers 
of customers have been worked out in mathematical form by Carpenter 
(" The Distribution of Cases Among the Several Producers in Epidemics 
of Non-milk-borne Infectious Disease," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, 
vol. II, no. 4, p. 296), indicating the number of cases which might be 
allowed to each of such dealers without suspicion of infection of their 
supplies. 

4 The following remarks are based largely upon Whipple's " Typhoid 
Fever," 1908, Chapter IX, on " The Investigation and Control of 
Typhoid Fever Epidemics." Very much the same principles apply to 
other diseases. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 269 

Collection and Study of Data 

These steps involve first of all the collection of data, for which purpose 
a regular form of history card should be used. The data necessary 
may be obtained in a personal interview in each family where a case 
has been reported, supplemented, if necessary, by information from 
physicians' histories. Needless to say, it is assumed that all cases are 
strictly reported. From the beginning the data are studied with the 
prime object of discovering a common cause. The following remarks 
sketch the procedure in investigating a typhoid fever epidemic, a pro- 
cedure which illustrates in a general way the methods followed in in- 
vestigating other diseases. 

As fast as the data are obtained they should be tabulated and 
studied from various points of view. 

Were the cases generally distributed over the city or were they 
confined to one locality? A convenient method of ascertaining 
this is to take a street map and locate the cases with black-headed 
pins stuck in at the place of residence. This map, with its pins, 
can afterwards be photographed for record. If the cases are 
localized, does the locality suggest anything as to a common 
cause? Is it coincident with some particular water supply, as it 
was in New Haven, or with some milk dealer's territory, as in 
Somerville? Is it located in a section where there are no sewers, 
as in Winnipeg? Is it around some public well, as in Newport? 
Or are the cases merely concentrated in one place because the popu- 
lation is densest there? Does the geographical distribution of the 
cases change as the epidemic progresses? Where were the early 
cases with respect to the others? 

What was the probable date of infection? Was there a sudden, 
sharp attack, or was the onset gradual? If the latter was the 
case, what were the limiting dates of infection? The date of in- 
fection has to be estimated by counting back from the time when 
the patient was taken sick. All things considered, the safest date 
to count from is that of taking bed. Often this cannot be learned, 
especially if the investigation is made sometime afterwards. But 
the date of going to bed is seldom far from the time of the physician's 
first call, and this can usually be obtained from the doctor's mem- 
oranda. If the epidemic is believed to be due to milk, or oysters, 
or some other cause involving an intense form of infection, the prob- 
able date when the patient received the bacilli into his system may 
be obtained by counting back 7 to 10 days; but if a water infection 
is suspected, a period of 10 to 15 days will probably give a better 
estimate. It must be remembered, however, that occasionally 
the period of incubation may be considerably longer than this. 



270 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Sometimes it is necessary to count back from the appearance of 
some particular symptom, and in that case the attending physi- 
cian's advice should be obtained as to whether this occurred in the 
second or third or fourth week of the disease. Sometimes one has 
to figure back from the date of death. That also is something 
about which the attending physician should be consulted. 

Were there any outbreaks of diarrhoea preceding the typhoid 
epidemic? When and among whom did they occur? 

Were most of the cases among young people and children? 
If so, this suggests milk as a cause. Did they all or most of them 
use the same water-supply, or take milk from the same dealer, or 
food from the same source?' 

Had the patients been together anywhere, at business or in 
school, or at some banquet? 

In short, was there any common cause where eating or drinking 
or association might give opportunity for infection? l 

Special Investigation 

In seeking the origin, any possible cause upon which the data clearly 
cast suspicion should be subjected to special investigation in order to 
obtain the confirmatory evidence upon which a positive conclusion can 
be based. Thus, for typhoid fever, the public water supply, if thus 
suspected, may be specially inspected and analyzed for possible pollution, 
likewise private or local water supplies. If a milk supply is suspected 
it may be gone over from farm to consumer, with search for past or 
present cases of suspicious sickness, especially by the use of Widal 
tests applied to all persons in any way concerned in the handling of 
the milk or milk utensils. The milk dealer will usually cooperate 
if there is danger of his business being stopped, though skill and 
tact are necessary to obtain reliable statements as to illnesses. Again, 
a suspected supply of oysters or other shellfish may be investigated. 
Of course such investigations are not made in a general manner at the 
beginning of the inquiry, for such would be a needless waste of energy, 
but only when study of the data points to some particular source of 
infection. Sometimes it so happens that the source of the epidemic is 
located as in some particular milk supply but the original case 
itself cannot be identified on account of insufficiency of evidence. In 
all of this the services of an expert must be relied upon, and the local 
health officer may frequently require the assistance of the state author- 
ities. In fact it is the part of wisdom to call in such assistance at the 
very beginning of the epidemic rather than rely upon the limited famil- 
iarity with epidemiology which the local health officer usually possesses. 
1 Whipple, op. cit., pp. 219-221. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 271 

Removing the Cause Checking the Epidemic 

The cause having been discovered, it remains to remove it. If it 
be a well or other private water supply, it may be at once permanently 
closed. If the public supply, then it may be scientifically disinfected 
(see page 412), this being the best temporary expedient. Otherwise, it 
may be necessary to publish notices to " boil the water," or to furnish 
a pure supply by house-to-house delivery. Then steps should be taken 
to .provide a permanent remedy through purification or substitution 
of the public supply. A water-borne epidemic may bring out the 
difference between contamination, or pollution, and infection. A water 
supply may be polluted even for years without apparent evil results, 
but just as soon as infection gains entrance with the pollution the weak 
spot becomes disastrously apparent. 

If it is a milk supply that is infected, it should be stopped until and 
unless it be rendered safe. Safety can be obtained only by removal 
or complete isolation of the case and sterilization, under the supervision 
of the health authorities, of all utensils used in connection with the 
milk. No person who has had the disease or whose blood shows a posi- 
tive Widal should be permitted to take part in the business until re- 
peated examinations of stools and urine are negative (see section on 
typhoid fever). As a temporary expedient to permit the continued 
sale of the milk pasteurization, provided it is efficient, may be allowed. 
In this the possibility of the infection of the milk through contaminated 
bottles or utensils must not be forgotten, hence equal care must be taken 
in the sterilization of these and in the methods of operation. It may 
happen that bottles and utensils are infected in handling or through 
washing in an impure water supply, and bottles may be infected (as 
has happened in a number of epidemics) at the houses of customers. 
The permanent remedy is the sterilization of all milk bottles and utensils 
and the pasteurization of all milk. 

If the epidemic is extensive it may be necessary to arrange for special 
services for the sick in the shape of extra physicians and nurses and per- 
haps to establish a temporary hospital, for the hospital plays an im- 
portant part in preventing the contact infection which is favored by 
poor home conditions. Cheap and effective disinfectants should be 
distributed free or at cost and their use described and insisted upon. 
Facilities for making blood tests should be provided. And all cases 
should be promptly and thoroughly isolated as described under the 
section on typhoid fever. 

Through it all, a " safe and sane policy " should be consistently 
pursued. A community afflicted with an ... epidemic is some- 
times almost panic-stricken. Correspondents may fill the public 
press with their theories, and many foolish things may be said and 



272 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

done. What is needed is a strong central authority that for a time 
can exercise almost autocratic power, and a government and a 
public opinion that will uphold such authority, and provide all 
necessary resources. Fortunate, indeed, is the city that has a 
health officer or health department equipped for such an emergency 
and a government that will rise to the occasion. 1 
It may be added that care should be taken not to leap to premature 
conclusions as to the source of an epidemic. The usual procedure is a 
course of elimination. Thus if the cases are clearly localized and the 
general water supply is evidently not responsible, then this fact may be 
publicly announced, while the investigation goes forward in other direc- 
tions. Again, if the cases are distributed pro rata among various milk 
dealers and it is certain that there is no common milk supply involved, 
then this fact may be given out. Such elimination plays an important 
part, not only in the investigation but also in calming the public mind. 

Prevention of Future Outbreaks 

When the source of the epidemic has been discovered and the situation 
has been brought under control, the investigation may be rounded out 
by the collection of data which will have a practical bearing in prevent- 
ing future outbreaks, through improving and safeguarding water sup- 
plies, obtaining increased funds and better methods for sanitary control, 
and the like. Sometimes useful data may be collected to show the 
financial damage produced by the epidemic. Thus the Pittsburgh Sur- 
vey (1908) 2 as the result of its researches estimated the average cost 
in medical attendance, loss of work, etc., for each case as $125, and 
$2200 for the fatal cases. The computable value of prevention is illus- 
trated specifically by the following statement bearing on the purification 
of public water supplies: 

The filtration of a polluted public water supply increases to a 
very great extent the vital assets of a Community, and the increase 
in most cases is many times greater than the cost of constructing 
and operating the works. ... [In Albany, N. Y., for example] 
the increased worth of the water . . . amounts to $475,000 per 
year, of which at least $350,000 may be considered as a real increase 
in the vital assets of the city. 3 

A similar argument might well be made out for the pasteurization of 
milk supplies or any other sanitary measure. All such expenditures, 
constitute truly, as Whipple remarks, a kind of community life insurance. 

1 Whipple, op. cit., p. 226. 

2 See Whipple, op. cit., Appendix XIV, also p. 275. 

3 Whipple, op. cit., p. 280 f. Cf. " The Value of Pure Water," by 
the same author. 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 273 

TYPES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF INFECTION 

The health official should have a knowledge of the various types of 
infection. The following is a sketch of some of the more important 
points, arranged according to the modes of transmission: 

Contact. Practically any of the communicable diseases, with the 
exception of those which have an intermediary host, may be spread by 
contact. 1 The characteristic of contact infection is its straggling 
appearance. Most of the endemic diseases show this clearly, e.g., 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, and typhoid fever. To the constant chain 
of cases of these diseases which are practically always to a greater or 
less extent present in the community Sedgwick and Winslow have ap- 
plied the term " prosodemic " (" proceeding through the community "). 
The principal means of this infection are " food, fingers and flies," 
all of which in this connection rank as varieties of contact infection. 
When a disease is spread from person to person rather than through a 
common medium affecting large numbers of people at once its progress 
is ordinarily more gradual but more difficult to control. Fairly dis- 
tinct contact epidemics may, however, occur (see under Examples, 
below). 

Water. The chief diseases transmitted by water are typhoid fever, 
gastrointestinal diseases and Asiatic cholera. Epidernics are usually 
gradual in onset and in decline. If there is simply a single infection of 
a water supply which quickly ceases, the cases will gradually rise to a 
maximum and then slowly decline. But if the supply is subject to 
continual infection the number of cases will tend to stay up, with fluc- 
tuations according to the amounts of infecting material present from 
time to time. A small, continued amount of infection may, however, 
produce the same sort of effect as contact infection, the cases appearing 
in a straggling succession. Water-borne typhoid fever epidemics are 
frequently preceded by a premonitory outbreak of cases of gastro- 
intestinal disease (the incubation of the latter being shorter); of this, 
unfortunately, the public health authorities usually have little or no 
information, though it has been aptly suggested that cases of such 
sickness should be made reportable. 

Milk. The chief diseases transmitted through milk are typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, septic sore throat and tuberculosis (the 
last is taken up elsewhere and need not be considered here). Milk 
epidemics are usually, though not always, characterized by suddenness 
of onset. This is explained by the fact that the dose of infection may 
be relatively greater than in water supplies but especially that, milk 
being an excellent culture medium, the germs may multiply greatly in 

1 For definition and discussion see p. 113. 



274 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

it. The relatively high prevalence among the milk-drinking portion 
of the population viz., children though not invariably well 
marked, is also characteristic of milk-borne epidemics. 

Insects. Infection by flies and other insects which carry infecting 
material in a mechanical manner does not produce marked or wide- 
spread epidemics except under extraordinary circumstances (page 190 f.). 
The relative amount of such infection is uncertain. Cases would ap- 
pear according to the prevalence of the insects and the opportunities 
for infection; thus a part of the increase in typhoid fever during the 
warmer months is doubtless due to infection by flies. A similar prin- 
ciple applies to malaria and yellow fever, in which the insect (the mos- 
quito) acts as intermediate host of the parasite. These diseases occur 
according to the prevalence of anopheles and aides (or stegomyitt) mos- 
quitoes respectively, and according to the opportunities for them to 
become infected from malaria and yellow fever patients and carriers. 

Primary and Secondary Cases. Distinction should be made between 
" primary cases " (those due directly to the original source of the 
epidemic) and " secondary cases " (those contracted from the primary 
cases in the course of the epidemic or shortly after it). Secondary 
cases are sometimes called " contact cases," contact being the usual 
mode of secondary infection. In epidemics due primarily to water, 
milk, etc., secondary cases should be guarded against, and in report- 
ing epidemics should be included under a separate head. 

Epidemic Curve. As implied above, the character of the epidemic 
curve when the cases are arranged and plotted in order of time varies. 
Thus there is the explosive type (frequent in milk-borne epidemics) 
and the wave-like type, in which the incidence of cases rises gradually 
to a maximum and gradually declines (frequent in water-borne infec- 
tion), as well as the straggling appearance of cases which is character- 
istic of contact infection. The types are thus roughly associated with 
certain modes of infection; the associations are, however, not at all 
invariable. 

Carriers, Missed Cases, Incipient Cases. These important classes 
of cases have been dwelt upon in previous pages. They have, within a 
few years, been shown greatly to aggravate problems of control and to 
add an entire new chapter to epidemiology, revolutionizing our views in 
important respects. A long list might be compiled of epidemics of ty- 
phoid fever and diphtheria due to carriers, a list which would be longer 
and no doubt include other diseases if our knowledge of causes and modes 
of transmission were more extensive. The study of every epidemic 
should include a careful consideration of the possibilities of the activity 
of this class of cases. Even when an epidemic is not due to a carrier or 
missed case the probability often the certainty of the presence 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 275 

of such cases after the epidemic is under way should be taken into ac- 
count. Unfortunately, except (chiefly) for typhoid fever and diph- 
theria, we have no means of laboratory diagnosis for such cases. 

EXAMPLES OF EPIDEMICS 

No attempt can here be made to sum up the large literature dealing 
with the details of the various recorded epidemics of different kinds. 
The following examples, while more or less typical, merely illustrate 
some of the general principles. It must not be supposed that all epi- 
demics follow just the same course. The details of each require in- 
dividual study, for all the text-book points are frequently not present 
and the investigator must be on the alert for the atypical and unex- 
pected. 1 We are not dealing here with hard and fast effects, but with 
the varied phenomena arising from the interaction of many different 
factors. 

Contact Infection (Typhoid Fever) 

The following extract is from the report of Prof. William T. Sedg- 
wick on an epidemic of typhoid fever at Bondsville, Massachusetts, 
1892, which was one of the first to direct attention to the importance 
of contact (at that time called " secondary ") infection. 2 This account, 
though written over twenty years ago, illustrates clearly what may 
readily occur today in any community where ordinary unsanitary 
privies and unclean habits of living exist. After remarking upon the 
well-water and tap-water theories which the investigator found popu- 
larly current on his arrival, he goes on to say: 

Consideration of Water Supplies 

It very soon appeared that the cases were by no means syn- 
chronous, but showed a peculiar and interesting succession. At 
the same time other serious objections to any theory of water in- 
fection began to appear. In the first place, the tap-water theory 
was untenable, because (i) although this water was supplied only 

1 For example, in an epidemic of milk-borne typhoid fever investi- 
gated by the writer in Essex County, N. J., spread by the medium of 
infected milk bottles, it was noteworthy that the typical explosive 
incidence did not occur, for the cases straggled along in much the same 
manner as contact cases; neither was there the typical incidence among 
children, for out of 24 cases there was only one case under 15 years 
of age. Moreover a number of the cases were mild and clinically atyp- 
ical. (Proceedings 4th Ann. Conf. State and Local Bds. of Health of 
N. J., 1913, p. 38.) Such atypicalness is not at all infrequent. 

8 24th Ann. Rpt. State Board of Health of Mass., 1892. 



276 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

to the small district in which the fever appeared, and to the bleach- 
ery (as may be seen by following upon the map the broken line 
coming from left on Front Street), and was therefore curiously 
connected with the infected houses, it was plain that but little if 
any of it had been used for drinking, on account of the prejudice 
against it referred to above; and (2) because many of the tene- 
ments supplied with it, as well as the very populous boarding- 
house, had been entirely exempt from the fever. So, also, was it 
with the well-water theory; for, while at first this looked ex- 
tremely plausible, it was difficult to see, first, how, if the well had 
been really infected, more cases had not developed, for it was used 
by everybody; and, second, if it were really infected, why the 
cases were so strangely successive and not simultaneous. Be- 
sides all this, opposed to both theories, was the fact that there 
was absolutely no evidence of any specific contamination of either 
tap water or well water in either the near or the remote past. 
When, therefore, the bacteriological and chemical examinations 
revealed the fact that both waters were, considering the circum- 
stances, remarkably pure, both theories of water infection neces- 
sarily fell to the ground. 

Consideration of Milk Supplies 

I next made a careful study of the milk supply, which showed 
that the infected families had several different milkmen. Here, 
also, the remarkable succession of the cases was a serious objec- 
tion to the theory, and, finally, the milk theory also, being entirely 
unsupported by any evidence, had to be abandoned. 

Contact Infection 1 the Apparent Solution 

In the course of the investigation I had already observed some 
striking examples of the possible methods of secondary infection 
in the tenement containing cases 9, 12, 15, 16. Some of the other 
cases were also plainly secondary, and I therefore made a careful 
study of the dates of the several cases and of the local sanitary 
conditions. As a result I was finally forced to conclude that from 
one imported case, favored by the peculiar constitution of the 
little community and its habits, the fever had slowly spread by 
secondary infection, until it finally reached Front Street. The 
following table will show the succession of cases, and, if this be 
read in connection with their location upon the map, it may serve 

1 The term " secondary infection," as used in this account, is syn- 
onymous with " contact infection." 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 



277 



as an unusually clear and interesting example of the growth of an 
epidemic of typhoid fever apparently due to secondary infection. 
It is noteworthy that many of the patients were children. 



Number of the 
case 


Date of the 
case 


Number of the 
case 


Date of the 
case 


I 


Aug. 1-5 


13 


Aug. 30 


2 


II 


14 


Sept. 3 


3 


13 


15 


4 


4 


J 3 


16 


7 


5 


14 


i? 


12 


6 


15 


18 


H 


7 


16 


J 9 


IS 


8 


16 


20 


16 (?) 


9 


20 


21 


20 


10 


24 


22 


27 


ii 


26 


23 


29 (?) 


12 


27 


24 


30 



How Contact Infection Occurs 

The " date of the case " was, as usual, either the date " of 
going to bed," or, more often, of the " physician's first visit." 
Some of the victims were French, some Irish; all or nearly all 
went to the same school and attended the same church. The 
adults of the two nationalities in this little community live in 
friendly, but not intimate, relations; the children, on the other 
hand, play constantly together, and wander freely from house to 
house; they are at home in all of the houses in which there are 
any children. On High and Maple streets live about one hundred 
and fifty people. Children abound; and, as there are no fences, 
and because it is the custom, they mingle freely, playing together 
and passing from house to house. The families are of that grade 
in which food always stands upon the table; meals are irregular 
except for those who must obey the factory bell. The children 
play awhile, then visit the privies, and with unwashed hands finger 
the food upon the table. Then they eat awhile, and return to play. 
Or, changing the order of things, they play in the dirt and eat 
and run to the privy, then eat, play and eat again, and this in 
various houses and in various privies. For them, so long as they 
are friendly, all things are common dirt, dinners and privies; 
and, to illustrate how secondary infection may go on, I may de- 
scribe in detail one case which I personally witnessed. A whole 
family (of six or more) was in one room. Four of them had the 
" fever." Two of these were children in the prodromal stage. 



278 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

A table stood by the window covered with food, prominent among 
which was a big piece of cake. It was early September, and a 
very warm day; but every window was shut and the odor was 
sickening. Flies innumerable buzzed about, resting, now on the 
sick people, now on the food. A kind-hearted neighbor was tend- 
ing the baby. By and by one of the children having the fever 
withdrew to the privy probably suffering with diarrhoea, but 
soon returning, slouched over to the food, drove away some of the 
flies and fingered the cake listlessly, finally breaking off a piece 
but not eating it. Stirred by this example, another child slid 
from his seat in a half-stupid way, moved to the table, and, taking 
the same cake in both hands, bit off a piece and swallowed it. 
The first boy had not washed his hands, and if the second boy 
suffered from secondary infection, I could not wonder at it. 

This was one case; but I have seen so often the table of food 
standing, hours long in the kitchen and serving as one station in 
the dirty round of lives like these, that it is easy for me to under- 
stand how dirt, diarrhoea and dinner too often get sadly confused. 
Personal filth is apparently the principal agent of secondary infection. 

Thus far I have not even touched upon one feature of the life 
of this little community, which deserves careful consideration. 
There was for most or all of these houses a sewer connection for 
the sinks but not for the privies. Much, perhaps most, of the garb- 
age found its way into the privies. ' These had been obviously in 
bad condition, and, from some, filthy streams ran down between 
them and the houses. In and around these streams the children 
played. Given any original imported case, the infection might 
easily have reached these trickling streams. Children's fingers 
might thence carry the germs to the food, and thus the journey 
of the germs from one living intestine to another be completed. 
Or, again, given in such a community an imported case and no 
disinfection, as was the condition here at first. The importer 
while in the early stages handles with unclean hands food for 
others; or the clothing of such a person gets infected and is handled; 
there need be then no difficulty in completing the history. It 
follows as a matter of course. 

Water-borne Typhoid Fever 

(Plymouth, Pa.} 1 

Original reference to this epidemic: 1st Ann. Rpt. State Board of 
Health and Vital Statistics of Pennsylvania, 1886, pp. 176-195. 

1 From Whipple's " Typhoid Fever," 1908, pp. 136-140. This work 
contains accounts of typhoid epidemics of all the various types. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 279 

Among the typhoid fever epidemics which have occurred in 
America that at Plymouth, Pa., deserves first mention, partly for 
the reason that it was one of the first large epidemics where the 
cause was definitely ascertained, and partly because of the influ- 
ence which the lessons taught by it have had on sanitary science 
in this country. 

The epidemic occurred in the spring of 1885. Plymouth at 
that time was a mining town of about 8000 inhabitants. It had 
a public water-supply derived from a stream which drained an 
almost uninhabited water-shed, and the water was stored in a 
series of four small reservoirs. The highest of these reservoirs 
had a capacity of 5,000,000 gallons; the next, 3,000,000; the next, 
1,700,000; and the lowest, nearest the city and used as a distribut- 
ing reservoir, 300,000 gallons. This water-supply, though appar- 
ently satisfactory in quality, was not sufficient at all times for the 
needs of the city, and occasionally it was necessary to supplement 
it by pumping from the Susquehanna River. Well waters were 
also used by some of the inhabitants. As it turned out, neither the 
well water nor the polluted Susquehanna water played any part 
in the epidemic, which, through the efforts of Dr. L. H. Taylor of 
Wilkesbarre, and others, was found to have been caused by the 
" pure mountain stream " supply of the Plymouth Water Com- 
pany. 

It is unnecessary to follow here all the steps by which the epi- 
demic was traced to its origin; it will be simpler to recite the perti- 
nent events chronologically, and this will also indicate more clearly 
the relation between cause and effect. 

The Original Case 

In an open clearing near the banks of the stream and just below 
the upper reservoir, there existed one of the few houses on the 
water-shed. The man who occupied this house went to Philadel- 
phia on Dec. 24, 1884, and on Jan. 2, 1885, returned home ill 
with typhoid fever. It was a severe case. The patient was in 
bed for many weeks. By the first of March he was convalescent, 
but a relapse occurred, and it was the middle of April before the 
physician's visits were discontinued. " During the course of his 
illness, his night dejecta were thrown without disinfection upon 
the snow and frozen ground, toward and within a few feet of the 
edge of the high bank which sloped precipitously down to the 
stream supplying the town with water. . . . The dejecta passed 
during the day were emptied into a privy a little farther back, 
the contents of which lay almost upon the surface of the ground, 



280 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

so that at the first thaw or rain they too would pass down the 
sloping bank and into the stream." 

Until the latter part of March the ground remained frozen and 
covered with snow, and under these conditions it is improbable 
that the dejecta reached the water of the stream. But during the 
last week in March there was a thaw, the air temperature increased 
rapidly until, on April 4, the maximum was 70 degrees. During 
these few days of warm weather the accumulated dejecta of many 
weeks probably found their way into the stream which supplied 
the town with water. 

Infection of Public Water Supply 

On the evening of March 26, the superintendent of the water 
company visited the reservoirs and found that the two lower ones 
were almost empty, while the one just below the house where the 
typhoid patient lived was filling rapidly. He found, however, 
that the short pipe which allowed the water to discharge from the 
bottom of this reservoir into the stream leading to the reservoir 
below it was frozen, and he caused a fire to be built to melt the ice 
in the pipe. This done, the water flowed from the bottom of this 
reservoir down through the two reservoirs below it, and thence 
into the town, where in all probability it first arrived some time 
between March 28 and April 4 or 5 that is, from two days to a 
week after it was let down from the third reservoir. 

Magnitude and Lessons of the Epidemic 

The first case of typhoid fever in the town occurred on April 9, 
and from this time on the disease spread rapidly. During the 
week beginning April 12, from 50 to 100 new cases appeared daily, 
and it is said that on one day 200 new cases were reported. All 
classes of people were attacked in all parts of the town, until, 
before the epidemic ceased, out of the 8000 inhabitants, 1104 con- 
tracted the disease, and 114 died. 

This epidemic, as Dr. Taylor said in his report, " was one of the 
most remarkable ones in the history of typhoid fever, and taught 
important lessons, though at a fearful cost. One is, that in any 
case of typhoid fever, no matter how mild, or how far removed 
from the haunts of men, the greatest possible care should be exer- 
cised in thoroughly disinfecting the poisonous stools. The origin 
of all this sorrow and desolation occurred miles away on the moun- 
tain side, far removed from the populous town, and in a solitary 
house situated upon the banks of a swift-running stream. The 
attending physician did not know that this stream supplied the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 281 

reservoirs with drinking-water. Here, if at any place, it might 
seem excusable to take less than ordinary precautions; but the 
sequel shows that in every case the most rigid attention to detail 
in destroying these poisonous germs should be enjoined upon 
nurses and others in charge of typhoid fever patients, while the 
history of this epidemic will but add another to the list of such 
histories which should serve to impress medical men, at least, with 
the great necessity for perfect cleanliness a lesson which man- 
kind at large is slow to learn." 

The epidemic is interesting to bacteriologists from the fact that 
it throws some light upon the ability of the typhoid bacillus to sur- 
vive the apparently unfavorable conditions of winter. Some of the 
bacilli at least must have lived and retained their virulence in the 
frozen fecal matter for many weeks. 

The financial loss in this epidemic has been estimated at more than 
half a million dollars. 1 

Milk-borne Scarlet Fever 

(Norwalk, Conn.) 2 

In November, 1897, an unusual number of cases of scarlet fever 
occurred in Norwalk. Population of Norwalk, South Norwalk 
and East Norwalk, 22,000. Previous to October 25 scarlet fever 
had been reported as follows: August, no cases; September, 5 
cases; October 10, one case. The source of infection in most of 
these cases had been traced. 

Number and Distribution of Cases 

Between October 25 and November 9, 29 cases developed. The 
29 cases were distributed in 25 families and 24 houses. School 
infection was eliminated. Many cases did not attend school, and 
some were in families where they had no school children. The 
cases were widely separated; 17 of the infected houses were in 
South Norwalk, 3 in Norwalk and 4 in East Norwalk. The 
families were of different social positions and contact-infection 
seemed improbable. The only factor in common to practically 
all of the cases was the milk supply. Twenty-seven out of the 29 

1 Dr. M. S. French, quoted by Sedgwick in " Sanitary Science and 
Public Health." 

2 Account and diagram taken from Trask, in " Milk and Its Rela- 
tion to the Public Health," Bull. 56, Hyg. Lab. of U. S. Public Health 
Service, 1909, pp. 33, 34. Original reference: Smith (Herbert E.), 
Rpt. Connecticut State Board of Health, 1897, p. 259. 



282 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

obtained milk from one dealer, H. The other two were in one 
family in East Norwalk; they were a girl of 12 and a boy of 9 
years, and were taken ill on November 7 and 9, respectively. 
They had no connection with the milk route, nor could their in- 
fection be traced to any source. 

The estimated daily supply of milk in Norwalk was 3500 quarts. 
Dealer H furnished 450 quarts, or about one-eighth of the whole, 
whereas he had twenty-seven twenty-ninths of the scarlet fever 
cases on his route. 

How Milk Became Infected 

\ 

H bought his milk from three producers. There were no cases 
of disease in the family of the milk dealer nor in those of two of 
the producers, A and B, but on the third producing farm, K, a 
case of scarlet fever was found. This farm was in the Bald Hill 
district. The district school had opened September 7 with a 
registration of 23 pupils. On September 20 one of the pupils fell 
ill with scarlet fever; other cases followed, and the school was 
closed October 19. In all there were 20 cases, all in school children 
or in those coming in contact with them. Two of the above cases, 
living near farm K, were exceedingly mild and frequently visited 
and played at this farm with K's son, a lad of 4 years. This son 
broke out with a scarlatinous rash October 24. 

Milk from this farm was carted to Norwalk and all of it sold to, 
and. delivered by, dealer H, who placed the cans of milk from K 
in his wagons with that from the other two producers, A and B. 
No attempt was made to keep the cans separate, and, therefore, 
one day part of his customers might receive K's milk and the next 
day it would be delivered to others. H supplied about 300 families, 
of which 24 were invaded. The sale of this milk was stopped 
November 7. The number of cases and the dates on which they 



EXPLANATION OF CHART 3 

A, B and K are dairy farms selling their product to retail milk dealer 
H. K is the farm on which a case of scarlet fever occurred antedating 
the outbreak in Norwalk. 

The large square TOWN represents the city of Norwalk. 

H is the retail milk dealer among whose customers all cases but two 
occurred. The dash lines represent H's milk route, and each dot is a 
case of scarlet fever. 

C, D, E, F, G, I and J are other dairymen having routes in Norwalk. 
The lines extending from them into the city represent their milk routes 
and are introduced to show their freedom from the disease. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 



283 






W 



CHART 3. 
(From Trask) 

Showing Relation of Milk Routes to Scarlet Fever Cases During Out- 
break at Norwalk, Conn., 1897. (For explanation see p. 282.) 



284 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

occurred would indicate that the milk was not continuously in- 
fected. During the outbreak several cases of sore throat occurred 
among users of H's milk, which may possibly have had some 
casual relation to the infectious milk. [ See Chart 3.] 

It would seem that cases of scarlet fever belonging to the school 
outbreak and visiting the dairy farm, and possibly also the boy on 
the farm, infected from his playmates, were the source or sources 
rendering the milk infective. The relation here of the two out- 
breaks is of interest, the one spread by school contact being the 
original source of the milk epidemic. 

Shellfish Infection (Typhoid Fever) 

The chief example of an epidemic due to infected shellfish is that 
of Middletown, Conn. Between October 20 and November 9 there 
occurred among persons connected with Wesleyan University at 
Middletown 25 cases of typhoid fever, 4 of which proved fatal. The 
epidemic was investigated by Dr. H. W. Conn, who found that the 
persons in question had taken part in banquets held October 12, where 
the only article of food common to the cases was oysters taken from a 
certain source. On tracing these oysters back it was found that they 
had been " floated " (i.e., placed to fatten in brackish water) in the 
water of a sewage-polluted estuary. It was therefore concluded that 
this was the source of the epidemic. It was estimated that 25 per cent 
of those who partook of the dinners were made ill with typhoid fever 
or intestinal disorder. 1 

Milk-borne Infection Due to a Carrier (Typhoid Fever) 

(New York City) 2 

Early in February, 1910, our attention was arrested by the fact 
that on one day nine cases of typhoid fever were reported from a 

1 See Whipple, " Typhoid Fever," 1908. 

2 Bolduan and Noble, " A Localized Outbreak of Typhoid Fever 
Traced to Milk Infected by a Bacillus Carrier; also a Case of Labora- 
tory Typhoid Fever Contracted from the Cultures," N. Y. Med. Jour., 
1912 (reprint of Dept. of Health of the City of New York). (Italics 
are those of present author.) Cf. account by same authors: " A 
Typhoid Bacillus-Carrier of Forty-Six Years' Standing, and a Large 
Outbreak of Milk-borne Typhoid Fever Traced to This Source," Jour. 
Am. Med. Assn., Jan. 6, 1912, vol. Iviii, pp. 7-9 (reprinted by N. Y. 
City Dept. of Health) 1 ; also H. W. Hill, " All the Typhoid of a Com- 
munity for Five Years from a Carrier through Milk," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 8, p. 667. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 285 

small district on the upper West Side (Borough of Manhattan). 
Four of the cases were in I49th Street, two in I22nd Street and 
the rest in the section between. The following day six additional 
cases were reported from this district, and after this, for several 
weeks, each day brought more cases to light. Careful investi- 
gations were at once instituted and these showed: 

1. That the outbreak was confined to a comparatively small 
part of the city. 

2. That practically all of the patients had been supplied with 
milk from one particular milk company. 

3. That with the exception of the municipal water supply, no 
other factor than milk was common to all of the cases. 

4. That the date of onset in most of the cases was the last week 
in January. 

The localized character of the outbreak at once excluded the 
water supply as the source of the infection. The milk in question 
was supplied by one of the large milk companies, and was almost 
all obtained in the northern part of New York State in the vicinity 
of Lake Champlain and from the adjacent part of Vermont. All 
this milk was bottled in the country and was raw milk. Several 
inspectors were at once ordered by telegraph to investigate the 
various creameries which had shipped milk to the infected district 
during January, and it was found that in P , where one of 
the creameries was located, a series of six cases of typhoid fever 
had suddenly appeared practically simultaneously with the cases 
being studied in New York City. 

Meanwhile additional cases were being reported in the city from 
the district mentioned on the upper West Side, and almost all the 
patients were found to be users of the suspected milk. The few 
exceptions proved, in one or two instances, to be cases incorrectly 
diagnosticated as typhoid fever, in other instances cases contracted 
out of town. It is probable that some of the later cases were 
secondarily infected, though no connection with previous cases 
could be discovered. The total number of cases belonging to the 
outbreak was forty-four. 

It is well known that in outbreaks of typhoid fever due to milk 

infections a large proportion of children are attacked. This was 

true of the present outbreak, as can be seen from the following 

table showing the age distribution of the cases: 

5 years and under s'to 10 10 to 15 15 to 20 20 to 25 25 to 30 Over 30 Total 

6 6 4 8 ii 4 5 44 

Plotting the dates of onset in the form of a curve, as has been 
done in the chart, we get the impression that the infecting agent 



286 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

operated several times. While we have been unable to prove that 
the milk was thus repeatedly infected, it is suggestive to note that 
the onsets of the P cases were: 

January 2Oth one case. 

January 24th one case. 

February 1st three cases. 

February yth one case. 

Returning .now to the P cases, it was found that the six 

cases occurred in homes supplied, in each instance, with milk from 
the shipping station, " creamery," in question. This is particularly 
important because no milk is allowed to be sold from the creamery 
for local consumption. The employees of the creamery, however, 
have been allowed to supply their households at wholesale prices, 
and the infected households were each of them thus supplied. 

Discovery of Original Case (Carrier] 

There was no question, therefore, that the milk shipped from 
P was the cause of the New York city outbreak, and ac- 



cordingly orders were issued prohibiting further shipments from 
that creamery. Meantime, careful investigations were made in 
order to discover the ultimate cause of the infection. The cream- 
ery was carefully inspected and all the employees were interrogated 
in their homes. Each of the forty-five dairies sending milk to 
this creamery was visited, and all members of the household 
including the help were questioned as to a possible typhoid infec- 
tion; a large number of blood tests were made on all who gave a 
history of recent illness, no matter of what nature; in short, every 
conceivable source of infection was thoroughly investigated. The 
result was the discovery of a dairy farmer who gave a history of 
six cases of typhoid fever on his farm in 1904, one case in 1907, and 
one case in 1908. The dairyman represented the last of the six 
cases in 1904, and was now the only person on the farm who had 
had the disease. Specimens of his stools were collected and ex- 
amined for typhoid bacilli. The examinations disclosed the pres- 
ence of enormous numbers of living typhoid bacilli; in other 
words, the man was a " bacillus carrier." Needless to say, the 
bacilli were tested with typhoid agglutinating serum and also as 
to their cultural characteristics. They proved to be typical, as 
can be seen from an examination of the laboratory data below. 
The order excluding the milk was thereupon modified to apply 
only to milk from this one dairy, and regular shipments from the 
creamery were resumed. In view of all the circumstances men- 
tioned, the fact that no more cases developed, except during the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 287 

incubation period, after the milk was stopped, and that no cases 
occurred after the creamery was allowed to resume shipments, it 
is evident that this carrier constituted the source of infection. 



Intermittent Carriage of Germs 

A number of questions at once arise. Since the dairy farmer 
had been sending milk to the P creamery regularly during 
the previous two years, why did not the P milk show evi- 
dences of typhoid infection prior to the present outbreak? How 
did the milk actually become infected from the stools of the dairy 
farmer? How can such infections be guarded against? 

In considering the first of these questions, it is important to 
remember that recent bacteriological investigations have shown v 
that germ carriers may be divided into two classes, chronic -and 
intermittent. In the latter the bacilli may often be absent for 
considerable periods at a time, only to reappear in undiminished 
numbers at a later time. Even in the chronic germ carriers, if 
repeated examinations are made, the bacilli may be present at 
one time and absent another. This is well shown in the report on 
repeated examinations of the well-known typhoid carrier, " Ty- 
phoid Mary," who was under observation for some three years. 1 
The carrier whom we discovered in P was apparently one of 
the intermittent variety, for we were subsequently informed that 
following our report concerning the finding of typhoid bacilli in 
the faeces, sixteen specimens were sent to another laboratory and 
no typhoid bacilli found. In fact this led to our identification of 
the bacilli being questioned, but, as has already been shown, we 
were able to confirm our findings most conclusively in an unex- 
pected manner. Another and perhaps the main factor in deter- 
mining the frequency with which a typhoid bacillus carrier will 
infect the things he handles, lies in the degree of personal cleanli- 
ness of the individual. 

It was impossible to discover how the milk was actually in- 
fected. The construction of the dairy barn, the water supply, 
location of privy and cesspool were all satisfactory. Moreover, it 
is unnecessary to trace the path of the typhoid bacilli from the 
carrier's intestinal tract to the milk sent to the creamery. No 
matter how cleanly in his habits, such a germ carrier on a dairy 

1 Noble and Pratt, Collected Studies from the Research Laboratory, 
Department of Health, City of New York, iv, p. 188, 1908-1909. 



288 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

farm is always a menace; 1 sooner or later, through some oversight 
the necessary combination of circumstances presents itself and in- 
fection of others occurs. How Can Such Infections be Guarded 
Against? 

The answer to this last question is extremely difficult. [The 
author then states the impossibility of examining the excreta of 
the large number of individuals engaged in handling the milk 
shipped into New York City in order to detect bacillus carriers.] 
Some advance will be made when every person who has been known 
to have had typhoid fever and who is engaged in producing or 
handling milk must undergo the necessary bacteriological ex- 
aminations in order to prove that he is not a bacillus carrier. In 
engaging dairy and creamery help, or other persons coming into 
contact with milk sold to the public, inquiry concerning a previous 
history of typhoid fever should be made and action taken accord- 
ingly. It may be found feasible to enforce some such requirements 
for the exclusion of bacillus carriers from the dairy industry in the 
case of the better grades of milk, those selling at retail for 12 cents 
a quart and more. So far as the ordinary milk is concerned, how- 
ever, . . . it seems impossible to guard against this form of infection 
in any other way than by efficient pasteurization. 

Milk-borne Septic Sore Throat 

In recent years a number of epidemics of tonsillitis or septic sore 
throat have been reported and in some instances very carefully worked 
out. Unfortunately the conclusions as to the origin of these outbreaks 
have not been unanimous or positive. There is evidence to indicate 
that they are due to inflammatory conditions of the udders of dairy 
cows, but the identity of the bacteria found in such conditions and those 
found in the throats of the victims has not been conclusively estab- 
lished; and on the other hand there is reason for suspecting human 
carriers of the pathogenic organism. 

An extensive epidemic in Boston and environs was investigated by 
Winslow. 2 1043 cases were studied. The epidemic was explosive in 
character, the majority of cases occurring within a week. The cases 
followed one particular milk supply. Cases of septic sore throat were 
numerous in the region from which this supply was derived. No 

1 Bolduan and Noble, Journal of the American Medical Association, 
Iviii, 1912. 

2 Winslow, " An Outbreak of Tonsillitis or Septic Sore Throat in 
Eastern Massachusetts, and Its Relation to an Infected Milk Supply," 
Jour. Inf. Diseases, 1912, vol. x, no. I, p. 73. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 289 

record was obtained of any well-defined case of tonsillitis in direct con- 
tact with the milk, but it was concluded on the circumstantial evidence 
that the actual infection was due to a carrier case. No cattle disease 
was known to have occurred on any of the farms. The supply was 
clean and carefully handled. The investigator concludes that even a 
most carefully supervised supply is open to the danger of grave infec- 
tion from carrier or unrecognized cases of disease, and puts forth as 
" the only real safeguard against such catastrophes " " pasteurization, 
carried out by the holding system and preferably in the final packages." 

In February and March, 1912, there occurred in Baltimore an epi- 
demic of " throat infection associated with or followed by one or more 
of the following conditions: cervical adenitis, septicaemia, peritonitis, 
and erysipelas. Bacteriological examinations were made of the milk 
supply involved, of the milk at the farms and of the throats of em- 
ployees and cases. The milk had been supposedly pasteurized by the 
flash process (stated as 158 to 165 F. for 2\ to 5 minutes), but this 
proved to have been inefficient. In the various bacteriological exam- 
inations the following organisms were found: diplococcus pneumonias, 
streptococcus epidernicus (few) and streptococcus pyogenes. From 
these examinations 1 the investigator draws a reasonable certainty "that 
the outbreak . . . was largely due to milk that had not been thoroughly 
pasteurized." 

Epidemics have also been reported from Chicago, Homer and Cort- 
land (N. Y.), 2 and other places in this country. Numerous outbreaks 
have occurred in Great Britain and have been clearly traced to infected 
milk supplies. Septic sore throat is therefore by no means rare as a 
milk-borne infection and is one of the serious dangers that surround a 
raw milk supply. 

SUMMARY OF MILK-BORNE EPIDEMICS 

As illustrating the more common ways in which milk may be infected 
the following summary 3 is of interest. 

Of the 179 typhoid epidemics reported as spread by milk, com- 
piled by the writer, ... all cases enumerated in the outbreak were 
reported as living in houses supplied with the suspected milk in 

1 Hachtel, " Bacteriological Investigation of an Outbreak of Septic 
Sore Throat in Baltimore " (Abstract), Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, 
vol. iii, no. 8, p. 780. The epidemic was also studied by officials of 
the U. S. Public Health Service. 

2 Jour. Inf. Diseases, Jan., 1914; and Rpt. of N. Y. Milk Committee 
for 1913, p. 30. 

3 Trask, in Bull. 56, Hyg. Lab. U. S. Pub. Health Service, 1909. 



2 QO A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

96 of the epidemics; a case, suffering from the disease at such a 
time as to have been the possible source of infection, was found at 
the producing farm, distributing dairy or milk shop in 113 cases; 
the outbreak was supposed to have been due to bottles returned 
from infected households and refilled and distributed without 
previous sterilization in 4 cases. 

Of the 23 diphtheria epidemics reported as spread by milk . . . 
cases of the diseases occurred at the producing farm, distributing 
dairy or milk shop at such a time as to have been the possible 
cause of the outbreak in 18 cases; the diseased person milked the 
cows in 4; the same person nursed the sick and handled the milk 
in i ; the outbreak was supposed to be due to disease of the cows 
in 2 ; all cases of the disease were reported as living in households 
supplied with the suspected milk in 15 instances; measures taken 
upon the presumption that milk was the carrier of infection were 
reported as followed by subsidence of the outbreak in 5 cases; 
the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus was isolated from the suspected milk in 
2 of the epidemics. 

Of the 51 scarlet fever epidemics reported as spread by milk, 
compiled by the writer, ... all cases enumerated in the out- 
break were reported as living in houses supplied with the sus- 
pected milk in 27 of the epidemics; a case suffering from the 
disease at such a time as to have been the possible source of infec- 
tion was found at the producing farm, the distributing dairy or 
milk shop in 35 cases; the outbreak was supposed to have been 
due to bottles returned from infected households and refilled with- 
out previous sterilization in 3 cases; the diseased person or per- 
sons were mentioned as handling the milk or milk utensils in 3; 
the sick milked the cows in 12; the same person nursed the sick 
and handled the milk in i; same person nursed sick and milked 
cows in i; the outbreak was supposed to be due to disease of the 
cow in 2; it was reported that measures taken upon the presump- 
tion that milk was the cause of the epidemic were followed by 
abatement of the outbreak in 22 cases. 

In 138 epidemics of milk-borne typhoid fever collected by Busey and 
Kober the following data are given: 1 

In 109 instances there is evidence of the disease having prevailed 
at the farm or dairy. In 54 epidemics the poison reached the milk 
by soakage of the germs into the well water with which the utensils 
were washed and in 13 of these instances the intentional dilution 
with polluted water is admitted. In 6 instances the infection is 
attributed to the cows drinking or wading in sewage-polluted water. 
1 Quoted by Trask, loc. cit. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 291 

In three instances the infection was spread in ice cream prepared 
on infected premises. In 21 instances the dairy employees also 
acted as nurses. In 6 instances the patients while suffering from 
a mild attack of enteric fever, or during the first week or ten days 
of their illness continued at work and those of us who are familiar 
with the personal habits of the average dairy boy will have no 
difficulty in surmising the manner of direct digital infection. In 
one instance the milk tins were washed with the same dishcloth 
used among the fever patients. In one instance the disease was 
attributed to an abscess of the udder, in another to a teat eruption, 
and in no. 81 to a febrile disorder in the cows. Nos. 85, 103, 120, 
and 127 were creamery cases. In no. 96 the milk had been kept 
in the sick room. 

In 28 epidemics of milk-borne diphtheria collected by the same 
authorities, the following: 

In 10 instances diphtheria existed at the farm or dairy, and in 
10 instances the disease is attributed directly to the cows having 
garget, chapped and ulcerative affections of the teats and udder, 
while in no. 13 the cows were apparently healthy but the calves 
had diarrhoea. In no. 23 one of the dairy maids suffered from a 
sore throat of an erysipelatous character, and in no. 27 the patient 
continued to milk while suffering from diphtheria. In no. 28 one 
of the drivers of the dairy wagons was suffering from a sore throat. 

And in 74 epidemics of milk-borne scarlet fever, the following: 

In 41 instances the disease prevailed either at the milk farm or 
dairy. In 6 instances persons connected with the dairy either 
lodged in or had visited infected houses. In no. 12 the milkman 
had taken his can into an infected house. In 20 instances the in- 
fection was attributed to disease among the milch cows; in 4 of 
these the puerperal condition of the animal is blamed. In 9 in- 
stances disease of the udder or teats was found. In one instance 
the veterinarian diagnosed a case of bovine tuberculosis. In 6 
instances there was loss of hair and casting of the skin in the 
animal. In no. 68 the cattle were found to be suffering more or 
less from febrile disturbance. In 10 instances the infection was 
doubtless conveyed by persons connected with the milk business, 
while suffering or recovering from an attack of the disease, and in 
at least 8 cases by persons who also acted as nurses. In three 
instances the milk had been kept in the cottage close to the sick 
room. In no. 15 the cows were milked into an open tin can which 
was carried across an open yard past an infected house, and in 
no. 53 the milkman had wiped his cans with white flannel cloths 
(presumably infected) which had been left in his barn by a peddler. 



292 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Nos. 21 and 44 appear to have been instances of mixed infection of 

scarlet fever and diphtheria. 

It may be added that experience has shown that good general sani- 
tary conditions by no means necessarily protect a milk supply if a 
source of infection is present. 

Points of Interest in Reporting Milk Epidemics 1 

In reporting milk epidemics some of the points of special inter- 
est are the following: 

1. The number of cases of the disease existing in the involved 
territory during the time covered by the epidemic. 

2. The number of houses invaded by the disease. 

3. The number of invaded houses supplied in whole or in part, 
directly or indirectly, by the suspected milk. 

4. The number of cases occurring in invaded houses so supplied. 

5. The number of houses supplied with the suspected milk. 

6. The relative proportion of houses so supplied to those 
supplied by other dairies. 

7. The time covered by the epidemic. 

8. The location of the case or cases from which the milk became 
contaminated. 

9. The relation of the original case to the milk. 

10. The time relation of the original case to the epidemic. 

11. The special incidence of the disease among milk drinkers. 

12. The elimination of other common carriers of infection. 

13. The effect upon the epidemic of closing the dairy or taking 
such measures as will eliminate possibility of milk contamination 
from the suspected focus. 

14. The finding of the specific organism in the milk. 

REFERENCES ON EPIDEMIOLOGY 

The literature of epidemiology is voluminous and scattered through 
a great variety of text-books and periodicals. For special reference to 
the epidemiology of milk see " Milk and Its Relation to the Public 
Health " (Bull. 56, Hygienic Laboratory, U. S. Public Health Service, 
1909), in which Trask has summarized the subject; also the references 
on milk in the present volume; also " The Dissemination of Disease by 
Dairy Products, and Methods of Prevention," Circular 153, Bureau of 
Animal Industry, Department of Agriculture, 1910. Whipple has 
treated the subject of typhoid fever epidemiology in full in his " Typhoid 
Fever," 1908. The Reports on " Typhoid Fever in the District of 

1 Trask, loc. tit* 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 293 

Columbia " (Bulletins of the Hygienic Laboratory, Public Health Ser- 
vice) also contain a large amount of useful information. 

GENERAL REFERENCES ON COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 

No attempt can here be made to give a complete list. The following, 
however, may be mentioned among works dealing with the adminis- 
trative aspects of communicable disease: 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," Appleton, New York, 
1913. (A comprehensive treatise which has been used as the authority 
for many of the statements in the foregoing chapter.) 

Chapin, " The Sources and Modes of Infection," Wiley and Sons, 
Inc., New York, 1912. 

Doty, " Prevention of Infectious Disease," Appleton, 1911. 

Kerr and Moll, " Communicable Diseases: An Analysis of the Laws 
and Regulations for the Control thereof in force in the United States," 
Pub. Health Bull., no. 62, U. S. Pub. Health Service, July, 1913. 

Reports of the Committee of the American Public Health Associa- 
tion on the Study and Prevention of Communicable Diseases, Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1912 (vol. II, no. 2), 1913 (vol. Ill, no. 4), 1914 
(vol. IV, no. 3) et seq.; and of special committees appointed from time 
to time. The Mass. Assn. of Boards of Health has a committee with 
similar object (report in Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 4, 

P- 334). 

Various papers in Transactions of the XV International Congress 
on Hygiene and Demography, 1912, Government Printing Office, 
Washington, 1913. 



294 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



TABLE 
IMPORTANT DATA CONCERNING SOME 



Disease 


Causative 
organism 


Infection exists in 


Chief modes of 
transmission 


Incubation 
period 


Diphtheria 


Bacillus diph- 
theria (Klebs- 
Loeffler) 


Secretions from 
nose and throat. 1 


Contact, ingesta 
(especially milk) . 


2 to 7 days, 
oftenest 2. 


Scarlet fever 


Unknown 


Secretions from 
nose and throat. 1 


ditto. 


I to 7 days, 
oftenest 2 
to 4. 


Measles 


Unknown 


Secretions from 
nose and throat. 


Contact. 


7 to 14 days. 


Whooping 
cough 

Tuberculosis 


Bacillus per- 
tussis (Bor- 
det-Gengou) 
Bacillus 
tuberculosis 


Secretions from 
nose and throat. 

Sputum (pulmon- 
ary form), dis- 
charges from 
lesions (other 
forms) . 


ditto. 

Contact, ingesta 
(especially milk) , 
(dust). 


7 to 14 days. 


Typhoid 
fever 


Bacillus 
typhosus* 


Excreta (stools 
and urine). 


Contact, ingesta 
(especially water 
and milk), flies. 


8 to 23 days, 
oftenest 2 
weeks. 


Smallpox 

Acute ante- 
rior polio- 
myelitis 
(Infantile 
paralysis) 


Unknown 
Unknown 


Probably all dis- 
charges and se- 
cretions, and 
desquamation. 
Secretions from 
nose and throat. 


Contact. 
Contact. 


8 to 20 days, 
oftenest 

12. 

Unknown 


Cerebrospinal 
fever 


Meningococcus* 


Secretions from 
nose and throat. 


Contact. 


Unknown. 


Rabies 


Unknown 


Nervous system 
and saliva of in- 
fected animal. 


Bite of rabid ani- 
mal. 


See text. 



1 And discharges from lesions in other parts, such as ear, etc. 

2 Termed also B. typhi. 

8 Termed also Diplococcus intracellularis meningitidis (Weichselbaum). 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 



295 



III 

OF THE CHIEF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 



How long infective 4 


Chief restrictive measures 


Applied to patient 


Applied to community 


Until germs disappear 


Isolation, with disinfection 


Lessening of opportunities for con- 


(two consecutive neg- 


of infectious secretions. 


tact infection from carriers, in- 


ative cultures from 


Immunization of contacts 


cipient cases, and missed cases. 


nose and throat, 24 


(antitoxin). 


Protection of food supplies (pas- 


hrs. apart). 




teurization of milk, etc.). 


Until recovery, includ- 


Isolation, with disinfection 


ditto. 


ing disappearance of 


of infectious secretions. 




discharges. Minimum 






4 weeks. Desquama- 






tion no indication. 






Until recovery. Mini- 


Modified isolation. 


Lessening of opportunities for con- 


mum 5-7 days fol- 




tact infection (incipient and 


lowing appearance of 




missed cases, etc.) . Early dis- 


rash. 




covery and reporting of cases. 


Until complete recov- 


ditto. 


ditto. 


ery. 






Until germs disappear 


Care of sputum. If neces- 


Attention to housing, factory 


from sputum or other 


sary more or less isolation. 


hygiene, modes of living, etc. 


discharge. 


Furtherance of cure. 


Lessening of opportunities for 






contact infection. Tuberculin- 






testing of dairy cattle, or pas- 






teurization of milk. Protection 






of food supplies from infection. 


Until germs disappear 


Isolation, with disinfection 


Lessening of opportunities for 


from stools and urine 


of stools and urine. Anti- 


contact infection (carriers, 


(usually during con- 


typhoid inoculation of ex- 


etc.). Protection of food and 


valescence, 5 or 6 


posed persons. 


water supplies (pasteurization 


weeks after onset). 




of milk). Anti-typhoid inoc- 






ulation under special condi- 






tions of exposure. 


Until recovery, des- 


Isolation, with disinfection 


Vaccination. 


quamation and heal- 


of discharges and secre- 




ing of scars complete. 


tions.s Vaccination of con- 






tacts and exposed persons. 




Until some time after 


Isolation, with disinfection 


Lessening of opportunities for 


recovery from acute 


of secretions. Screening 


contact infection (carriers, 


symptoms , exact time 


against flies. Use of I per 


etc.). Use of antiseptic gar- 


not known. 


cent hydrogen peroxide 


gles, sprays, etc., in epidemics. 




gargles, sprays, and nose 






washes by patient, nurse, 






physician, and other ex- 






posed persons. 




Until disappearance of 


Treatment of patient with 


Lessening of opportunities for 


germs. 


anti-meningitis serum. 


contact infection (carriers. 




Isolation, with disinfec- 


etc.). Use of antiseptic gar- 




tion of secretions. Use of 


gles, sprays, etc., in epidemics. 




antiseptic gargles and nasal 






douches and immuniza- 






tion by killed cultures, for 






exposed persons. 




Until death of animal. 


Pasteur treatment. 


Regulation of keeping of dogs 






and destruction of ownerless 






dogs. 



4 Opinion varies. Cf. discussions in text; also periods given on p. 633. 
6 Carbolic acid and coal-tars probably not effective in disinfection. 



CHAPTER II 
CHILD HYGIENE 

A progressive department of health cannot long overlook the neces- 
sity for work directed toward the conservation of child life. When it is 
considered that approximately one-fourth of the total mortality in 
municipalities is made up of the mortality in children under five years 
of age, the importance of work along these lines can scarcely be over- 
estimated, and a Bureau of Child Hygiene is a necessary adjunct to a 
well-organized Health Department. 1 

The term " child hygiene" is applied in a general way to 
all public health work having for its purpose the protection 
of children from birth up through school age. Its most 
important division is that of infant hygiene, which applies 
chiefly to the care of infants under two years of age, and 
to which special attention will be devoted in the present 
chapter. 

MEDICAL INSPECTION AND SANITATION OF 
SCHOOLS 

Medical inspection of school children, as already remarked 
in Chapter I, has two objects: (i) the general physical 
welfare of each child; and (2) the detection and exclusion 
of communicable disease from the schools. The latter 
division of the subject was discussed in that chapter, leav- 
ing the former division, which consumes the greater labor 
and expense, to be considered in the following general dis- 
cussion of the whole matter. 

The importance of school hygiene in the broadest sense, 
including medical inspection, upon the health and develop- 

1 Rpt. of Committee on Organization and Functions of Municipal 
Health Departments, of the American Public Health Association, 1912. 

296 



CHILD HYGIENE 297 

ment of the child all during the school-going age, requires 
no amplification here. As to medical inspection, either of 
the objects above-mentioned is a sufficient reason for its 
institution. 

Leaving, then, the subject of detection of communicable 
disease as having been outlined under that head, we con- 
sider here more especially the function of medical inspec- 
tion in securing the general physical welfare of the school 
child. This consists, briefly, in detecting physical defects 
and non-communicable diseases in the child and seeing 
that these are remedied. Defects of nose, throat, eyes, 
teeth, ears and other physical deficiencies and handicaps 
are the subjects of medical inspection, which by detecting 
them and causing their removal confers great present and 
future benefits upon the growing child, to whom, frequently, 
little attention in these respects is paid by parents. 

For adequate medical inspection both doctors and 
nurses are necessary. The school nurse plays an indis- 
pensable part, not only in assisting the medical inspector 
in his examinations, but also in following up cases and 
seeing that they receive the necessary home and medical 
treatment and (if the child has been excluded) are returned 
to school at the earliest possible time. 

Control of Medical Inspection. There is frequently a 
question as to the control of medical inspection: should it 
be under the health or under the school authorities? The 
laws on the subject vary. There are advantages in having 
everything within the school walls under the control of 
the school authorities. On the other hand, if there is 
medical inspection of parochial and private schools, it 
must be managed by the health department and it may 
then be best to have the whole system, including public 
school inspection, under its control. Local circumstances 
and laws must decide the question. Where medical in- 
spection includes, as it should, inspection for physical de- 
fects as well as for communicable disease, it is frequently 



298 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

under the control of the educational authorities, although 
it may properly be initiated and controlled by the health 
authorities where they are progressive and local circum- 
stances place the responsibility upon them. 1 Control by 
the health authorities is recommended by the special com- 
mittee of the American Public Health Association (recom- 
mendations below). 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN 
PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION ON MEDICAL INSPECTION OF 
SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN. 2 

First, that a system of medical inspection of schools be established 
in every city. 

Second, that the control of the same be under the board of health. 

Third, that the work include the exclusion of cases of contagious 
diseases and the recommendation of the correction of physical defects. 

Fourth, that dental inspection be part of the system and that the 
inspection be made by dentists in the employ of the board of health, 
and that a free dental clinic or clinics under the control of the board of 
health be established for the care of children unable to pay. 

Fifth, that all physical examinations except those for defective teeth 
be made by physicians and not by teachers or nurses, and that dental 
examinations be made by dentists. 

Sixth, that the maximum number of pupils under supervision of 
one doctor and one nurse be 3000, and that the number be reduced as 
much as possible. It would be better to have one nurse for- each 1500 
pupils. 

Seventh, that clinics be established under the control of boards of 
health for the purpose of correcting the physical defects found in school 
children. 

Eighth, that nurses be required to devote their whole time to this 
work and be paid a salary of not less than $900 a year and that doctors 
be required to devote only part of their time but not less than two hours 
per day to the work and be paid a salary ranging from $600 to $900 per 
year. 

The foregoing discussion merely outlines the subject of 

1 See discussion of the question by Gulick and Ayres in their book 
cited under references. 

2 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 391. 



CHILD HYGIENE 299 

medical inspection of schools. For detailed information 
the reader is referred to the references below. 

The hygiene and sanitation of school buildings is an im- 
portant subject of supervision, the responsibility for which 
rests partly with health authorities, partly with educa- 
tional authorities. Sanitary control should be exercised 
over school water supplies and privies (in rural districts), 
cleanliness and ventilation, while common drinking cups 
and the like should be barred (see Chapters I, IV, V, 
and VI). 

School instruction in hygiene is a function of the edu- 
cational authorities. It would be well, however, for the 
latter in many cases to consult the health officer as to 
the effectiveness of the text-book used. Such books, in 
the higher grades, may include not only sound instruction 
in personal hygiene but also a simple, non-technical sketch 
of municipal sanitation. 

OPEN-AIR SCHOOLS. There are two classes of school- 
children whose health requires special attention: (i) those 
affected with latent tuberculosis; and (2) those who are 
simply ansemic, underdeveloped, run-down, etc. Open-air 
schools and special regimes should be provided for these 
two classes, separate and distinct from each other, although 
the treatment in the two cases does not differ materially. 
The maintenance of such schools, or classes, may be said 
to constitute a branch of school hygiene which cannot be 
treated in detail here. 1 

1 See Gulick, " Tuberculosis and the Public Schools " (reprint of 
Dept. of Child Helping, Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd St., N. Y. City) ; 
Cabot, "Tuberculosis Among School Children," Trans. XV Internal. 
Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. Ill, pt. I; Warren, "Open- 
air Schools for the Prevention and Cure of Tuberculosis Among Chil- 
dren," Pub. Health Bull., no. 58, U. S Pub. Health Service, 1912. 



300 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

REFERENCES 

Gulick and Ayres, " Medical Inspection of Schools," Charities Pub- 
lication Committee, 105 East 22nd St., N. Y. City, 1913. 

Cornell, " Health and Medical Inspection of School Children," 1912. 

Newmayer, " Medical and Sanitary Inspection of Schools," 1913. 

Rapeer, " School Health Administration," 1913. 

Hogarth, " Medical Inspection of Schools," London, 1909. 

Stevens, " Medical Supervision in Schools," London, 1910. 

Ayres, " Open- Air Schools." 

Putnam, " School Janitors, Mothers, and Health," Am. Acad. 
Medicine Press, 1913. 

Allen, " Civics and Health." 

Proceedings of the International Congresses on School Hygiene 
(Secretary, Dr. T. A. Storey, College of the City of New York). 

Among school hygienes may be mentioned the Gulick Hygiene Series 
(Ginn and Co.). 

INFANT HYGIENE 

INFANT MORTALITY: THE PROBLEM 

Infant mortality is one of the great public health prob- 
lems of today. Until recently it was imperfectly under- 
stood, attacked only piecemeal, organized efforts being 
largely those of private philanthropy ; but such an attitude 
on the part of health authorities can no longer be justified. 
It must now be attacked by the health authorities in close 
cooperation with the o'ther social agencies involved. Sir 
Arthur Newsholme, the great English statistician, has said: 

Infant mortality is the most sensitive index we possess of social 
welfare. If babies were well born and well cared for, their mortality 
would be negligible. The infant death rate measures the intelligence, 
health and right living of fathers and mothers, the standards of morals 
and sanitation of communities and governments, the efficiency of physi- 
cians, nurses, health officers, and educators. 

While there is here much that cannot be dealt with by 
health authorities alone, it is evident that they have im- 
portant duties to perform, and that the main aspects of the 
infant hygiene problem must now be regarded as subjects, 
not of philanthropy, but of public health administration. 



CHILD HYGIENE 



3 OI 



The basic statistics of infant mortality are set forth in 
Tables IV and V and Chart 4. The large percentage of 
deaths under one year of age is evident and suggests the 



CHART 4. THE PROBLEM OF INFANT MORTALITY. 
U. S. Registration Area, 1911. (Based on Tables IV and V.) 
Shaded Portion represents fifty per cent (or more) preventable. 



DEATHS BY AGE 



II 

DEATHS UNDER ONE YEAR 
BY CAUSE 





inquiry into the causes of death which is made in Table V 
and the second diagram in the chart. 

TABLE IV 
MORTALITY BY AGE 

Registration Area of the United States. (From U. S. Mortality 
Statistics for 1911, Bureau of the Census.) Stillbirths not included. 



Age group 


Number of deaths 


Per cent of total 


All ages 


830,284. 


IOO o 


Under i year .... 


140,^22 


17 8 


i to 5 years 


60,160 


7 . 2 


Total under 5 years. . 


209,482 


2< .O 









Specific Causes. The causes may be commented upon 
in a general way as follows: 



302 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



TABLE V 
CAUSES OF INFANT MORTALITY 

(Deaths under one year.) 

Registration Area of the United States. (From it. S. Mortality 
Statistics for 1911, Bureau of the Census.) Stillbirths not included. 



Nos. (In- 
ternational 
classifi- 
cation) 



Causes and numbers of deaths 



Per cent 
of all 



All causes 149,322 100.0 

104 Diarrhoea and enteritis 37.579 25 . 2 

86-98 Diseases of the respiratory system : 

89. Acute bronchitis 3.589 

91. Bronchopneumonia . . . . 10,652 

92. Pneumonia (lobar 2465, 

undefined 4846) 7, 311 

Other diseases of respir- 
atory system 1,077 

Total 22,629 15.2 

6-10 

28-35 \ Chief communicable diseases : 
37 J 6. Measles 1*319 

7. Scarlet fever 243 

8. Whooping cough 3.687 

9. Diphtheria (and croup) 887 

10. Influenza 660 

28. Tuberculosis of lungs... 865 

30. Tuberculous meningitis 1,166 

31. Abdominal tuberculosis 225 
Other forms of tuber- 
culosis 344 

(28-35 Total tuberculosis 2600) 

37. Syphilis 1,787 

Total 11,183 7-5 

150,151 Congenital malformation and de- 
bility: 

150. Congenital malformation 

(stillbirths not included) 7,879 

151. Congenital debility, ic- 

terus and sclerema. . . 38,434 

Total ; 46,313 

All other causes 3i ( 6i8 21.0 



Diarrhoea and Enteritis (25.2 per cent). Due to improper 
methods of feeding, especially to the substitution of 
artificial for breast feeding, to bad milk supplies, and 



CHILD HYGIENE 303 

also, to some extent, to improper clothing, irregular hours 
of sleep and other improper conditions leading to digestive 
disturbances. A great increase in this cause of death comes 
with the heated season, during which the alimentary system 
of infants becomes debilitated and milk supplies tend to 
suffer deterioration. Much gastrointestinal disease is bac- 
terial in cause and the infection is favored by the w v armth 
and flies 1 of summer time, as well as by filth and contact. 
As to artificial feeding, it is estimated that bottle-fed babies 
have only one-tenth the chance to live that breast-fed babies 
have. 2 Through the application of known hygienic prin- 
ciples practically all the deaths from diarrhoea and enteritis 
could be saved. It has been suggested that infantile 
diarrhoea be added to the list of reportable diseases, so 
that its distribution and causes may be studied and where 
necessary the cases be visited by the infant hygiene nurse. 

Diseases of the Respiratory System (15.2 per cent). This 
group of deaths is due to improper care on the part of 
mother or nurse as to ventilation, clothing and the like - 
all preventable. A number of these deaths is doubtless also 
due to the sequelae of whooping cough, measles and other 
communicable diseases, the latter being omitted from 
mention in the death certificate. 

Communicable Diseases (7.5 per cent). It is not com- 
monly realized how large a toll is exacted by the so-called 
minor preventable diseases of childhood chiefly measles 
and whooping cough which act mainly through their 
disastrous aftereffects. Protection from infection would 
obviate infection from these as well as from scarlet fever, 
diphtheria and influenza. Under this head is included 

1 A recent investigation made by Dr. Donald B. Armstrong for the 
New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor (" Flies 
and Diarrhoeal Disease," Publication no. 79), while based upon imper- 
fect experimental conditions, suggests an important relationship be- 
tween the prevalence of flies and the occurrence of diarrhceal disease 
among infants. 

2 U. S. Children's Bureau, " Baby-saving Campaigns," 1913, p. 45. 



304 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

also tuberculosis. About one-quarter to one-half of all 
cases of tuberculosis in children under five years of age is 
associated with the bovine type, and it is probable that all 
these cases derive their infection through the tubercle 
bacilli in cow's milk (Rosenau). Much of the tuberculosis 
in infants is therefore preventable through the safeguarding 
of milk supplies and the remainder through prevention of 
direct infection from tuberculosis mothers and other mem- 
bers of the family. The prevention of the syphilis which 
contributes also to this head is a more difficult problem, 
depending as it does upon the whole control of venereal 
disease. On the whole we may say that the group of com- 
municable diseases is almost entirely preventable. 

Congenital Malformation and Debility (31.1 per cent). 
Many of the deaths in this group are due to inherited con- 
ditions not susceptible of control through public hygiene. 
Many of them, however, might be saved through prenatal 
precautions on the part of the mother, while others would 
live if proper care were taken of the infant after birth. 
Others are due to venereal disease of parents. It may be 
reasonably considered that a certain proportion of this 
group is preventable through hygienic measures, prenatal 
and postnatal. 

The group of all other causes (21.0 per cent) is not sus- 
ceptible of much analysis, although here also there are 
doubtless a small number of preventable deaths. 

Summing up, it may be stated that of these deaths under 
one year (of which the Census Bureau estimates that the 
loss in 1912 was about 300,000) "at least half would now be 
living had we, as individuals and communities, applied 
those measures of hygiene and sanitation which are known 
and available." Such is the statement of the Chief of 
the National Children's Bureau (italics by the present 
author), who continues: 

Here is a vast and unmeasured loss of infant life due solely to individ- 
ual and civic neglect. The economic and industrial significance of such 



CHILD HYGIENE 305 

a loss in the general scheme of social well-being is beginning to be 
realized. It was once thought that a high infant death rate indicated 
a greater degree of vigor in the survivors. It is now agreed that the 
conditions which destroy so many of the youngest lives of the com- 
munity must also result in crippling and maiming many others and must 
react unfavorably upton the health of the entire community. 1 

Infant Mortality Rates. The " infant mortality rate," 
in the proper use of the term, is "the ratio of deaths under 
one year of age to births" (cf. page 516). The ratio is 
always calculated on this basis for the reason that the esti- 
mated population under one year of age is subject to inac- 
curacy. The calculation of an accurate infant mortality 
rate therefore depends upon a practically complete regis- 
tration of births, a condition which as yet exists in few 
places in this country. Even among the Census Bureau 
figures only a small percentage of the returns are as yet 
at all satisfactory. These may be taken, however, to 
indicate that 'for 1910 the infant mortality rates for the 
most reliable cities of 100,000 population or over ranged 
from 82 to 231 per thousand births. 2 The former of 
these rates occurred in a comparatively new western city, 
while the latter occurred in one of the older eastern cities 
with some congestion and a factory-working population. 
Of course the ultimate goal to be aimed at is much below 
any of these rates, especially as where birth registration 
is deficient the calculated rate appears higher than it 
actually should be. 

In the second year of life the death rate is considerably 
lower (see Chart I, page 74). There is a decrease in 
diarrhceal and respiratory diseases and in congenital mal- 
formation and debility; the communicable diseases, how- 
ever, keep up to the same numbers as the first year, 
indicating that while vital resistance is greater the sus- 

1 1st Ann. Rpt. of the Chief, Children's Bureau, to the Secretary 
of Labor, for year ending June 30, 1913, p. 7. 

2 Mortality Statistics for 1911. 



306 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ceptibility (and exposure) to infection remains the same 
(Registration Area statistics for 1910). 

CAUSES OF DEATH BY AGE. A table giving the deaths 
of infants by cause, as follows, by days for the first week, 
by weeks for the first month, by months 'for the first year 
and by years for the first 'five years of life is very instructive. 
Such a table shows that among the very earliest deaths 
congenital defects and injuries at birth form a majority. 

Of the deaths occurring in the early days of life, a large proportion are 
the result of conditions existing before birth. The latest reports of the 
Bureau of the Census on mortality statistics show that slightly more 
than 42 per cent of the infants dying under one year of age in the regis- 
tration area in 1911 did not live to complete the first month of life, and 
that of this 42 per cent almost seven-tenths died as a result of prenatal 
conditions or of injury and accident at birth. Of those that lived less 
than one week about 83 per cent died of such causes, and of the num- 
ber that lived less than one day 94 per cent died of these causes. 1 

These facts constitute the reason for prenatal work and 
for the control of midwifery and the raising of standards 
of obstetrics and obstetrical nursing. 

After the first month this class of causes rapidly declines, 
and the causes due to external conditions in the care of the 
infant loom large. Hence the reason for postnatal work 
touching the care of the infant, milk supplies (where arti- 
ficial feeding is resorted to and when the child is being 
weaned), etc. 

Communicable disease keeps up a steady incidence at all 
ages, hence the child must be continually protected from 
the so-called "minor" (but in reality dangerous) diseases 
measles, whooping cough and influenza, as well as from 
scarlet fever and diphtheria. 

Underlying Conditions and Problems. We have now 
passed in review in some detail the specific causes of infant 
mortality and may now consider the general conditions 
which favor it. The chief of these are ignorance and pov- 

1 ist Ann. Rpt., Chief of Children's Bureau, 1913, p. n. 



CHILD HYGIENE 307 

erty. Then comes milk supply, once thought to play the 
very first part in the situation but now recognized to be 
secondary, though still important. Finally, there are the 
effects of bad midwifery and obstetrics, bad housing, dirt 
and congestion, flies, factory-working of mothers recent or 
prospective, occasionally neglect, and other related condi- 
tions. All of these conditions, with the exception of 
poverty, may be attacked by the public health authorities, 
while even the effects of poverty may be combatted through 
the assistance of charitable and social agencies. 

A brief consideration of the history of efforts against 
infant mortality is instructive. It was once thought that 
by removing ailing babies from tenements and placing them 
in asylums and hospitals they would be saved, until it was 
found by experience that the institutions had high death 
rates and did not accomplish at all the benefits expected 
from them and that the child should be kept whenever 
possible with the mother. The reliance upon improved 
milk supplies entirely to save the situation was also dis- 
appointed. While the pure milk movement has had a 
strong effect in the promotion of infant and child hygiene, 
its limitations have now been recognized. The best grades 
of milk, such as certified milk, are out of reach of the pocket 
books of many, and the facilitation of the distribution of 
superior milk, where arranged, has frequently (though not 
invariably) tended to discourage the greatest salvation of 
the infant maternal nursing. 

THE REDUCTION OF INFANT MORTALITY 

The following means of reduction should be undertaken 
by municipal health authorities, except in so far as such 
activities are carried on by private organizations. 

i. A General Survey of the situation should be made. 
This will involve a study of the statistics of infant mor- 
tality and a consideration of the available means for meet- 
ing the situation disclosed. All deaths of infants under 



308 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

two years of age should be tabulated and studied for two 
or more years back. They should be plotted on a spot map 
so as to bring out their topographical distribution and thus 
indicate the particular districts in which work is most 
needed. They should also be studied by age and by causes, 
by color and nationality of parents, etc., so that the health 
officer may have a thorough familiarity with the problem 
to be attacked. Later on, after work is organized, inten- 
sive studies of selected districts, pertaining to morbidity as 
well as mortality, should be made, so that further knowl- 
edge of underlying causes may be gained. As already 
emphasized, accurate infant mortality figures require as a 
basis not only good death records but also 

2. Complete and Accurate Registration of Births. 
This is a first and indispensable requirement which will be 
discussed in Chapter IX. It is, moreover, the starting 
point of instructive nursing and other preventive measures. 

3. Home Instruction. The chief cause of infant mor- 
tality being unhygienic care of the infant on the part 
of mother or nurse, grounded in ignorance frequently 
rendered hidebound by prejudice, the strongest step that 
can be taken is the instruction of mothers. One chief way 
of accomplishing this is through home instruction by an 
infant hygiene nurse. Such instruction is either prenatal 

- before the birth of the child or postnatal. We shall 
refer again below to prenatal work, dwelling here especially 
on the postnatal instruction in the hygiene of the infant. 

Here again a prompt and full notification of births is 
of prime importance. Without such notification valuable 
time is lost and the cases needing attention cannot be 
located. From the birth records the nurse makes a 
selection of cases to be visited. Many of the cases are 
in hospitals or under the close care of physicians, nurses or 
intelligent families, and may be omitted, while, on the other 
hand, it may be wise, if the work is limited (as is fre- 
quently the case, at least at the outset), to select only the 



CHILD HYGIENE 309 

midwife cases or the cases in certain districts where the 
spot map of mortality shows the greatest need. The medi- 
cal fraternity should understand that cases may be re- 
ferred by any physician with any instructions which he 
may wish to have explained to the mother. 

The following are the chief points to which attention is 
paid by the nurse: 

FEEDING. Advice is given on the details of feeding 
and physician's instructions, if any, are followed out. 
Breast-feeding is urged. All authorities agree that this is 
the greatest consideration in infant hygiene. The effect 
of artificial feeding is greatly to increase the incidence of 
diarrhoea, enteritis and malnutrition, and to render more 
susceptible to other affections. 

The importance of maternal nursing cannot be overestimated. 
Were mothers able universally to nurse their children, one-third to one- 
half of infant deaths would be expunged from our mortality returns. 1 

Davis, after a statistical study of infant deaths in Bos- 
ton, arrives at this conclusion: 

Breast-feeding of all babies would have saved nearly a thousand lives 
last year [1911, in Boston], and the death rate per 1000 births would 
have been 71 instead of 127.2 

There are various reasons for the failure of mothers to 
nurse their infants: among them alcoholism, debility, 
industrial employment, disinclination and false ideas. 
These must be opposed by persuasion and education; by 
aiding the mother to obtain an adequate supply of breast 
milk through proper diet and by addition to her diet milk 
and other foods having this effect; by remedying so far as 
possible the factory working of mothers soon after confine- 
ment. As for the physiological inability to nurse, it occurs 

1 Schereschewsky, in Bull. 56 of the Hyg. Lab., Pub. Health Service. 

2 " Prevention of Infant Mortality by Breast-Feeding," Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 2, p. 67; also " Statistical Comparison 
of the Mortality of Breast-fed and Bottle-fed Infants," Trans. XV 
Internal. Congress Hyg. and Dem., vol. VI, p. 188. 



310 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

very seldom. Figures given by Dr. Herman Schwarz, 
director of the Pediatric Department of Dr. Hill's Mater- 
nity Clinic, New .York, show that of 1500 mothers he found 
only four who could not nurse, when encouraged by proper 
care and advice at and after the confinement. Of these 
1500 mothers 96.9 per cent nursed I month, 89.1 per cent 
3 months and 77 per cent 6 months. 1 

The proper time for weaning must be governed ; in some 
cases the tendency is to wean too soon, in others too late. 

When, in the opinion of the medical adviser, the feeding 
is to be mixed (as in natural and gradual weaning) or the 
baby is to be put entirely on the bottle, then attention 
should, so far as deemed advisable, be paid to: (i) choice 
of milk supply, (2) home modification, (3) home pasteur- 
ization and (4) home care of milk. 

(1) The milk supply must be obtained from a milk sta- 
tion or other special source or from a market source ap- 
proved by the health authorities. 

(2) Home modification. It appears to be the consensus 
of opinion of those who have given attention to the matter 
that home modification of milk according to simple formulas 
can be successfully taught to nearly all mothers. The New 
York Milk Committee, as the result of its studies, con- 
cluded " that home modification, even among the very 
poor and ignorant, is possible," and "that the results, as 
shown by the mortality and by the condition of the sur- 
viving babies at the end of the period of demonstration, 
prove that as good results can be obtained as when 
already modified milk is distributed." 2 The following is 
the experience of Newark, N. J.: 

All milk was modified at the home by the mothers themselves. 
There is no difficulty where the method is simple, the instructions defi- 
nite, a clean milk to hand and the cases followed by doctor and nurse 

1 Figures quoted by Public Welfare Committee of Essex County, 
N. J., which obtained similar results (Rpt. already cited). 

2 Op. tit., p. 83. 



CHILD HYGIENE 311 

that speak the language of the mother. With the exception of a very 
few cases we required nothing but raw diluted whole milk, cane sugar, 
barley water and salt. This I would emphasize as the most impressive 
and important phase of our work, because in this way alone . . . can 
rational, intelligent milk modification come into general household and 
general professional knowledge, can mothers and doctors learn the cost 
of clean milk, its value and where to obtain it. The mothers obtain a 
working knowledge of an infant's capacity and digestion, and when 
they act without advice they will at least have some experience to guide 
them. In this work of home modification the emphasis is laid on clean 
milk, clean bottles and nipples, proper intervals, the avoidance of addi- 
tional food, and not on the modification. Doctors and mothers must 
be weaned from the superstition that milk modification is so complex 
a procedure, even when most scientific, that only a baby specialist can 
understand it and only a trained nurse prepare it. 1 

In Cleveland about ninety per cent of the milk distrib- 
uted "is sent out in the form of pints and quarts and only 
ten per cent in the so-called modified form." 

The reason for this is to teach as many mothers as possible how to 
prepare the food for their own baby, and, therefore, only when the child 
is too ill or the mother, for some reason or other, is unable to properly 
prepare her baby's food, does the Central Milk Laboratory modify 
the milk and put it up in individual feeding bottles. This system has 
been followed out since the birth of [this] institution in 1906. 2 

Moreover, the cost of modification at milk stations must 
be considered. The New York Milk Committee found 
that to modify and deliver cost 28 cents a quart. 

(3) Home pasteurization. Except when the milk supply 
is of the highest character it should be pasteurized, and 
nearly all authorities advise that it be pasteurized in any 
case in order to guard against infection. The arguments 
for pasteurization will be reviewed in Chapter III. When 
the pasteurization is not performed before delivery of the 
milk it may be performed at home, even without special 

1 Levy, in Rpt. of Pub. Welfare Com. of Essex County, N. J., already 
cited, p. 10. 

2 Rpt. of Babies' Dispensary and Hospital already cited, p. 22. 



312 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

apparatus. 1 It should be noted, however, that some author- 
ities (e.g., Strauss and E. B. Jordan) are sceptical as to 

1 At the Philadelphia Milk Show of 1912 the following home method 
of pasteurizing feeding mixtures was given. Of course the proper time 
to pasteurize is after making up the mixtures. 

Articles Needed 

" One -kettle large enough to hold eight bottles standing upright. 
" One kettle about twice the size of the first, with a cover. 

Method 

"Place bottles containing the milk mixture in the small kettle. 
Nearly fill with cold water. Place this in the large covered kettle, 
half full of boiling water and allow to simmer gently for eight minutes. 
Remove from the fire, let stand for one-half hour (keeping covered). 
Then take out bottles, cool rapidly and place on ice." 

The following method for pasteurizing milk in regulation bottles 
when it is not necessary to modify it and prepare feedings is given by 
the Chicago Dept. of Health. 

" In a small tin pail place a saucer; on the saucer stand the bottle 
of milk (leaving the cap on the bottle). Now pour sufficient hot water 
(not so hot as to break the bottle) into the pail to fill same to within 
three or four inches of top of bottle and then stand the pail and its con- 
tents on the stove. The instant the water begins to boil remove the 
bottle of milk from the pail and cool it as rapidly as possible. 

" Keep the bottle of milk in the ice-box and keep the cap on the 
bottle when not in use. When you remove the cap do so with a clean 
fork prong and be careful that the milk side of the cap does not come in 
contact with anything dirty." 

The following method, in which the temperature is controlled by 
means ofc a thermometer, is given by L. A. Rogers of the U. S. Bureau of 
Animal Industry (quoted by Magruder) : 

" Milk is most conveniently pasteurized in the bottles in which it is 
delivered. To do this use a small pail with a perforated false bottom. 
An inverted pie-tin with a few holes punched in it will answer the pur- 
pose. This will raise the bottles from the bottom of the pail, thus al- 
lowing a free circulation of water and preventing bumping of the bottles. 
Punch a hole through the cap of one of the bottles and insert a thermom- 
eter. The ordinary floating type of thermometer is likely to be inaccu- 
rate, and if possible a good thermometer with the scale etched on the 
glass should be used. Set the bottles of milk in the pail and fill the pail 
with water nearly to the level of the milk. Put the pail on the stove 






CHILD HYGIENE 313 

the practicability of the process in many cases, and that 
pasteurization by the dealer, under adequate supervision, is 
to be preferred. 

(4) The care of milk in the home, though obviously im- 
portant, is frequently neglected. Carelessness and igno- 
rance in this regard may largely nullify the benefits of 
the best milk inspection. Circulars on the subject have 
been issued by a number of health departments. A de- 
tailed one is published by the New York Association of 
Sanitary Milk Dealers. The gist of them is to "keep the 
milk cold, keep it clean and keep it covered." In order 
to keep down the ice-bill and provide a simple and inex- 
pensive means of refrigerating milk it is advisable to 
recommend, where nothing more pretentious can be had, a 
home-made ice box. 1 

or over a gas flame and heat it until the thermometer in the milk shows 
not less than 150 nor more than 155 F. The bottles should then be 
removed from the water and allowed to stand from twenty to thirty 
minutes. The temperature will fall slowly, but may be held more 
uniformly by covering the bottles with a towel. The punctured cap 
should be replaced with a new one, or the bottle should be covered with 
an inverted cup. 

" After the milk has been held as directed it should be cooled as 
quickly and as much as possible by setting in water. To avoid danger 
of breaking the bottle by too sudden change of temperature, this water 
should be warm at first. Replace the warm water slowly with cold 
water. After cooling, milk should in all cases be held at the lowest 
available temperature. 

" This method may be employed to retard the souring of milk or 
cream for ordinary uses. It should be remembered, however, that 
pasteurization does not destroy all bacteria in milk, and after pasteuri- 
zation it should be kept cold and used as soon as possible. Cream 
does not rise as rapidly or separate as completely in pasteurized milk as 
in raw milk." 

1 " Many are unable to buy enough ice in summer to preserve milk 
in ordinary refrigerators for twenty-four hours. Most mothers, however, 
buy a five- or ten-cent cake every morning and by following the sugges- 
tion of Dr. Alfred F. Hess [N. Y. Dept. of Health] can make at home at 
small cost an excellent milk refrigerator that requires only a very little 
ice. . . . His device has been recommended for use by the health 



314 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

VENTILATION. The potent influence of the heat and 
ventilation in apartments has been the subject of consider- 
able recent study, as a result of which it is seen that bad 
conditions in these respects increase not only diseases of 
the respiratory organs but also, through disturbances of 
the delicate circulation and nervous system of the child, 
disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. We now know that 
the worst effects of bad ventilation and of the stagnant 
summer heat in tenements are due to heat and humidity and 
not to any fancied increase in carbon dioxide. The sum- 
mer season is especially critical. Winslow 1 has studied 
the subject in some detail and, quoting Holt and Park 
and other authorities, has brought out especially the rela- 
tion between summer heat and infant health. Aside from 
the effect of the heat on milk supplies, he brings evidence 
to show that "summer heat per se has an important effect 
on infant mortality," with a conclusion that "heat may be 
extensively fatal only when combined with an abnormal 
food supply, but temperature is one of the two important 

authorities of New York, Chicago, Philadelphia and other cities. Where 
nurses have urged the mothers to construct this home-made refrigerator 
their attempts have met with success. . . . 

" Obtain a box from the grocer; any wooden box a foot in depth will 
answer the purpose. Buy a tin pail with a cover, one deep enough to 
hold a quart bottle of milk, and a slightly larger pail without a cover. 
Place one inside the other, and stand them in the center of the box. 
Now pack sawdust or excelsior beneath and all about them to keep the 
heat from getting in; complete the refrigerator by nailing about fifty 
layers of newspaper to the under surface of the box cover. 

" The refrigerator is now ready for use. In the morning as soon as 
the milk is received, it should be placed in the pail and five cents' worth 
of ice should be cracked and placed about the milk bottle. The cover 
should be replaced on the can and the lid on the wooden box. Every 
morning the melted ice should be poured off." The Survey, June 25, 

1910, p. 504. 

1 Winslow, " The Relation between Bad Ventilation and Infant 
Mortality," Trans. Am. Assn. for Study and Prevention of Inf. MorL, 

1911, p. 149. 



CHILD HYGIENE 315 

cooperating causes and perhaps the more far-reaching of 
the two in its effects." Schereschewsky has later made 
a detailed study of the relation of heat to infant mortality, 
as a result of which he concludes that "the action of heat 
as a direct cause in the summer mortality of infants has 
been greatly underestimated. ... In the future much 
more weight should be given to its influence," and dwells 
on the importance of indoor temperature, which may be 
excessive even when the outdoor temperature is not. 1 It 
is the duty of the infant hygiene nurse to prevent the 
effects of hot, humid and stagnant air by securing proper 
ventilation in homes at all seasons. The question is, of 
course, closely connected with overcrowding and poor 
housing. 

CLOTHING. This is a matter related to the one just 
discussed. The prevailing faults here are tight clothing 
which restricts the circulation and movements of infants 
and the overdressing of them in warm weather, when, 
frequently, very little clothing indeed is needed. 

NOSTRUMS, " PACIFIERS, " ETC. Discouragement of the 
use of all remedies and drugs not prescribed by the physician 
as well as of the various mechanical "pacifiers," such as 
false nipples, etc., is important." 

COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. Under this head is included 
protection of the child against possible modes of infection 
and against dust and dirt and flies which may be the vehicles 
of it; also the watching for possible infection of the eyes 
by gonococcus, etc. Early vaccination of infants also 
should be urged; babies may, if healthy, be vaccinated as 
early as the third or fourth month. 

Many of the diarrhoeas of infants are infectious; hence 
in such cases the excreta and soiled articles should be dis- 
infected in order to protect other young children in the 
family. It has been suggested that infantile diarrhoea 

1 Schereschewsky, " Heat and Infant Mortality," Trans. Am. Assn. 
for Study and Prevention of Inf. Mort., 1913, p. 99. 



316 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

be made, for purposes of study and control, a notifiable 
disease. 

The nurse also supervises the hygiene of sleeping, bath- 
ing, etc., and endeavors to see that the baby is taken to 
the consultation once a week to be weighed and examined. 

GENERAL FUNCTIONS OF NURSE. The frequency of 
visits cannot be governed by arbitrary rules but should be 
according to the needs of the individual case. As the 
child grows older visits may be made less and less fre- 
quently and after the age of a year they may perhaps in 
the great majority of cases, if well, be dropped entirely 
in favor of the newly-born which are constantly added to 
the visiting list. 

Where charitable aid is necessary the nurse will refer 
the case to the proper organization. She can be on the 
lookout for unreported cases of ophthalmia and keep a 
general observation on the work of midwives. She may 
discover unreported births. She should also act in a 
general way as inspector and report unsanitary conditions 
to the department of health. Even when maintained by 
an unofficial organization she should be appointed a special 
inspector by the board of health. 

In qualification the nurse should be a graduate of a good 
hospital training school, preferably with some special ex- 
perience in baby work and some knowledge of the methods 
of social work. At the present time there is growing a 
class of nurses trained especially for public health work. 
In work among foreign races some knowledge of the lan- 
guages and dialects encountered is desirable, though not 
absolutely essential; interpreters, e.g., intelligent older 
children or ''little mothers," may be found, and it is wiser 
to obtain superior ability and personality on the part of 
the nurse than this special advantage. 

In her relation to the family the nurse acts as general 
adviser in all matters hygienic and arranges the details in 
regard to milk stations, diet kitchens and other external 



CHILD HYGIENE 317 

agencies. In her relation to the medical profession she 
preserves an attitude of impartiality and deference. Where 
there is a family physician she acts only with his consent 
and aids in the accomplishment of his instructions. Where 
there is no physician the family may make its own choice 
of one or take the infant to a clinic. Where, of course, 
the case is beyond ordinary care on the part of mother 
and nurse and medical attention is desirable, she urges 
that it be obtained. 

When there is a consultation or milk station, the nurse 
assists at it, following her cases there as well as at home. 
When the work is under private auspices small fees may be 
taken in some cases, but where it is under public control 
there are none. Nurses should work under the health 
officer or under proper medical control, and undertake no 
duties and assume no responsibilities which should properly 
be restricted to the physician, such as the prescribing of 
medicines, special diets and the like. 

When babies under her care are sick, the nurse should 
give them as much nursing attention as is consistent with 
her duties towards other cases; this is not only a direct 
benefit to the case, but it also wins attachment and con- 
fidence among the people. When, however, the nursing 
care demanded is more than she can manage with due 
respect to her other cases, then the services of a district 
nurse may be called into requisition. 

Finally, the nurse should teach mothers to be capable 
and self-reliant, so that they will not need to depend upon 
the nurse at every turn. A nurse may be an excellent 
helper herself and yet leave the mother as helpless and 
incompetent as before she was called in. On the contrary, 
the mother should be taught so that she may not only help 
herself in future, but so that she may also be helpful to her 
friends and neighbors. 1 

1 For further details on organization see " New Zealand Society for 
the Health of Women and Children: An Example of Methods of Baby- 



318 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

4. Consultation and Milk Stations ("Infant Welfare 
Stations"). Infants' consultation classes are an out- 
growth of the milk station system for the distribution of 
superior grades of milk. When this milk was modified 
it was found necessary to have babies brought to the 
station for examination so that the formula might be 
adapted to the individual child; hence the consultation 
class. It is now, however, generally agreed that the prime 
function of milk stations is to keep babies under expert 
supervision and the mothers under medical instruction. 
Whatever a station may stand for in theory, the weekly 
weighing and examination of babies and free advice to 
mothers take the chief position, while the supplying of 
milk is simply an adjunct and an attraction. While the 
character of milk supplies is unquestionably important, 
the relative weight accorded to milk stations as such has 
been lessened by three things: the placing of the emphasis 
on maternal nursing rather than upon the facility of ob- 
taining milk for artificial feeding, the teaching of the home 
modification of milk, and the improvement of market 
milk supplies for infant use which has been taken up in 
many places. In any event it is a mistake to lead the 
public to suppose that such stations are chiefly for the dis- 
pensing of milk to the exclusion of factors of more general 
importance. The warning note against placing too much 
dependence upon the simple pure-milk station is sounded 
in the following : 1 

The evolution of the infants' milk station is essential. Pure milk, 
however desirable, will never alone solve the infant-mortality problem. 

saving Work in Small Towns and Rural Districts," Bureau Publication, 
no. 6, U. S. Children's Bureau, 1914; and for a precis of details of in- 
fant hygiene " The Care of the Baby," Supplement no. 10 to the Public 
Health Rpts., U. S. Public Health Service, 1914, and " Infant Care," 
free pamphlet of U. S. Children's Bureau. 

1 Dr. Josephine Baker, director of child hygiene of the department of 
health of New York City, Trans. X V Internal. Congress on Hyg. and 
Demography, 1912, vol. Ill, p. 149. 



CHILD HYGIENE 319 

Under our system of home visiting to instruct mothers in the care of 
babies we have demonstrated that babies may be kept under contin- 
uous supervision at the cost of 60 cents per month per baby, and the 
death rate among babies so cared for by us has been 1.4 per cent. The 
death rate among babies under the care of the milk stations has been 2.5 
per cent, and the cost $2 per month per baby. Without overlooking 
the value of pure milk, I believe this problem must primarily be solved 
by educational measures. In other words, the solution of the problem 
of infant mortality is 20 per cent pure milk and 80 per cent training of 
the mothers. The infants' milk stations will serve their wider useful- 
ness when they become educational centers for prenatal instruction 
and the encouragement of breast feeding and teaching better hygiene, 
with the mother instructed to buy the proper grade of milk l at a place 
most convenient to her home. 

The following extracts on the methods and organization 
of infant welfare stations are taken from a valuable bulletin 
issued by the New York State Department of Health. 2 

Methods. Although the stations are usually called " infants' 
milk stations," the dispensing of milk is now universally recognized 
as but a minor part of the work of the station. In fact, a better and 
more descriptive name for the stations would be " infant welfare sta- 
tions." It is true that the sale of milk attracts the mothers, and at 
Yonkers certified milk is sold two cents below the market price with 
the intention of drawing mothers to the station. But with the progress 
of rigid city milk inspection, such as is now organized in several cities, 
the importance of dispensing pure milk decreases and the educational 
features of the work expand. In many of the cities considered, the milk 
sold at the stations was not certified but the best obtainable from regu- 
lar market sources, an endorsement of the good quality of the milk 
sold in those cities. 

A brief summary of the work in the twelve communities is given at 
the end of this report. A medical director is usually appointed to have 
charge of the entire work of the welfare station. Two or more physicians 
cooperate with him and are assigned days at the babies' clinics. Usually 
a physician is asked to serve on consecutive clinic days, the season 

1 In New York City market milk is graded and marked so that 
grades fit for infants can be distinguished. The Author. 

2 Monthly Bulletin, N. Y. State Dept. of Health, Dec., 1913. See 
also Special Bull, of Same Dept. on Conference on Infant Welfare held 
June, 1913, containing important papers on various aspects of the 
subjects. 



320 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

being divided up between the medical director's assistants. For in- 
stance, in Cohoes four doctors served twenty-two days each during the 
three months the station was in operation. This method has the ad- 
vantage of securing more uniformity of treatment than where the 
doctors serve alternate weeks. To secure the best results with volunteer 
physicians a uniform course of treatment and care should be agreed 
on and any deviation from it be made only in consultation with the 
medical director. 

The work of the nurses is divided into examining the babies at the 
station, dispensing milk and visiting the babies in their homes. Home 
visits are of the greatest importance. In Poughkeepsie as many babies 
are visited in their homes as are enrolled at the station. In Yonkers 
the nurses are supplied every week with lists of all births in their dis- 
tricts, and the babies are visited immediately. This is a plan which 
should be recommended to all stations as worthy of adoption. Of course, 
discretion is used in utilizing these lists, as it is obvious that some of the 
babies in certain streets will be well cared for and need not be visited. 

The cooperation of the physician in a community where a milk 
station is established is most important. It is surprising that there 
has been opposition to the work by physicians in some cities, but this 
opposition is being overcome. Cards are given to all physicians in 
Utica for use in referring their patients to the stations. Also in many 
cities the services of the nurses are offered for any case which private 
practitioners may have, where the mother is too poor to pay for such 
services. 

The problem of location of a station has been met in some cities as 
Rochester, Utica, Little Falls and Syracuse by utilizing the public 
schools during the vacation period. In Buffalo rooms are used in 
settlement houses. The rooms should be large and light, with a smaller 
room in the rear where private consultations may be held. A large 
room offers a fine opportunity for talks to mothers on other days than 
clinic days, as is done at Poughkeepsie and some other cities. 

To date, little emphasis is placed on work among expectant mothers 
in the stations considered. Usually, however, when the nurse hears of 
an expectant mother, she visits her and invites her to the station to 
attend the classes for mothers with babies. At Buffalo the nurses follow 
up all cases heard of, as is done in several other cities. In Utica pre- 
natal work was begun in September and is now a part of the regular 
station routine. 

There is no doubt but that this work will shortly be incorporated in 
every station's activities, although the growth of the stations' clientele 
to the present time has been so great that additional activities could not 
very well be undertaken. 



CHILD HYGIENE 321 

Records. In a review of the work of the infant welfare stations 
in the State the matter of records of the work is of great interest. In 
most instances the family histories of the baby and weekly histories of 
its condition are kept with more or less uniformity. Printed forms 
for daily or monthly summaries are used at Yonkers, Buffalo, Rochester 
and Schenectady. While daily reports are hardly needed when there 
is only one station, a weekly or monthly compilation of the condition 
of the babies and work of the station is extremely necessary. A com- 
plete weekly or monthly record of the attendance and condition of the 
babies at a station, together with a report of the activities of the nurse, 
such as visiting, etc., is needed for guidance of the medical director and 
for public proof of the value of the work. The principal record and 
report forms used at the stations are reproduced. 1 They furnish an 
interesting study of the records employed in the different cities. 

Relief Work. Infant welfare stations, although at present largely 
supported by private funds, are in no sense a charity. Through the 
example of the New York and Rochester municipalities, the work has 
been placed on the same basis as that of the public school. In some 
communities it is extremely necessary to exclude any idea of charity, or 
mothers will not attend the station. It is not only the very poor who 
make up the clientele of the stations, but many mothers attend who are 
referred there by their family physicians, and who are anxious to have 
the nurse teach them the proper care of their babies. 

Sometimes, however, relief is urgently needed, for instance, by a 
very poor family when the husband is out of work. So arrangements 
are usually made by the station management for the temporary pay- 
ment for the milk in such cases. 

In five of the cities the stations have funds for payment for milk 
when the mother is unable to do so. Four other cities refer relief cases 
to private or city charities. One station reported no relief given at all. 
In all cases little relief was given as the price of the milk is generally 
the same or lower than the market price of ordinary milk, and few 
mothers are not able to pay. It is evident from the survey of the 
stations included in this report that free milk or partly free milk for 
mothers is an extremely small item in the management of a station. 
At Utica it was found that mothers would not come to a place where 
" charity milk " was given. To overcome this a small donation was 
given by the milk station committee to the local charity organization 
society to whom all cases for relief were referred. This donation 
amply covered the free or partly free milk given by the station this 
summer. 

1 On account of lack of space the records and forms unfortunately 
cannot be reproduced here. 



322 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Literature for Distribution. Almost all the stations have printed 
leaflets or cards with brief advice to mothers on the care of the baby. 
Some of these have, been printed in five languages as at the Rochester 
stations. As the majority of the mothers who attend the stations are 
foreigners, simple leaflets in other languages than English are of value. 
The Department's booklet on "How to Save the Baby " is distributed 
in many of the cities. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF INFANT 
WELFARE STATIONS 

Infant welfare or milk stations are now considered as educational 
centers for mothers, rather than simply places where pure milk for 
babies may be bought. As early as 1897 two infant milk stations were 
opened in Rochester, these being the first outside of New York City. 
Previous to that the work had been started in New York City as far 
back as 1873 by the 'New York Diet Kitchen Association, which fur- 
nished nourishing food and pure milk to the poor. 

The work of an infant welfare station consists of dispensing pure 
milk to mothers for themselves or their babies, and teaching the mothers 
how to take proper care of their babies. In many stations prenatal 
work is also undertaken. 

Organization. In some cities the stations are supported by munic- 
ipal funds, but where this is not possible a committee is formed who 
raise the necessary money and manage the work. A medical director 
is appointed* who has direct charge of the work. The staff consists of 
at least one nurse for each station and several volunteer physicians 
who have charge of the weekly clinics. 

Financing. The first work after the organization of the committee 
is the raising of funds. From reports of the work in the State this 
has not been a very difficult matter. One city actually has had sub- 
scribed twice as much money as it could use last summer. In Utica 
milk bottles with slit tops were placed in various public places, such as 
drug stores, libraries, etc., and by this novel and appropriate method 
a large sum was collected. Other means of raising funds readily suggest 
themselves so that this part of the work will not be considered at length. 

Location. The station should be opened as near to the center of 
the district it is to serve as possible. A study of the location of infant 
deaths in a city will show better than any other method where a station 
had best be placed. Rent can be saved if the cooperation of a settle- 
ment house can be secured and the station installed there, as at Albany. 
In Syracuse, Rochester, Little Falls and several other cities rooms in the 
public schools were utilized during the summer vacation for this pur- 
pose. Where such plans are not practicable for the housing of the 



CHILD HYGIENE 323 

station, the renting of a store is necessary. In several cities, notably 
Yonkers and Schenectady, this has been done with great success, as a 
store can usually be rented in the heart of any district to be served. 

Size of Station. Two rooms at least are necessary for the station. 
One should be a large milk-dispensing room and suitable for the holding 
of classes for mothers. Camp chairs are excellent for use here, as, 
when the class is over they may be folded up and put aside, allowing 
free use of the floor space. A smaller room at the rear of the dispens- 
ing room will serve for a consultation and weighing room. Here the 
doctor in charge and the nurse examine and weigh the babies at the 
weekly clinic. This room should be supplied with running water 
and arrangements for heating water, etc. The consultation room may 
also be utilized as a demonstration room for demonstrating modification 
of milk to mothers. 

Equipment. For the dispensing room the principal equipment 
required is an ice box where the milk bottles can be placed in direct 
contact with the ice,. [which] is preferable to one where the ice is kept in 
a separate compartment. A table for the nurse is needed, also sufficient 
chairs for nurse and mothers. If classes are held, a number of folding 
camp chairs will be necessary. The consultation room contains the 
doctor's desk or table, table for weighing scales and a cabinet for the 
various supplies. Also utensils for bathing the baby. [Also sink and 
gas stove.] 

Dispensing of Milk. Milk is bought by the station management 
and sold to the mothers. In stations where certified milk is used the 
market price is usually prohibitive, so it is sold at cost or less. Milk 
not certified, but of a good grade, is dispensed in many stations, and in 
cities where there is an efficient system of milk inspection this milk 
attains a high standard. Where there are many stations the method 
employed by the New York City Health Department for the dispensing 
of the milk might be employed. There the milk is sold for the dealer 
in each station by matrons who are responsible to him for the daily 
receipts. 

Management of Work at Station. The nurse is in attendance at 
the station from about 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon for the purpose of dis- 
pensing milk. In large stations, as already stated, a matron is employed 
to dispense the milk so that the nurse will have more time to devote to 
her other duties. Mothers are given advice in these morning hours, and 
on clinic days the babies are weighed and new babies examined. In 
the afternoon the nurse visits the mothers in their homes, teaching them 
to modify the milk if necessary. This instruction to mothers is the 
most important part of the work of the nurse. Milk, no matter how 
pure, is harmful if given to the baby in a dirty bottle or modified in 



324 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

dirty utensils. Patient and persistent work on the part of the nurse 
is necessary, and her duties include the giving of much advice on house- 
hold management. 

In Yonkers the nurses are furnished a list of births every week by the 
health department, and call on the mothers at once. This is an excellent 
plan as it insures the mother proper care for her baby from the first. 
In some cities the nurses make a point of visiting expectant mothers and 
hold classes for them at the stations. This is comparatively new work 
and is rapidly becoming a feature of welfare station activities. The 
doctor assigned to the station has at least one clinic a week, where babies 
are weighed and new babies examined. Sick babies are referred by 
him to the family physician or a hospital or dispensary, and mothers of 
sick babies are instructed in the proper care of them. Where the baby 
is too ill to be brought to the welfare station the doctor visits with the 
nurse and takes charge of the case if the family cannot afford to pay for 
the services of an outside physician. The matter of treating babies by 
the welfare station doctor is a rather delicate one, as some opposition 
will develop toward the work by misguided physicians who believe that 
free treatments and advice will hurt their practice. Mothers are al- 
ways referred to their own physicians and encouraged to go to them. 
The services of the nurse are always free to all doctors of the com- 
munity where they have sick babies which need such care. 

Records. In organizing a station two records are absolutely neces- 
sary. Others may be added as the work grows and the need is felt for 
them. The two are the registration card and the weekly or monthly 
report form compiled from information recorded on the registration 
card. The following forms 1 are recommended, having been prepared 
with a view to simplicity and efficiency. A well-managed station, 
even if small, should have complete records of its work, and the forms 
should be so designed as to give this information in the clearest and 
most available manner. 

These forms have been prepared for use after a study of the needs 
and requirements of the welfare stations in cities of varying sizes in the 
State. Simplicity has been aimed at and only the most essential in- 
formation is noted. Data of a purely sociological character, although 
valuable in determining the economic and social position of the families, 
has been omitted as not of immediate importance and likely to unduly 
complicate the records. 

The vertical record registration card reproduced has been made as 
self-explanatory as possible. The vertical weight and feeding chart on 
the left gives at a glance the gain or loss in weight together with the kind 
and changes of feeding. 
1 See the Bulletin for these forms, which cannot be reproduced here. 



CHILD HYGIENE 325 

Below the registration record is the prenatal record for use in expec- 
tant mother work. By including this on the same card the prenatal 
history is readily available and it may also be filled out for babies whose 
mothers have not been under observation during pregnancy, but who 
have brought their babies to the station. 

A comprehensive report of the work at the station whether compiled 
weekly or monthly, should show: 

(1) Number of babies at beginning of month. 

(2) New babies; how referred to station. 

(3) Babies dropped from roll, and cause. 

(4) Babies on roll at end of month. 

(5) Attendance of mothers at classes. 

(6) Condition of babies and how fed. 

(7) Report of visits of nurse. 

(8) Quantity of milk sold. 

(9) Relief given. 
(10) Prenatal work. 

With this in mind the accompanying weekly or monthly report 
blank is suggested. Local application of it will probably call for addi- 
tions. When correctly filled out, the movement of the station clientele 
can be intelligently followed, and the improvement in the babies noted. 
The cooperation of physicians and philanthropic organizations is also 
recorded, and the reasons for babies ceasing to come is shown. This 
last is very important where there are many stations. 

The reverse side of the card contains the names and addresses of 
babies who have died during the month. Also the names of babies 
transferred to hospitals with name of hospital. 

Relief Work. There are usually very few mothers who cannot 
afford to pay the small price asked for the milk. It is best to have 
those who need help in procuring milk for their babies pay as much as 
possible, even if it is only a few cents. A separate fund at the disposal 
of the welfare station for this purpose is worth while as relief may then 
be given promptly. Some stations refer all cases to the local charity 
organization society for investigation and' relief. 

Literature for Distribution. The pamphlet on " How to Save the 
Baby," issued free by the State Department of Health is offered to 
all stations for distribution to mothers. In some stations small cards 
or folders containing brief advice are distributed. Where different 
nationalities are served by the station the literature should be printed 
in their respective languages. 

Cost of Operation. The monthly cost of operating the welfare 
stations depends on many conditions. The principal expenses are: 

1. Salary of nurses and matrons. 

2. Rent of station. 



326 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



3. Equipment. 

4. Supplies (bottles, ice, printing, etc.). 

5. Loss on sale of milk (if sold less than cost). 

In many cities the use of public schools during the summer solves the 
rent problem. In others rooms in settlement and church houses may 
be secured free of charge. The equipment of a new station is often 
donated or paid for by special subscription. 

Some typical budgets are given below as an indication of the total 
cost of operating a station for the summer. In Utica, Little Falls and 
Syracuse public schools were utilized for quarters, and in Albany the 
station was given space, rent free, in the South End Dispensary. The 
cost per month ranges from $129 in Albany to $280 in Syracuse, the 
average being $195.50. The cost of equipment of all stations except 
the one in Albany is included in the totals. 

The monthly cost per baby, which is shown below, is based on the 
registration of the stations for August 31. The actual cost is probably 
a little higher, as this is the month of largest enrollment. Invidious 
comparisons of these figures should not be made, as operating condi- 
tions vary greatly in different cities. The loss on the sale of milk, for 
instance, is a large item at some stations, especially in those where 
certified milk is dispensed. 

As should be expected, a large enrollment decreases the cost per 
baby. The budgets show a gradual decrease of cost per baby with 
the increased enrollment. The number of babies which one nurse can 
care for is limited by the situation of the station whether the station 
draws from a congested neighborhood or from a widespread area. The 
character of the people living near the station also affects the enroll- 
ment. In the poorer districts the registration is usually much larger 
than in those sections of the cities where the families are better off. 

TYPICAL BUDGETS OF INFANT WELFARE STATIONS 





Utica 


Little Falls 


Albany 


Syracuse 


Average 
per 
station 


Months open 


July, Aug. 


July, Aug. 


June, July, 


July, Aug. 






i 


i 


Aug. 
i 


2 




Total disbursements 
Babies cared for (Aug. 31) . 
Total disbursements (per 
station per month) 
Cost per baby (per month) 
Total quarts of milk dis- 
pensed 
Total quarts per baby (per 
month) 


$463.00 
382 

$231.50 
0.61 

5,335 
6.9 


$281.00 
94 

$140.50 
1.49 

I,l88 
6.3 


$487.00 
69 

$129.00 
1.87 

i, 060 
S.i 


$1,122.00 
473 

$280.50 
I. II 

12,440 
II 


$470.00 
203 

$195-37 
1.04 

5,005$ 
7-7 



CHILD HYGIENE 327 

5. " Little Mothers." This important phase of the 
infant welfare movement is well described in the follow- 
ing extract from the Bulletin of the Children's Bureau on 
" Baby-Saving Campaigns. " 

" Little Mother Leagues " and " Little Mother Classes " in the 
public schools represent efforts made in New York, N. Y., Kansas City, 
Mo., Cleveland, Ohio, and Milwaukee, Wis., to carry instruction into 
the home from another angle. " Little Mothers " are the school girls 
who have to help care for babies or for younger children at home. Of 
course the schools of every city have many such, and as they live in all 
parts of the town and come from every class, it follows that to reach 
them is to influence an ever-widening circle of mothers and homes 
where instruction is most needed. The policy in New York City was 
to organize these school girls who were caretakers of little children into 
groups and teach them the care* of babies. These groups were called 
" leagues " and the whole organization was " The Little Mothers' 
League." Dr. Josephine Baker, of the New York division of child 
hygiene, in a paper before the International Congress of Hygiene and 
Demography, in September, 1912, says: 

The aid of over 20,000 girls from 12 to 14 years of age was en- 
listed and made of practical value by the formation of " Little 
Mothers' Leagues." These are still one of the most important 
branches of our work. The girls are taught all practical methods 
of baby hygiene and feeding. The potential value of training 
young girls for intelligent motherhood is not only of immense im- 
portance, but the immediate results have been striking in the im- 
proved care that is given to the babies who are directly under 
the care of these young girls. As true prevention work, it ranks 
of first importance in the prevention of infant mortality in this 
and the next generation. In all 239 of these leagues were founded 
in 1911, and practically an equal number have been organized this 
year (1912). Weekly meetings are held for instruction. Each 
league is under the supervision of a doctor and a nurse from the 
division of child hygiene. Each weekly lesson takes up some 
particular phase of baby care. The doctor gives a short, simple 
talk; then, with the nurse, demonstrates his subject. Our out- 
line embraces the importance of breast feeding, hygiene of the 
home, cleanliness, ventilation, etc., hygiene of the infant, includ- 
ing bathing, dressing and value of fresh air, infant feeding, with 
methods of milk modification. The lessons are simple and prac- 
tical, and the children are required to carry out each part of the 
work. Babies are not lacking for demonstration purposes, for 



328 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

nearly every little mother brings her own charge to the meetings, 
and often the rivalry is great to have " my baby " chosen as an 
object lesson of health and right living. The members write and 
act little plays, the play always hinging upon some newly discov- 
ered way to keep the baby well. The real iniquity of lollypops 
and dill pickles as baby food is being uncovered, and these and 
kindred baby pacifiers of former days are being relegated to 
oblivion. 

In Kansas City and in Milwaukee all girls desiring to enter these 
classes are enrolled, whether or not they are caretakers of babies at 
home. The health department undertakes to teach baby hygiene 
through the public schools to all girls who care to avail themselves of 
the opportunity by joining the classes a step, in short, toward the 
movement in French and German schools in education for mother- 
hood. 

In Cleveland, Ohio, instruction is "given to girls in the seventh and 
eighth grades by the introduction of an infant hygiene division in the 
domestic science department of the schools. On June 9, 1913, there 
were 48 classes a week, with 884 girls taking the work. The course 
consists of six lessons, as follows: 

Lesson I. How to keep baby well. Causes and prevention of 
high death rate. 

Lesson II. Growth and development of normal baby. 
Lesson III. Pattern demonstration. Each pupil cutting patterns 
for baby's outfit. 

Lesson IV. Feeding: Maternal nursing, artificial feeding, dangers 
of patent foods. (Charts for five lessons.) 

Lesson V. Bath: Things necessary, preparation, how much good 
it does baby. 

Lesson VI. Common illness among babies. First home treatment 
in beginning of intestinal disturbances. 

6. Milk Supplies. While, as stated above, the r61e of 
milk supplies in the infant mortality problem has been 
exaggerated in proportion to other factors, nevertheless 
their absolute importance should not be underestimated. 
Unclean, bacteria-laden milk is responsible for a great deal 
of sickness among infants, while bovine tuberculosis in- 
fection through non-tuberculin-tested and unpasteurized 
supplies constitutes another problem. "It is now esti- 
mated that perhaps 7 per cent of the tuberculosis in man 



CHILD HYGIENE 329 

is of bovine origin." (Rosenau.) This is contracted through 
milk and, according to the opinion of many authorities, in 
early infancy. The Children's Bureau has this to say of 
milk supplies: 

The importance of milk control in summer months [and, it must be 
added, at all seasons] cannot be overestimated. Health officers are 
practically as one in the opinion that unclean milk, or the improper prep- 
aration and care of milk in the home, is responsible for a large share of 
the increase in infant death rate that comes with the heated season. 1 

Milk supplies will be taken up in detail in Chapter III. 
The necessity for proper home care of milk has already 
been considered. 

7. Housing and General Sanitation. Due attention 
must be paid to securing proper housing conditions, espe- 
cially as to light, ventilation and cleanliness. Other en- 
vironmental conditions should be looked after, breeding 
places of flies and vermin removed, etc. Recent research 
tends to show that flies play an important part in the pro- 
duction of infantile diarrhoea; not only should measures 
be directed toward suppression of breeding places, but, 
pending suppression, educational work drawing attention 
to possible danger from flies should be carried on among 
mothers by the infant hygiene nurse. 

8. Unofficial Infant Welfare Organizations. These 
play an important part. Baby day camps, day nurseries, 
etc., are commonly conducted by private philanthropy, 
but should be under the tactful surveillance of the health 
officer and should be coordinated with the other baby- 
saving agencies of the community. "Baby farms," or 
places where babies are boarded out, should be subjected to 
official inspection and some control, through licensing or 
otherwise, should be exerted over them. Other cooperat- 
ing agencies are the diet kitchens and the like, from which 
mothers as well as babies may obtain nourishment in the 
shape of milk, eggs, etc. 

1 Bureau Publication no. 3, " Baby-Saving Campaigns," p. 15. 



330 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Cooperation should be maintained with the general 
hospitals, lying-in hospitals and other institutions, and 
the development of social service work in connection with 
them is to be encouraged. 

We assume for the present that nurses and infant wel- 
fare stations are under the control of the health authorities, 
but as a matter of fact these are very frequently maintained 
by unofficial organizations (see later). 

9. Prenatal Care. The figures, already quoted under 
the head of infant mortality rates, which show that the 
majority of deaths of very young infants, as well as many 
stillbirths, are due to prenatal conditions or to injury or 
accident at birth are a compelling argument for the pre- 
natal care of mothers and the improvement of the practice 
of midwifery and obstetrics. This indirect but highly 
important protection of the child through the care of the 
mother has been, of the main phases of infant welfare work, 
the last taken up. The problem is attacked by getting 
information of pregnant women at as early a time as possible 
and keeping them under observation and instruction by 
competent visiting nurses until the time of delivery. This 
work has now been taken up by a number of infant welfare 
organizations. For example: 

The New York Milk Committee has carried on for two years an 
extensive campaign of prenatal instruction. We have had 2003 
mothers in our care. They are visited regularly every ten days to two 
weeks from the time they are enrolled until the baby is a month old. 
It makes no difference whether the mother will be confined in the hos- 
pital, or by a physician or midwife in her home. . . . We have had 
2070 babies. . . . Our rate of stillbirths among our supervised mothers 
has been 25 per cent lower than for the Borough of Manhattan during 
the same period. Of babies who were born alive, there have been 25 
per cent less deaths during the first month than for the same period 
in the Borough as a whole. Of our mothers, 93 per cent of all those 
whose babies were living at the end of the first month were nursing 
them entirely. Only three and a fraction per cent were being fed 
artificially. 1 

1 Trans, ^th Ann. Meeting Am. Assn. for Study and Prevention of 
Infant Mortality, 1913, p. 183. 



CHILD HYGIENE 331 

Similar results are given for the work carried on in Bos- 
ton under the Women's Municipal League, which states 
that 

The number of births in the city in 1912 was approximately 19,000, 
and the percentage of stillbirths in that year was 39.3 per thousand 
living births. Had our percentage of stillbirths [18.6 per thousand] 
obtained throughout the whole city 393 babies would have been born 
alive whose lives, as it was, were extinguished before they saw the light 
of day. 1 

While this class of work has hitherto been carried on 
entirely by unofficial organizations, it is closely related to 
the instructive work of the infant welfare nurse and might 
well be added to it. 2 

16. Control of Midwives. The ignorant, ill-trained 
midwife can do a vast amount of damage, before birth, at 
the time of delivery, and in the aftercare of both mother 
and infant, as the statistics of infant mortality and deaths 
from puerperal causes will show. 

We have noted above the large proportion of deaths 
of infants due to factors over which the obstetrical at- 
tendant has control. Of the practice of physicians as 
obstetricians we say nothing here except that it should 
be adequately controlled, like other medical practice, by 
proper state authority, for the incompetent male obstetri- 
cian is a factor to be considered. As to the practice of mid- 
wifery, it should be subjected to strict supervision by the 
state in the same manner as general medical practice ; such 
supervision should require adequate training as a prereq- 
uisite for a license, and there should be courses for mid- 
wives in connection with hospitals and medical inspection 

1 Trans, tfh Ann. Meeting Am. Assn. for Study and Prevention of 
Infant Mortality, 1913, p. 188. 

2 See Schwarz, "Prenatal Care," Trans, just quoted, p. 174, and 
other discussions in the vols. of Trans, of the Am. Assn. for Study and 
Prevention of Inf. Mort. For an account of the details of prenatal 
care see the valuable pamphlet on " Prenatal Care," by Mrs. Max 
West, Bureau Publication no. 4, Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept. of 
Labor, 1913. 



332 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of the work of licensed midwives from time to time. The 
midwife is probably too deeply rooted in social and eco- 
nomic conditions to be eliminated entirely, as has been 
suggested, but may be made the best of through an offi- 
cial control which is feasible as well as necessary. The 
competent midwife* is capable of handling a normal birth 
properly, while she should be required to call in a phy- 
sician if abnormal symptoms present themselves. In many 
communities a large proportion of the births are attended 
by midwives who also give nursing care, etc., at a very 
low cost, and to attempt to deprive the poorer population 
of this midwife service, which it appears may be made as 
safe as the corresponding order of medical service, would 
be inadvisable. At present it is lamentable that "some 
states especially exempt midwives from all provisions of 
medical practice acts, and insist that they can practice 
without license and control," and that "not one single 
state in the Union has control over schools of midwifery 
in regard to the character of instruction and the require- 
ments for admission." A simple and effective means of 
eliminating the incompetent midwife "consists in getting 
the same kind of state control over schools of midwifery 
and the admission of midwives to practice as is exercised 
over medical schools and the admission to medical prac- 
tice." 1 Attempts at local control may -have some effect 
but must necessarily be incomplete. 

It has also been suggested that a special class of trained 
nurses might be licensed to act as midwives and gradually 
supplant the latter. 

ii. Use of Printed Matter. Many health departments 
issue leaflets and the like for the instruction of mothers. 
Such matter is, however, of no use with the ignorant classes 
and in any case is of value only as supplementary to oral 
instruction and demonstration. 

1 Schwarz, paper quoted above. Cf. Van Blarcom, " Midwives in 
America," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 3, p. 197. 



CHILD HYGIENE 333 

There are many factors in the infant welfare problem 
which cannot be extensively considered here. For ex- 
ample, there is the effect of the working of mothers in 
factories before and after child-birth. A speaker at the 
XV International Congress on Hygiene and Demography 1 
presented figures showing that in factory towns in Stafford- 
shire County, England, the babies of mothers at home 
showed an annual death rate per thousand births of 146, 
while the rate for babies of mothers in factories or away 
from home during the day was 261. The Medical Officer 
of Health of Birmingham, going into the question in a very 
poor working class population of his own district, concludes 
that "in the special area under review there appears to be 
no doubt about the prejudicial influence of employment of 
pregnant and nursing mothers in factories, both on their 
infants and on themselves"; but adds that "poverty has, 
however, a much more deleterious influence; and if by 
employment poverty can be removed or lessened, such 
employment is the lesser by far of two evils." 2 This is a 
matter which cannot be directly dealt with by health 
authorities, but relief can be given in some cases through 
charitable aid which enables the mother temporarily to 
discontinue factory employment, wholly or in part. One 
of the evil effects of such employment is that the infant is 
frequently placed on the bottle and left at home in charge 
of some incompetent person. 

ORGANIZATION OF INFANT HYGIENE WORK 

Most infant welfare work, aside from the supervision of 
milk supplies, has thus far been maintained by unofficial 
organizations. There is no doubt, however, that the time 
is ripe, and the need urgent, that health departments in 
all communities, small and large, come to the fore and 
assume their proper responsibilities in this most important 

1 Reid, vol. Ill, pt. II, of the Transactions of the Congress, p. 943. 

2 Robertson, ibid., p. 952. 



334 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

public health field; that they initiate work where there is 
now none; and coordinate and complete the scheme of 
work where philanthropic organizations are already at 
work. The health authorities alone have the power to 
compel registration of births, to send out nurses as official 
inspectors, to supervise milk supplies and to expend public 
funds in the establishment of infant welfare stations. 
Hence leadership and efficiency both depend upon the 
department of health. 

The plan of organization and operation may be somewhat 
as follows (adapted to local conditions) : 

1. Make a brief statistical survey of the infant mortality 
situation and obtain the funds, public or private, necessary. 

2. Studying the situation more in detail and determin- 
ing in what districts the greatest mortalities occur, divide 
the community into districts according to the amount of 
infant mortality, taking into account also the character 
of the population and convenience of nurse in getting about 
district. Of course small communities need no districting. 

3. In each district, at as convenient a point as possible, 
arrange for an infant welfare station to serve as an office 
for the nurse of the district, for consultation classes and, 
if milk is to be dispensed, as a milk station. 

4. To each district assign one infant welfare nurse, to 
have visiting charge of the infants in the district, to assist 
at consultations, making her headquarters at the station. 
The number of babies under the care of one nurse should 
not be greater than I5O. 1 This nurse is to have charge 
of babies whether sick or well, unless they are so ill as to 
require hospital care or to be placed under the care of a 

1 The New York Milk Committee (Special Rpt. on Infant Mortal- 
ity and Milk Stations, 1912, p. 130) states that " one nurse for every 
100 babies is the limit for the maximum of efficiency, and probably 
300 babies the limit for any one station." These estimates would of 
course vary with local conditions, e.g., density of population, location 
of station, etc. In a less densely settled district the latter figure would 
be reduced, the former to a less extent in proportion. 



CHILD HYGIENE 335 

special district nurse. Thus the nurse follows the cases 
both at home and at the station. If resources warrant, 
prenatal instruction work may be carried on by nurses. 

5. Obtain the regular services of a physician for each 
district, who will conduct at the station the weekly consul- 
tation. Physicians will frequently volunteer their services 
for this purpose. If the same physician is willing to serve 
in more than one district, so much is gained in uniformity 
of methods, an advantage on account of the moving of 
families from one district to another. When babies become 
ill they may be referred to family physician or to a clinic 
if one is available apart from the consultation station. Of 
course due tact must be exercised in relation to private 
physicians. 

6. Where various divisions of the work (as is usually the 
case) are carried on by unofficial organizations there should 
be a central directing committee, to determine questions 
of principle rather than details, composed of delegates 
from the various organizations involved. The health 
officer may act as executive officer of this committee, pre- 
paring propositions for its consideration and working out 
the relations between various parts of the work, thus 
practically guiding its policies without necessarily having 
direct control. 

7. Modifications of this plan according to local condi- 
tions will suggest themselves. In small cities where there 
are several districts it may, for example, be most convenient 
to have all modification of milk done at a specialized dis- 
pensary in one district. In Cleveland, Ohio, a district plan 
is in operation, but all sick babies are sent to a Central 
Dispensary of the Babies' Hospital. There also is found 
an excellent example of cooperation between the health 
department and unofficial organizations. 1 

8. Dispensation of milk should be carried on in such a 

1 Report of the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio, 
for year ending Sept. 30, 1912, p. 19 ff. 



336 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

manner as not to encourage bottle-feeding, but simply 
with the object of supplying a high grade of milk, in those 
cases where needed, at a reasonable cost. This milk should 
be given out in the whole form and the mothers taught 
home modification, except in cases of incapacity or illness of 
the mother which make it necessary to modify at the milk 
station. 1 Where the health department is able to specify 
certain milk supplies on the market as being of sufficiently 
high and reliable grade to meet approbation for infant 
feeding (and this of course should be the case), such sup- 
plies, delivered at the homes in the usual manner, may 
take the place of dispensary milk. Where the grading of 
market milk is carried out this may readily be the case. 
It must always be remembered that the functions of over- 
sight and instruction, beginning in the prenatal period and 
extending through early infancy, and not merely milk 
distribution, are the .chief objects of the infant welfare 
station. 

The following quotation describes very specifically what 
can be done in the way of organization in small towns and 
cities. 

If there is one hospital, one charitable society and one or more 
churches in a town doing social work, we immediately have the nucleus 
for a small babies' welfare association, and we believe that the lesson in 
the possibilities of cooperation under the greatest of difficulties, learned 
in New York City, can be applied in modified form in smaller commu- 
nities much more easily. Stamford, Connecticut, for instance, a city of 
15,000 inhabitants, has one hospital, a visiting nurse's association and 
an association of charities, which includes a number of churches, lodges 
and other societies. From these few elements they have decided that 
they can profitably organize a babies' welfare association something 
along the line of that tried successfully in New York City. 

Any village or city of over 5000 inhabitants might profitably estab- 
lish a milk station, or, even better, a child welfare center in which 
educational work alone is conducted, if the general milk supply of the 
community is of a high enough grade, and does not merit the special 

1 See remarks on p. 310 f. 



CHILD HYGIENE 337 

dispensing of pure milk. As an example, the experience of Englewood, 
N. J., might be cited. This town has only about 10,000 inhabitants, 
but as a result of an influx of a foreign element the infant mortality rate 
became very high. A small cottage was rented and a dispensary and 
baby shelter established where the nurses in attendance gave instruc- 
tions to mothers on the care of their babies. The doctor in charge 
treated all diarrhoeal cases and two or three beds were provided where 
babies could be kept temporarily in case their mothers were sick. 
At the same time pure milk was sold, at a moderate cost, to the mothers 
who needed to give their babies artificial feeding. As a result the 
Englewood infant death rate was effectively cut down. It now has 
one of the lowest death rates of any community of its size in the State 
of New Jersey. 

In smaller villages where a station could not be run to advantage, 
and where milk dispensing is not necessary, educational work can be and 
is done, successfully, by a single visiting nurse. Even in hamlets and 
rural communities a church society can provide a fund from which 
a local nurse can be hired temporarily, whenever there is a family in 
need of such work. 

The same suggestions can be made regarding prenatal work as re- 
garding milk station work in smaller communities. We believe the 
work can be carried on in larger cities, by districts, just as it is carried 
on in New York City. In smaller communities any visiting nurse or 
organization employing visiting nurses can profitably take up this 
effective and not costly effort to save infant lives and reduce not only 
mortality but morbidity. 1 

As the result of careful study of the needs of the city 
of Newark, N. J., and the work begun there under un- 
official organization, the following conclusions of general 
interest were reached: 

Infant consultation stations are less expensive and more efficient 
than milk depots. 

All mothers can be taught to prepare milk for their infants at home. 

1 Dr. Pisek, Medical Director, New York Milk Committee, " The 
Health Officer's Place in the Campaign for the Reduction of Infant 
Mortality," in Special Bulletin of N. Y. State Dept. of Health on Infant 
Welfare Conference, June, 1913. See also other papers in same, esp. 
Clarke, " Infant Welfare Work in Small Cities." This bulletin and 
the one on Infant Welfare Stations in New York State, also issued by 
the New York State Dept. of Health, contain a great deal of value to 
the health officer concerned in the establishment of infant welfare work. 



338 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Pure milk can be obtained for babies at a price within reach of all. 

The mortality of infants under one year of age is exceedingly high 
in all institutions. 

Infants deprived of mother's care should be placed out in properly 
supervised private homes. 

Ignorance is the greatest single factor in infant mortality. 

Education of mothers and the supervision of babies cause the great- 
est reduction of infant mortality. 

The prompt and accurate notification of births is necessary to enable 
us to prevent the great mortality of the first week of life. 1 

Midwives can become a great force in the education of our foreign- 
born mothers in infant hygiene through active and careful supervision. 

The reduction of infant mortality can best be accomplished by the 
establishment of a municipal department of child hygiene. 2 

In some communities it has been found feasible to com- 
bine the instructive nursing work with other similar work. 
Thus in a number of places (e.g., New York City, Syracuse, 
N. Y., et al.) the school nurses have done infant welfare 
work during the summer months. In other small towns 
(e.g., Montclair, N. J.) one nurse has been employed for 
both tuberculosis and infant welfare work. Such exped- 
ients are useful where full-time nurses cannot be secured. 

SUMMER CAMPAIGNS OR ALL-THE- YEAR-ROUND WORK? 
In most places where infant hygiene work has been taken 
up it had its inception with a summer campaign. And it 
is true that the summer season is the most severe on infant 
life, for in some cities one-third to almost one-half of the 
whole infant mortality occurs in the. third quarter, i.e., 
July to September inclusive. But it should not be supposed 
that little or no work is needed during the winter months. 
During those months there occur many deaths from pre- 
ventable causes; the deaths from diseases of the respiratory 
system are numerous, while the steady succession of deaths 

1 Prenatal work may also be undertaken with this object. J. S. M. 

2 Rpt. on " The Work of the Public Welfare Committee of Essex 
County [N. J.] for the Reduction of Infant Mortality," by Dr. Julius 
Levy, 1912. Issued by the Committee at 665 Broad Street, Newark, 
N.J. 



CHILD HYGIENE 339 

due to prenatal causes and improper care at and just after 
birth goes on steadily irrespective of season. Moreover, 
the educational character of the work requires that it be 
carried on continuously in order to take root and gain con- 
tinued confidence. Thus, too, skill and attachment on 
the part of nurses is obtained. Hence, while summer 
campaigns alone accomplish an immense amount of good, 
an adequate plan involves nurses and consultation stations 
steadily at work all the year round. 

Costs and Results. The costs of infant welfare work 
will depend somewhat on local conditions. The salary of 
a trained nurse is usually $65 or $75 a month. Rooms 
suitable for welfare stations are obtainable in the poor 
districts where they are usually located, at a low rental. 
Rooms in public schools, settlements and the like solve 
the rent problem completely. The equipment needed for 
an ordinary station is comparatively inexpensive, and re- 
quires little in the way of renewal. Where a special supply 
of milk is desired it can usually be obtained, by arrange- 
ment, of proper quality and at a price not exceeding that 
of ordinary market milk. This milk may be dispensed 
from the station or arrangement may be made whereby 
the dealer delivers to the homes. This part of the work 
need not involve charity, for in almost all cases the families 
should be able to pay the full cost price. 

The average total maintenance cost per baby, per month, 
is given for certain stations in New York State which were 
operated during the summer, as $1.04, including the equip- 
ment in the majority of cases. 1 

As for results, it must be noted that the work is prima- 
rily educational, and since education is a gradual process, 
immediately conspicuous results in the general infant mor- 
tality rate should not necessarily be expected. A detailed 
study of the work in the districts where it has been carried 
on should disclose some results even during the first season. 
1 See p. 326. 



340 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Dr. Josephine S. Baker, of the New York City Division 
of Child Hygiene, at the New York State Conference al- 
ready mentioned, stated that "for the four years previous 
to 1908 in New York City the death rate of babies under 
one year of age ranged from about 160 to 164 per thousand; 
in the four years since 1908 that death rate has been reduced 
from 1 60 to 105 per thousand." This as the result of 
infant hygiene work carried on by the New York Milk 
Committee and other unofficial organizations in coopera- 
tion with the Division of Child Hygiene of the Department 
of Health. The New York Milk Committee has made a 
special and detailed study of the infant welfare work carried 
on in the ten largest cities of the United States, as the result 
of which the following conclusions, all applicable to work 
in small communities as well, are given: 

1. The reduction of infant mortality in 1911 in the cities studied 
was very marked, especially during the summer months. During the 
first part of the summer meteorological conditions were not favorable to 
a low mortality. 

2. This reduction was not due to chance, but bears a close relation 
to the activity of the campaign for the reduction of infant mortality. 
The difference between cities in infant mortality rates is probably more 
a matter of public conscience and quality of official endeavor, than 
weather and character of population. 

3. The full effects of any campaign will not be seen immediately. 
Dr. Robertson, Health Officer of Birmingham, England, said at the 
conference at Caxton Hall that he would be satisfied if he got results 
after ten years' work. 

4. In the education of the mother in the care of herself and her 
baby we have the strongest weapon for fighting infant mortality. 

5. The results in the milk stations, as shown by the detailed histories 
of 3182 babies, have proved the usefulness of the milk station in the re- 
duction of infant mortality. It is one of the most efficient forces in the 
educational prevention of sickness and deaths among babies. 

6. Its field of usefulness can be very greatly extended into other 
branches of infant and child welfare, such as prenatal work; the care 
of children under school age; follow-up work in inspection of school- 
children; supervision of boarded-out babies and midwives, etc. Sta- 
tions should be maintained all the year around in order to make their 
value cumulative. 



CHILD HYGIENE 341 

9. Compulsory attendance under penalty of stopping milk supply 
should be insisted on. 

10. When efficiently managed, the milk station is an economical 
means of forwarding the movement for infant welfare. 

11. The results of the methods employed at the Committee's milk 
stations prove conclusively the entire feasibility of teaching home mod- 
ification of milk, thus not only doing away with expensive laboratory 
plants, but making the mother eventually independent of the station. 

12. The milk station can and should be a valuable means of en- 
couraging and making possible maternal nursing. It need not be an 
encouragement to artificial feeding. 

13. Private agencies are warranted in initiating milk station work, 
but their program should provide for having the municipality assume 
charge as soon as practical. The activities which are possible for the 
stations are proper functions for the municipality. Close cooperation 
between health authorities and private organizations is entirely feasible 
and necessary. 

14. The education of the " little mothers " in the care of the baby 
will insure not only immediate results, but will pave the way for better 
motherhood. 1 

Other examples may readily be found to illustrate the 
results of infant hygiene work carried on in small cities. 
In Orange, N. J., the dispensing of milk had been carried 
on for some years by a private organization. In 1911 
another organization raised additional funds and placed 
in the field, working as a special inspector under the super- 
vision of the Health Officer, an infant welfare nurse. In 
the Report of the Health Officer for 1912, the first full year 
that the nurse was at work in cooperation with the Health 
Department and unofficial organizations, the following 
remarks appear: 

The low record of mortality obtained among the cases under super- 
vision of the nurse is a gratifying result which demonstrates the value 
of the preventive measures adopted. Eleven of these cases died [de- 

1 Special Rpt. "Infant Mortality and Milk Stations," 1912, p. 129. 
Cf. statistical survey of results of consultation stations and milk dis- 
tribution in various French and American cities by Freeman, " Infant 
Milk Depots," Proceedings Conf. on Inf. Hyg., Rpt. Phila. Milk Show, 
1912, p. 191. 



342 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tails set forth in table]. Cases Nos. 3, 4 and n died from non-pre- 
ventable causes. ... In most of the other cases only a small number 
of visits had been paid; for instance, in two cases there had been but 
one visit, and in two others two visits. In several instances there was 
little cooperation on the partof the mother. 

In order, however, to make the most conservative possible calcula- 
tion, all of the above eleven deaths are taken as the mortality among 
the 450 cases under supervision. This gives a percentage of 2.4, which, 
however, should be corrected for the fact that the cases were not all 
under observation the whole year, but only for an average of 121 days. 
The corrected death rate would then be 7.4 per cent per annum. This 
rate, if compared with the infant mortality rate for the city for 1910 and 
other years preceding inception of the nurse's work (average about 
11.5 deaths under one year per thousand births), shows . . . the 
marked reduction which the work of the nurse effects. Nearly the 
same reduced death rate (6.8 per cent) had previously resulted among 
the infants under supervision in 1911. . . . The benefits . . . through 
the saving in vitality and the prevention of disease and weakliness, both 
in babyhood and in later life, though not susceptible of demonstration 
by figures, are also obviously of immense importance. 



It is to be noted that the above results were obtained 
in the first two years of the work and with incomplete 
organization. With improved organization and the cumu- 
lative effect of education of mothers and "little mothers" 
the estimate, based on statistics, that at least 50 per cent 
of the deaths which occur in the first year of life can be 
saved by infant welfare work, will doubtless be fully borne 
out; although in this instance it must be remernbered that 
a substantial amount of infant hygiene work was already 
being carried on by a diet kitchen and other organizations 
when the infant welfare nurse began her work. It may be 
a source of encouragement to other small cities to know 
that in the above instance the municipal council, persuaded 
by the results obtained under private efforts, appropriated 
to the health department a sufficient sum to carry on the 
entire work of the nurse under an improved system of 
organization. This is merely an example of what may 
be done in many American communities. 



CHILD HYGIENE 343 

When funds for the work are limited, as is very frequently 
the case, the work should not be spread out "thin" over 
an excessively large number of cases, but should be con- 
centrated so as to get results which may be used as a basis 
for obtaining increased financial support. The natural 
limits of control should not be exceeded. 

In calculating statistical results and making comparisons 
with annual infant mortality rates (deaths under one year 
per thousand births), the rates calculated for infants under 
supervision should be reduced to an annual basis to corre- 
spond, as is done in the quotation above; otherwise the 
comparison is fallacious and will lead to erroneous and 
extravagant conclusions. Thus, if the average duration 
of supervision of cases is 121 days, or ^|i of a year, the 
death rate among these cases should be multiplied by flf to 
reduce it to a per annum rate. Again, when the infant 
mortality rates from year to year are compared, it is to be 
remembered that improved birth registration, by increas- 
ing the denominator of the ratio, tends to make the rate 
apparently lower, independently of actual change in mor- 
tality. 

In conclusion we revert to the statement quoted at the 
head of this chapter, that child especially infant 
hygiene work is a requisite function of every well-organized 
health department. While in most instances such work 
has been thus far initiated and its value demonstrated 
by unofficial organizations before being assumed by public 
authorities, the time has now come for those authorities 
themselves to take the initiative in obtaining funds and 
organizing the work. The work of the unofficial organi- 
zations already in the field should thus be coordinated, 
supplemented, and, so far as advisable, officially adopted. 
In this development the idea of charity will be more and 
more removed from the main phases of the work and its 



344 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

influence correspondingly extended. Thus health author- 
ities stand in infant hygiene work just where they stood 
in relation to tuberculosis work a few years back, and the 
assumption of the former by them should be, in the light of 
advancing knowledge, even more rapid than that of the 
latter. The fact that success in notable measure has been 
achieved in those larger cities which have led in sanitary 
organization is the impetus for the extension of similar 
methods to the smaller cities and towns, where problems 
of organization are simpler nay, even to the most rural 
communities, where the need is nearly if not wholly as 
great. 

REFERENCES 

In addition to the references given in the text the following may be 
cited: 

Publications of the Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor, 
Washington, which may be obtained regularly on application. 

Annual Transactions of the American Association for Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality, 1910 and subsequent years. (1211 
Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Md.)- 

Bull. Am. Acad. Med., 1910, vol. XI, no. 6 (" Infant Mortality "). 

Trans. XV International Congress on Hygiene and Demography, 1912, 
vol. Ill, pt. I. 

Rpt. of Philadelphia Baby-Saving Show, 1912. (The Child Hygiene 
Association, Real Estate Trust Building, Philadelphia.) 

McCleary, " Infantile Mortality and Infants' Milk Depots," Lon- 
don, 1905. 

Newman, " Infant Mortality: A Social Problem," London, 1906. 

Holt, " The Care and Feeding of Children." 

Kerr, " Data Regarding Operations of Infants' Milk Depots in the 
United States in 1910," Reprint no. 64 from Public Health Reports, 
1911. 



CHAPTER III 

MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 
I. MILK 

Milk is by far the most important food with which the 
health official has to deal. On the one hand it is one of the 
most valuable, cheapest and most extensively used foods, 
particularly for infants and young children; and on the 
other, it is specially subject to contamination and deteriora- 
tion. Again, while the sanitary regulation of milk supplies 
demands the most serious attention, there are also economic 
problems in connection with milk as a market commodity 
which are closely interrelated with those of a hygienic 
character. 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

We may promise the following requirements for a safe 
and satisfactory milk supply, viz., it must be: 

1. From healthy cows. 

2. Drawn and handled in a cleanly manner. 

3. Free from deleterious bacterial decomposition. 

4. Unadulterated and of a sufficient food value. 

5. Free from infection from human or animal source. 

Of these requirements the last-named is the most impor- 
tant, but depends in a great degree upon the first three. We 
shall take up these requirements in detail and explain just 
what is implied by each. 

i. The supply must be obtained from healthy cows. - 
This requirement implies freedom of cows from udder dis- 
ease, from at least clinically detectable tuberculosis, and 

345 



346 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

from other diseases transmissible from animal to man. All 
these will be taken up presently under the head of infection. 

2. The supply must be drawn and handled in a cleanly 
manner. Milk is highly susceptible to contamination and 
has the peculiar property of not showing the dirt which it 
may have taken up, even when the contamination is heavy. 
At every stage, from the cow to the ultimate consumer, 
there are numerous possibilities of contamination, from dirty 
cows and stables, from dirty methods of milking and hand- 
ling, from dirty utensils and dirty fingers. At the stable 
a great deal of the contamination is with manure (contain- 
ing the colon bacillus and other bacteria and frequently the 
bacillus of bovine tuberculosis) . At all stages the contami- 
nation consists in miscellaneous kinds of dirt and filth, with 
the constant possibility of infection by communicable 
disease. Contaminations are not only in themselves bad, 
but they are the starting point of various bacterial fer- 
mentations which tend to make the milk an unfit and 
possibly a dangerous food, particularly for young children. 

3. The supply must be free from deleterious bacterial 
decomposition. Milk kept insufficiently cold or too long 
undergoes decompositions of various kinds due to the 
action of the bacteria present upon the organic food sub- 
stances of the milk. Since it is physically impossible, even 
with the greatest precautions, to obtain and keep a bacteria- 
free milk, the only safeguard against decomposition is to 
keep the milk at a low temperature (below 50 F. for market 
milk) and to consume it as soon as practicable after pro- 
duction. These decompositions are either acid or alkaline 
in character. The former lead to the ordinary souring of 
milk, are more common, take place quickly when milk is 
allowed to remain warm i.e., at 70 F., or above and 
are the less dangerous variety. This is the variety of fer- 
mentation made use of for obtaining sour milk for special 
purposes, in which case, however, the milk should be 
specially prepared and inoculated with a known organism. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 347 

The alkaline decompositions usually take place at lower 
temperatures and lead' to putrefactions which are exceed- 
ingly dangerous. This is the case with milk which has 
been pasteurized at a high temperature so as to kill off the 
lactic acid bacilli (acid fermenters) and which is afterwards 
allowed to decompose through lack of sufficient refrigera- 
tion. 

In the prevention of bacterial decomposition the maxim 
that milk should be clean, cold and fresh covers the essential 
requirements. It must be noted, however, that a certain 
limited number of bacteria may be present without pro- 
ducing any deleterious fermentation, provided the above 
conditions are practically observed. But a milk that is 
either dirty, or warm, or stale must always be looked upon 
as a dangerous product. 

Contaminated and decomposed milk has, as we saw in 
the last chapter, a special bearing on infant mortality. The 
following passage sums up the common opinion of authori- 
ties. 

There is no specific germ that causes malnutrition and the gastro- 
intestinal troubles of infants. It is the general observation that the 
presence of streptococci and colon bacilli in milk does augment these 
disorders. Excessive numbers in milk of any germ, even those at times 
considered to be harmless, has been found also to be productive of these 
troubles. The presence of colon bacilli is the source of great danger to 
children. 

The effects of contaminated milk have been shown by the prevalence 
of diarrhoeal diseases and the occurrence of numerous cases of mal- 
nutrition amongst infants raised upon cow's milk. One has but to 
observe the mortality tables during the summer months -and compare 
the bacteriological reports of milk ordinarily used for infant feeding to be 
convinced of the direful influence of such milk. 1 

A striking example of the benefits of milk improvement 
where the subjects were adults is given in the annual report 
for 1912 of Dr. A. D. Melvin, Chief of the Federal Bureau 
of Animal Industry, who states that through improvement 

1 Magruder, pamphlet cited on p. 397. 



348 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of the milk supply of the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, 
Md., gastro-intestinal disorders among the midshipmen 
were reduced from 133 to 25 per month. If this is the 
phenomenon observed among healthy adults, what must be 
the effect of bacteria-laden milk supplies on the delicate 
organisms of infants, young children and invalids! 

Since cow's milk must be used to a considerable extent 
in the artificial feeding of infants, in whole or in part, and 
to a very large extent among all children from one year up, 
the magnitude of this phase of the milk problem is evident. 

4. The supply must be unadulterated and of sufficient 
food value. Since milk is of a naturally variable com- 
position and the consumer has no exact way of knowing 
what its food value is, standards should be set for per- 
centages of fats and total solids. Such standards must be 
adapted to the percentages found in the milks of different 
kinds and grades of cattle, their principal object being the 
protection of the consumer against watering, skimming 
and other frauds. This is the class of food laws which pro- 
tect against fraud perhaps even more than against damage 
to health. However, the richness of milk has a distinctly 
important public health bearing, particularly when there 
is question of modifying milk and feeding infants. The 
addition of preservatives, in themselves deleterious and 
also highly objectionable as covering up but not removing 
decomposition, falls under the same class of prohibition. 

5. The supply must be free from infection from human 
or animal source. Milk not only readily takes up infection 
in the course of production and handling but also may act 
as a culture medium in which pathogenic organisms actually 
multiply. Hence we find on record hundreds of epidemics 
which have been traced to milk supplies, in addition to 
which there are thousands of cases, occurring sporadically 
or in epidemics, which have escaped such recording. This 
aspect of the milk problem overshadows the others in im- 
portance. Now that milk is frequently handled on a large 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 349 

scale, the damage that may be done by a single infection of 
a milk supply is enormous. Several years ago one of our 
large cities experienced an epidemic of 1000 cases of typhoid 
fever from a single source of infected raw milk. Other 
cities and towns, small as well as large, have from time to 
time suffered more or less severe milk-borne epidemics of 
various diseases; under present conditions none are im- 
mune. The presence of carriers and missed cases among 
employees connected with milk supplies very seriously 
aggravates the danger. 

DISEASES OF HUMAN ORIGIN. The principal diseases 
of human origin of which milk may act as a vehicle are: 
typhoid fever and other intestinal diseases, diphtheria, scarlet 
fever and septic sore throat. 1 We shall not here discuss this 
important subject further, but refer the reader to the sec- 
tion on epidemiology (pp. 266-92) where further examples 
and details are given. In the present section the preven- 
tion rather than the occurrence and characteristics of milk- 
borne epidemics will be considered. 

DISEASES OF ANIMAL ORIGIN. The principal milk- 
borne disease of animal origin is bovine tuberculosis. It is 
now well established through extensive researches that 
although the bovine tubercle bacillus is apparently distinct 
from the human type, bovine tuberculosis may be, and in a 
certain proportion of cases is, communicated to man through 
milk. Tuberculous cattle excrete the bacilli in great num- 
bers in the feces, and particles of manure getting into the 
milk at time of milking infect it; this is the commonest 
source of tubercle bacilli in milk. This is true even with 
cattle which give no physical signs of. the disease ; in these 
cases the diagnosis can only be made by means of the 
tuberculin test. (For discussion of the test and of the 
relative numbers of dairy cows which are found to react to 
it, see following section.) 

1 In some epidemics septic sore throat has been attributed to udder 
disease in cows and in others to human carrier cases. 



350 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

As to the amount of human tuberculosis of bovine origin, 
we can only allude briefly to the estimates which have been 
made by various authorities, calling attention especially 
to the researches of the British and German Commissions 
and of Park and Krumwiede of the Research Laboratory 
of New York City. 

"It is now estimated," according to Rosenau, "that 
perhaps 7 per cent of the tuberculosis in man is of bovine 
origin." l The great bulk of the human tuberculosis 
bacteriologically identified as bovine is in the form of 
generalized, abdominal and glandular tuberculosis of chil- 
dren. In a summary of the researches Rosenau 2 states 
that "about one-quarter to one-half of all cases of tuber- 
culosis in children under 5 years of age is associated with 
the bovine type," probably derived in all cases from cow's 
milk. Park has estimated, on the basis of the various 
available researches, that in New York City: 

About 7 per cent of the infants and young children under 5 years 
of age dying from tuberculosis do so because of infection derived from 
infected milk or milk products. Fatal tuberculosis due to bovine 
bacilli is rare in those over 5 years of age, but, on the other hand, in- 
fection of the lymph nodes is frequent; 30 per cent or more of tuber- 
cular lymph nodes occurring in children between 5 and 16 are contracted 
through bovine bacilli. Judging from the 296 cases examined, pulmo- 
nary tuberculosis is practically always due to the human type, that is, 
contracted from other cases, and not from milk. 3 ' 

Applying Dr. Park's figure to the percentage of deaths 
from tuberculosis under five years of age in the Registration 

1 " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 124. 

2 Loc. cit. 

3 " The Role of Bovine Tuberculosis in the Production of Human 
Tuberculosis," Trans. XV Internal. Congress on Hyg. and Demogr., 
1912, vol. IV, pp. 267-72 (an admirable summing-up of the whole 
subject). It is scarcely necessary to note that (as implied by the word 
which we have italicized above) the many cases of tubercular infection 
which do not result fatally should be considered in addition to the above 
estimate. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 351 

Area (approximately 7 per cent of the total tuberculosis), 
would give about one-half of I per cent of all tuberculosis 
deaths as definitely due to the bovine type. Ravenel l 
believes that there is a possibility of the bovine bacillus 
changing its type after becoming rooted in the human sub- 
ject, which, if true, would make the numbers of cases of 
bovine origin in excess of the apparent figures. This, how- 
ever, has not, it appears, been demonstrated. 

There is reason for believing that all persons are infected 
with the bovine bacillus in infancy through the ingestion 
of cow's milk, but that the development of immunity in the 
great majority of cases prevents the development of the 
disease. From the figures just quoted it is to be seen that 
the actual proportion of human tuberculosis from bovine 
sources which has thus far been demonstrated is not great 
as compared with the total from all sources. The absolute 
numbers of cases, however, may be considerable. Below 
will be considered what measures may be adopted to 
avoid them. 

THE TUBERCULIN TEST. The tuberculin test 2 is 
accepted as the standard test for tuberculosis in animals 
when the disease cannot be definitely detected by physical 
examination. The International Commission on the Con- 
trol of Bovine Tuberculosis resolved in 1910 that "tuber- 
culin, properly used, is an accurate and reliable diagnostic 
agent for the detection of active tuberculosis;" a decision 
affirmed legally by the opinion of the court in the Montclair 
and other cases. 3 

1 See discussion of Dr. Park's paper just cited. 

2 The test consists in the hypodermic injection into the suspected 
animal of a measured amount of an emulsion of killed bovine tubercle 
bacilli (tuberculin). The temperature of the animal is taken at certain 
intervals for some hours afterwards; animals having tuberculous in- 
fection " react " by a marked rise in temperature. The tuberculin 
reaction has been accepted legally, as well as in veterinary medicine, as 
a thoroughly reliable test when in proper hands. See decision in Mont- 
clair case, Appendix C. 

3 See Appendix C. 



35 2 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Officials of the U. S. Department of Agriculture l have 
demonstrated that tuberculous cattle discharge tubercle 
bacilli in their feces, the chief source of these being the 
sputum of the animals, which, after being coughed up, is 
swallowed and passes through the alimentary canal with- 
out the bacilli losing their Virulence. They showed, fur- 
thermore, that "the cattle that pass tubercle bacilli per 
rectum are not always visibly diseased. Many apparently 
healthy but tuberculous cattle which are not known to be 
tuberculous until they are tested with tuberculin, inter- 
mittently pass tubercle bacilli from their bodies per rectum 
with their feces." In some cases the germs may also get 
into the milk directly from tuberculosis of the udder. 

In Appendix C will be found a review of the Montclair 
and other cases by which the powers of health authorities 
to require that milk, as judged by this test, be tuberculosis- 
free, are supported. 

Evidence from four typical American cities, summed up 
by Rosenau, 2 shows that out of a total of 551 samples of 
market milk examined tubercle bacilli were found in 46, or 
8.3 per cent, a figure which may be taken as an approximate 
percentage for the country. Even this figure is doubtless 
an underestimate, for the laboratory methods do not always 
detect bacilli which are present only in small numbers. In 
Rochester, N. Y., among 185 retailers 12.65 per cent of the 
milk samples examined reacted positive to animal tests for 
tuberculosis. 3 Unfortunately such tests give no indication 
as to the numbers of tubercle bacilli in the samples. 

A serious economic question arises when the tuberculin 
test is applied to dairy cattle and it is proposed to eliminate 
the milk of reacting animals from the public supply. Some 
idea of the relative numbers of reactors is given by the 

1 Shroeder and Cotton, Bulletin 99 (1907) and Circular 118 (1907), 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Dept. of Agriculture. 

2 " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 513. 

3 Goler, 2nd Ann. Trans. Am. Assn. for Study and Prev. of Infant 
Mortality, 1911. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 353 

experience of Montclair, N. J., when its tuberculin-test 
ordinance went into effect in 1907: 

Of the New Jersey cows that had not been previously tested, 25 per 
cent reacted. Many of the figures that are available on the subject 
. . . relate to suspected or picked herds, whereas the percentage 
of reactions above mentioned represents conditions of herds taken 
practically at random over a considerable area, with the exceptions that 
they had more than the average veterinary inspection, and that they 
have been stabled under good conditions. 1 

In individual herds a quarter to a half or even three- 
quarters of the animals may react. The enforcement of 
such a regulation would result in a serious diminution of 
the herds, a large financial loss to the dairymen and a great 
lessening in milk supply with a resultant increase in cost of 
the product. This problem has been met in some instances, 
e.g., New York State, by legal reimbursement of the owner 
for a large part of the loss sustained by the slaughter of 
tuberculous cattle. However the loss is met, it is a real 
loss; if private, it means injustice to the cattle-owner; and 
if public, it must result in a higher real cost of milk supplies, 
whether paid through taxes for reimbursement of dairymen 
for rejected cattle or through an increased price for market 
milk. 

The milk from cattle having tuberculosis to an extent 
detectable by ordinary physical veterinary examination 
should be excluded. But when there is question of the use 
of milk from cows, apparently healthy, which simply react 
to the tuberculin test, then there is, as will be shown below, 
a practical alternative to elimination of the milk from these 
animals, viz., pasteurization. If, however, milk is to be 
consumed raw (e.g., certified milk), then it can only be pro- 
tected from tuberculosis by enforcing the tuberculin test. 

It scarcely need be said that the elimination of tubercu- 
losis in dairy herds by scientific methods constitutes a large 

1 Wells, " The Successful Efforts of a Small City to Secure a Milk 
Supply from Tuberculin-Tested Cows," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, 
vol. II, no. 9, p. 702. 



354 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

economic problem for veterinarians and dairymen, quite 
apart from considerations of human hygiene. 

Other diseases transmissible to man through milk, but 
occurring comparatively infrequently, are: 

Milk sickness, an acute, non-febrile disease due to the 
ingestion of milk, milk products, or the flesh of animals 
suffering from a disease known as trembles. The disease 
is characterized by great depression, persistent vomiting, 
obstinate constipation and high mortality. 

Foot-and-mouth disease, an infection primarily of cattle 
and secondarily of man. In man the disease is mild and 
the symptoms resemble those observed in animals. 

Malta fever, transmitted from goats to man through milk. 

PASTEURIZATION 

Definition. Pasteurization is the term applied to any 
process of heating milk (or other substance) to a sufficient 
temperature and holding it at that temperature sufficiently 
long to destroy nearly all the germs present. If the process 
is properly performed any disease-producing germs present 
are killed, the surviving organisms being harmless varieties. 
It has been shown that all of the lactic acid germs, which 
cause the souring of milk, need not be destroyed; this has 
an important practical bearing, for if the care of milk after 
pasteurization chances to be neglected it is highly desirable 
that it should sour rather than undergo a very much more 
dangerous alkaline decomposition with production of pto- 
maines and the like. (See previous remarks under head of 
bacterial decomposition.) 

Pasteurization should not be confused with sterilization. 
Sterilization means the destruction of all germs, and requires 
heating to the boiling point. (Perfect sterilization requires 
such treatment on three successive days.) There are great 
differences between the chemical changes which take place 
in milk heated to various temperatures for various lengths 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 355 

of time, and these have been the cause of dispute and mis- 
understanding through failure to make use of exact defini- 
tions. Pasteurization is a general term covering various 
processes having a similar effect, and being thus general, 
should be defined for purposes of practice and discussion. 
The Commission on Milk Standards of the New York 
Committee l (2nd Report) reports on the subject of pas- 
teurizing temperatures as follows: 

The commission passed a resolution regarding the temperature of 
pasteurization as follows: 

That pasteurization of milk should be between the limits of 140 F. and 
155 F. At 140 F. the minimum exposure should be 20 minutes. For 
every degree above 140 F. the time may be reduced by i minute. In no case 
should the exposure be for less than 5 minutes. 

In order to allow a margin of safety under commercial conditions 
the commission recommends that the minimum temperature during 
the period of holding should be made 145 F. and the holding time 
30 minutes. Pasteurization in bulk when properly carried out has 
proven satisfactory, but pasteurization in the final container is pref- 
erable. 

It is the sense of the commission that pasteurization in the final 
container should be encouraged. 

The definition italicized above should be adopted by 
health authorities for all practical purposes and the 
added recommendation should be observed by milk deal- 
ers. Proper pasteurization does not affect the taste or 
chemical characteristics of the milk, nor does it prevent 
the rising of cream, though higher temperatures or greater 
lengths of time may do so. 

Contrary to opinions which have been expressed by some 
in the past, proper pasteurization does not exert any deleterious 
influence upon the chemical or nutritive value of milk. 2 Even 
boiled milk is apparently exonerated by recent investiga- 

1 See p. 362. 

2 Kastle, Bull. 56, Hyg. Lab. U. S. Pub. Health Service, and Rupp, 
Bull. 166, U. S. Bureau of Animal Industry (quoted by Magruder, 
ref. at close of this chapter). 



356 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tions from the accusation of producing adverse effects in 
infants and young children. 1 Rosenau states that "the 
evidence seems clear to me that these two diseases [scurvy 
and rickets] bear no relation whatever to the heating of the 
milk." 2 So much for the clinical and prophylactic aspects 
of the case. 

The Argument for Pasteurization. The administrative 
argument for pasteurization is based upon the fact, proved 
over and over again, that proper pasteurization of milk sup- 
plies is the only certain safeguard against milk-borne infectious 
disease. Even with the most careful and frequent inspec- 
tion and the promptest and fullest reporting of cases by 
physicians it is impossible to guard against the infection of 
milk supplies by carriers, missed cases and incipient cases 
of typhoid fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever, septic sore throat 
and other communicable diseases. Such cases are certain 
to occur from time to time among persons engaged in han- 
dling milk at the different stages, in the families of dairy- 
men, etc. Against this certainty, which is only a matter 
of time, communities using raw milk are taking a chance 
which on any day may prove fatal. These considerations 
are concurred in by all authorities on the basis of hun- 
dreds of recorded outbreaks which have already occurred. 
In a number of such instances it has been shown that even 
great cleanliness, as ordinarily understood in the production 
and handling of milk, while diminishing the chances of 
infection, has by no means prevented infection ; even certi- 
fied milk supplies have not escaped infection. 

Again, through pasteurization, infection from animal 
sources, and particularly bovine tuberculosis, is absolutely 
eliminated. Not only is safety thus obtained, but a great 
economic saving is effected, since the milk of those (other- 
wise healthy) cows which react to the tuberculin test may 
be safely used when it has been pasteurized. The elimina- 

* Magruder, op. cit. 

2 " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 519. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 357 

tion of tuberculosis among cattle involves difficult problems 
and will not be accomplished for many years to come. 
But, fortunately, instead of the destruction of non-tuberculin- 
tested cattle, pasteurization of milk may (and should) be re- 
quired. This, assuming that the pasteurization is properly 
performed under adequate official control (see below), is 
the practical solution of the problem. 

Finally, through pasteurization, germs other than 
those of the above-mentioned diseases which abound 
even in milk produced under what are regarded as moder- 
ately good conditions, are destroyed and thus is the milk 
rendered in general a far safer food for infants, young children 
and invalids, with the result of a corresponding reduction 
in the occurrence of gastro-intestinal disorders and an in- 
crease in vital resistance to other diseases. A large number 
of authorities might be cited to illustrate this point. Re- 
searches conducted in connection with the Rockefeller 
Institute of Medical Research have shown, in the words of 
Dr. W. H. Park of the New York City Department of 
Health, "that mother's milk is the best milk for a baby and 
that pasteurized milk is the next best." This was proved 
by the fact that babies changed from pasteurized milk to 
good raw milk became ill. 1 

It has been remarked that pasteurization is not an "ideal " 
measure. The question, however, is one of expediency, 
and since it is a practical impossibility to secure infection- 
free and low-bacteria raw milk supplies, this method must 
be adopted to destroy bacteria and infection. This "puri- 
fication" of milk supplies is analogous to the purification 
of water supplies, with the difference that originally safe 

1 Cf. Straus, " Saving Children from Milk-Borne Diseases," Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1911, vol. I, no. 2, p. 109, and " Disease in Milk 
The Remedy: Pasteurization," by Lena G. Straus, New York, 1913 
(both describing methods used and results obtained in the dispensing 
of pasteurized milk from the celebrated Straus stations in New York 
City); and papers in Trans. XV Intern. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 
1912, vol. IV. 



358 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

water supplies may frequently be obtained, whereas this is 
not true of milk supplies. 

The case for pasteurization may be closed by remarking 
that the Commission on Milk Standards to which we have 
already alluded has recommended unanimously that all 
milk be pasteurized with the possible exception of that of 
the very first grade (Grade "A") which constitutes in 
any case but a very small proportion of the whole milk 
supply and the majority of the commissioners voted in 
favor of the pasteurization of all milk including even this 
class. 

CAUTIONS IN CONNECTION WITH PASTEURIZATION. 
The so-called objections against pasteurization may be 
mentioned here simply as cautions. It is truly said that 
pasteurization may be used as a cloak for bad milk, in 
efforts to redeem bacteria-laden milk which would other- 
wise be unsalable. The heating process, while destroying 
bacteria, does not remove the products of bacterial decom- 
position. Filth in milk, though pasteurized, is none the 
less filth. Hence pasteurization can in no way take the place 
of precautions as to cleanliness and handling. Inspection 
work should not be diminished but rather increased when 
pasteurization is employed. This is not an objection but 
simply a precaution in connection with the process. As 
Ay res has remarked, the object is not to try to make a 
dirty milk a clean milk (an impossibility) but to make a 
clean milk a safe milk. 

Another caution, relating to the adequacy of the process, 
will be taken up in the next paragraph. 

Control. Pasteurization is a scientific process which 
should be carried out under expert management and under 
official supervision. Commercial methods should be thor- 
oughly inspected and approved before the designation 
"pasteurized" is permitted to be used, and then should be 
as frequently as possible reinspected. Automatic tem- 
perature regulators and recording thermometers should be 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 359 

required in plants, and the processes should be checked by 
frequent bacteriological tests. Much harm has been done 
by the exploitation as pasteurized of improperly treated 
milk. 

Methods. In some countries it is the custom of the 
people to heat or boil the milk used for domestic purposes, 
with beneficial results in the avoidance of infection, etc. 
And at the present time, wherever public milk supplies are 
not commercially pasteurized before delivery, the private 
family may protect itself by home pasteurization, which 
we have already described. 1 This, however, is not satis- 
factory any more than reliance upon the public to boil con- 
taminated public water supplies; it is not altogether simple, 
cannot be taught on a large scale and is beyond the intelli- 
gence or willingness of many people. The only adequate 
measure is the requirement of pasteurization of all com- 
mercial milk supplies under close official supervision. 

The two methods in common commercial use are the flash 
method and the holding method. In the former the milk is 
run over hot pipes and heated to a high temperature for 
a very short time say one-half to one minute. In the 
latter the milk is raised to a lower temperature but held in 
tanks for a much longer time; 140 F. for 20 minutes or 
more would constitute a proper pasteurization according 
to this method. Experiment has shown that the flash 
method is not satisfactory, does not always produce the 
required bacterial reduction, and is subject to grave varia- 
tions. Hence it is excluded by the definition of the Com- 
mission on Milk Standards which we have quoted, and 
should not be allowed. Reliable dealers use holding ma- 
chines with automatic devices which absolutely insure the 
proper temperature and length of time, using a temperature 
of 145 F. for 30 minutes. "By the holding process 
properly conducted it is usual to destroy 99-93 to 99.99 per 
cent of the bacteria" (Magruder). Regulation should 

1 P. 11- 



360 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

regard the final count, though the initial count before 
pasteurization should also be subject to control (see Rules, 
Appendix B). Since all the bacteria are not killed it is 
essential that pasteurized milk be promptly cooled as held 
at as low a temperature as raw milk would be (50 F. or 
below Commission on Milk Standards). Furthermore, 
the greatest cleanliness should be insisted upon in pasteuri- 
zing plants and the apparatus should be cleaned and 
sterilized with live steam daily in order that there may be no 
contamination of the milk before or after the process; and 
the milk should be immediately run into sterilized bottles. 
The process most recommended by sanitarians, though 
it has some practical difficulties, is pasteurization in the final 
container. This has the great advantage of allowing no 
contamination subsequent to the process and before deliv- 
ery to the consumer. The bottles must have water-tight 
seal caps and are immersed in hot water, held for pre- 
scribed temperature and time (say 145 degrees for 20 to 30 
minutes) , and cooled by lowering of the temperature of the 
surrounding water. The economic drawback is the cost 
of the caps. Care must be taken that the whole mass of 
milk in the container is heated and held sufficiently. As a 
practical modification it has been suggested that milk be 
pasteurized according to the holder system and then be run 
while hot into bottles which have just been steamed. In 
this case ordinary caps could be used and the bottles could 
be cooled by a cold air blast. Further data are to be looked 
for in the study of this process, looking toward its adaptation 
to commercial use. 1 

1 Ayres, " The Present Status of Pasteurization," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. i, p. 15. Cf. Bulls. 166, 126, 161, and espe- 
cially 184, Bureau of Animal Industry. Other details of pasteurization 
methods are given by North, " The Holding Method of Milk Pas- 
teurization," Eng'g News, 1910, vol. 63, no. 19, p. 570; Kilbourne, 
" Pasteurization of Milk, with Suggestions as to Methods and Appara- 
tus to be Employed," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 8, p. 
626; Kilbourne, " The Control of Temperatures in the Pasteurization 
of Milk," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 3, p. 268. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 361 

Other methods of purification of milk have from time to 
time been proposed. Thus good results from partial steril- 
ization by electricity have been reported (Liverpool, 1913). 
But none of these have thus far, so far as the writer knows, 
proved as economical and practically effective as pasteuri- 
zation, and none are in general use. 

THE REGULATION OF MILK SUPPLIES 

The objects of regulation may, for convenience, be reca- 
pitulated as follows (cf . page 345) : 

1. The competent veterinary examination of dairy cattle 
and elimination of those shown on physical examination 
to be diseased. 

2. Cleanliness of stables, animals, utensils, etc., and 
especially of methods of production and handling, all along 
the line from the cow to the consumer. 

3. Maintenance of the milk continuously at a sufficiently 
low temperature. Prohibition of the sale of stale milk and 
milk showing an excessive bacterial count. 

4. Sufficient food values and freedom from adulteration 
(as through watering, skimming and the like), sophistica- 
tion and the use. of preservatives. 

5. Prevention of infection, human or animal in source, 
through requirements as to health of employees, reporting 
of communicable disease in families of any persons con- 
cerned in the handling of milk supplies, regulations as to 
delivery of milk to infected families, purity of dairy water 
supplies, and finally, most important, sterilization of milk 
utensils and apparatus and pasteurization of all milk with 
the possible exception of the very highest grade. (For 
application of the tuberculin text, see preceding discussion 
of the subject.) 

Regulations covering in detail the above points should be 
adopted by local authorities, such regulations being based 
upon the recommendations of the Commission on Milk 
Standards described below. Funds should be provided 



362 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

for sufficient inspection and laboratory work to enforce 
the standards adopted; in the larger towns a special milk 
inspector, who may perhaps also act as analyst, if his in- 
spection duties permit, should be appointed. 

MILK STANDARDS 

The standards adopted by local health authorities in 
their regulation of milk supplies should conform as closely 
as practicable to those which have been formulated by the 
Commission on Milk Standards appointed by the New York 
Milk Committee. This commission consists of seventeen 
experts brought together for the purpose of clearing up the 
confusion due to the multifarious requirements which have 
been promulgated by the various health authorities of the 
country, a purpose which has been accomplished by the 
formulation of definite regulations for adoption by com- 
munities of all sizes. The Commission is therefore truly a 
national, though unofficial, body and its decisions are to be 
respected accordingly. The requirements formulated by 
it have been approved by the International Milk Dealer's 
Association (of the United States and Canada), the Ameri- 
can Public Health Association and other bodies. These 
requirements can only be made effective, however, through 
incorporation into the local ordinances of each community, 
an aim for which the New York Milk Committee is con- 
ducting a campaign. 

The most salient of the Commission's recommendations 
refer to the importance of pasteurization and to the estab- 
lishment of definite market grades of milk, to be produced 
under specified conditions and to be labeled according to 
grade. Other recommendations deal with standards for 
bacteria and for total solids and fats, with the method of 
pasteurization, with the details of production and handling, 
and with the regulation of cream supplies, covering suc- 
cinctly all the chief points of the milk problem. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 363 

Since the reports of the Commission are readily available 
and may be altered in detail from year to year, we shall 
here give only the chief recommendations. The entire 
report should, however, be considered in detail by all local 
health officers. 1 

Classification of Milks. The most important feature 
of the report of the Commission is the recommendation 
that all market milks be classified on a sanitary basis, to be 
graded by the health authorities by ordinance, inspection 
and analysis and to be so marked in the trade. 2 

There is no escape from the conclusion that milk must be graded and 
sold on grade, just as wheat, corn, cotton, beef and other products 
are graded. The milk merchant must judge of the food value and 
also of the sanitary character of the commodity in which he deals. 
The high-grade product must get a better price than at present. The 
low-grade product must bring less. In separating milk into grades 
and classes the commission has endeavored to make its classification 
as simple as possible and at the same time to distinguish between milks 
which are essentially different in sanitary character. 

In general two great classes of milk are recognized, namely, raw 
milk and pasteurized milk. Under these general classes there are 
different grades. . . . 

Milk shall be divided into three grades, which shall be the same for 
both large and small cities and towns, and which shall be designated 
by the first three letters of the alphabet. The requirements shall be 
as follows: 



1 Copies of the Report may be obtained from the New York Milk 
Committee, 105 East 22nd Street, New York City, or (at five cents per 
copy) from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing 
Office, Washington, D. C. 

2 A grading and labeling of milk on the same general lines as those 
laid down by the Commission on Milk Standards has been put in effect 
by the Health Department of New York City, the grades being based 
explicitly upon the use to which the milk is to be put, thus: A. Milk 
suitable for infant feeding; B. Milk suitable for adults to drink; and C. 
Milk for cooking and manufacturing purposes. Emphasis is placed on 
pasteurization, and under present regulations nearly the entire city milk 
supply must be pasteurized. It is expected that in the near future a 
number of progressive towns and cities will adopt the grading system 
as the only scientific and practical means of controlling milk supplies. 



364 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

GRADE A 

Raw Milk. Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease 
as determined by tuberculin tests and physical examinations by a 
qualified veterinarian, and shall be produced and handled by employees 
free from disease as determined by medical inspection of a qualified 
physician, under sanitary conditions such that the bacteria count shall 
not exceed 100,000 per cubic centimeter at the time of delivery to the 
consumer. It is recommended that dairies from which this supply is 
obtained shall score at least 80 on the United States Bureau of Animal 
Industry score card. 

Pasteurized Milk. Milk of this class shall come from cows free from 
disease as determined by physical examinations by a qualified veteri- 
narian and shall be produced and handled under sanitary conditions such 
that the bacteria count at no time exceeds 200,000 per cubic centimeter. 
All milk of this class shall be pasteurized under official supervision, and 
the bacteria count shall not exceed 10,000 per cubic centimeter at the 
time of delivery to the consumer. It is recommended that dairies from 
which this supply is obtained should score 65 on the United States 
Bureau of Animal Industry score card. 

The above represents only the minimum standards under which 
milk may be classified in grade A. The commission recognizes, how- 
ever, that there are grades of milk which are produced under unusually 
good conditions, in especially sanitary dairies, many of which are 
operated under the supervision of medical associations. Such milks 
clearly stand at the head of this grade. 

GRADE B 

Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease as deter- 
mined by physical examinations, of which one each year shall be by a 
qualified veterinarian, and shall be produced and handled under sani- 
tary conditions such that the bacteria count at no time exceeds 1 ,000,000 
per cubic centimeter. All milk of this class shall be pasteurized under 
official supervision, and the bacteria count shall not exceed 50,000 per 
cubic centimeter when delivered to the consumer. 

It is recommended that dairies producing grade B milk should be 
scored and that the health departments or the controlling departments, 
whatever they may be, strive to bring these scores up as rapidly as 
possible. 

GRADE C 

Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease as deter- 
mined by physical examinations and shall include all milk that is pro- 
duced under conditions such that the bacteria count is in excess of 
1 ,000,000 per cubic centimeter. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 365 

All milk of this class shall be pasteurized, or heated to a higher tem- 
perature, and shall contain less than 50,000 bacteria per cubic centi- 
meter when delivered to the customer. It is recommended that this 
milk be used for cooking or manufacturing purposes only. 

Whenever any large city or community finds it necessary, on account 
of the length of haul or other peculiar conditions, to allow the sale of 
grade C milk, its sale shall be surrounded by safeguards such as to insure 
the restriction of its use to cooking and manufacturing purposes. 

The report adds: l 

Cream should be classified in the same grades as milk, in accordance 
with the requirements for the grades of milk, excepting the bacterial 
standards, which in 20 per cent cream shall not exceed five times the 
bacterial standard allowed in the grade of milk. 

Cream containing other percentages of fat shall be allowed a modi- 
fication of this required bacterial standard in proportion to the change 
in fat. 

As to labeling: 

All milk should be labeled and marked with the grade in which it is 
to be sold. . . . All milk should be dated uniformly with the date of 
delivery to the consumer. . . . The stamping on the label of the day 
of the week is sufficient for dating. 



Caps and labels should state whether milk is raw or pasteurized. 
The latter designating the grade to which milk belongs shall be con- 
spicuously displayed on the caps of bottles or the labels on cans. 

As to licensing of dealers: 

A dealer shall be required to have a permit or license to sell any grade 
or class of milk and to use a label for such class or grade. Such permit 
or license shall be revoked and the use of the label forbidden when the 
local health authorities shall determine that the milk is not in the class 
or grade designated. 

1 The Department of Health of New York City, since Nov. i, 1913, 
has graded cream into two grades, A #nd B, each of which is further 
subdivided into Raw and Pasteurized. These are based upon the 
corresponding grades in the milk classification of that city. The 
bacterial standard for Grade A is 100,000 per cc., while 'Grade B is not 
to contain " an excessive number of bacteria " when delivered. Speci- 
fications are laid down relative to pasteurization, delivery and labeling. 
(Weekly Bull., N. Y. City Dept. of Health, Sept. 13, 1913; quoted in 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. u, p. 1243.) 



366 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Under the head of pasteurization the Commission pre- 
scribes the precautions which we have already mentioned 
under cautions as to expert management and official super- 
vision. The views of the Commission on the necessity for 
pasteurization of all grades of milk with the possible ex- 
ception of the very highest have also already been set forth. 
The prescription that pasteurized milk "shall be cooled 
immediately to 50 F. or below and kept at or below that 
temperature" should be noted. 

An important portion of the report covers the subject of 
bacterial and chemical standards. The recommendations 
relating to raw and pasteurized milk are as follows: 

Raw Milk. Not more than 100,000 bacteria per cubic 
centimeter. Not less than 3.25 per cent milk fat. Not 
less than 8.5 per cent solids not fat. 

Pasteurized Milk. Not more than 1,000,000 bacteria 
per cubic centimeter before pasteurization, nor over 50,000 
when delivered to the consumer. Standards for milk fat 
and solids same as above. 

(For standards for raw and pasteurized cream and for 
skim milk see Appendix B.) 

The temperature standard for the handling of raw milk 
and for milk after pasteurization is 50 F. ; for milk before 
pasteurization 60 degrees. 

The " Standard Rules for the Production, Handling and 
Distribution of Milk" formulated by the Commission are 
given in full in Appendix B, to which the reader is referred 
for further details. 

CERTIFIED MILK. The term "certified" can only be 
properly applied to milk produced under specially strict 
conditions laid down by a duly organized medical milk 
commission. Such commissions may be formed according 
to law in most States (the term "certified" being protected) 
and enter into agreement with the dairyman concerned, 
according to which he agrees to fulfill the requirements and 
the commission to certify the milk. The commission has 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 367 

no connection with the commercial side of the matter but 
simply lends its authorization in order that a specially high 
grade of milk suitable for the use of infants and invalids may 
be produced. The organization and methods of medical 
milk commissions have been standardized by the American 
Association of Medical Milk Commissions, and no com- 
mission should be considered as certifying milk that does 
not conform to the standards adopted from time to time by 
the Association. 1 Certified milk obviously constitutes a 
special class in Grade A of the system just described. It 
forms but a very small part of the milk supply of any 
community. 

SPECIAL MILK SUPPLIES. A special watch should be 
kept over the milk supplied to hospitals and other institu- 
tions especially those for children to school lunches, 
and the like. Usually such milk is delivered in bulk in cans 
by special contract and it is likely to be overlooked in ex- 
aminations of the general market supplies. It should, of 
course, conform to the same conditions as milk on the open 
market, the dealer should be subject to the license require- 
ment, any grading system should apply, etc. These re- 
marks apply also to the milk served in restaurants, lunch 
rooms, cafes, hotels and the like. The milk supplied at 
milk stations is of course of special importance, should be 
of Grade A and might well be pasteurized. 

The sale of milk in stores should receive special attention, 
through both inspection and laboratory examination, being 
very frequently exposed to deterioration and contamina- 
tion. (See page 381.) 

1 Further information as to the organization and standards of 
medical commissions may be obtained from the Secretary of the Asso- 
ciation: Dr. Otto P. Geier, 124 Garfield Place, Cincinnati, Ohio. The 
regulations for the production of certified milk, revised to May I, 1912, 
were published in U. S. Pub. Health Rpts. for June 14, 1912. 



368 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

MILK AND COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 

The dangers from milk in the spread of communicable 
disease have already been indicated in Chapter I. Under 
the head of epidemiology an account was given of the many 
ways in which milk may become infected at the various 
stages in production and handling. The rules to prevent 
infection through milk bottles left at houses where a case 
exists were given under the head of isolation regulations 
(page 127). 

Milk infection is most to be -apprehended from cases of 
communicable disease frequently missed (or even con- 
cealed) or carrier cases among persons in any way con- 
nected with the handling of milk or milk utensils. 1 Even 
drivers, through handling bottles and other containers, are 
potential infecting agents. Farm water supplies as possible 
sources of infection will be taken up in the. next chapter. 
Prompt report of infection among persons connected in 
any way with milk supplies should be required of phy- 
sicians to be made (by telephone or telegraph followed 
by writing) to the state department of health or to the 
health department of the town to which the milk is sent, 
as well as to that in whose district it occurs. Cases in the 
families of such persons should also be included under this 
regulation on account of the danger of the employee de- 
veloping an active or carrier case of the disease. Each case 
should be dealt with promptly and firmly on its merits, on 
pain of exclusion of the milk supply. If there is reason to 
believe that the supply is infected it should be cut off until 
matters have been so arranged that there is no possible con- 
nection between patient and nurse and milk supply. The 
patient should, if possible, be removed from premises where 
milk is handled ; but if not, nothing short of complete and 

1 The Montclair, N. J., Board of Health has recently adopted a re- 
quirement that such persons file medical certificates of freedom from 
evidence of communicable disease every three months. The aim in this 
case is to obtain a high-grade public supply of raw milk. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 369 

positive isolation of patient and nurse (the latter to be 
thoroughly competent), with entirely satisfactory disinfec- 
tion measures, should be permitted. Then, before re- 
sumption of business is allowed, all bottles, cans and 
other apparatus and utensils should be sterilized by steam 
or boiling under official supervision. The possibility of 
carriers, incipient and mild cases produced by contact 
with the original case must not be overlooked; in typhoid 
fever, known and suspected contacts concerned in the 
handling of the supply should be kept under more or less 
close observation, and cases of sickness should be isolated 
and the blood examined (see page 196 f.); in diphtheria, 
cultures should be taken for the same purpose (two con- 
secutive negatives to be required of suspicious cases). It 
is obvious that searching precautions are worth while when 
there is question of protecting a milk supply at the source. 
Detailed rules cannot be laid down; each case must be 
dealt with on its merits and the principles involved. 

All of this simply emphasizes the remarks made earlier 
as to the desirability of protecting milk supplies es- 
pecially the larger ones by pasteurization. Where ade- 
quate routine pasteurization of milk is practiced, with 
sterilization of bottles and other containers, utensils and 
apparatus, and with proper mechanical handling, the 
chances of infection are practically eliminated. Inspec- 
tions and physician's reports are not complete safeguards, 
and infection has been known (as in recently reported 
epidemics) to be possible under the best apparent con- 
ditions of cleanliness as commonly understood. 

METHODS OF CONTROL 

Milk regulations are enforced, on the one hand, through 
inspection of equipments and methods, and, on the other, 
through laboratory tests, bacteriological and chemical, of 
the product. The two forms of supervision supplement 
each other, the laboratory methods pointing out deficien- 



370 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

cies which inspection cannot practically detect, while 
inspection searches out and applies the corresponding 

remedies. 



/. CONTROL BY INSPECTION 

Milk supplies require inspection at the following points: 

1. At the dairy farm. 

2. At the bottling establishment. 

3. In transportation, whether by wagon in the country, 
by railroad, by wagon or otherwise in the city. 

4. While on sale, from wagons, stores, etc. 

To this schedule we may add the care of milk in the home, 
the final and important matter but necessarily left to the 
consumer. 

Such inspections include not only milk and its products 
but also the empty containers on their way back and forth. 

The proper inspection of the various processes of milk 
production and handling requires a knowledge of trade 
methods as well as of sanitary requirements, an under- 
standing of the point of view of the dairyman and dealer 
as well as that of the health official and sanitarian. The 
efficient milk inspector should be an adviser and instructor 
of the dairyman as well as a monitor. 

Even in small towns milk inspection should constitute 
a special and separate branch of the work of the depart- 
ment of health presided over by a milk inspector. Milk 
inspection involves so many details and demands so inti- 
mate a familiarity with the details of the milk industry that 
it cannot be adequately carried on by halfway methods. 
In the small town the milk inspector may make all the 
inspections necessary 1 farms, bottling establishments, 
stores, etc. and frequently collect samples and perform 
laboratory analyses. Where a town is unable to support a 
whole-time expert inspector and a milk laboratory of its 
own, the solution may be to cooperate with a neighboring 
1 Cf., however, remarks on state inspection, p. 395. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 371 

town or towns in the maintenance of a joint inspection or at 
least of a joint laboratory; thus efficient work which would 
otherwise be impossible may be carried on without great 
expenditure. The possibilities in state inspection will be 
discussed in a later paragraph. 

Milk inspectors should preferably be graduates of agri- 
cultural or dairying schools. This, however, is not essen- 
tial, and an intelligent man interested in the work will soon 
pick up the practical points and with the aid of the score- 
card (which will be described presently) will be able to per- 
form accurate and effective inspections. Knowledge of 
veterinary medicine is not essential, for the board of health 
may (the best plan) appoint its own veterinarian, or, if not 
able to do this, require the written certificates of reputable 
veterinarians as to the health of herds (see requirements 
of Commission on Milk Standards). For laboratory work, 
on the other hand, adequate technical training is necessary. 

THE SCORE-CARD SYSTEM is now applied very generally 
by efficient health authorities to the inspection of dairy 
farms, bottling establishments, creameries and stores 
handling milk in bulk. There is no question that this is 
the best means of making thorough inspections, both for 
the expert and for the inexperienced inspector. In dis- 
cussing its advantages to the health department, the De- 
partment of Agriculture experts, whose cards are used as 
standards, remark: 

The score-card system is of particular value to the inspector in 
pointing out conditions, thus making it impossible to overlook any 
point of importance. All these items are kept in a permanent record 
by this system and comparisons can readily be made. . . . 

Where the score-card system is in use there is frequently more or 
less competition for high scores. No dairyman wants the name of 
being the poorest. This competition makes it easier for the inspector 
to improve conditions, as his suggestions are readily heeded. 1 

1 Lane and Whittaker, " The Score-card System of Dairy Inspec- 
tion," U. S. Dept. of Agric., Bureau of Animal Industry Circular 139, 
1909. Cards for scoring dairy farms, city milk plants and stores 



372 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

From the standpoint of the producer the system has marked advan- 
tages. He can feel that he has received an accurate and impartial score, 
for with everything written down in black and white the opportunities 
for error and favoritism are small. If the inspector has tact and talks 
over with the dairyman the various ratings on the card and the. reason 
for the score he makes, the dairyman becomes interested and is helped 
by means of the card. If the inspector has sufficient skill to make not 
only a reasonably accurate score but also some suggestions, he becomes 
a friend and helper of the dairyman and his visits are looked forward to 
with satisfaction. The score-card system is simple and easily under- 
stood. In some places the health authorities have made too many and 
too complex regulations. They have studied what is necessary in the 
production of sanitary milk and then have embodied these essentials in 
a dairy law. If such a code were literally obeyed it would result in 
perfect milk, which is impossible, and the health authorities know that 
the law will not and cannot be enforced. The dairyman, however, looks 
at the formidable code of fifteen to twenty pages with feelings of per- 
plexity and irritation, knowing that he cannot comply with its require- 
ments. Rating a dairy according to its merits does away with this 
irritation, and as the dairyman makes improvements he has the satis- 
faction of seeing his score increase. The score card protects the dairy- 
man from the faddist who can see nothing but the tuberculin test, a 
cement floor or white milking suits. 1 

The score-card system makes it a simple matter to es- 
tablish certain inspection standards for different grades of 
milk (cf. Appendix B, Standard Rules of the Commission 
on Milk Standards). 

There is abundant proof that the score-card system brings 
immediate and permanent results wherever it is put in 
practice. Magruder, in a paper which we have already 
quoted, cites the example of Richmond, Va.: 

handling bulk milk have been adopted by the Department of Agricul- 
ture and are recommended for adoption by local health authorities. 
For copies of the cards (which cannot conveniently be reproduced here), 
detailed directions, and advice as to their use, apply to the Bureau of 
Animal Industry, Washington, D. C. 

1 Whittaker, " The Score-card System of Dairy Inspection from the 
National Standpoint," Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, 
no. 9, p. 647. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 373 

The experience of Richmond, Va., with inspection has been most 
gratifying. Inspection began in May, 1907. The average rating of the 
farmers was 41.5 out of a possible 100. But 15 per cent of the dairies 
scored above 60. In December, 1911, not one was rated below 70. Of 
all supplying Richmond, 67.4 were rated between 80 and 90; 5.5 percent 
were rated above 90. In his report for 1911 the Health Officer says: 

" The inspector has been enabled to give sound practical advice to 
our dairymen, thereby assisting them in many ways. . . . Practically 
all our dairymen have come to regard him as a real friend and helper." 

Much improvement has also been obtained at Washing- 
ton, D. C., where the score-card was first used, under Health 
Officer Woodward, and many other places. 

There is, however, a caution which should be emphasized 
in connection with the use of scores for administrative pur- 
poses. It must be remembered that a score represents 
simply the general condition and for this reason does not 
always indicate the importance of certain particulars which, 
if deficient, may assume a greater importance than would 
be indicated by the regular deduction from the score. This, 
it is true, is partly provided in the use of the card, by making 
special arbitrary deductions from the score; nevertheless 
certain specific minimum requirements (such, for example, 
as to temperature) as well as a minimum total score should be 
laid down and enforced by ordinance. For these the Rules 
already referred to (Appendix B) may be used as the basis. 
In fact, with such minimum requirements the use of the 
score-card might possibly be done away with, but for the 
present, in most places, a combination of the two methods 
of regulation is perhaps most practicable, the one cover- 
ing the general condition, the other particular points. 

i. Dairy Farms. The Department of Agriculture 
score-card l may be taken as an illustration, in connection 
with the Rules of the .Commission on Milk Standards 
(Appendix B) of dairy farm inspection. Minimum re- 
quirements should, as above suggested, be adopted in 

1 For copies of card, detailed directions and advice apply to U. S. 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Rept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



374 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

accordance with the Rules. Special attention should be 
paid to the important and essential points, such as cleanli- 
ness of cows, utensils and methods, and cooling. Utensils 
and containers should be kept scrupulously clean and should 
be sterilized by scalding if not with live steam. The use of 
small-mouth milking pails is an important point; it has 
been shown that through their use 90 per cent of the bac- 
teria getting into milk at the time of milking can be elimi- 
nated (experiments by Stocking). Hooded pails cost little 
more than ordinary ones and dairymen readily become 
accustomed to their use, A frequent trouble is the use of 
cheap utensils, which deteriorate and accumulate dirt and 
decaying milk solids in cracks and holes. 

Farm water supplies should be carefully looked after, 
for it is frequently not at all certain that milk utensils are 
properly sterilized, and they may of course be contami- 
nated by the washing water. It is possible also that cows 
may, after wading in polluted streams, infect milk mechan- 
ically through the water remaining on their udders and 
other parts. 

In making recommendations to the dairyman infinitely 
more can be accomplished by frequent visits, taking up a 
few important points with him each time, and when these 
have been accomplished passing on to the less essential, 
than by sweeping visits months apart in which so many 
recommendations are made that confusion and discourage- 
ment are created. In point of fact, annual, or even semi- 
annual, visits accomplish practically nothing; frequent 
reinspections are absolutely necessary, the more frequent 
according to the requirements of the case. This applies to 
all kinds of milk inspections. A number of departments 
make their regular dairy inspections once a month. At the 
same time, where objectionable conditions are suspected, 
it may be desirable to inspect at irregular and unexpected 
times. When a farm is revisited frequently the score can 
readily be revised (for certain of the items will remain un- 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 375 

changed from time to time), or supplementary reports can 
be made on special conditions. 

It is recommended that the inspection of dairies be sys- 
tematized, so as to insure adequate inspection and to 
facilitate laying out routes. A plan has been suggested by 
Lane and Whittaker (Circular 139, Bureau of Animal In- 
dustry) which is readily applicable to places of all sizes. 
Its essentials are: a large map on which are indicated the 
locations of dairies by means of tacks, each having a number 
on its head representing the dairyman's permit number 
(the tacks may be of different colors to distinguish between 
different grades), and an index list in connection with the 
map, showing each dairyman's name, permit number and 
the latest scores for each. Where the milk from two or more 
dairies is collected by one dealer these should be grouped 
together and their average given in the list. Map and list 
may be placed in the health office so that both dairymen 
and public may readily consult them. This tends to produce 
improvement by dairymen and enlightenment of citizens. 

For remarks on number of inspectors required, etc., see 
later under Organization. 

2. Shipping and Bottling Establishments. Milk after 
production is usually either bottled on the farm and sold 
by the producer, or it is collected from one or more 
farms by a dealer who bottles it either in the country or in 
the city. Some milk, of course, is not bottled at all, but is 
peddled from cans either from wagon or from store. The 
tendency is more and more toward the handling of milk 
by large dealers who collect from numbers of separate 
dairies on a wholesale scale. Plants or depots where milk 
is collected in the country districts, frequently called 
"creameries," are often many miles away, so that railroad 
transportation to the town or city becomes necessary. 
Whether milk is collected at a point in the country or city, 
whether it is bottled in the country or city, whether in a 
plant handling hundreds of quarts a day or in a milk house 



376 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

handling only a few dozen, the principles of inspection 
are the same, and are in fact precisely those which govern 
dairy inspection: Milk should be exposed to the air as little 
as possible, and the air should be pure; it should not be 
handled in unclean utensils or apparatus, and it should 
always be kept cool. The same considerations also apply 
to pasteurizing plants, with the additional attention re- 
quired to the process itself. 

The score-card 1 of the Department of Agriculture for 
"sanitary inspection of city milk plants" may readily be 
applied or adapted to any establishment handling milk, 
large or small, in the country as well as in the city. When 
milk is bottled in a milk house on a dairy farm, the same 
should be considered as a bottling establishment as well 
as a milk house and the corresponding regulations should 
apply to it. The score-card favors plants which have sepa- 
rate rooms for the various processes, full sets of mechanical 
devices (for bottling, etc.), and other conveniencies ; such 
equipment makes for sanitation as well as convenience. 
At the same time it is possible for the smaller establish- 
ments, by installing proper appliances and operating accord- 
ing to requirements, to come up to a proper standard. 

As with dairy farms it is very desirable to establish for 
milk receiving and bottling plants certain minimum re- 
quirements. Some such requirements have been framed by 
the Commission on Milk Standards (see Appendix B) . The 
following, in more detail, are also suggestive. Such mini- 
mum requirements should of course be thoroughly reason- 
able and enforceable virtues not always found in milk 
ordinances and should apply equally to large and to small 
establishments. It is perfectly feasible to maintain such re- 
quirements in combination with the scoring system, making 
a certain minimum score one of the requirements. Thus 
both general and specific conditions will be covered. 

1 For copies of card, detailed directions and advice apply to the 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 377 

Be it enacted by the Board of Health of the [town, city, village] of 
, as follows: 



The term " milk-bottling establishment " or " establishment," as 
hereinafter used, shall be held to include any and every building, or 
part of a building, wherever located, in which milk is bottled for sale 

or distribution in the [town, city, village] of . The term " bottling 

room " shall be held to apply to any room, or part of a building, in which 
milk is exposed or bottled, and the term " washing room " to any room, 
or part of a building, in which any containers, apparatus or utensils, 
used in the handling of milk, are cleansed or otherwise treated. The 
following rules shall apply to all such milk-bottling establishments; 
and no milk which has been bottled, handled or stored in non-compli- 
ance with or violation of any of said rules shall be sold, held or offered 

for sale, or delivered in the [town, city, village] of , under a penalty 

of twenty-five dollars for each and every offense. 

1. No such establishment shall be located within 100 feet of any hog 
pen, manure pile, privy vault or other source of contamination. 

2. Water used for washing bottles and utensils shall be obtained 
from a source subject to approval by this Board. 

3. Every privy vault located on any premises where milk is bottled 
shall be so constructed that the contents shall be inacessible to flies, and 
every such privy vault shall be kept at all times in a sanitary condition. 

4. Bottling and washing rooms shall conform to the following 
requirements: 

(a) Floors to be water-tight, constructed of cement, concrete or 
other non-absorbent material, and properly drained to a point or 
points at which drainage is disposed of. 

(6) Walls and ceilings to be smooth and kept well painted or lime- 
washed. 

(c) Adequate natural or artificial light to be provided. 

(d) Adequate ventilation to be provided. 

(e) Rooms to be thoroughly screened against flies from April first 
to November first of each year. 

5. Drainage shall not be permitted to flow into or upon the ground 
underneath the establishment or within 100 feet of the same. If 
drainage is collected in a cesspool or other receptacle, the same shall be 
water-tight and shall be kept in a sanitary condition. 

6. Non-employees shall be excluded at all times from bottling and 
washing rooms. 

7. Milk on reaching the establishment shall be immediately cooled 
to a temperature not exceeding 50 F. (if such cooling has not already 
taken place), and shall be thereafter maintained at such a tempera- 
ture. Cooling tanks shall be constructed of smooth, water-tight, non- 



378 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

absorbent material, and the water in such tanks shall be changed at 
least once a day during the months of May, June, July, August and 
September, and at least twice a week during the remainder of the 
year. 

8. All bottles and other containers, apparatus and utensils, used in 
handling milk, shall, after use and before being re-filled or re-used, be 
thoroughly cleansed and sterilized. 

9. Adequate lavatory facilities for employees shall be provided, 
separate and distinct from apparatus used for handling milk or treating 
milk utensils. All employees engaged in bottling and washing rooms 
shall, before beginning work and after visiting the toilet, wash their 
hands thoroughly with clean water and soap. 

10. No bottling or washing room shall be used as a living or sleeping 
room or be directly connected with such room or be used for any other 
purpose other than the storage or handling of milk and milk utensils. 

11. No person affected with typhoid fever, dysentery, scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, tuberculosis or any other communicable disease, which may 
be declared by the Board to be included in this regulation, shall be 
employed in any milk-bottling establishment; nor shall any member of 
the family or household of any such person be so employed, unless by 
permission of this Board. 

12. All milk utensils and apparatus shall be of such construction as 
to be readily cleansed and shall be kept in good repair and free from 
rust. 

13. Bottle-caps shall be kept in a clean, dust-proof container. 

14. Bottling and washing rooms and all parts thereof shall be kept 
clean and free from offensive odor. Dirt, dust, rubbish, clothing, all 
articles not used in the handling of milk and domestic animals shall not 
be permitted in such rooms. 

15. All employees in bottling and washing rooms shall keep them- 
selves and clothing in a clean condition. Clean aprons or suits used for 
no other purpose shall be worn by such employees while in the perform- 
ance of their duties. 

1 6. No spitting or smoking shall be permitted in bottling and wash- 
ing rooms. 

17. A copy of the above rules, furnished by the Board of Health, 
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in each milk-bottling establish- 
ment. 

1 8. No milk shall be bottled except in an establishment in which 
all of the foregoing regulations are complied with, and at no time and 
in no place shall milk be exposed to contamination by dust, dirt, flies, 
communicable disease or any other act or thing injurious to health. 1 

1 Ordinance adopted in Orange, N. J., 1913. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 379 

It would be well to require that such conditions be fulfilled 
before a license is issued to the dealer, reserving the right 
to revoke the license in case there is failure to live up to the 
ordinance. A form of inspection card based on such re- 
quirements could readily be made up, differing from a score- 
card in taking account simply of conditions all of which 
would be required. 

The requirement (8) of sterilization practically means the 
installation of a steam boiler and the necessary apparatus 
in every establishment a steam chamber, and jets for 
the treatment of cans, "fillers," etc. There are a number 
of installations on the market for the purpose. A simple 
apparatus is not an excessive requirement for any bottling 
establishment which pretends to enter seriously into the 
important business of handling milk, and this is the only 
kind which should be permitted to operate. The effects 
of the best apparatus, however, may be lost through mis- 
management, and inspection should insure that routine 
sterilization is complete, also that there is no contamina- 
tion of bottles or utensils after sterilization and before use. 

The inspector of establishments handling milk should 
note whether it is allowed to remain in uncovered tanks, 
vats, bottling machines, cans or bottles any longer than 
is absolutely necessary before placing in storage; whether 
coolers, receiving tanks and the like are protected by 
cheese-cloth or other covers when not located in specially 
constructed sanitary rooms; and whether milk is passed 
through piping that cannot be taken apart and properly 
cleaned. 

The health of employees is a most important considera- 
tion which the inspector should always bear in mind, being 
on the lookout for positive or suspected cases of commu- 
nicable disease. 

3. Milk in Transit. The inspection of milk in transit 
at various stages is an important consideration frequently 
neglected. In country districts it may be transported in an 



380 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

open farm wagon in warm weather with little or no pro- 
tection from the summer warmth; on the railroads it 
frequently is carried in cars which have no refrigeration 
facilities; in the town, on its way from railroad station to 
bottling plant it may suffer a further rise in temperature. 
At all stages it may be left standing on station platforms, 
perhaps in hot sun, and other places where it is insufficiently 
protected from warmth and contamination by meddlers. 

Inspection of transit conditions relates chiefly to tempera- 
ture and to seeing that containers are not sent back without 
washing. The law should prescribe a temperature standard 
for the different grades of milk, 60 F. being the maximum 
allowed for any grade, with 50 degrees as the maximum 
for milk after pasteurization (see Rules, Appendix B), and 
temperatures should frequently be taken. The jacketing 
of cans is by no means always sufficient to keep down 
temperature, and refrigeration en route may sometimes 
have to be resorted to, especially when the initial tem- 
perature was not very low. 

As to the condition of empty containers, a provision 
should be adopted to the effect that no such container may 
be placed in transportation without proper washing. This 
provision does not of course necessarily apply to milk bottles 
for it is not desirable to require householders to cleanse 
bottles, and if they did so the temptation on the part of the 
milk dealer to re-fill the same without sterilization would be 
increased. The proper place for the cleansing of cans, 
milk pails, etc., is the receiving or bottling plant, where 
there are adequate washing facilities and where sterilization 
can also be performed. It would be well if country cream- 
eries would adopt a rule requiring farmers to bring pails 
and other utensils, as well as cans, to the creamery to be 
washed and sterilized; this would be an assurance that 
these operations are properly performed and a protection 
against the possible contamination of farm water sup- 
plies. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 381 

4. Milk on Sale. Supervision here applies both to 
wagons and to stores and booths. 

In regard to wagons the same principles apply as to milk 
in transportation. Plenty of ice on delivery wagons in the 
warmer months should be the rule. Some milkmen make 
a practice of filling bottles in their wagons, frequently 
using for this purpose returned bottles which have not been 
properly washed and sterilized; this should of course be 
strictly forbidden, as well as the practice of transferring 
milk from can to can, in delivering or otherwise, on the 
street. In the same way the peddling of "loose" or "dip" 
milk from wagons is objectionable unless carried on in a 
closed wagon with special care. 

The use of milk tickets which are used more than once 
should be forbidden. 

In regard to stores the question is much more difficult. 
In many cases milk is sold in stores as a minor side-line, or 
merely as an accommodation to customers who come pri- 
marily to buy groceries, produce, etc. In such cases proper 
care is not likely to be taken of it and it is subject to various 
contaminations. At the same time the sale of milk in 
stores, particularly "loose" or "dip" milk in cans, is an 
important source of supply for poor people who buy in 
small quantities and must therefore be regulated rather 
than forbidden. Such is the policy which has been adopted 
by active health departments. As an indication of the 
points to be looked to in such stores the score-card l of the 
Department of Agriculture may be consulted. 

Of course where bottled milk is sold in stores the only 
requirement to be applied is proper refrigeration, with the 
assurance that bottles are not opened and sold in "split" 
quantities. 

Here again, as in the inspection of dairy farms and re- 
ceiving and bottling establishments, reliance should not be 

1 For copies of card, detailed directions and advice apply to the 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



382 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

placed upon the score alone, but there should be certain 
minimum requirements, the character of which is indicated 
by the following regulations adopted by the Health De- 
partment of New York City in 1913. 

REGULATIONS FOR THE SALE OF DIPPED MILK AND 
CREAM IN STORES 

L. Milk or cream shall not be stored, handled or sold in any stable, 
or in any room used for cooking or domestic purposes, or in any room 
which communicates directly with any such stable or room, or in any 
room in which there is a water closet apartment or with which a water 
closet apartment communicates, unless such apartment be enclosed by 
a vestibule, and both apartment and vestibule be properly ventilated to 
the external air. 

2. The term " domestic purposes " shall be held to apply to rooms 
used for sleeping purposes or for cooking purposes other than the 
preparation of the midday meal. 

3. Milk or cream shall not be handled or sold in any room which is 
unduly crowded. 

4. Milk or cream shall not be dipped from cans stored in a room in 
which butter or cheese is manufactured. 

5. Milk or cream may be stored in a cooling or refrigerating room, 
or ice chest, the construction of which has been approved by the depart- 
ment. 

6. No milk or cream shall be dipped from cans stored in a milk 
booth. 

7. Milk shall be kept at a temperature of 50 F. or below at all 
times. 

EQUIPMENT 

1. Rooms in which milk or cream is handled or sold shall be well 
lighted. 

2. The floors, walls and ceilings shall be smooth, and must be kept 
clean and sanitary. 

3. All windows and doors shall be properly screened. 

4. An adequate supply of hot water shall be provided for the washing 
of utensils. 

5. A sufficient number of properly constructed ice tubs, or other 
adequate refrigerating facilities, for cans of milk or cream shall be 
provided. 

6. All utensils used for dipped milk or cream shall be of the seamless 
sanitary type, heavily tinned. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 383 

METHODS 

1. No milk or cream shall be dipped from cans stored in any room 
in which rubbish or dirty material is allowed to accumulate, or in which 
there are offensive odors. 

2. All cans or other receptacles used for milk or cream shall be 
cleaned thoroughly upon emptying. 

3. The cans from which milk or cream is dipped shall be packed in 
ice, and shall be kept covered at all times, except when the milk or 
cream is being actually dipped therefrom. 

4. After each day's use all utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned with 
hot water and soda, and then with boiling water. 

5. All utensils used for dipped milk or cream shall be kept clean. 

6. The ice tubs in which milk or cream is stored shall be painted 
inside and outside, and shall be kept clean at all times. 

7. A separate dipper shall be provided for each can from which the 
supply is being served, and such dipper shall remain in the can between 
dippings until all the milk in the can has been disposed of. 

8. All goods sold in milk stores must be either in unbroken packages, 
or must be so placed, protected and handled that no dust or odors 
therefrom can injuriously affect the milk. 

9. Dry sweeping and dusting in rooms in which milk or cream is 
dispensed is prohibited. 

10. The tags on cans of milk or cream must be kept on file in the store 
for at least two months for inspection by the Department of Health. 

11. The attendants shall wear clean, washable outer clothing. 

12. Only such persons shall be employed as are free from infectious 
diseases which may be transmitted in the handling of milk. 1 

A permit system should apply to stores, which should be 
required to post their permits in a conspicuous place. 

The Commission on Milk Standards prescribes that all 
stores in which milk is handled be provided with a suitable 
room or compartment in which milk shall be kept, said com- 
partment to be clean and so arranged that the milk will not 
be liable to contamination. 2 The maximum temperature 
allowable for such milk is set by the Commission as 50 F. 

1 Weekly Bull. N. Y. City Dept. of Health, Aug. 30, 1913. 

2 Passaic, N. J., requires that each store have a special milk booth 
constructed according to plans furnished by the health department. 
Note, however, that in the sixth regulation above, ordinary booths are 
disapproved. 



384 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The care of milk in the home is a subject for publicity. 
Some health departments issue circulars urging that milk 
be kept clean, cold and covered, as otherwise a good deal 
of the benefit of inspection, pasteurization and other public 
precautions is lost. Infant hygiene nurses should give 
instruction on this point. (See page 313.) 

77. LABORATORY CONTROL 

Laboratory examinations of milk are of no less import- 
ance than inspection ; in fact they are in a sense even more 
important, for by them alone can the health authorities 
learn the quality of the milks supplied and ascertain where 
deficiencies lie. Without laboratory facilities efforts for 
improving the hygienic character of milk supplies are made 
in the dark. Hence every department of health should be 
provided with a laboratory with an analyst who is capable 
of carrying on the necessary routine bacteriological exami- 
nations. Such a laboratory is not expensive to equip and- 
maintain (see Appendix D), and in many cases the milk 
inspector with laboratory training will be able to make his 
own examinations. Small communities which cannot 
afford to maintain separate laboratories may join with 
others in the maintenance of a common laboratory. Money 
spent for laboratory work will be repaid many times in 
benefit to the public health. 

Laboratory work may be mentioned chiefly under the 
following heads: 

1. Collection of samples (including temperature taking). 

2. Bacteria tests (bacteria counts). 

3. Chemical tests. 

4. Tests for visible dirt (sediment). 

5. Tests for adulteration and preservatives. 

In addition, if facilities allow, examinations may be made 
for kinds of bacteria, pus cells, etc. 

i. Collection of Samples. " Samples of milk should be 
taken at regular intervals for analysis. These should be 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 385 

collected largely from retail delivery wagons, so that they 
will represent the product received by consumers. Where 
the milk is bottled, sampling is a simple matter, as one 
bottle will suffice for a sample. Where milk is dipped from 
cans or drawn from faucets, sampling is not so easy. How- 
ever, if the inspector puts himself in the position of a con- 
sumer, taking the product sold to him for a sample, this will 
represent what the dealer is actually selling. . . . Persons 
collecting samples should be familiar with the manner of 
taking evidence in court and should be able to prove the 
identity of the sample delivered to the analyst. It should 
not pass out of sight of the inspector until personally de- 
livered to the man in the laboratory who is to examine it, 
unless it is under seal and properly marked for identifica- 
tion. When the inspector takes several samples on a 
single trip, each sample should be marked as soon as taken, 
so that no question can be successfully raised as to the 
possible mixing up of the samples." 1 State laws very 
frequently prescribe the procedure for taking legal samples 
(providing, for example, for the return of a sealed portion 
of the sample to the dealer) which should be exactly 
followed where prosecution is planned. In such cases a 
witness should accompany the inspector. For ordinary 
collection of samples, however, ordinary care should suf- 
fice, without cumbersome formality. 

For the collection of bacteriological samples of loose milk 
sterilized four-ounce bottles with wide mouths and ground- 
in stoppers will be found convenient; care should be taken 
to protect the mouths of these, before and after filling, by 
means of a tin-foil cap. Milk may be dipped into these by 
the dealer just as it would be given to an ordinary consumer. 
Other methods of collection are given in the text-books on 
milk examination. 2 

1 Lane and Whittaker, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 139. 

2 Cf. Tonney, " An Inexpensive Outfit for the Collection of Bacterial 
Milk Samples," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 5, p. 364. 



386 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Where the inspector takes the sample himself he should 
be careful to mix the milk thoroughly and to the satisfaction 
of the dealer, so as to get a representative sample. Pains 
must be taken that all articles used in the collection of milk 
samples be thoroughly sterilized and kept so until use. If 
temperature is taken, an accurate and clean thermometer 
should be used and this act should be performed after the 
taking of the bacteriological sample. 

In addition to the samples from wagons, collections should 
be made of store milk, which will usually be found much in 
need of bacteriological control. Samples may also be taken 
from time to time of milk before bottling and in transit, if 
it is desired to locate special difficulties. 

Milk samples between collection and examination must, 
it scarcely needs be said, be kept strictly iced. 

Care in manipulation must be exercised throughout, and 
the collector of milk samples should have a knowledge of 
the principles of, and necessity for, bacteriological cleanli- 
ness; otherwise contaminations which would vitiate the 
final results may occur. 

2. Bacteria Tests. The principal bacteriological test 
is that for the total count, expressed as "bacteria per cubic 
centimeter." This should be obtained according to the 
standard methods of the Laboratory Section of the Ameri- 
can Public Health Association. 1 

The importance of bacteria counts, especially in the 
grading of milks, has been indicated in the foregoing pages. 
The Commission on Milk Standards of the N. Y. Milk 
Committee concludes that " among present available routine 
laboratory methods for determining the sanitary quality 

1 For reference see Appendix D. The Commission on Milk Stand- 
ards recommends the following amendments: " A. That the culture 
medium used for testing milk be identical in its composition and re- 
action with the culture medium used for the testing of water provided 
in the standard methods of water analyses of the American Public 
Health Association. B. That incubation of plate cultures be made at 
37 C. for 48 hours." (2d Rpt., 1913.) 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 387 

of milk the bacteria count occupies first place." In the 
majority of instances the bacteria indicate dirt, or lack of 
refrigeration, or age. (The total count has no direct refer- 
ence to the specific bacteria of disease, see below.) In the 
words of the Commission, "milk with a high bacteria count 
is not necessarily harmful, but when used as a food, par- 
ticularly for children, is a hazard too great to be warranted. 
Milk with a high bacteria count, therefore, should be con- 
demned. Milks with small numbers of bacteria are pre- 
sumed to be wholesome, unless there is reasonable ground 
for suspecting that they have been exposed to contagion." 

Various standards, ranging from 100,000 to 500,000 
bacteria per cubic centimeter, have been set by various 
communities for their market milk. Those recommended 
by the Commission on Milk Standards should be adopted 
as representing the most advanced practice. Naturally, 
however, it will be easier for communities drawing their 
supplies from nearby to obtain low bacteria counts than 
those which use milk brought from greater distances in 
longer periods of time. 

There is a diversity of opinion as to the best method of 
valuing a series of bacteria counts. The average of the 
counts for a certain supply would indicate the average num- 
ber of bacteria received by the consumer and hence the 
general effect on health, though not necessarily showing 
individual high counts. The Commission (1913) gives the 
following rule: 

That the grade into which a milk falls shall be determined bacterio 
logically by at least five consecutive bacteria counts taken over a period 
of not less than one week nor more than one month, and at least 80 
per cent (four out of five) must fall below the limit set for the grade for 
which the classification is desired. 

A similar consideration should apply to the publication 
of laboratory results, so that the tests will be sufficiently 
numerous to be truly indicative; single scattered tests vary 
and may be misleading unless a sufficient number is taken 
to produce a reliable average. 



388 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

In laboratories where facilities warrant, additional tests 
may be made for kinds of bacteria (e.g., colon and other 
intestinal types, streptococci, etc.). It is a rare thing, how- 
ever, for a laboratory to undertake the examination of milk 
for the detection of the bacteria of disease, because of the 
extreme difficulties in detecting them. Nor, in many cases, 
would there be any practical advantage even if such tests 
were successful, for the fact of infection can be established 
most readily by epidemiological evidence. As for protec- 
tion from such infection, the most effective method is by 
medical, veterinary and sanitary inspection, and by pas- 
teurization. 

3. Chemical Tests. Chemical tests and the others 
which will be mentioned take a secondary place from the 
sanitary standpoint. Chemical tests are, however, neces- 
sary as an indication of the food value of the product sold. 
Those commonly made are for milk fats and other solids. 
The Babcock method is the simplest for determining the 
percentage of fats. If at the same time lactometer and tem- 
perature readings are taken the total solids may readily be 
gauged with a fair degree of accuracy by means of the 
formulae and tables given in the laboratory text-books. 
This may suffice for routine procedure, but more exact 
methods (which, however, require more time) useful, for 
example, in preparing for prosecution are described in, 
the text-books and may be followed where laboratory 
facilities permit. The chemical results may be expressed 
as "fats" and "total solids," or as "fats" and "solids not 
fat." The standards adopted for whole milk should be 
those of the Commission on Milk Standards: 3.25 per cent 
fat and 8.5 per cent solids not fat. 

In the interpretation of percentages it should be borne in 
mind that falling below the standard does not necessarily 
indicate fraud through skimming or added water, but may 
be due to the use of cattle giving a thin milk. This is 
especially true of certain breeds. This does not, however, 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 389 

constitute an excuse for the dairyman, who should obtain 
his supply from herds so composed that they give the 
required food values. Adulteration of milk through water- 
ing and skimming will be mentioned below. 

4. Tests for Visible Dirt (Sediment). These have 
come into considerable use, principally because they dem- 
onstrate visibly the gross forms of dirt in milk in a manner 
which is convincing to the dairyman and the public. Thus 
they are supplementary to the bacteria tests, which of 
course gauge to a far finer degree the effects of dirt. Dirt 
in milk may be detected by examining the bottom of the 
bottle after the sample has stood for an hour. It is deter- 
mined quantitatively by methods involving centrifugalizing 
or straining, which are described in recent text-books and 
papers. A recent paper mentions a dozen or more such 
methods. 1 Several dirt testers are now offered on the mar- 
ket. A quart or pint of the milk is usually strained through 
a cotton disk, the visible dirt being retained upon the latter; 
the disk is then dried and may be cut in two, one-half being 
given to the dealer and the other kept on file. A series of 
grades according to the amount of sediment may be estab- 
lished. The sediment consists of undissolved cow manure, 
dust, hairs and other foreign matter, which fact, stated to 
the dairyman, assists in the improvement of dairy methods, 
especially if the tests are made a matter for public exhibi- 
tion. It should be especially impressed that this dirt 
should be kept out originally rather than be strained out 
after contamination has taken place. Comparative tests 
are made of the supplies of their individual producers by 
various large creameries, as well as by health authorities, 
and the results posted, with good results. It must be borne 
in mind, however, that while this is a useful, it is strictly a 
subsidiary, method of laboratory control. 

1 Schroeder, " Dirt Sediment Testing A Factor in Obtaining Clean 
Milk," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. i, p. 50. Cf. Tonney, 
ibid., 1912, vol. II, no. 4, p. 280, and Schroeder, ibid., 1912, vol. II, 
no. 5, p. 360. 



A MANUAL: FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

5. Tests for Adulteration and Preservatives. Where 
tests of this class have been regularly carried on it is found 
that the addition of adulterant or preservative seldom 
occurs. Such tests are readily performed, and the heavy 
penalties which in the past have been applied have resulted 
in effectually discouraging the tendencies to this class of 
frauds. The adulteration of milk through watering or 
skimming still, however, occurs not infrequently, especially 
where few or no tests are made by the health authorities. 

Where milk is adulterated through watering or skimming 
the penalty should be more severe than where it is simply 
below the standard for solids. In order, however, to prove 
such adulteration it is necessary to resort to refractometer 
tests, and recourse should therefore be had to a laboratory 
where such can be made. Examinations of this class, in 
cases where prosecution is to be undertaken, require strict 
legal procedure and adequate laboratory technique. Hence 
they are best usually assigned to state food and drug in- 
spection service. 

Among possible preservatives of milk and cream formalin 
is the chief. 

The addition of formalin, as well as most other forms of 
adulteration and preservation, can readily be detected by 
simple tests. When preservative is used it may frequently 
be suspected from the abnormally low bacteria count which 
results. 

Cream is subject to addition of thickeners (e.g., gelatin) 
and preservatives, for which tests may be made in suspected 
cases. 

In general, it seems necessary for local authorities to make 
tests for adulteration and addition of preservative, not as a 
routine measure, but only in those cases rendered suspect by 
the results of the regular bacteriological and chemical tests. 

For methods see text-book references at close of this 
section. (Cf. Bull. 100, U. S. Bureau of Chemistry, on 
simple tests.) 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 391 

The subject of microscopic examination of milk and the 
determination of pus and bacteria by sedimentation 
methods is one in which general agreement as to values and 
methods has not been reached. It is now under considera- 
tion by a special subcommittee of the Commission on Milk 
Standards and will be reported upon later. 

Frequency of Tests. As a general rule, every supply 
should be subjected to bacteriological and chemical exami- 
nation at least once a month. Low-grade and suspected 
supplies should be examined more frequently, and a policy 
of following up such supplies will produce much better 
results than an undiscriminating routine. During warm 
weather the frequency of examination should be increased. 
If laboratory facilities are limited, special attention should 
be paid to making frequent bacteriological tests, even if the 
number of chemical tests does not keep pace ; for the former 
are of greater significance to the public health. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

After milk, attention should be paid to cream and ice 
cream supplies. The standards adopted for cream should 
be those of the Commission on Milk Standards, which 
provide that "cream should be classified in the same 
grades as milk, in accordance with the requirements for 
the grades of milk, excepting the bacterial standards which 
in 20 per cent cream shall not exceed five times the bac- 
terial standard allowed in the grade of milk" (modification 
of bacterial standard according to percentage of fat when 
this percentage is different from 20) , while standard cream 
is to contain "not less than 18 per cent of milk fat" and 
to be "free from all constituents foreign to normal milk." 

The regulation of ice cream requires some special remark. 
Ice cream is frequently made from poor grades of milk and 
cream and under the most unsanitary conditions, often 
in dark, dirty basements. Yet the product is consumed 
to a large extent by children and invalids, the most sus- 



3Q2 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ceptible part of the population. Hence it requires careful 
sanitary regulation, consisting both in inspection (for which 
a score-card similar to that for milk plants may be used) 
and analyses of the raw materials and of the finished 
product. In the inspection special attention should be 
paid to the care of utensils, the prevalence of flies and the 
objectionable use of the fingers in tasting and handling the 
product; for the latter purposes proper spoons and other 
utensils are to be insisted upon. In New Jersey a special 
score-card has been adopted and inspections are made by 
the State Department of Health, the establishments being 
required to come up to certain requirements before a license 
is issued. This gives the advantage of uniform and expert 
inspections, but elsewhere it may be necessary for many 
communities to look after their own inspections. 

In Montclair, N. J., where a special effort has been made 
to improve the ice cream supplies a bacterial limit of 
"500,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter, measurement to be 
made immediately after the ice cream has been reduced to 
a fluid condition," has been adopted. The pasteurization 
of milk and cream used in making ice cream may be per- 
. mitted under proper conditions. 

The percentage of fat in ice cream, though secondary to 
cleanly conditions of manufacture and the purity of the 
product, is important as indicating the food value. Anal- 
yses made in Montclair showed that this figure ranged 
from 3.0 to 17.0 per cent. Standards should be established 
or at least the results should be published and the dealers 
required to guarantee a certain percentage by statement on 
the label, especially as gelatin thickener is frequently used. 

Health departments should publish data and remarks 
under all of the above heads, relative to the local ice cream 
supplies. 1 

1 See Rpt. of Bd. of Health of Montclair, N. J., for 1913; and Bahl- 
man, " Ice Cream Studies in Cincinnati," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, 
vol. IV, no. n, p. 1009. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 393 

Other milk products subject to supervision are skim milk 
and buttermilk (see Rpt. of Commission on Milk Stand- 
ards), butter, condensed milk, etc. Since butter is a poten- 
tial vehicle of bovine tuberculosis, it should be made from 
tuberculin-tested or pasteurized supplies of milk or cream. 
Strict conditions of cleanliness should be observed in places 
where milk products are produced and handled, and so far 
as practicable pasteurization of the raw materials or fin- 
ished product should be practiced. 

ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS 

Legal Remedies. The following legal remedies are 
available : 

1. Fines. In connection with bacteria counts two or 
more consecutive excessive counts should be obtained as a 
basis for prosecution. With substandard chemical tests 
it is customary to issue a warning on the first tests, prose- 
cution being undertaken if the supply continues below 
standard. The law should provide increasing penalties for 
subsequent offences. If fraudulent adulteration, etc., is 
proved, prosecution is at once demanded. 

2. Revocation of Permit. Where this is provided for in 
the law it affords a powerful check, which can, however, 
only be applied where conditions are continuously bad. 

3. Arbitrary Confiscation, destruction or denaturization 
of milk is a comparatively rare procedure, too drastic for 
most cases. It could only be applied when the product 
contains visible dirt or has a very low specific gravity or is 
above temperature standard in other words when the 
violation of standards is demonstrable on the spot. 

Publicity of conditions and laboratory results (see below) 
is a valuable auxiliary means in the enforcement of milk 
standards. 

The Economic Problem. The improvement of milk 
supplies is at bottom an economic problem. Improve- 
ments require expenditure of money or of labor, and justice 



394 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

requires and practice shows that an increased price must be 
paid by the consumer. The grading of market milks clears 
the situation greatly by enabling the better grades to be 
sold at the somewhat increased price that they merit. At 
the same time it may result in decreasing the prices now 
obtained for inferior grades. On the whole, however, im- 
proved sanitation means corresponding, though not neces- 
sarily great, increases in prices. Hence, while the health 
officer is setting and endeavoring to enforce higher standards 
he must also stimulate a public demand and willingness to 
pay for the better product; and this requires public en- 
lightenment. 

The success achieved by the experiment in milk pro- 
duction which has been carried out on a large scale by the 
New York Dairy Demonstration Company is an illustra- 
tion of the fact that an extra price or premium paid to the 
producer for cleanliness and care will bring results far more 
quickly and certainly than instructions or official inspection. 
In this successful experiment the following premiums were 
paid to the farmers: 

For tuberculin-tested cows %i per quart 

For " sanitation" (milking in covered pails washed and 

sterilized at the receiving station, and cooling with ice) j 

For keeping bacteria count under 10,000 per c.c j $ 

Total Ti 

The additionalcost of running the sterilizing station, over 
and above that of an ordinary bottling station, was i?f, 
thereby making the additional cost necessary to supply a 
tuberculin-tested milk with a bacteria count under 30,000 
at time of delivery, one and one-half cents per quart. 1 
Similar additional costs might be worked out for pasteuri- 
zation and other factors. 

In future milk should be sold on sanitary grade and food 
value, the choice of quality resting with the consumer who 

1 North, " Sterilizing Stations in Dairy Districts," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1911, vol. I, no. 9, p. 654. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 395 

should have full knowledge of what he is getting and be 
willing to pay the corresponding price. 

Publicity. We have already alluded to the advantages 
of publicity in the improvement of milk supplies. The 
most effective form that this can take is the publication of 
the results of laboratory analyses, preferably in the form 
of quarterly or semi-annual bulletins which may be distrib- 
uted from house to house. This method is particularly 
applicable to small communities. It enables the consumer 
to choose a supply more accurately than is afforded by the 
market grading system. In Montclair, N. J., much benefit 
has resulted in the publication of such results in the annual 
reports of the health department, a partial reprint of which 
is distributed from house to house. We assume of course 
that proper regulations have been established, that there 
are adequate laboratory facilities and that sufficiently 
numerous tests are made. 

Circulars on the care of milk in the home may also with 
advantage be distributed. 

Exhibitions, especially at the outset of a milk campaign, 
are useful. 1 

ORGANIZATION 

The ideal organization for the administration of milk 
laws would involve a combination of state and local inspec- 
tion and laboratory work. Under such a plan milk and 
milk products from the time of their origin at the dairy 
farm, in transportation, country bottling, etc., would be 
under the supervision of the state authorities (state health 
authorities in cooperation with state agricultural authori- 
ties); upon their entrance within the limits of the local 
municipality they would come under the supervision of the 
local authorities. The supervision in both cases would 
include both inspection and laboratory work. The local 

1 For suggestions see the Report of the Philadelphia Milk Show, 
1911 (Phila. Bureau of Municipal Research). 



396 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

municipality could enforce its own ordinances through 
cooperation with the state authorities, such cooperation 
taking the form of furnishing reports and evidence. The 
state inspection of dairies is obviously an advantage for 
the reason that overlapping in the same district of the in- 
spections of several different municipalities is avoided, that 
a dairy condemned by one community cannot divert its 
product into another without detection and that more 
uniformity of methods may be secured. But whatever the 
relationships may be, the principal authority must naturally 
reside in the local health department, and when, as fre- 
quently is the case, the appropriations to state departments 
for milk supervision are insufficient to carry into complete 
effect the plan which has just been proposed, local depart- 
ments must rely very largely, perhaps wholly, on their own 
resources. 

The number of inspectors necessary will vary according 
to the number and distribution of the dairies and other 
establishments to be visited. One authority states that 
there should, as a rule, be one inspector for, approximately, 
every 100 dairies l for the country inspections ; in addition 
there would be the inspection of receiving and bottling 
stations, and the collection of samples, which might perhaps 
be handled by the same man. 

Besides the inspection service there must be local labora- 
tory facilities and services. It is impossible to lay down 
exact standards as to practical requirements; the needs 
of each community must be considered. A number of 

1 Some of the questions relating to number of inspectors, of samples 
to be taken and the like have been considered by Gunn in a report on 
the milk control situation in Milwaukee (see reference at close of this 
section). He states that relatively the greatest amount of inspection is 
performed in Richmond, Va., where there are only 66 farms per dairy 
inspector. The Philadelphia Milk Commission recommended approxi- 
mately 150 farms per country inspector (12 visits per year to each farm, 
on the average, some more and some less according to conditions at 
each). 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 397 

cities require a milk analyst and one or more milk in- 
spectors. In smaller communities, one inspector trained 
in both dairy inspection and laboratory work may be able 
to perform all the inspection and laboratory work required. 
Still smaller places may cooperate with neighboring places 
in the maintenance of a joint inspection and laboratory 
arrangement. Thus no community, however small, should 
be without adequate expert service. 

In every case milk work should be a distinct branch of 
health department activity, requiring for its execution, men 
specially qualified by training and experience. Halfway 
measures and ill-advised methods lead invariably to failure 
if not to harm. 

A special effort should be made to obtain the good-will 
of dairymen and dealers through tactful and instructive 
methods, to educate public opinion to higher standards 
and to use methods and statements which safeguard and 
improve and, without arousing needless apprehension, 
further public convenience and confidence. 

REFERENCES 

Reports of the Commission on Milk Standards appointed by the New 
York Milk Committee, N. Y. Milk Com., 105 East 22nd St., N. Y. City. 

Savage, " Milk and the Public Health " (bacteriology and adminis- 
trative control), London, 1912. 

Jensen, " Milk Hygiene " (translated by Pearson). 

Winslow (Kenelm), " The Production and Handling of Clean Milk, 
Including Practical Milk Inspection " (with " The Essentials of Milk 
Bacteriology," by H. P. Hill). 

Ward, " Pure Milk and the Public Health." 

Rosenau,"The Milk Question," 1912 (popular in style). 

Magruder, " The Solution of the Milk Problem," R. Beresford, 
605 F. St., N.W., Washington, D.C., 1913 (pamphlet, 10 cts.). 

Trans. XV. Internal. Congress on Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, Govt. 
Printing Office, Washington (vol. IV). 

A mass of useful information is contained in the U. S. Government 
publications, a list of which may be obtained from the Supt. of Docu- 
ments, Government Printing Office, Washington, and in the publica- 
tions of state agricultural experiment stations. These are partly the 



398 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

results of official investigations and study, and partly in the nature of 
material for instruction of farmers and public. The sanitarian and 
health officer should consult especially Bull. 56 of the Hygienic Labora- 
tory, Public Health Service, on " Milk in Its Relation to the Public 
Health." 

As an example of a milk supply survey see " Report of a Special 
Committee appointed by the Washington Chamber of Commerce to 
investigate the Milk Situation in the District of Columbia," 1911, 
Senate Document No. 863, 6ist Congress, 3d session; Gunn, " The 
Milk Supply of the City of Milwaukee and Its Control by the Health 
Department," Milwaukee Bur. of Efficiency and Economy, Bull. No. 13, 
1912. 

For laboratory references see Appendix D. 

For references on transmission of disease by milk see Epidemiology, 
Chapter I. 

II. FOODS OTHER THAN MILK 

Regulation of food supplies in general is directed against 
the following classes of conditions : 

1. Infection. Preventive measures should forbid the 
possibility of contamination of foods at any stage with 
infectious matter, and, in the case of meats, the sale of 
dangerously diseased portions. The requirements of this 
class apply especially to foods eaten raw. 

2. Contamination with Dirt and Other Foreign Matter. 
Measures under this head may be referred to as "general 
sanitation" and are closely connected with those just 
mentioned. 

3. Decomposition. While it is obviously important 
that no decomposed foods be sold, this department of food 
inspection has been exaggerated as applied to foods which 
are obviously -unfit for consumption. More attention 
might well be paid, however, to the character of raw 
materials used in restaurants and the like. The effects of 
cold storage on food supplies have come in for a good deal 
of attention of late. 1 

1 Rpts. of Committee on Cold Storage of the Am. Pub. Health 
Assn., published in Am. Jour. Pub. Health. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 399 

4. Adulteration, Preservatives, etc. This head includes 
substitutions, admixtures and subtractions which affect 
the quality or strength of articles; also the use of dele- 
terious preservatives, and the use of coloring or preserva- 
tive or other substance to conceal inferiority. We may 
include here also poisonous inorganic substances which may 
gain access to foods in the process of manufacture, canning, 
etc. Lead poisoning from beverages would likewise fall 
under this head. As to harmful and harmless preservatives 
the line is often difficult to draw and the term "poison" as 
applied in this connection difficult to define. For the whole 
question of harmful substances in foods and beverages the 
larger text-books (especially that by Wiley) should be 
consulted. 

Many if not most of the violations under this head ob- 
viously bear upon honesty, the consumer's purse, etc., as 
well as health. The laws covering adulteration and mis- 
branding of foods and drugs are chiefly administered by 
state and federal authorities. 

On the whole, the main public health aspects of food 
supplies other than milk relate to those foods which may 
be infected and convey infection through being consumed 
in the raw state. Otherwise (leaving out of our present 
scope dietetic and nutritional problems) the matters here 
considered raise comparatively few responsibilities for the 
local health officer. 

Meat Supplies. Meats and meat products are objec- 
tionable if they are, in whole or in part, filthy or decom- 
posed, or if they embrace any portion of an animal unfit 
for food, or if they are the product of diseased animals or 
those that have died otherwise than by slaughter. Such 
conditions are to be obviated through inspections of 
slaughterhouses, veterinary inspection of animals before 
slaughter and of the carcasses after slaughter, and super- 
vision of handling. Such inspections are properly the 



400 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

function of State and Federal authorities, though they should 
be performed by the local authorities where the former 
are inadequate. State systems of inspecting and licensing 
slaughterhouses and slaughtering are very desirable. 

The fact that meat is practically always cooked before 
consumption is a vast safeguard against infection, but 
since cooking may be incomplete, the consumer should be 
protected by an inspection that ensures him products as 
nearly free from infection as possible. Seriously diseased 
meat is of course an unfit food under any circumstances, 
though when a diseased animal is affected only locally, 
only the parts affected need be condemned. Among the 
diseases which may be communicated from animals to man 
through uncooked meat may be mentioned tuberculosis, 
trichinosis, tape-worm and actinomycosis. 

A great deal of meat is inspected by the Federal Bureau 
of Animal Industry, but it must be remembered that such 
inspection covers only products intended for interstate or 
foreign commerce, so that consequently large quantities 
of meat killed and consumed within state borders is, in the 
absence of state supervision, not subject to any inspection. 1 

MEAT INFECTION AND POISONING, "PTOMAINES," ETC. 
Meat may become infected with bacteria of the paratyphoid or the 
hog cholera group, the infection being derived either from disease in the 
animal before slaughter or from postmortem contamination from soiled 
hands, butcher's tools or fixtures, cloths, dust, or other objects with 
which it conies in contact, or from flies. In this way there is an anal- 

1 The following ordinance has been adopted in Montclair, N. J.: 
" No pork, beef, veal, mutton or lamb nor any part of any animal from 
which any of said meats is obtained shall be sold for food purposes or 
exposed for sale or held in possession in a store in which food is sold, 
unless the said animal has been examined both before and after slaughter 
by a meat inspector duly appointed by the United States Government, 
or by some other competent public official, and has been passed as fit 
for food and has been stamped with a proper identification mark or 
marks according to the system adopted by the United States Bureau 
of Animal Industry. The provisions of this ordinance shall be con- 
strued to apply to all meat sausages and chopped meats." 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 401 

ogy to milk infection. The bacteria have their usual habitat in man 
(paratyphoid bacillus) or lower animals (hog cholera bacillus, etc.), 
but when they gain access to meat and conditions as to warmth, etc., 
are favorable, they multiply readily. " Cases of meat poisoning vary 
greatly in intensity and also in their clinical picture. The period of 
incubation in the acute gastroenteric type is usually short, rarely over 
48 hours; the period of incubation in the cases resembling typhoid fever 
is generally from 8 to 18 days." l 

Meat inspection affords comparatively little protection against 
bacterial infections of this class for the reason that the bacteria may 
grow extensively without altering the perceptible qualities of the meat. 
Their presence may be detected only by bacteriological examination. 
Of course it goes without saying that animals having diseased conditions 
capable of producing meat infection should be condemned. Since 
infection of meat may take place any time between slaughter and con- 
sumption, scrupulous cleanliness should be observed in slaughter 
houses, butcher shops and the home. " The butcher's hands and 
implements," recommends Rosenau, " require cleanliness of a surgical 
order." Chopping and mincing favor infection of the mass of meat. 
Thorough cooking destroys the infection, hence cases of meat poisoning 
are rare among those whose food is properly cooked. Meat may, how- 
ever, become infected after cooking if not properly cared for. 

Botulismus is another type of meat poisoning, a true intoxication 
due to the production, by a specific saprophytic organism (Bacillus 
botulinus}, of a bacterial toxine. Meat, fish and even vegetables con- 
taining sufficient protein are subject to infection by this organism 
most frequently sausages, hence the name " sausage poisoning." The 
organism is a strict anaerobe, i.e., grows only in the absence of air and 
oxygen. It is in itself harmless and does not grow within the body; 
the poisoning is caused solely by the toxine generated in the meat before 
ingestion. Sometimes the presence of toxine can be detected by 
changes in color, taste, odor, etc., of the article; sometimes not. The 
period of " incubation " of the poisoning before symptoms appear is 
about 20 to 24 hours. Most of the cases of botulismus are reported 
from Europe. Prevention is a matter of care and cleanliness in the 
handling and preservation of nitrogenous foods. There is no danger 
in fresh or properly preserved foods. The chief danger is from sausages 
eaten without sufficient cooking. Thorough cooking destroys the toxine. 
The bacillus is capable of growing well, however, in cooked foods. A 
specific preventive antitoxin may be prepared by the usual methods. 

1 Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, in which 
a fuller description of symptoms, etiology, etc., of diseases mentioned 
in this section is given. 



402 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Uncooked or insufficiently cooked meat may also transmit to man 
tuberculosis, tapeworm (from beef, pork or fish), trichinosis (from the 
hog), actinomycosis and other diseases of the lower animals, such as 
those we have mentioned in Chapter I. 

" Bob veal " (from calves less than two or three weeks old), the sale 
of which has frequently been forbidden by health authorities, is objec- 
tionable on humanitarian and esthetic grounds, and is more subject to 
infection from the living animal and to bacterial growth and decompo- 
sition after slaughter than mature meat. 

" Ptomaine poisoning is a name given in common, and frequently 
in medical, parlance to any sickness supposed to be due to the eating 
of decomposed food. Chemically, the ptomaines are products of the 
putrefaction of proteins; they may or may not be poisonous. Some of 
them, at least, are not destroyed by the heat of cooking. This class 
of poisonings is obscure owing to the fact that few instances have 
been studied thoroughly, clinically, bacteriologically and chemically. 
Rosenau states that " the more the question of ptomaines is studied the 
less do they appear concerned in cases of food poisons. It is now clear 
that most, if not all, cases of so-called ptomaine poisoning are nothing 
more nor less than acute infections with B. paratyphosus, B. enteriditis, 
B. cholerae suis and other microorganisms belonging to this group " 
(see remarks on meat poisoning, above). Pellagra, a disease thought 
by some observers to be connected with spoiled corn, has already been 
discussed in Chapter I. 

Establishments where Food is Prepared, Handled or 
Sold. In a preceding section we have made some remarks 
relative to the supervision of ice-cream factories. Similar 
regulation should apply to bakeries and confectioneries, in 
which uncleanliness of equipment and methods and oppor- 
tunities for infection of products by employees are fre- 
quently to be found. Since it is not practically possible 
to insure that the employees in such establishments are not 
carriers of disease, inspection is here the only safeguard 
against infection. 1 The following schedule 2 covers in a 
general way the points to be observed: 

1 Recently, however, the Montclair, N. J., Board of Health has 
adopted a requirement that all persons employed in the manufacture 
or handling of food in the class of establishments mentioned in this sec- 
tion file every three months medical certificates of freedom from evidence 
of communicable disease. 

2 Asbury Park, N. J. 



MILK AND OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 403 

1. Date Hour 

2. Street and No. 

3. Name of Owner 

4. Address 

5. Name of Proprietor 

6. Business 

7. Are foods exposed to flies, dust or dirt? 

8. Is clothing of persons handling foods clean? 

9. Is business conducted in a cleanly manner? 

If not give details 

10. Construction of place where foods are sold or stored 

11. Water-closet and lavatory provided? Are they sepa- 

rate from room where foods are sold or stored? 
Condition 

12. Are cuspidors provided? Condition 

Any disinfectant used? What? 

13. Store or storeroom used as a dormitory? 

14. Are persons handling foods in good health? 

15. Remarks 

Inspector. 

The above points should be covered by ordinance. The 
greatest importance should be attached to cleanliness of 
habits and methods on the part of operatives. All such 
establishments should be screened during the fly season. 
A requirement that bread be wrapped and that all food be 
properly protected against handling, dirt, dust and flies 
during transportation and while on sale may also well 
be adopted. 

Similar remarks apply to restaurants, the methods in 
which are frequently objectionable. The same rules and 
inspection schedule, with any necessary changes, may be 
adopted. 

Attention should be paid to markets, especially those 
in which produce which is usually eaten without peeling, 
paring or the like, or cooking, is sold. Such produce, em- 
bracing fruits and vegetables, should be protected, while 
on display or in transportation or storage, against flies and 
other contamination. To prevent the access of domestic 
animals, they should be kept on stands two and a half feet 



404 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

or more above the ground. To attempt, however, to en- 
force complete protection against dust, may result in failure 
where there are large numbers of open-air stands and mar- 
kets, although the health authorities should have power 
to prevent unquestionably objectionable contamination of 
any kind. Confectionery, pastry and beverages should 
be similarly protected. 

At soda fountains and other places where beverages are 
sold, cleanly methods, including proper washing of glasses, 
should be enforced and the glasses and other utensils pro- 
tected from fly and dirt contamination. Such glasses are 
in a true sense public or common, are used many times 
a day and should be accordingly strictly looked after. 
Special attention is to be paid to the rims, which experi- 
ment has shown may harbor numerous germs, and an 
after-rinsing in clean water is important. It would be 
desirable to have the cleansing take place within sight of 
the customer instead of in the dirty tanks not infrequently 
found. 

Publicity. Improvement in conditions will be acceler- 
ated by publicity on the conditions of the several establish- 
ments. Score-cards assist in this regard. The success of 
"consumers' leagues" in publishing white lists of praise- 
worthy commercial establishments is an example of what 
can be accomplished through publicity. 

REFERENCES 

Wiley, " Foods and Their Adulteration," 1912. 

Edelmann, " A Text-Book of Meat Hygiene, with Special Con- 
sideration of Ante-mortem and Post-mortem Inspection of Food- 
producing Animals" (translated by Mohler), 1911. (For veterinary 
inspectors.) 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. Ill, 
" Foods." 

For laboratory references see Appendix D. 



CHAPTER IV 

WATER SUPPLIES 

The importance of the purity of water supplies has already 
been sufficiently indicated in Chapter I. There it was 
pointed out that typhoid fever and other intestinal dis- 
eases are very frequently water-borne, and that, through 
the lowered vitality induced in those who survive attacks 
of typhoid, tuberculosis and other diseases may be indirectly 
increased. Even infant mortality may be heightened by 
polluted water supplies through its being given to infants 
to drink or through its use in washing bottles and other 
utensils. 

To insure the degree of purity demanded in water for the 
sake of safety necessitates not only careful inspection of 
sources but also, from time to time, laboratory analysis. 

INSPECTION 

In the first place a great deal can be told by means of 
inspection alone. Some supplies can be condemned on 
inspection alone, and recourse to the laboratory is needless 
unless to obtain extra evidence for legal proceedings. On 
the other hand, it may be possible through inspection to 
establish a certainty, or nearly so, that a supply is safe, 
although confirmatory analyses should be made in impor- 
tant or doubtful cases. 

ANALYSIS 

i. Bacteriological. In the analysis the most sensitive 

and important tests are the bacteriological. 1 Thus the 

1 See Prescott and Winslow, " Elements of Water Bacteriology," 

405 



406 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

presumptive tests for B. coli (the "colon bacillus," indic- 
ative of human or animal pollution) provide a searching 
means of gauging the sanitary quality. The making of 
frequent B. coli tests say daily would alone be a 
fairly satisfactory check on a supply. The total count of 
bacteria should also be periodically obtained. 

2. Chemical. When a searching study of a supply is 
to be made or confirmatory evidence to be secured, then it 
is necessary to make use of the supplementary means of 
chemical analysis. While the bacteriological results furnish 
a sensitive picture of conditions for the time being, the 
chemical afford something in the way of interpretation re- 
garding the history of the water. This is due to the fact 
that the chemical traces of pollution and bacterial action 
persist long after the bacteriological indications have passed 
away, so that the exact state of a water relative to its past 
and future history can be indicated only by chemical 
methods. 

The two branches of analysis complement each other, 
and both together supplement the findings of inspection. 
The more important the case in hand and the more doubt 
involved, the more extensive and detailed must be the 
methods. Laboratory results, as may be inferred from the 
above, cannot be interpreted without reference to inspec- 
tion. Where the laboratory result is favorable there may 
still be threatening conditions to be perceived on inspection ; 
while if it is unfavorable, sources of contamination should 
^>e located and the possibility (or impossibility) of their 
removal be ascertained. 

In laboratory work on water the standard methods of the 
Laboratory Section of the American Public Health Associa- 
tion should be followed. 1 

3." In addition to the above tests it is sometimes neces- 
sary to make microscopic examinations for the detection 
of the minute animal and plant organisms to which 
1 See references, Appendix D. 



WATER SUPPLIES 407 

are due various tastes and odors which occur in water 
supplies. 1 

LEAD POISONING FROM WATER. Certain waters dissolve 
the lead of pipes, producing chronic lead poisoning in the 
consumers. A great deal of lead piping is in use, even in 
modern plumbing work, and since lead-dissolving waters 
are not uncommon, it is probable that there are considerable 
numbers of undetected cases of such poisoning. Even short 
lengths of lead pipe may, under favorable circumstances, 
produce the poisoning. Lead is a cumulative poison, 
and even minute quantities taken successively are dan- 
gerous. "The purest, softest and best aerated waters are 
especially prone to act upon lead" (Rosenau). Turbid 
waters and hard waters are less apt to do so. "Water 
artificially charged with carbon dioxide, however, readily 
dissolves lead, so that lead piping and fittings in soda water 
fountains and in syphon bottles are dangerous. Beverages 
containing free acid may also dissolve it; the historic 
poisoning of Devonshire cider through the use of lead piping 
is an instance in point. Chemical tests will not determine 
whether or not a water will dissolve lead; suspected water 
should be examined for lead in samples taken under practi- 
cal conditions. No water which contains even a trace of 
lead should be used for drinking purposes. 2 

In connection with water supplies there are also con- 
siderations other than the sanitary, as, for example, proper 
chemical composition for household and manufacturing 
uses, adequacy for fire protection, etc. 3 

1 Whipple, " Microscopy of Drinking Water," is the standard work 
on this subject. 



For further particulars see Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and 
Hygiene," 1913, pp. 751, 810 ff. 

3 For discussion of sanitary and other aspects see Hazen, " Clean 
Water and How to Get It "; Whipple. " The Value of Pure Water" (in 
which monetary values for the various qualities of water supplies are 
worked out and combined in a formula), and Turneaure and Russell, 
44 Water Supplies." 



408 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIES 

Upon health authorities devolves the responsibility of 
supervision over the sanitary character of public water 
supplies. While much of the power necessary to secure 
protection of such supplies may rest with water boards and 
municipal councils, the sanitary authorities should exer- 
cise constant oversight, making known their findings to 
the proper authorities from time to time. This places the 
responsibility for taking direct action upon the water 
authorities in cases where it does not rest with the health 
department. 

There are two general classes of water supplies: 

1. Impounded surface water supplies. 

2. Ground water supplies from springs or driven wells. 
We shall consider first the former. 

i. Surface Supplies are subject to pollution: 1 (i) from 
sewage and human excreta; (2) from animal sources; and 
(3) from trades and household (other than sewage) wastes 
and the like. Besides these there may be various contami- 
nations of a less serious character. 

Naturally, the most important class is pollution from 
human sources, which sooner or later means actual infection. 
Here the principal sources of pollution are sewage outfalls 
and drains, privies and the dumping of nightsoil where it 
may drain into the supply. The situation of habitations 
and camps on watersheds is always more or less of a menace, 
and where a watershed is open to public access, pollution 
may be caused by persons passing through it, by sports- 
men, picnickers and the like. A single case of typhoid 
fever on a watershed may cause a great epidemic of the 

1 Distinction should be made between (i) " contamination," which 
denotes the access of objectionable foreign matter to the water, (2) 
" pollution," a stronger term, usually implying access of sewage matters, 
and (3) " infection," which denotes the actual presence of pathogenic 
organisms. 



WATER SUPPLIES 409 

disease among the users of the supply, as was the case in 
the Plymouth epidemic (see Chapter I) and others. Since 
it is practically impossible to guard against carriers and 
unrecognized cases, the only safe course is to regard all 
human excreta as a source of infection. Where construc- 
tion camps are located on a watershed the situation calls 
for the strictest measures; where it is necessary to tolerate 
such camps the arrangements for sanitary disposal of ex- 
creta must be perfect. Even so it is not always certain 
that random pollutions of soil and streams may not take 
place. It would be well, where laborers are employed on 
watersheds, to require that they be subject to the Widal 
test before being accepted and receive typhoid inoculation. 1 
Trains passing through watersheds may distribute pollu- 
tion, as was the case in epidemics at Scran ton, Pa., and 
elsewhere. Such is the danger unless the drainage from 
railroad tracks is diverted from water supplies, until some 
form of sewage receptacle is attached to trains. 

Animal pollution which, however, is usually of sec- 
ondary importance may be produced by stables, pig- 
styes, live stock wading in streams and pasturing on land 
draining into the streams, manured fields, roads, etc. 
Some such pollution always takes place where supplies are 
drawn from inhabitated areas. 

Trades and household wastes are of various kinds and 
more or less objectionable. 

2. Ground Water Supplies are subject to pollution 
through the seepage of sewage and sometimes through 
breakage of pipes and other accidents which permit the 
access of polluted ground water. The possibility of pollu- 
tion of aqueducts and the like by laborers is not to be 
forgotten. It is customary to store ground water sup- 
plies, which are rich in nitrate plant food, in covered 
reservoirs, otherwise the access of light permits the develop- 
ment of vegetable growths which, while not materially 
1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 390. 



4 iO A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

detrimental to health, impart disagreeable tastes and 
odors to the water. 

Reservoirs should be safeguarded on the same principles 
as surface watersheds, but even more strictly. Boating, 
bathing, fishing, skating and the access of persons to 
the shores should be prohibited because of the danger of 
incidental pollutions through depositing of excreta in or 
near the water, spitting and other contamination. 1 An- 
other argument to this effect is that persons sometimes 
drown in such bodies of water and that to recover bodies 
may necessitate emptying the entire supply or, in winter, 
when persons may break through the ice, waiting until the 
ice disappears. Such rules as the above curtail the freedom 
of comparatively few people for the obvious protection of a 
whole community. . 

Even when a water supply is subject to purification by 
filtration or otherwise, pollution should so far as possible 
be avoided, for the reasons, that increased pollution makes 
a water more difficult and expensive to purify, and that in 
case of possible accident to purification 'works there will be 
increased danger of epidemic. 

Purification Methods. Where it is necessary to make 
use of water supplies which would be unsafe in their raw 
state, some form of bacterial purification must be resorted 
to. This is a problem for the sanitary engineer. The fol- 
lowing are the classes of methods in use: 

i. STORAGE. When a contaminated water is held for a 
number of days in a storage reservoir, a gradual purification 
process takes place. This consists in the settling out, 
through sedimentation (natural or aided with chemicals), 
of suspended matters (among which many of the micro- 
organisms present), and through the natural perishing of 
bacteria in what is, to those of animal origin, an adverse 
environment. This is the process which takes place, to a 
greater or less degree, in all reservoirs where water remains 
1 Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, no. 9, p. 671. 



WATER SUPPLIES 411 

for days at a time. Storage, or sedimentation, is a legiti- 
mate mode of purification which may be sufficient for some 
supplies where the amount of original pollution was slight 
and where long periods can be ensured, but in most in- 
stances it is a preliminary to more exactly governable 
means. The reason that it cannot be relied upon entirely 
in most instances is that it is not always certain. For 
example, currents may be set up in a body of water by 
temperature, wind or otherwise, which will permit the 
passage of polluted water pretty directly to the intake. 
Again, while sufficient at times, at other times it may not 
be adequate to take care of fluctuations in pollution. 
Finally, it may be sufficient during periods of little move- 
ment of water, but when rainfalls come particularly 
following a drought great quantities of polluted water 
may pass through the reservoirs with insufficient or no 
sedimentation. 

The all-important factor in sedimentation is time. Con- 
trary to what is popularly supposed, bacterial purification 
takes place in quiet water, not in running streams, in which 
the sediment and bacteria are kept stirred up. In the 
latter case aeration may take place and the water may be 
rendered more agreeable to the senses, but the more rapid 
the stream the more dangerous it is as a possible carrier 
of pollution from its frequently far-distant sources. The 
amount of time necessary for purification by sedimentation 
must be determined in each case by experiment and bac- 
teriological study under local .conditions. In many in- 
stances thirty days or more may be required to render a 
water safe, but no definite rule can be laid down. 

2. FILTRATION. Filtration is of two kinds: (i) slow 
sand filtration, in which the water passes slowly under a 
small head through large beds of fine sand, on the surface 
of which accumulates a "schmutzdecke" or organic layer 
which plays the principal part in the retention of bacteria; 
and (2) mechanical filtration, in which the water, after 



4 I2 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

having a chemical coagulant added to it, passes rapidly 
under a larger head through layers of sand in filter machines. 
Satisfactory results may be obtained with both processes, 
which, however, differ in the skill required for operation, 
the original and operating costs and the space occupied. 1 
Filtration plants should be designed and built by competent 
sanitary engineers and operated under expert supervision 
and constant bacteriological control. 

3. DISINFECTION. A comparatively recent method 
of water purification consists in chemical treatment, the 
principal substance used for this purpose being chlorinated 
lime (bleaching powder, "chloride of lime "). 2 This sub- 
stance has been used for years in the disinfection of sewage 
and now has been applied with success in the treatment of 
waters which are somewhat polluted and in which there is 
not too much turbidity or organic matter. It is particu- 
larly valuable as an emergency measure. The amount of 
the substance necessary varies according to the composition 
of the water, the more being required the greater the 
amount of organic matter present. Experiment has shown 
that waters are rendered practically sterile by the addition 
of amounts of chlorinated lime (estimated as available chlo- 
rine) ranging from o.i to 5 parts per 1,000,000 parts of 
water (Rosenau). 

In public water supplies, where the treatment is used 
regularly, an average of from 5 to 12 pounds per million 
^ gallons is applied. Expert supervision and bacteriological 
control are essential. Care should be taken that the 
hypochlorite used is up to standard say 30 per cent or 
more of available chlorine. Twenty-five to 50 per cent 
more than absolutely necessary to practically sterilize is 
usually applied in order to guard against fluctuations in the 
composition pf the water. The substance is not expensive, 

1 See Hazen, " Filtration of Public Water Supplies." (Cf. Rosenau, 
" Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. VI, Chap. V.) 

2 Liquid chlorine is also now available. 



WATER SUPPLIES 413 

is practically harmless and amounts of less than 25 pounds 
per million gallons are not detectible by the senses. 1 

Ozone has also been successfully employed for the same 
purpose in a number of instances, but chlorinated lime is 
cheaper and simpler. 

Water purification in general is an art requiring the con- 
sideration of many circumstances and frequently the com- 
bination of different methods. The above remarks are 
intended merely as an indication of the broad principles of 
the subject. Details are to be left to the expert judgment 
and supervision of professional sanitary engineers, bac- 
teriologists and chemists. 

Official Responsibility for the purity of public water 
supplies rests, according to local conditions and laws, with 
local health authorities, with state authorities, or with 
both. Properly the supervision of the sanitary character 
of the various local public supplies should be vested in an 
expert division of the state department of health, which 
should also have control of public water supplies and sew- 
age disposal throughout the state. Otherwise difficulty 
will be experienced in the control of sources located in or 
affected by districts other than those which they supply. 
In a few instances (e.g., the Metropolitan Water and Sew- 
erage District of Boston and neighboring municipalities) 
several communities have united in the establishment and 
control of common supplies. 

In one case at least it has been judicially decided that a 
municipality is legally liable, in the event of its negligence, 
for the damages from typhoid fever and other sickness 
caused by a polluted public water supply. 2 

1 See Hooker, "Chloride of Lime in Sanitation," John Wiley and Sons, 
Inc., 1913, p. 16; Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 
1913, pp. 797, 1019; Tully, "A Study of Calcium Hypochlorite as a Dis- 
infectant of Water," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 5, p. 423. 

2 Minnesota, see Am. Jour. Pub. Hyg., 1910, p. 912; 1911, p. 146. 



414 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES 

In small or rural communities where public supplies do 
not exist, recourse must be had to private or semi-public 
wells, springs and streams as sources of supply, and even 
after a public supply has been introduced the use of such 
private supplies continues to a greater or less extent. 
Since such private or semi-public sources are frequently 
polluted and present difficult problems of supervision in 
growing urban or semi-urban communities, their use should, 
in the presence of a safe public supply, be strongly dis- 
couraged. In places possessing wells and privies in close 
proximity to one another, dangerous pollutions are always 
to be looked for. Private supplies should be supervised, 
not only to safeguard the health of families possessing them 
but also because they are frequently used by numbers of 
people from neighboring families on account of their cool- 
ness, supposed superior quality, etc. The Broad Street pump 
epidemic of cholera in London in 1854 is a case in point. 

What has been said as to the pollution of public surface 
water supplies applies also to streams, ponds and the like 
which are used in a private or semi-public manner and need 
not be repeated. The subject of wells and springs requires 
some further remark. 

The requirements for a safe well or spring supply are: 

1. That it be in itself a safe source; and 

2. That it be protected by proper construction from possible 
contamination. 

i. Inspection. In the inspection, first the possibility 
of subsurface pollution is to be considered. In the absence 
of knowledge as to the subsoil and ground water from which 
the supply is drawn, a wide margin of safety should be 
allowed. The ordinary sources of pollution privies, 
cesspools, drains, barnyards, etc. should be looked for. 
Leaky and broken drains are not uncommon. While 
sources of water that are located uphill from possible sources 



WATER SUPPLIES 415 

of pollution are in general safer than those which are lower 
down, this is not always the case, for the ground water level 
may slope in the opposite direction. Again, rifts and under- 
ground streams may exist in rocky, hard or clayey soils, 
conveying pollution from relatively distant points. In 
sandy soil natural purification of sewage may take place, 
but this cannot be determined by inspection alone, and, 
unless proved by laboratory examination, cannot be relied 
upon, particularly where the soil has long been saturated 
with pollution. Depth must be considered; deep driven 
wells are of course less liable to pollution than the shallow 
dug kind. No hard and fast rules for inspection can be 
laid down to cover all circumstances. In general, however, 
possible sources of sewage pollution within, say, 100 feet or 
so, should be regarded with more or less suspicion. Privies 
within suspicious distance should be of the sanitary type, 
with water-tight pits or receptacles which are regularly 
cleaned out and contents removed to a safe point. Nearby 
cesspools should be water-tight. 

For the detection of underground pollution in suspicious 
cases the use of dye is to be recommended. That known as 
uranin, which may be procured from any chemical supply 
house, is as good as any. Some of the dye is sprinkled 
in the cesspool or other suspected source of pollution, 
thoroughly mixed into the whole body of the liquid, and 
then some time allowed for the color to appear in the water 
supply under observation. In some cases it may be neces- 
sary to make observations and repeated tests for several 
weeks before reaching a negative conclusion. Not a great 
deal of the dye need be used, and its appearance in an 
effluent in even minute quantities is readily detected. 
Uranin imparts a peculiar and very characteristic fluores- 
cent or opalescent tinge to the water which is seen when a 
little of the liquid is taken in a glass. If the dye comes 
through the soil it may be presumed that bacteria may also 
do so ; if the result is negative it should be confirmed bac- 



416 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

teriologically and chemically. The test is not a substitute 
for bacteriological examination, but may be used in con- 
junction with the latter and is useful in indicating sources 
of pollution. Also, it may be readily available when the 
bacteriological method is not. 

Surface contamination should then be looked for. Very 
frequently wells and springs permit the entrance of surface 
drainage in time of rain with the resultant washing in of 
extraneous and dangerous or at least detrimental matter. 

2. Laboratory Analysis should be resorted to in cases of 
doubt. It need not, however, be applied to those cases 
where there is no reason for suspecting contamination, nor, 
on the other hand, where the contamination is so evident 
that no laboratory proof is needed. 

Protective Construction. When a supply is presumed 
to be originally of good quality attention should be paid to 
protective construction. Dug wells should be properly 
lined with stone or brick and should be surrounded at the 
surface with a top casing of cement, extending down the 
outside of the lining to a depth of one or two feet, rising 
above the surface of the ground say six inches or more, and 
sloping away all around for a foot or two, so as to ward off 
surface water from the mouth of the well. The covering 
should be entirely water-tight, and the passage of the pipe 
for the pump should be through a tight joint. Open-mouth 
wells are liable to more or less contamination. Similar 
principles apply to protective construction for driven wells 
and springs. 

RURAL AND URBAN SUPPLIES COMPARED. In rural 
districts, private wells and springs are the natural and only 
available sources of supply, and may be properly super- 
vised. In closely settled communities, however, good 
public supplies should be adopted and all private supplies 
looked upon with great suspicion. Chances of pollution 
from privies, drains and sewers become numerous, and 
supervision of private sources of supply is such a difficult 



WATER SUPPLIES 417 

and unsatisfactory matter that the health officer is justified 
in endeavoring to abolish all that are in any way open to 
suspicion. 

Procedure to Abolish Wells, etc. The usual procedure 
is to secure evidence, from inspection and, if necessary, 
from analysis, that the well (or spring) is an unfit source of 
supply, and then, acting under ordinance, serve an order 
entirely to abolish or to close the source. In the latter case 
the pump, if there is one, should be removed. Caution 
should be taken that the supply is not opened up again 
later, in the event of which strict action should be taken. 
In most instances such sources can readily be abolished by 
an order accompanied by an explanation that the water 
is deemed dangerous to health. Attempting to purify or 
disinfect wells is not advisable except in those few in- 
stances where the contamination is temporary and from 
the surface and its source can readily be removed ; in such 
instances it may be possible to treat the water with a 
quantity of freshly burned lime or chlorinated lime (in the 
latter case enough to make a I per cent solution) and then 
pump the well out several times. 1 But the general rule is 
abolition or abandonment. 

Oversight should be exercised so far as possible over 
bottled waters on the market, as well as over the sources of 
water used for the manufacture of carbonated beverages, 
both as to source and as to methods of handling and of cleans- 
ing of bottles. The best water-bottling plants practice 
sterilization of bottles and containers and other precautions. 

Supplies of water for dairy purposes should receive 
special attention. 2 

1 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 1034. 

2 See Prescott, " Farm Water Supplies, with Special Reference to 
Dairy Farms," Am. Jour. Pub. Health,- 1913, vol. Ill, no. 9, p. 892; 
Fuller, " Underground Waters for Farm Use " (of general interest on 
wells, etc.), Paper No. 255 U. S. Geol. Survey; Fuller, " Domestic Water 
Supplies for the Farm," John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1912. 



4 l8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

REFERENCES 

Hazen, " Clean Water and How to Get It," John Wiley and Sons, 
Inc., New York. 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. VI. 

Turneaure and Russell, " Public Water Supplies," John Wiley and 
Sons, Inc., New York. 

Whipple, " The Value of Pure Water," John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 
New York. 

On the sanitary engineering of private water supplies in rural or semi- 
rural districts: 

Gerhard, " Sanitation, Water Supply, and Sewage Disposal of 
Country Houses," and Bashore, " Sanitation of a Country House." 

For laboratory references see Appendix D. 

ICE SUPPLIES 

The subject of ice supplies need not detain us long. 
Bacteriologists agree that ice is greatly purified in freezing, 
and still further purified in storage. Epidemiological 
records fail to disclose that ice is of any particular impor- 
tance in the spread of typhoid fever and other water-borne 
diseases even though in many instances ice is doubtless cut 
from polluted sources. The best known epidemic which 
has been attributed to ice is that of Ogdensburg, N. Y. 1 
The U. S. Hygienic Laboratory (Bull. No. 35) after an 
exhaustive study of typhoid fever in the District of Co- 
lumbia concluded that "ice plays little, if any, part in 
spreading the infection in the District of Columbia." Hill, 
speaking particularly of natural ice, states that there is no 
evidence for supposing that over i^ of I per cent of the 
water-borne typhoid cases can be attributed to that source, 
and considers this figure an exaggeration. While it cannot 
be denied that ice may, under unusual circumstances, when 
taken from a polluted source and used without much delay, 
act as a vehicle of disease, still "no considerable amount of 
disease has ever been satisfactorily traced to ice," and it 

1 Recently, however, Dr. H. W. Hill has studied the evidence in this 
case with the conclusion that it is contraindicative of ice as the real 
source. (Natural Ice Assn. paper; see below.) 



WATER SUPPLIES 419 

"is plainly far less dangerous to the public health than is 
either water or milk" (Sedgwick). 1 

Natural ice profits by storage, an important protective 
factor, in addition to purification by freezing. The chief 
danger here is that particles of sewage and bacteria may be 
enmeshed in the ice in the process of freezing, as, for ex- 
ample, when polluted water overflows the ice sheet. With 
artificial ice, any such matters present (either in the 
water supply or derived from contamination in process of 
manufacture) would be frozen in; further, the product is 
consumed with little or no storage ; actually, however, the 
danger from artificial ice appears to be very small indeed. 
Ice is low in bacteria and mineral matter and may well be 
used, through melting, for drinking purposes where a very 
soft pure water is desired. 

Some degree of supervision is, of course, advisable, for 
there is just enough evidence to show that ice may some- 
times act as a vehicle of disease. Such supervision consists 
in licensing dealers, inspecting sources to see that plainly 
polluted water supplies are not used (with tests of such 
supplies in doubtful cases), and ensuring that contamina- 
tions do not take place in manufacture or handling. Also, 
while ice tends to cleanse itself in melting and washing off, 
there are instances where in placing in water tanks it is 
handled with unclean hands, and in this way and by other 
such obvious possibilities drinking water supplies may at 
times become contaminated. 

1 See the papers by Sedgwick, Hill, Rosenau, Winslow, Jordan, 
Whipple, Porter, Sparks and others, published by the Natural Ice 
Assn. of America, 116 Nassau St., New York City. A summary of the 
few epidemics which have been attributed to ice is given by Rosenau, 
" Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, pp. 840-42. 



CHAPTER V 
HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

The term "housing" in its broadest sense includes con- 
ditions in ordinary dwelling houses, in factories, schools, 
public buildings, and in fact in any kind of habitation. 
As a rule, however, it is applied more particularly to 
dwelling houses, while factory sanitation, school sani- 
tation, etc., are considered as separate subjects. In the 
present chapter we shall treat the subject in this more 
particular sense and shall moreover omit any discussion 
of conditions outside of the dwelling. Such surrounding 
conditions will be considered in the next chapter, under 
the head of nuisances, while for the present we deal with 
those exclusively interior. 

The immediate environment of persons in their homes 
and places of ordinary occupation is obviously one of the 
most important objects of sanitary supervision. Vitality 
is depressed and thus disease of all kinds most con- 
spicuously tuberculosis is favored by bad dwelling con- 
ditions, and through congestion, filth and dirty habits the 
routes of transmission of communicable disease are many 
and direct. On the other hand the improvement of this 
class of conditions is one of the most formidable problems 
with which health authorities are confronted, because of 
the fact that they are interwoven not only with established 
structural conditions but also and even more important 
-with strongly entrenched habits and attitudes on the 
part of the people themselves. Hence the campaign must 
involve persistent popular education for results which, 
while far-reaching, will come but gradually. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 421 

HOUSING 

Housing questions deal not only with hygiene but also 
with safety in construction, protection against fire, economic 
and social conditions, and other factors, mention of 
which must necessarily be omitted here, although they 
enter into every broad view of the subject. The following 
are the chief hygienic considerations: 

1. CONGESTION. The unsanitary conditions attendant 
on overcrowding are obvious. Opportunities for trans- 
mission of disease by contact are increased, while the 
factors of uncleanliness, bad ventilation, and the like 
(mentioned below) are favored. Community congestion 
means the crowding of dwellings into a limited area of 
land, the building of tenements, the cutting-off of light and 
air, and other disadvantages. Even more important is 
family congestion, which results in room overcrowding with 
a long train of attendant evils. 1 While there are economic 
and other conditions at work which make the remedying 
of congestion, and even its prevention, an exceedingly 
difficult administrative problem, the health authorities 
have certain clear duties to perform in restricting the num- 
ber of persons who may occupy a certain air-space, in 
placing restrictions on the construction of new buildings 
and requiring necessary alterations of old ones, and the 
like. 

2. UNCLEANLINESS. This is an even more undesirable 
factor than overcrowding, particularly in regard to the 
dissemination of disease by contact. It is doubtless true, 
also, that uncleanliness and obnoxious conditions do in 
themselves exert a depressing effect both directly and 
through psychological reaction on the human organism, 
especially in the case of infants and the less robust adults. 

3. LACK OF PROPER VENTILATION, LIGHT, ETC. Under 

1 Veiller, "Room Overcrowding and the Lodger Evil," National 
Housing Assn. Publications, no. 18. 



422 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

this head we group a number of remaining conditions of 
which the chief refer to ventilation. The lack of light 
has more of an indirect than a direct effect, in favoring 
uncleanliness and in being usually accompanied by faulty 
ventilation. Light itself, however, has some (though not a 
great practical) value as a germicide. Such are the reasons 
for the forbidding of the dark rooms which unfortunately 
are so often found in present day tenements. 

In all of the above factors it will be seen that the manner 
in which people live is, without belittling the importance 
of proper dwellings and the providing of decencies and 
conveniences, of even greater consequence. Hence the 
necessity of raising standards of living through education, 
particularly popular instruction in the home. A great 
deal can be done in this direction by the public health 
nurses employed for tuberculosis and infant hygiene work. 
Proper school instruction in hygiene will also accomplish a 
great deal. 

Plumbing Inspection. Present-day sanitary science has 
dispelled traditional ideas as to the importance of plumb- 
ing inspection from the standpoint of health. Distinction 
must be made between disposal of excreta, which is of 
prime importance to health, and the practically negligible 
dangers from sewer gas. (Cf. page 445.) The supposed 
sanitary significance of plumbing inspection was inspired 
by the now destroyed sewer gas bogey. We now know 
that the subject is one affecting comfort rather than 
health. Plumbing inspection involves the application of 
a code of detailed trade rules regulating construction, 
and should properly be administered by the building or 
sewer department. 1 

1 For treatment of construction see Gerhard, " House Drainage and 
Sanitary Plumbing," Van Nostrand Co., and Gerhard, "The Water 
Supply, Sewerage and Plumbing of Modern City Buildings," John Wiley 
and Sons, Inc. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 423 

Types of Dwellings. The following are the general 
types concerned in the housing problem as related to 
private dwellings. 

1. ONE-FAMILY DWELLINGS. The promotion of this 
type of house is one of the main objects of housing reform. 
Such houses may be built detached, each with its own 
plot of ground; suitable inexpensive houses may also be 
built in blocks, with ground in front and rear. In the city 
of Philadelphia such dwellings have been developed with 
remarkable success. 

2. TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS. Dwellings of this class 
may also be very satisfactory, especially when the land- 
lord lives in one part of the house. There are two types in 
this class: (i) the double house with a party wall in the 
middle, with separate entrances on each side and each 
family having one-half the house throughout the entire 
building, and (2) that in which one family has the ground 
floor and possibly the basement, and a second family has 
the second floor, or sometimes the second and third floors, 
with separate entrances for each family. From a sanitary 
standpoint such dwellings may be quite as satisfactory as 
one-family houses. 

3. TENEMENTS. Here we class (though there are vari- 
ous definitions of tenement houses under various local 
laws) houses in which more than two families dwell inde- 
pendently but sharing common hallways. It is against 
this class that most of the housing reform effort has been 
directed. One authority (Veiller) states that "the tene- 
ment is neither necessary nor desirable." Nevertheless the 
tenement is a result of economic conditions which urge 
the economy of land; there are many thousands of tene- 
ments in existence and some will doubtless continue to be 
built. Health and housing authorities should, however, 
place strict regulation upon their construction and care, 
and the erection of new tenements (even the so-called 
"model tenements") should be strongly discouraged in 



424 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

those places (such as small cities) where there is little or 
no economic excuse for their existence. Even in the larger 
cities, with the extension and cheapening of rapid transit 
it is to be hoped that suburban dwelling may be so de- 
veloped as to do away in a large degree with the demand 
for tenements. We need not here discuss the various 
schemes for housing in "garden cities" and the like which 
have been proposed; these, while admirable, belong in the 
realms of private enterprise and philanthropy and not in 
that of public administration. 

The housing problem is not, however, limited to tenements. 
Very frequently conditions found in houses technically of 
the one- or two-family class are quite as bad as those in 
tenements. The health officers of small towns and cities 
will find this often to be the case, so that even where there 
are no tenements whatever serious housing problems may 
exist. Housing codes should, therefore, deal with small 
houses as well as multiple dwellings. Sometimes improper 
construction or care by the landlord will be found; also 
frequently (especially in rapidly growing industrial com- 
munities) the crowding of more than one family into a 
"one-family" house, and of more than two families into 
a "two-family" house. Again, the lodger evil is to be met 
with in all types of dwellings. The overcrowding of pri- 
vate families by the taking in of lodgers is frequent in 
industrial communities, especially among the more igno- 
rant immigrants. 1 

A distinction in all housing regulations should be 
drawn between old and new buildings. It is clear that 
while old buildings may be altered only with consider- 
able expense and difficulty, strict regulation may readily 
be applied in the construction of the new. In the for- 
mer case regulation is remedial and comparatively 
limited, while in the latter it is preventive and of a wide 
scope. 

1 See reference, p. 421. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 425 

Public Buildings. The principal points requiring at- 
tention in public and semipublic buildings such as 
schools, churches, factories and workshops, theatres and 
moving picture shows, public baths, court houses and 
other municipal and state buildings are cleanliness, 
lighting and ventilation. The last-mentioned factor 
requires the most attention of all, for in the buildings of 
this class proper ventilation is the exception rather than 
the rule. Yet, since vast numbers of people spend many 
hours of their time in such places there is here a distinctly 
important field for public health work. 

In such buildings artificial ventilation systems play a prime 
part. The installation of such systems is the work of ex- 
pert sanitary and mechanical engineers and architects, but 
it is the duty of health authorities to make inspections and 
tests of air (see below) , to require the installation of systems 
where necessary and to insure their adequate operation. 
The failure of some ventilating systems in the past is not 
(as some have thought) an argument for returning to 
"natural" ventilation, but simply for more expert con- 
struction and operation. 

Ventilation. The chief requirements of present venti- 
lating science are cleanliness of air supply, gentle motion, 
and temperature and humidity adjusted to the ordinary 
exercise of the occupants. Considerations of these kinds 
have taken the place of the formerly all-important chemical 
ratios of oxygen and carbonic acid, which are used now 
simply as indicators of the vital conditions. The cleansing 
of air supplies of dust and other impurities by mechanical 
and chemical methods is an important innovation, for the 
outside air of modern communities is frequently heavily 
laden with such impurities; and the partial re-circulating 
of artificially cleansed inside air even is practiced. At the 
same time, while present emphasis is placed on the physical 
factors, the important question of the chemical freshness 
of air as affected by minute quantities of certain volatile 



426 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

substances present has not yet been cleared up. The sub- 
jects of ventilation and ventilating engineering are now 
developing very rapidly, and the health officer should be 
familiar with the latest developments. 1 

The first health department, so far as the writer knows, 
to take up the systematic supervision of the ventilation of 
public buildings was that of Chicago, which in 1912 estab- 
lished a Division of Ventilation. Physical and chemical 
tests are made in workshops, stores, theatres, street cars 
and other places. A minimum quantity of air supply 
is required for each class of place. The regulations, 
methods, instruments and forms adopted in Chicago will 
well repay the study of health departments taking up this 
class of work. 2 The Chicago requirements (1911) for air- 
renewal range from 1200 to 2000 cubic feet per hour per 
person, according to the class of establishment; there are 
also requirements as to air space, source of air supply, 
drafts, etc. Thorough work requires the scientific use of 
psy chrome ters, thermometers and other instruments, and 

1 See Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. IV; 
Kimball, "Present Status of Ventilation," Trans. XV Internal. Congress 
Hyg. and Demogr., vol. IV, part II, p. 547; Winslow, "The New Art 
of Ventilation: Some Principles which Follow from Recent Physiologi- 
cal Research," ibid., p. 560; Winslow, "School Ventilation in New 
York City," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. n, p. 1158; 
Phelps, "Some Fundamental Physical Factors in the Problem of the 
Control of the Atmospheric Environment," ibid., p. 1123; Bass, "An 
Experiment with Ozone in School Ventilation," ibid., p. 1135; Eager, 
"Indoor Tropics: The Injurious Effect of Overheated Dwellings, 
Schools, etc.," Suppl. no. 2 to the U. S. Pub. Health Rpts., Jan. 31, 1913. 
The N. Y. Assn. for Improving the Condition of the Poor received in 
1913 a large bequest for investigation of the problem of ventilation; 
the work of the New York State .Commission on Ventilation appointed 
at its request is to be viewed with much interest. Among books may 
be consulted Macfie, " Air and Health." For laboratory work on air 
see Appendix D of the present work. 

2 Described in a series of articles by Dr. E. Vernon Hill in the Metal 
Worker, Plumber and Steam Fitter, Oct. 4 and 18, Nov. 8 and 22, and 
Dec. 6, 1912. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 427 

proper regulation requires temperature and humidity stand- 
ards even more than mere space and air-supply require- 
ments. 

Air Poisoning by Illuminating Gas. Recent scientific 
investigation set forth in an important paper by Sedgwick 
and Schneider 1 has demonstrated the dangerous properties 
of illuminating gas in indoor air, even when existing in 
very small quantities. These authors preface their paper 
with the following observations: 

Sooner or later students of infectious diseases must give closer atten- 
tion than they have yet found time to give to those environmental con- 
ditions which increase or diminish susceptibility to the various infections. 
When they do this, it will probably be found that obscure poisonings of 
various kinds play a large part in diminishing vital resistance and in 
increasing susceptibility. The facts presented in the present paper may 
be taken as a contribution to this end, for they show how in urban com- 
munities one of the commonest of public supplies the ordinary gas 
supply is to-day a constant menace to the public health, attended as 
it is not only by numerous fatalities but also by many non-fatal poison- 
ings which signify widespread atmospheric impurity in urban dwellings. 
. . . But the reader must not suppose that [fatalities] alone are of 
importance. Probably even more important are various obscure con- 
sequences of the leakage of illuminating gas in private dwellings, in 
public halls and in public streets, which are as yet seldom thought of 
and even more seldom detected. 

After statistical studies, mainly of twelve hundred odd 
deaths from illuminating gas poisoning in Massachusetts 
in the preceding twenty years, the authors discuss the com- 
position of commercial illuminating gas and conclude that 
an increased danger was introduced with the increase in 
the proportion of the more dangerous modern water-gas 
as compared with the old-fashioned coal-gas. 2 

Through the above study two lines of public health con- 

1 Sedgwick and Schneider, "On the Relation of Illuminating Gas to 
Public Health," Jour. Inf. Diseases, 1911, vol. IX, no. 3, p. 380. 

2 The approximate proportion of the dangerous constituent, car- 
bonic oxide, in coal-gas is 7 per cent, in water-gas 30 per cent. 



428 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

trol are indicated: first, limitation by law of the percent- 
age of the dangerous element, carbonic oxide; 1 second, 
measures to prevent the leakage of gas in streets and 
houses. The former should be urged upon state legisla- 
tures; the latter should be attended to by local authorities 
through gas inspections, which require: 

1. Standards for the construction of gas fixtures (so as to 
eliminate cheap and faulty fixtures), and supervision of the 
installation of gas piping and fixtures. 

2. Regular inspections of piping and fixtures in tenements 
(perhaps to some extent in one- and two-family houses) 
and public buildings to locate leaks and cause them to be 
repaired. Attention should be paid to possible leaks in 
entering mains underneath houses, from which gas may 
rise and permeate the house air. Tenants become used 
to the atmospheric conditions in their houses and practically 
never investigate the sources of gas odors or think them 
dangerous to health. Such inspections require no ap- 
paratus beyond a reasonably keen sense of smell (which is 
readily cultivated) on the part of the inspector. Simple 
inspection blanks may be used, together with red tags 
bearing some such phrase as ' ' Defective Not to be re- 
moved except by an officer of the board of health," to be 
attached to leaky pipes and fixtures on the first inspection 
and not to be removed until the owner, in response to 
notification, has remedied the defects and a re-inspection 
has resulted in approval. 

Inspection of new installations prevents careless work 
and the use of defective piping and fixtures. Appropriate 
pressure tests may be applied. In the inspection of old 
systems it will be found that many of the cocks of jets and 
other domestic fixtures become loose and leaky through the 
drying-out of the lubricating grease. 

1 The authors urge the former 10 per cent limit of Massachusetts, 
which would mean that the percentage of water-gas allowable in any 
mixture would be strictly limited. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 429 

Such supervision of new and inspection of old installa- 
tions may readily be carried on by the officials responsible 
for plumbing inspection. It is a duty of the local health 
authorities either to institute this branch of activity them- 
selves or to urge its adoption upon the authorities respon- 
sible for plumbing inspection. This is all the more 
necessary now that water-gas, which has little warning 
odor as compared with coal-gas, is extensively supplied, 
and it may be difficult to secure legislative restriction of 
its use. A number of health departments regulate new 
installations, but the inspection of old installations is 
unfortunately as yet uncommon. 1 The strict regulation 
which in the past has been, and still is, exercised against 
the escape of sewer gas, which we at the present time 
know to be innocuous or nearly so, should now be turned 
to the vastly more important problem of illuminating 
gas. 

Publicity as to the deleterious effects of leaking gas in 
dwellings and the desirability of thorough ventilation, par- 
ticularly at night, is obviously advisable. 

How TO ATTACK THE HOUSING PROBLEM. It is a mis- 
take to suppose that housing problems are limited to the 
slums of large cities. Even in small towns, particularly if 
they be rapidly growing industrial communities, the typical 
evils appear in run-down or overcrowded houses of ordinary 
types, while if tenements of improper types have begun to 
appear the situation demands all the more attention. In 
taking up the problem health authorities must, however, 
remember that important factors other than sanitation are 
concerned, and frequently they will find the cooperation 
of private organizations very useful. Housing campaigns 
are perhaps usually initiated by such organizations. 

1 This important class of inspections may readily, and should, be 
taken up by the plumbing inspector, especially during those months 
when there is a minimum of plumbing inspection. Such a plan was 
instituted under the supervision of the writer at Orange, N. J. 



430 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The following steps are necessary in a campaign for 
housing reform : l 

1. A Survey of the Conditions. This should properly be 
carried out by the constituted health authorities, or at 
least, when it is necessary to rely on private societies for 
funds to carry out the investigation, with official cooper- 
ation. Such a survey need not be exhaustive, but should 
be sufficiently thorough to demonstrate clearly the typical 
evils which exist, their approximate extent and the neces- 
sary remedies. If it is part of a general public health survey 
all the better. Such surveys should evidently be accurate 
and built up on a backbone of statistical findings, and 
should be conducted under expert direction, which it may 
frequently be necessary to engage for the occasion. 

2. Publicity. The making public of the findings pre- 
pares the ground for obtaining necessary legislation and 
increased health appropriations. 

3. Legislation. Revised legislation is usually necessary. 
It should be adopted in accordance with local needs, con- 
sidering the future as well as the present, and the best 
present-day practice. 2 

Distinction must, however, be made between regulations 
which have for their object safety and decency, dealing 
with construction, water pressure, fire risks, etc., and those 
relating directly to public health. The former are properly 
the business of the municipal building inspector or de- 
partment of building inspection; the latter only of the 
health department. Since everything not relating directly 
to health should be assigned to the building department, 
leaving the health department to deal intensively with its 
own problems, it is not practicable to combine all housing 
regulations in a single "code." Those portions of such a 

1 See Veiller, "A Housing Programme," Nat. Housing Assn. Publi- 
cations no. 1 6. 

2 See Veiller, "A Model Housing Law" (Sage Foundation Publica- 
tion), Survey Associates, Inc., 105 East 22nd St. N. Y. City, 1914, $2. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 431 

theoretical code which bear specifically on health should 
therefore be incorporated in the ordinances of the board of 
health, and the division of responsibility between building 
inspection and health departments should be clearly de- 
fined. Otherwise those duties which are ambiguous will 
fall into either conflict of authority or neglect. Every set 
of health regulations should contain a minimum of re- 
quirements covering the ground which we have already 
sketched, e.g., the subjects of light and ventilation, cleanli- 
ness, avoidance of overcrowding, lodgers, water for do- 
mestic purposes, convenient and proper plumbing, safe gas 
piping and fixtures, and the like. 

4. Enforcement. -The general enforcement of regulations 
relating to houses can only be accomplished by means of reg- 
ular house-to-house inspections. In these the object should 
be to make a brief but thorough survey of each house and 
premises, the inspections being made not less often than 
once a year. Merely waiting for complaints will produce 
practically no results. Such inspections should cover 
the building, plumbing (and gas piping and fixtures un- 
less otherwise provided for see remarks in a preceding 
section), and out-premises. Ordinary nuisances should be 
looked for, including fly and mosquito breeding, unless there 
are special inspections for these purposes. The records 
kept should be of the simplest description, consisting simply 
of a list of points for the inspector to check off and brief 
forms for entering reports of objectionable conditions 
found. The mistake is sometimes made of making these 
house-to-house records so detailed that a great deal of 
time is wasted in filling them in with information which 
is of little or no subsequent use. The proposal has been 
made that house-to-house inspection be made by women 
inspectors, who might combine some sanitary instruction 
with their inspectorial functions, and this is worthy of con- 
sideration. It is work which might well be done by women 
and would be of special value in those frequently occurring 



432 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

instances where the blame for unsanitary conditions lies 
with the habits of life of the tenants and the difficulty can 
only be permanently remedied through education. 

In some of the states the responsibility for the super- 
vision of tenements rests with a special state tenement 
inspection department. While this is very desirable where 
there are large numbers of such dwellings, their existence 
does not relieve local health authorities of the responsibility 
of cooperation and of attending to many of the minor 
conditions which can so much more readily be attended to 
by the local inspectors constantly on the spot than by 
those from the tenement department, who may visit the 
town only at considerable intervals. This remark applies 
especially to a large class of minor complaints and nuisances 
which frequently arise on tenement premises. It is im- 
proper, therefore, for local officers to omit inspections of 
tenements simply because a tenement department has more 
extensive powers therein ; these latter are to be resorted to 
only in the more difficult and special cases. It must be 
remembered also that the powers of tenement bureaus do 
not usually extend to dwellings housing fewer than three 
families (consult local state laws for definition of powers). 
In order to assist in the administration of the tenement laws 
it would be wise, wherever legally feasible, to pass an ordi- 
nance incorporating (by title) the state tenement house 
law into the ordinances of the local board of health in so 
far as it relates to light, air space, sleeping quarters, dirt 
and filth, storage of refuse, sewer connections, plumbing, 
cesspools, and privies, and providing a local penalty for 
violations. This also furthers a desirable consistency be- 
tween state and local requirements. 

The enforcement of sanitary housing regulations in- 
volves relationships between health officer, landlords, 
tenants and janitors, the management of which requires 
justice and tact. Care should be taken to fix responsibility 
as exactly as possible, for injustice in this regard destroys 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 433 

respect for the authorities and leads to bad feeling among 
the various parties, leading to defeat of the law. Land- 
lords are as a rule ready to comply with just and reasonable 
orders (even though involving considerable expenditures) 
if they are convinced of the necessity and are satisfied that 
the law is also being impartially administered in respect to 
other landlords. Very frequently, however, tenants are at 
fault but believe that the authorities will place the re- 
sponsibility on the landlord; the health officer should not 
be misled by this attitude but should proceed vigorously 
against the tenant. Sometimes the fault lies with ignorant 
or careless janitors. The importance of the functions of 
the janitor are not sufficiently recognized; in schools and 
other institutions they play a prominent part, 1 and in 
tenements greater care in their selection on the part of 
landlords would result in saving trouble, money and public 
health and convenience. Another factor in regard to 
housing supervision is the police, who not infrequently meet 
with conditions which should be referred to the health 
department (see page 446). 

CONCLUSION 

Little has been done by health officials in this country 
to approach the housing problem in its deeper conditions. 
The reason for this is clear. Public health is only one 
aspect of a large problem which must be attacked coopera- 
tively from several directions. Safety, economy, morality 
make it a sociological problem as well as a merely sani- 
tary one. In dealing with it from the sanitary point of 
view we find that results are indefinite, slow and that the 
factor of personal hygiene is so great that education must 
play a large part. For such reasons health officers must 
frequently have felt that limited funds and efforts could 
and should be expended in ways which would bring more 
immediate and demonstrable results. Nevertheless, hous- 
1 See Putnam, "School Janitors and Health," 1913. 



434 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ing will always remain one of the prime influences on health, 
to which every health department should pay as much 
attention as is consistent with its other duties. There 
is, perhaps, no other field in which preventive measures 
should look so far ahead, and should so anticipate the evils 
of growing communities. Such evils are far more easily 
prevented than cured. In such efforts it should, so far as 
practicable, cooperate with the local building department, 
local and state housing organizations and departments, 
and other organizations working toward similar ends. 

REFERENCES 

Annual Proceedings of the National Housing Association, 105 East 
22nd St., New York City. 

Veiller, "Housing Reform," National Housing Association, 1910. 

De Forest and Veiller (Editors), "The Tenement House Problem," 
National Housing Association, 1903. 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

The hygiene of occupations is manifestly of the greatest 
importance to the public health, ranging as it does from 
the simplest work done in the home through all the various 
kinds of workshops, stores, offices, etc., to the complex in- 
dustrial organization of great factories. Our treatment of 
the subject here must necessarily be of the most general 
character, for industrial hygiene is a vast separate depart- 
ment of sanitary science and art, the details of which cannot 
be treated in a cursory manner. Moreover, the problems 
of each community present individual characteristics de- 
pending upon the local industries. The latter and their 
effects on the public health should be the subject of special 
study by the health officer of each community possessing 
any industrial population. A distinction should also be 
made between those factors pertaining to personal hygiene 
and which are best dealt with by education in personal 
hygiene, and those of a public nature which may be con- 
trolled by public authorities. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 435 

Factors. The problems involved in industrial hygiene 
relate to hours of labor, to fatigue under various conditions, 
to the labor of children, to the labor of women as it affects 
both them and their offspring. In factories and workshops 
(as in dwellings) are met problems of ventilation and of 
detrimental substances (dust, fumes, etc.) in the air, of 
cleanliness and decency, and of transmission of infection 
(as by spitting) . Of a more special nature there is a great 
class of problems relating to diseases of occupation, each in- 
dustry exerting its own particular deleterious influences on 
health which are to be counteracted. In addition to the 
sanitary considerations there are questions of safety, of 
efficiency, and of social well-being which are connected more 
or less directly with those of health. No community can 
afford to neglect the problem of industrial hygiene, for 
even where no factories, properly speaking, exist, there are 
always such establishments as bakeries and other places 
where food is prepared, laundries, etc., in which the health 
of the workers is an important consideration. We have 
already referred in a previous chapter to the sanitation of 
food establishments; there, however, having the purity of 
the products in mind, while here the question relates to 
the workers. 

Control. While the whole problem of industrial hy- 
giene is usually not to be attacked single-handed by the 
local health authorities, there are certain regulations 
which they can and should make and enforce, especially 
where no special system of factory inspection exists. Such 
regulations would cover ventilation (see preceding pages) 
and deleterious substances in the atmosphere. Proper 
artificial ventilating systems might well be required in in- 
stances where natural ventilation is not sufficient to keep 
the temperature and humidity down to a proper standard 
and the air reasonably free from injurious constituents. 
Cleanliness should be required. Promiscuous spitting in 
workshops should be forbidden and proper receptacles for 



436 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

sputum, such as to obviate possible infection, should be 
required where necessary. Cleanliness and decency in 
water-closet arrangements should be insisted upon, to- 
gether with the provision of proper lavatory facilities. 
Such regulations should be enforced through sufficiently 
frequent inspections. 

Some hygienic instruction of the workers, especially in 
the hygiene of their particular trade, is of great value, for, 
as Oliver remarks, "no matter what . . . legislation may 
enact, industrial hygiene will never be secured until the 
workers themselves are educated in regard to the dangers 
incidental to particular trades and are willing to cooperate 
in making . . . regulations effective." Such instruction 
may consist in talks delivered in cooperation with trades 
organizations. 

The medical examination of workers, e.g., for tuber- 
culosis and other conditions, is an important movement. 
Factory inspection authorities or employers have taken this 
up in certain instances. 

Other sweeping matters are usually, as they should be, 
dealt with by statutory legislation administered by state 
factory inspection bureaus: questions of hours and methods 
of labor, of child and female labor, of the special measures 
to be adopted for safety and for prevention of diseases of 
occupation. 1 In several states, following the excellent 
example of Wisconsin, the reporting of industrial diseases 
by physicians is required. Among the more common occu- 

1 Such diseases are classified by Oliver as follows: (i) due to gases, 
vapors, and high temperatures; (2) due to conditions of atmospheric 
pressure; (3) due to metallic poisons, dusts and fumes; (4) due to 
organic or inorganic dust and heated atmospheres; (5) due to fatigue. 
To these conditions might be added lighting and optics in relation to 
eye-strain and nervous disorders, to which considerable attention is now 
being paid. Other causes of nervous strain, e.g., unnecessary noise, etc., 
should also be considered. Such classifications as the above are, of 
course, arbitrary; each occupation requires individual study and special 
measures of control. 



HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 437 

pational diseases may be mentioned: poisoning by lead, 
phosphorus, arsenic, mercury and brass; caisson disease; 
and parasitic diseases, as anthrax ("wool-sorter's disease") 
and hook-worm (miners). The relation of dusty trades and 
other depressant industrial conditions to tuberculosis is a 
highly important problem (cf. page i6of.). 

The statistics of industrial disease form an important 
special branch of vital statistics. In dealing with such 
figures particular caution must be exercised on account of 
the many factors involved and the consequent liability to 
misleading results. 

With increasing effectiveness, the country over, matters 
of industrial hygiene are being dealt with by legislatures, 
by specially established state factory inspection bureaus, by 
employers, and by employees' organizations such as the 
trades unions. A cooperation of all these is evidently de- 
manded. Such cooperation sometimes takes an official 
form, as in the Joint Board of Sanitary Control, composed 
of representatives of manufacturers, employees and public, 
for the regulation of the sanitation of the cloak and suit in- 
dustries of greater New York. The American Museum of 
Safety (29 West 39th Street, New York City) acts as a 
center for the dissemination of information relating to in- 
dustrial safety and hygiene. The work of the National 
Consumers' League and the American Association for Labor 
Legislation (publishing American Labor Legislation Review} 
also demand high mention. 

REFERENCES 

Price, "The Modern Factory: Safety, Sanitation and Welfare," 
John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1914. 

Thompson, "The Occupational Diseases: Their Causation, Symp- 
toms, Treatment and Prevention," Appleton, New York, 1914. 

Hanson, " Hygiene of Occupation," in Harrington's " Manual of 
Practical Hygiene," 1914. 

Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. X. 

Oliver, "Diseases of Occupation, from the Legislative, Social, and 



438 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Medical Points of View," New York, 1909; also "Dangerous Trades," 
by the same author. 

Various authors: "Risks in Modern Industry," pub. by American 
Academy of Political and Social Science, Phila., 1912. 

Andrews, "Occupational Diseases and Legislative Remedies," Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. iv, no. 3, p. 179 (cf. editorial in same issue). 

Among other sources of information not already mentioned are: the 
transactions of the International Congresses on Hygiene and Demog- 
raphy (vol. iii, part ii, of the Transactions of the XV Congress) and of 
the National and International Congresses on Industrial Hygiene; re- 
ports of the various state factory inspection bureaus; reports of English 
Parliamentary Investigating Committees; etc. 

The American Journal of Public Health publishes a department on 
Industrial Hygiene and Sanitation, and the American Public Health 
Association has a Committee on the subject. 



CHAPTER VI 

NUISANCES 

"A nuisance," wrote Blackstone in his famous Commen- 
taries on the law, "signifies anything that worketh hurt, 
inconvenience, or damage." To this it may be added that 
to constitute a nuisance in the legal sense there must be 
substantial damage resulting from an unreasonable use 
of property or liberty. "A private individual may not 
use his property or his liberty in such a way as to do any 
substantial damage to his neighbors or to the whole com- 
munity, and he must conduct his business, however useful 
it may be, in a way that is reasonable." 1 Just what is 
substantial damage and what constitutes unreasonable use 
under given circumstances are questions for proof and 
judicial decision in doubtful cases, for the class of nuisances 
has no hard and fast boundaries. Under this general 
definition nuisances at law constitute a large class of 
wrongs, some of a private, some of a public nature. Out of 
that large class we are here limited to nuisances of a public 
nature which affect (or are presumed by tradition or the 
law to affect) health. 

Health authorities are vested with very general powers 
over nuisances of this latter group, and are even permitted 
to define what shall be deemed to constitute nuisances. 
Such definitions, however, are restricted by traditional 
ideas as recorded in common law, 'and are subject to review 

1 Wambaugh, " Nuisances, Under" the Law," Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 2, p. 145. The standard legal work on 
nuisances is Joyce, " Law of Nuisance," 1906. 

439 



440 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

by the courts to determine whether they are in accord with 
those ideas in instances where actual detriment to health 
is difficult or impossible to prove. In addition, legislatures 
may define and declare specific nuisances, which are then 
before the law ipso facto nuisances beyond debate. In 
short, health authorities have power to deal with nuisances 
of three classes: (i) those traditionally accepted; (2) those 
which they can prove detrimental to health under general 
powers for the protection of public health; and (j) those 
specifically defined by statute law. 

The first class includes, among others, many conditions, 
which, according to modern scientific ideas, are of little or 
no demonstrable detriment to health, but which frequently 
tend toward questions of comfort or decency. These have 
come down to us from times when the sources of disease 
and the conditions affecting health were less fully under- 
stood than now. Still they involve considerations of clean- 
liness, proper disposal of waste matters, and the like, which 
are of importance in indirect (and sometimes in direct) 
health protective measures. Under the second class might 
be included a large number (in fact theoretically all) of the 
conditions affected by public health regulations; this class 
may be enlarged as far as injury to health can be proved. 
Under the third class, legislatures make any specific defi- 
nitions required. 

The heterogeneous body of nuisances dealt with by health 
authorities may be arranged in a practical manner as 
follows : 

/. Nuisances involved in the Disposal of Wastes: 

1. Disposal of human excreta. 

2. Disposal of other ^wastes (garbage, manure 

and other refuse). 
//. Nuisances due to Insects and Vermin: 

1. Flies. 

2. Mosquitoes. 

3. Other insects and vermin. 






NUISANCES 441 

///. Miscellaneous Nuisances: l 

1 . Spitting. 

2. Air contamination (smoke, dust, gases, ob- 

noxious trades, etc.). 

3. Noise. 

Relation of Nuisances to Health. So much of the 
activity of health authorities, traditionally and at the 
present time, is concerned with nuisances that a clear idea 
of proportion must be preserved. The various nuisances 
under the above classification should be given very different 
weights in the sanitary scale, and the health authorities 
should consider them in accordance with those true weights. 

Thus, under group I, the disposal of excreta and sewage is 
of paramount weight, for here the important problem of 
typhoid fever and other intestinal diseases is vitally con- 
cerned. The disposal of all other kinds of waste, from gar- 
bage down to ordinary dirt, is of decidedly secondary 
weight, for such waste influences the spread of disease in 
only a very indirect manner. 

Under group II the question of the propagation of disease 
is of greater or less importance according to circumstances. 
Where flies are numerous and excreta or other source of 
infection are exposed, particularly in warm climates, the 
suppression of flies becomes a serious consideration; under 
other circumstances it may be a minor matter. Where 
malaria and yellow fever exist, the suppression of mosquito- 
breeding is a first duty of the health department; other- 
wise it is rather a matter of public comfort and property 
values. Similar consideration applies to rats; ordinarily 
they produce simply a problem of economic destruction, 
but when plague appears they become almost the whole 
object of attack. 

The nuisances of group III are also of varying impor- 

1 Any thing, condition or act detrimental to health in addition to 
those mentioned here may also in general be defined as a nuisance, e.g., 
polluted water supplies, rooms and dwellings unfit for occupancy, etc. 



442 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tance according to circumstances. The role of the public 
spitting nuisance in the spread of tuberculosis, etc., ap- 
pears to have been exaggerated, relatively to more direct 
modes; but when promiscuous spitting is frequent, or when 
it takes place in factories and workshops and under other 
conditions of confinement, it becomes a clear danger to 
health. Again, air pollution is of greater or less impor- 
tance according to its degree and nature. 

The conclusion to be drawn from all these considerations 
is that health authorities should pay first attention to those 
nuisances which are actually and distinctly detrimental to 
health rather than to those which have only an indirect 
connection with it or are merely the subjects of a mistaken 
popular clamor. 1 

While it is true that health is connected with questions 
of comfort and decency, and that general measures for 
cleanliness and a wholesome environment are a part of the 
public health campaign, nevertheless it is the duty of 
modern health authorities to devote the bulk of their 
resources always limited to the suppression of direct 
and specific causes of disease. There has been far too much 
vague and general dealing with nuisances without discrimi- 
nation as to the importance of some and the non-importance 
of others; health officials should abandon this outworn 
policy, and the public should be educated to respect the 
more scientific attitude. Non-sanitary nuisances will be 
further discussed presently. 

Legal Remedies for Nuisances. Granted that evidence 
has been obtained that a nuisance exists, health authorities 
have, in general, several legal weapons at their disposal. 

i. SUIT FOR PENALTY. Every local board of health 
should have among its ordinances sections, passed under 
the general authority of statute law, defining the various 

1 Probably less than one-quarter of the nuisances in seweVed commu- 
nities relate directly to health. The true sanitary nuisances are chiefly 
those connected with disposal of excreta. 



NUISANCES 443 

kinds of nuisances subject to sanitary control and pro- 
viding penalties for the persons responsible for maintaining 
them. The commonest and altogether the most effective 
method of dealing with a nuisance is then to serve a notice 
on the responsible person, describing the nuisance and 
ordering its abatement either forthwith or within a stated 
time. (Such notices and all procedures should be in strict 
accordance with the provisions of the law.) Even if such 
notice may not be explicitly required by law, it is customary 
and reasonable to take this action in order to allow the 
responsible person opportunity to abate the nuisance in 
time or to be heard by the health authorities so that he may 
state any justification which he may wish to put forward. 
If, however, the order is not complied with and there ap- 
pears to be no reason why it should not be, then legal action 
may be started for collection of the penalty incurred. 
This usually results in the abatement of the nuisance, 
though it may be necessary to sue repeatedly for penalties 
or even to carry an appeal to higher courts. On the whole, 
the method of suit for penalty is simple, convenient and 
brings prompt results. 

2. ABATEMENT BY HEALTH AUTHORITIES. The law 
sometimes provides that if the notification of the health 
authorities is not obeyed, they may proceed to abate the 
nuisance themselves and charge the costs on the property. 
This method is applicable in instances where the owner 
cannot be readily reached by notice, and where the 
nuisance is of a pressing character. It is, however, 
little employed and should be used with caution for the 
reasons that the abatement must be very fully justified in 
the eyes of the law and that the collection of the costs is 
likely to prove difficult. 

3. INJUNCTION. Under special circumstances applica- 
tion may be made to the proper court for an injunction to 
enjoin, or restrain, a person or corporation from committing 
or maintaining, or continuing to commit or maintain, a 



444 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH. OFFICERS 

nuisance. This procedure applies especially to nuisances 
arising from factories and the like, where ordinary penalties 
are inadequate and where a more drastic remedy for a 
serious nuisance is desired. It has the advantage, not 
possessed by the other methods, of forbidding a threatened 
nuisance and of acting as a weighty check over longer 
periods of time. It is likely, however, to be slow and costly 
and to involve considerable legal question, and hence, as 
already remarked, is to be reserved for very special cases. 

Under some circumstances it may be advisable to 
proceed simultaneously under two or more separate 
procedures. 

PRIVATE REMEDIES. Aside from the powers possessed 
by public health authorities, private persons have certain 
important remedies against nuisances which directly affect 
them as individuals. For demonstrable injury to property, 
a suit for damages may be instituted, or application may 
be made for an injunction to abate an existent nuisance 
or to prevent a threatened one. Where annoyance exists, 
though no injury to property, a grand jury indictment 
may be secured. In these cases it is to be noted that 
injury to health need not be proved, but only annoyance. 
Certain nuisances which the health authorities would find 
it very difficult or impossible to deal with may thus be 
remedied by private action. This applies particularly to 
classes of nuisances (e.g., the noise nuisance) over which 
the power of the health authorities is weak or nil. Again, 
where stream pollution is in question, a property owner, 
by invoking the law of riparian rights, may secure results 
which public authorities, in the absence of explicit statutory 
provision, might not be able to obtain on account of in- 
ability to prove a public nuisance. 

Further than the above sketch of remedies we cannot go, 
on account of the differences of legal procedure prescribed 



NUISANCES 445 

in the various States, and the legal questions involved in 
the consideration of the different kinds of nuisances. 

Administrative Control of Nuisances NON-SANITARY l 
NUISANCES. It has already been pointed out that the 
majority of nuisances pertain to public comfort and de- 
cency rather than to public health. Such are those which 
relate to the disposal of garbage and ordinary refuse such 
as old rags and papers, ashes and the like. Since a great 
deal of the routine attention of the average health depart- 
ment following tradition is spent on such matters, it 
would be desirable to have them referred so far as possible 
to other departments of the municipal government which 
may be made logically and directly responsible for them. 
The disposal of house refuse, dead animals, etc., is a matter 
of municipal engineering, like sewerage and street-cleaning, 
and should be handled by a special department of the local 
government. The inspection of plumbing (cf. page 422) 
might well be handled by the building or sewer department. 
Plumbing regulations are practically a set of trade con- 
struction rules which should be administered by practical 
plumbing inspectors and not by the specially trained sani- 
tary inspectors whose services are required for duties 
directly affecting public health. The minor relation of 
sewer gas to health under ordinary conditions has been 
indicated in a previous chapter; even were that relation 
more important than is now thought by sanitarians, it 
would nevertheless be preferable to entrust the correctness 
of plumbing construction to those who make a specialty 
of construction rather than of public health. Such re- 
assignments of responsibility need not deprive the health 
authorities of the power to enforce the proper disposal 
of excreta which is a true public health function - 

1 This seems the best term to distinguish those nuisances which do 
not primarily or largely affect public health. The word " sanitary" is 
here used in its true significance of " relating to health," not in its 
popular sense referring largely to cleanliness. 



446 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

or even of enforcing general municipal cleanliness when 

need be. 

It has been suggested that the police might well handle, 
or assist in handling, many of the ordinary nuisances - 
such as those relating to cleanliness of yards, care of gar- 
bage and other refuse, etc. which now take up a great 
deal of the routine attention of health departments. The 
police already deal with nuisances due to spitting, snow on 
sidewalks, weeds and the like, and with the relatively much 
greater number of patrolmen than sanitary inspectors it 
would appear a prima facie possibility to deal promptly 
and effectively with other kinds of nuisances, many of 
which could be remedied through simple oral notification. 
Offenders could be prosecuted by direct police procedure. 
Only conditions actually of direct danger to health would 
need to be referred to the health department, or those 
concerning which the patrolman has some doubt. The 
idea has been developed by Gunn, 1 who states that the 
majority of the police chiefs who were questioned granted 
the feasibility of such cooperation. The idea has a great 
deal to recommend it, and if adopted it would leave the 
health department freer to attack matters much more 
closely related to health, but, so far as the writer knows, it 
has not thus far been practically tried out in extenso any- 
where in this country. In any case a closer degree of co- 
operation should be developed than now exists between 
the average health and police departments. 

In many communities it is now the custom to have an 
annual "clean-up" day or week for the collection and dis- 
posal of the miscellaneous debris and refuse which has 
accumulated during the year. Health departments may 
cooperate in such activities if they will thus be saved a 
great deal of routine nuisance notification during the year. 

1 Gunn, " The Need for a More General Cooperation between 
Health and Police Departments," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. 
Ill, no. 4, p. 318. 



NUISANCES 447 

The amount of material from houses, cellars, vacant lots, 
etc., which may thus be removed in a thorough and well- 
advertised clean-up is large, often necessitating temporary 
provision of extra wagons and labor by the municipality. 
Opportunity should be taken for impressing the desirability 
of prompt removal of such materials during the year so 
that in future general clean-ups may not be necessary. 

INSPECTIONS AND NOTIFICATIONS. i. Inspections. If 
regular house-to-house inspections are performed by the 
health department, as recommended in the last chapter, 
many nuisances will be discovered in that manner. Com- 
plaints 'will also be received and if there is any apparent 
ground for them, should be investigated even when un- 
signed, for the reason that unsigned complaints of condi- 
tions really needing attention are not infrequently made 
by persons who are apprehensive of having trouble with 
employer, landlord or neighbors if their identity is dis- 
covered. Although many complaints, perhaps the majority 
even, will be found to be based upon misapprehension or 
malice, it appears best that all which are not on their face 
unjustified should receive attention. 

2. Notices in legal form should be served on the person 
or persons responsible, describing the nuisance, advising 
them to abate it "forthwith" or within a stated length of 
time, and reciting the penalty prescribed. A printed slip 
copy of the ordinance violated may be enclosed. The legal 
requirements for the service of notices should be ascer- 
tained from counsel, to be strictly followed in all cases. 
The inspector's notebook should show a record of each 
notice served. 

In some cases, at the discretion of the health officer, a 
special letter may be written instead of a notice. In 
Montclair, N. J., a typewritten letter is sent out in each 
case, no printed form being used. 

In dealing with minor nuisances oral notification by the 
inspector and the use of notice forms which may be filled 



448 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

out by the inspector on the spot will be found useful. 
Such nuisances are numerous and would consume a great 
and unwarrantable amount of time and energy if office 
notices were made out in all cases. 

3. Reinspections are made in due course and reported 
back to the office. Nuisance records should be reviewed 
in general once a week. 

4. Legal remedies have been considered in a preceding 
section. 

I. NUISANCES INVOLVED IN DISPOSAL OF 
WASTES 

7. DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA 

By far the most important class of nuisances from the 
public health standpoint are those involved in the disposal 
of human wastes. It is a first duty of every health depart- 
ment to insist upon the disposal of such a matter in such a 
way that the public health is safeguarded. Excreta should 
always be regarded as potentially infected; in Chapter I 
(under Epidemiology) has been pointed out the danger 
arising from improper disposal in a single case. Proper 
disposal means prompt removal if possible by means of 
sewers with safeguards against contact and insect in- 
fection and pollution of water supplies, to a point where 
the wastes are not a source of danger. This principle 
applies to the simplest privy and to the largest system of 
sewers and sewage treatment. 

Sewage disposal in general involves two considera- 
tions: The prevention of nuisance to the senses, and pre- 
vention of infection. The former is too obvious to require 
discussion; we shall, therefore, devote our attention to the 
latter. 

Where sewers exist, an ordinance should be adopted re- 
quiring the connection of all dwelling houses on sewered 
streets with those sewers and the installation of adequate 



NUISANCES 449 

plumbing appliances (say within thirty or sixty days), 
followed by the immediate cleaning out and abolition of 
previously existing privy vaults and cesspools. Such an 
ordinance, persistently enforced, should do away practi- 
cally entirely with the privy nuisance. Any privies which 
remain on unsewered streets should be of a sanitary type 
(see below). 

Where sewers do not exist, as in rural and semi-rural 
districts, the methods of disposal of excreta should be 
strictly regulated. Soil pollution and the spread of infec- 
tion from unsanitary privies through domestic animals, 
flies, etc., are inexcusable in any community. Privies and 
cesspools are an additional menace where domestic water 
supplies from wells exist in conjunction with them. 

i. Privies. The following are the chief requirements 
for the "sanitary privy": 

1. It must be convenient and cleanly, as regards both 
use and cleaning. The ventilation should be adequate. 
Persons will not properly use nor properly care for an 
offensive, inconvenient privy. 

2. There must be safeguards against danger of spread- 
ing infection. Stiles and Lumsden give the following 
desiderata under this head: 

(a) "The excreta must not touch the ground; hence 
some kind of water-tight receptacle (box, pail, tub, barrel, 
tank or vault) for the excreta must be used under the seat. 

(b) "Domesticated animals must not have access to the 
night soil; therefore, the privy should have a trapdoor in 
the back to exclude them. 

(c) "Flies and other insects must not have access to 
the excreta; therefore, the entire privy must be made 
rigidly flyproof, or some substance must be used in the 
receptacle to protect the contents from insects." 

3. The final disposal of the contents [frequently called 
"night soil," from the custom in some places of removing 
at night] must be safe. 



45 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

4. The cost of construction and care must not be 

excessive. 

Full and detailed directions for the construction and 
operation of sanitary privies may be obtained in the Govern- 
ment bulletins on the subject, 1 from which the following 
excerpts are taken. 

Two types of sanitary privies are generally recognized, 
namely, the so : called "dry system" and the so-called "wet 
system." It will be noted that the above authors recom- 
mend a properly managed "wet system," of which a special 
form has been designed (see note at close of following 

quotation). 

THE "DRY SYSTEM" 

In the "dry system " privies dry earth, road dust, wood ashes or 
lime is kept in the privy, and is scattered on the excreta every time the 
privy is used. 

The dry system, if properly managed, presents the following ad- 
vantages: 

(1) It decreases the offensiveness of the privy contents. 

(2) It is cheap. 

(3) It decreases the chance of spread of infection by insects. 

(4) It is an easy system to manage. 

The disadvantages of the dry system are the following: 

(1) It is very difficult to make a dry privy rigidly flyproof, hence 
flies usually do have more or less access to the excreta, on which they 
feed and on which they lay their eggs. 

(2) Its efficiency depends upon the careful and faithful cooperation 
of all persons (including children) who use the privy, and experience 
shows that such cooperation cannot be relied upon. 

(3) It increases the amount of material to be removed; hence it 
increases the labor and frequency of necessary cleaning. 

(4) Experience shows that it is exceptional that the excrement is 
properly covered with dry earth or lime; hence the system is not so 
efficient as is popularly supposed. 

1 Farmers' Bulletin 463, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture: " The Sanitary 
Privy" (by Stiles and Lumsden, 1911), and Public Health Bulletin 
No. 37, U. S. Pub. Health Service: " The Sanitary Privy: Its Purpose 
and Construction " (Stiles, 1910). Special attention to the subject 
has also been paid by the southern state health departments, from which 
information and plans may be obtained. 



NUISANCES 451 

(5) Neither dry earth nor lime, in practical usage, can be relied upon 
to destroy all disease germs which may be in the excreta; hence their 
use is likely to give rise to a false sense of security in the public 
mind. 

(6) If the dejecta at the time of burial contain fly grubs these 
larvae may crawl through the earth to the surface, where they can 
complete their development into adult flies and spread infection from 
the buried night soil. 

Privies of the " dry system " should not be marked more than 75 
points on a scale of 100. 

THE "WET SYSTEM" 

In the " wet-system " privies some fluid is used in the receptacle 
either (i) to disinfect the excreta, or (2) to act as an insect repellent, 
or (3) to increase the destruction of disease germs in the excreta by 
natural fermentation. 

The advantages of the " wet system " are: 

(1) It decreases the offensiveness of the privy contents. 

(2) It is cheap. 

(3) It greatly decreases the chances of spread of infection by flies 
because they cannot breed in the excreta; hence rigid fly screening is 
not so necessary. 

(4) It kills or renders harmless a considerable proportion of certain 
infections contained in the excreta. 

(5) Its efficiency does not depend upon the intelligence or coopera- 
tion of all persons using it. 

The disadvantages of the " wet system " are: 

(1) It is more difficult to keep clean than the " dry system," be- 
cause of the danger of soiling the floor when the receptacle is 
emptied. 

(2) Unless the receptacle is very deep there is likely to be more or 
less splashing. 

(3) The labor and frequency of cleaning are about the same as in 
the case of the " dry system." 

If the wet system is used it is best to fill the receptacle about one- 
fourth full of water, on the surface of which a cup of petroleum is poured. 
The petroleum acts as an insect repellent. 

Two sets of receptacles should be provided. While one set is being 
used under the seat, the other set is covered and permitted to stand so 
as to lengthen the period of fermentation. 1 

1 Farmers' Bull. 463, pp. 15-17. The L. R. S. (Lumsden, Roberts 
and Stiles) wet-system privy is fully described in this bulletin. 



452 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The above remarks relate to properly constructed out- 
houses, concerning which the following general directions 

apply. 1 

HOW TO BUILD AND CARE FOR A PRIVY 

The following are the essential features: There is (A) a closed portion 
(box) under the seat for the reception (in a receptacle) and safeguarding 
of the excreta; (B) a room for the occupant; and (C) there is proper 
ventilation. 

A . The receptacle consists practically of a box, with a top repre- 
sented by the seat, with a floor which is a continuation of the floor of 
the room, with a front extending from the seat to the floor, with a 
hinged back which should close tightly, and with two sides continuous 
with the sides of the room and provided with wire screened venti- 
lators, the upper margin of which is just under the level of the seat. 
The seat should have one or more holes according to the size of the 
privy desired, and each hole should have a hinged lid which lifts up 
toward the back of the room; there should be a piece of wood nailed 
across the back, on the inside of the room, so as to prevent the lids 
from being lifted sufficiently to fall backward and so as to make them 
fall forward of their own accord as soon as the person rises. In this 
box there should be one or more water-tight tubs, half barrels, pails 
or galvanized cans, corresponding to the number of holes in the seat. 
This receptacle should be high enough to reach nearly to the seat, or, 
better still, so as to fit snugly against the seat, in order to protect the 
floor against soiling, and sufficiently deep to prevent splashing the 
person on the seat; it should be held in place by cleats nailed to 
the floor in such a way that the tub will always be properly centered. 
The back should be kept closed. 

B. The room should be water-tight and should be provided in front 
with a good, tightly fitting door. The darker this room can be made 
the fewer flies will enter. The roof may have a single slant or a double 
slant, but while the double slant is somewhat more sightly, the single 
slant is less expensive on first cost. The room should be provided with 
two or three wire-screened ventilators, as near the roof as possible. 

C. The ventilators are very important additions to the privy, as 
they permit a free circulation of air and thus not only reduce the odor 
but make the outhouse cooler. These ventilators should be copper 
wire screened in order to keep out flies and other insects. There should 
be at least 4 (better 5) ventilators, arranged as follows: One each side 
of the box; one each side the room near the roof; and a fifth ventilator, 
over the door, in front, is advisable. 

1 For further details see the Bulletins already referred to. 



NUISANCES 453 

Latticework, flowers and vines. At best, the privy is not an 'at- 
tractive addition to the yard. It is possible, however, to reduce its 
unattractiveness by surrounding it with a latticework on which are 
trained vines or flowers. This plan, which adds but little to the ex- 
pense, renders the building much less unsightly and much more private. 

DISINFECTANT. It is only in comparatively recent years that the 
privy has been thought worthy of scientific study, and not unnaturally 
there is some difference of opinion at present as to the best plan to 
follow in regard to disinfectants. 

[" Dry system":] 

(a) Top soil. Some persons prefer to keep a box or a barrel of 
top soil, sand or ashes in the room and to recommend that each time 
the privy is used the excreta be covered with a shoveful of the dirt. 
While this has the advantage of simplicity, it has the disadvantage 
of favoring carelessness, as people so commonly (in fact, as a rule) fail 
to cover the excreta; further, in order to have the best results, it is 
necessary to cover the discharges very completely; finally, at best, our 
knowledge as to how long certain germs and spores will live under these 
conditions is very unsatisfactory. 

(b) Lime. Some persons prefer to have a box of lime in the room 
and to cover the excreta with this material. Against this system 
there is the objection that the lime is not used with sufficient frequency 
or liberality to keep insects away, as is shown by the fact that flies 
carry the lime to the house and deposit it on the food. 

[" Wet system ":] 

(c) Water and oil. A very cheap and simple method is to pour 
into the tub about 2 or 3 inches of water; this plan gives the excreta 
a chance to ferment and liquefy so that the disease germs may be more 
easily destroyed. If this plan is followed a cup of oil (kerosene will 
answer) should be poured on the water in order to repel insects. 

(d) Cresol. Some persons favor the use of a 5 per cent crude 
carbolic acid in the tub, but probably the compound solution of cresol 
(U. S. P.) will be found equally or more satisfactory if used in a strength 
of I part of this solution to 19 parts of water. 

If a disinfectant is used the family should be warned to keep the 
reserve supply in a place that is not accessible to the children, other- 
wise accidents may result. 

CLEANING THE RECEPTACLE. The frequency of cleaning the re- 
ceptacle depends upon (a) the size of the tub, (b) the number of persons 
using the privy and (c) the weather. In general, it is best to clean it 
about once a week in winter and twice a week in summer. 

An excellent plan is to have a double set of pails or tubs for each 
privy. Suppose the outhouse is to be cleaned every Saturday: Then 
pail No. i is taken out (say January i), covered and set aside until 
the following Saturday; pail No. 2 is placed in the box for use; on 



454 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

January 8 pail No. I is emptied and put back in the box for use while 
pail No. 2 is taken out, covered and set aside for a week (namely, until 
January 15); and so on throughout the year. The object of this plan 
is to give an extra long time for the germs to be killed by fermentation 
or by the action of the disinfectant before the pail is emptied. 

Each time that the receptacle is emptied, it is best to sprinkle into 
it a layer of top soil about a quarter to half an inch deep before putting 
it back into the box. 

DISPOSAL OF THE EXCRETA. For the present, until certain very 
thorough investigations are made in regard to the length of time that 
the eggs of parasites and the spores of certain other germs may live 
under various plans, it is undoubtedly best to burn or boil all excreta; 
where this is not feasible, it is best to bury all human discharges at least 
300 feet away and down hill from any water supply (as the well, spring, 

etc.). 

Many farmers insist upon using the fresh night soil as fertilizer. 
In warm climates this is attended with considerable danger, and if 
it is so utilized, it should never be used upon any field upon which 
vegetables are grown which are eaten uncooked; further, it should 
be promptly plowed under. 

In our present lack of knowledge as to the length of time that various 
germs (as spores of the ameba which produce dysentery, various eggs, 
etc.) may live, the use of fresh, unboiled night soil as a fertilizer is false 
economy which may result in loss of human life. This is especially true 
in warm climates. 1 

It is estimated that the cost of materials for a sanitary 
type of privy on the above principles will be from $5 to 
$10, according to locality, to which must be added carpenter 
or home labor. 

Multiple privies on the above principles may be con- 
structed for schools, hotels, etc. 

Every board of health should have an ordinance requiring 
privies (where necessary) to be constructed and cared for, 
not necessarily according to a fixed plan, but at least 
according to sanitary principles and subject to the approval 
of the health authorities. 2 

1 Pub. Health Bull. No. 37, pp. 8-11. 

2 The possible development of patent sanitary closets is worthy of 
note. Such a closet, designed for use anywhere in the house, is manu- 
factured by the West Disinfecting Co., 12 East 42nd St., New York 
City. Such devices must be judged according to their cost and their 
merit as demonstrated in practical use. 



NUISANCES 455 

DISPOSAL OF NIGHT SOIL. Special attention should be 
paid to the disposal of night soil, on which some remark is 
made in the quotation above. Since the ideal method of 
burning or boiling is impracticable to enforce generally, 
reliance must usually be placed upon proper burial (not 
less than two feet deep) in a safe place, preferably with the 
use of a disinfectant (chloride of lime, etc.). It must be 
remembered, however, that this is not an ideal method, for 
disease germs may later come to the surface, any fly grubs 
present are not killed but may come to the top through as 
much as six feet of sand, and there is the possibility of 
contaminating water supplies, especially in a limestone 
region. The great danger in the use of night soil as fer- 
tilizer (mixed or unmixed with manure) is referred to above. 
Owing to the impossibility of knowing which persons in a 
community are excreting disease germs, all excreta (stools 
and urine) must be regarded as a virulent poison to be 
disposed of accordingly. 1 Provision should also be made 
for sufficiently frequent removal of contents to prevent 
danger of overflow. In Asheville, N. C., a city having 
sanitary privies and municipal removal, a maximum period 
of fifteen days is prescribed. The period may, however, 
vary somewhat, according to circumstances. 

TEMPORARY PRIVIES. In connection with construc- 
tion work on new houses, etc., street work and other works 
where laborers are employed, temporary privies should be 
required and the commission of nuisances be forbidden. 
Cooperation may be established with the building inspec- 
tion department, so as to obtain notice of constructions to 
be started. Such privies should be constructed on ap- 
proved lines, a permit from the health department being 
required. The foreman or other person in charge should 
be held strictly responsible for their construction and care. 
It should be prescribed that there be a proper water- 
tight receptacle and that the contents be kept constantly 
1 For further details see Farmers' Bulletin 463, pp. 30-32. 



45 6 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

covered with unslaked lime, chloride of lime, water with a 
film of kerosene (see directions for "wet system," above) or 
other satisfactory substance, and that the contents be suffi- 
ciently frequently removed and disposed of in accordance 
with the sanitary ordinances, the receptacle being finally 
cleaned out and disinfected as soon as there is no longer any 
necessity for use. 

Similar precautions should be taken in regard to picnic 
grounds and other places where temporary gatherings of 
people take place. Such places, if regularly used, should 
be provided with permanent sanitary privies. 

PRIVY-CLEANING SERVICE. Granted that the health 
department has an ordinance covering completely the 
subject of privies and disposal of excreta, the question of 
systems of removal of night soil arises. In many communi- 
ties having privies such removal is performed by private 
scavengers, who should be strictly licensed, subject to the 
approval of the health authority regarding their methods of 
collection and disposal. The following remarks, applying 
both to towns and to rural districts, are taken from Stiles. 1 

Since, from a sanitary point of view, the privy is a public structure, 
in that it influences public health, it seems wisest to have city and 
town ordinances which provide for a licensing of all privies, the license 
being fixed at a sum which will enable the city or town to provide the 
receptacle (tub, pail, etc.), the disinfectant and the service for cleaning. 
The expense involved will vary according to local conditions, such as 
cost of labor and density of population. If the " chain gang " can be 
utilized for cleaning, the expense for labor is reduced. 

The' importance of taking the responsibility for the care of the 
privy out of the hands of the family is evident when one considers 
that one careless family in ten or in a hundred might be a menace to 
all. Quite generally the removal of garbage and of ashes is recognized 
as a function of the city or town in all better organized communities, 
and the idea is constantly spreading that this service should extend to 
a removal of the night soil also. 

In correspondence with certain cotton mills estimates for privy 
cleaning (once a week) vary from about 20 to 25 cents per privy per 

1 Pub. Health Bull. No. 37, pp. 15, 16. 



NUISANCES 457 

month. A privy tax of $3.50 to $5 per privy per year ought to give 
satisfactory service, including receptacle, but the exact amount of the 
tax must be determined by experience in each locality. 

It is probably the exception that an economical public privy-cleaning 
service can be carried out in the open country, on account of the dis- 
tances between the houses. To meet the difficulties involved, several 
suggestions may be considered, according to conditions: A county 
privy tax can be levied, the county can furnish the pail and the dis- 
infectant, and (i) one member of each family or of several neighboring 
families hired to clean the privy regularly; or (2) the landlord can be 
held responsible for the cleaning of all privies of his tenants, receiving 
from the county a certain sum for the service; or (3) " trusties " from 
prisons might possibly be utilized in some districts not too sparsely 
settled; or (4) a portion of the county privy tax might perhaps be 
apportioned by school districts and be distributed as prizes among the 
school boys who keep their family privy in best condition; or (5) each 
head of family might be held responsible for any soil pollution that may 
occur on his premises and be fined therefor. 

Undoubtedly the problem of the privy cleaning in the open country 
is much more difficult than in cities, villages and towns, and in the last 
instance involves a general education of the rising generation of school 
children, more particularly of the girls (the future housekeepers), in 
respect to the dangers of soil pollution. 

2. Cesspools and Domestic Sewage Disposal Systems. - 

The construction and care of cesspools should be super- 
vised in the same way as that of privies. Two types of 
cesspool are to be recognized : (i) the tight cesspool, and (2) 
the leaching cesspool. Each, according to circumstances, 
has its value. Where there is no danger of the pollution of 
wells, etc., the leaching type may be permitted and with 
right soil conditions may prove a highly effective and com- 
mendable method of sewage disposal. In this case the soil 
acts as a natural filter. Sandy soils are best, while clay and 
limestone are to be distrusted. In regard to the protection 
of wells, etc., in the vicinity, it must be remembered that 
intestinal organisms may still be carried somewhat beyond 
the zone in which oxidation of organic matters takes place. 
Where it is necessary for the prevention of soil pollution 
to use a tight cesspool, a plan should be submitted and a 



458 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

permit be required before it is begun and again before it 
is put in use, so that the health authorities may satisfy 
themselves that the construction is water-tight and suffi- 
ciently substantial to remain so. With this type of cesspool 
cleaning out must be sufficiently frequent, and the contents 
must be disposed of under the same regulations that apply 
to privies. 

Cesspools of either type should be so covered as to prevent 
the access of flies and mosquitoes. 

Domestic sewage disposal systems for rural and semi- 
rural districts should be constructed on scientific plans 
adapted to local conditions and under the supervision of the 
health authorities, who should require a permit for the be- 
ginning of such work and another final permit when the 
system is completed and before it is put in use. Suitable 
plans and advice may be obtained from competent sanitary 
engineers and from the engineering divisions of state 
health departments. 1 

The menace to health from the discharging of undisin- 
fected sewage and sewage disposal effluents into water- 
courses which may be used as water supplies is obvious and 
need not be dwelt upon here; nor can the subject of munic- 
ipal sewage disposal be discussed. 2 Methods of determin- 
ing when sewage pollution by leaching and otherwise is 
taking place have already been mentioned (Chap. IV). 

//. DISPOSAL OF OTHER WASTES 

We now come to a class of nuisances having much less 
bearing upon public health than those of the class just 
mentioned (in fact in many cases no bearing at all), but 
which consume much of the routine attention of health 

1 Cf. Bashore, " Sanitation of a Country House "; Gerhard, " The 
Disposal of Household Wastes"; and Gerhard, "The Sanitation, 
Water Supply, and Sewage Disposal of Country Houses." 

2 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. VII 
(by G. C. Whipple). 



NUISANCES 



459 



departments. These relate chiefly to the promotion of gen- 
eral municipal cleanliness, the influence of which on public 
health is largely indirect. 

Municipal refuse is specified by Hering 1 as follows: 
garbage, dead animals, night soil (which we except in our 
remarks under this section), manure, street sweepings, 
ashes and rubbish. 

The permissible methods of disposing of these various 
classes (omitting night soil), with the several end-results 
or products, are summarized by the same authority 2 as 
follows : 



Refuse 


Incineration 


Reduction 


Burial or 
plowing into 
ground 


Dumping 


Feeding 


Garbage 


Steam and 


Grease and 


Decomposi- 




Food for pigs 


Dead animals . . . 
Manure 2 

Street sweepings . 
Ashes 


ashes 

ditto 
ditto 

ditto 


fertilizer 
ditto 


tion and 
fertilizer 
ditto 
ditto 

ditto 


Land mak- 
ing 1 
ditto ! 
ditto * 




Rubbish 


clinker 
Steam and 
ashes with 
or with- 
out prior 
picking 






ditto i 





1 Not always advisable. 

8 The disposal of manure by rotting has also been proposed, the claim being that if 
the manure is stacked in suitable quantities and places the resulting fermentation will 
result in a sufficiently high temperature to kill eggs and maggots. The author has, 
however, no definite information as to the effectiveness of this process. J. S. M. 

Where incineration is adopted, it will be seen it can be 
applied to all classes of refuse, and night soil can also be 
most safely disposed of by this method. 

The question as to what method or methods shall be 
adopted by any community involves consideration of local 

1 Hering, " Disposal of City Refuse," Trans. XV Internal. Congress 
on Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. IV, pt. II, p. 398. 

2 Loc. cit. 



460 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

conditions and costs, and since it relates primarily to sani- 
tary or municipal engineering, need not be taken up here. 1 
The supervision of sanitary authorities over refuse may be 
considered under two heads. 

1. Prevention of Unnecessary Nuisance. This requires 
that the methods of householders and collectors of refuse 
be careful and cleanly, that garbage and offal cans be water- 
tight and properly covered (to prevent odor and the access 
of flies and domestic animals), that they be taken in as soon 
as emptied, that (where the separation system is employed) 
garbage be kept separate from other refuse, that dead ani- 
mals be removed promptly, that removal of all refuse be 
sufficiently frequent, and the like. Also that final methods 
of disposal be proper, forbidding garbage dumps 2 and the 
filling-in of land with garbage, etc. Private scavengers 
should be licensed so as to insure proper control of their 
methods. Refuse collection and disposal is properly a 
function of the municipal government where it can be 
economically so managed. It should, however, be assigned 
to some department other than the health department - 
perhaps most appropriately to the street-cleaning authori- 
ties. 

2. Prevention of Breeding of Flies, Rats and Other Vermin. 
-The care of stable manure has a special bearing on the 

suppression of flies; that of garbage, on the reduction of 
rats. Fly prevention will be considered in detail in a sub- 
sequent section. 

Beyond these latter considerations the care of refuse 
has practically no bearing on public health, but is rather 
a matter of civic cleanliness. 

Here, in general, may be included all nuisances relating 

1 See Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. 
VIII (by G. C. Whipple); Papers and Rpts. of Committee on Refuse 
Collection and Disposal, in Am. Jour. Pub. Health. 

2 Cf. Terry, " The Public Dump and the Public Health," Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 1913, vo l. Ill, no. 4, p. 338. 



NUISANCES 461 

to cleanliness of dwellings, yards, lots, alleys, streets, 
etc., which need not be specified. In many communities 
the alley constitutes a special problem of municipal 
cleanliness; wherever possible alleys should be taken over 
and cleaned by the municipal street-cleaning department. 
We need scarcely mention the disposal of dead bodies, of 
which the bearing on health is, under normal conditions, 
very slight. Cemeteries were formerly thought dangerous 
to public health and were stringently regulated, but now it 
is known that the ordinary cemetery is negligible from the 
health standpoint, except as underground water supplies 
may possibly be contaminated by it. 

II. NUISANCES DUE TO INSECTS AND VERMIN 

/. FLY SUPPRESSION 

The arguments against the fly as a vehicle of disease 
which were indicated in Chapters I and II indicate fly 
suppression to be a duty of health authorities. It was 
shown that flies in general may convey infection (typhoid 
fever and other diseases) mechanically (on feet and pro- 
boscis), and the stable fly perhaps occasionally through 
the medium of its bite. 

The epithet "filth fly" implies that the disposal of certain 
kinds of refuse notably stable manure quite aside 
from the question of nuisance in the popular sense of the 
word, has a public health bearing in the breeding and at- 
traction of flies. The epithet applies particularly to the 
fly as a conveyer of infection from privy vaults. 

The importance of the problem in any given case depends 
upon (i) the facilities for fly-breeding (especially in stable 
manure), (2) the length and warmth of the summer season, 
and (3) the opportunities for infection (in typhoid fever, 
etc., exposed infectious material; in poliomyelitis, etc., 
infected persons). Favorable conditions for fly transmis- 
sion of disease may be found to a greater or lesser extent 



462 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

in all parts of the country. As regards typhoid fever and 
other intestinal diseases, conditions require attention in 
unsewered or partly sewered communities, especially in the 
South, having the combination of flies and unprotected 
privy vaults. It is unfortunate that, except in certain 
instances, the data regarding the transmission of disease 
by flies are indefinite. (Cf. pages 190, 209.) 

WHERE AND How FLIES BREED. The vast majority 
in many communities practically all of common house- 
flies breed in horse manure, the remainder in decaying 
organic matter of various kinds, as human excrement, ani- 
mal carcasses, garbage and the like. The stable fly (which 
has a predilection for biting horses and cattle, though 
it also bites persons) also breeds in horse manure, though 
more frequently in fermenting heaps of grass, cow-dung, 
brewer's refuse ("spent hops"), etc. Flies in the course 
of their life history pass through four stages: (i) egg, 
(2) larva or maggot, (3) pupa, or grub, and (4) adult 
insect. The complete development of the house fly takes, 
under favorable circumstances, about ten days; that 
of the stable fly is slower, taking nearly a month. The 
larva (white) and the pupa in its case (brown) may be 
readily seen with the naked eye ; the eggs (white) are some- 
what difficult to distinguish without the aid of a magnifying 
glass. 

As to the prolificness of the house fly, Howard found that 
1 20 eggs are laid by a single female (more have been noted), 
and that a generation is produced every ten days at the 
summer temperatures of Washington. This would mean 
twelve generations in a summer, with the possibility of 
countless millions from a single fly during a single season. 
Even did only a small percentage survive, the rapidity of 
propagation is evident. Two lessons may be gathered from 
this: (i) that the time to begin fly-suppressive measures is 
the early spring, and (2) that if breeding places are avail- 
able a very few flies can produce a very great crop. 



NUISANCES 463 

Measures Against Flies. We shall discuss first and 
chiefly the care of stable manure (in which ninety per cent 
or more of flies breed), but similar remarks apply also to 
other refuse in which breeding may take place. 

i. REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF MANURE. The fre- 
quent and regular removal of stable manure is the only 
thoroughly practicable general measure known at the 
present time. To prevent flies from laying their eggs in 
stable manure is practically impossible, for this material 
becomes fly-blown immediately it is excreted; but if it be 
placed promptly in tight bins, barrels or pits and removed 
regularly once a week during the fly season (so as to allow a 
margin under the ten days necessary for the eggs to hatch), 
fly-breeding in manure within the city limits can be entirely 
eliminated. 1 It is advisable that manure be removed by 
the municipal authorities in towns as other kinds of refuse 
are removed. Private collections are likely to be irregular 
for the reason that farmers do not care to remove manure 
during the busy summer months, when there is less use for 
it as fertilizer, yet this is just the time when the public 
health demands that it be frequently moved. Under 
municipal collection manure might be stored and sold at 
the times when in demand, and moderate fees for removal 
would make up the expense. 2 

1 From the health department of a southern city (Asheville, N. C.) 
we have the following statement: " The proper disposal of manure, 
which we know to be the main breeding place of the fly, leads to many 
arguments. Many people wish to keep the manure for fertilizing pur- 
poses, and think that by placing it under the surface that they have 
gotten rid of the fly problem. Again, if the manure bin is screened a 
false sense of security is established which is sure to throw discredit on 
the fly work later in the summer. All manure that goes into the bin 
is sure to be infected with fly eggs, and as the young flies just leaving 
the chrysalis are perfectly able to crowd through the meshes of the 
screen, the screening is of no avail. Our conclusion, therefore, is that 
the manure bin should be constructed with the single idea of being thoroughly 
cleaned out, and it should be cleaned out not less than once a week." 

2 See Hall, " Disposal of Manure," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, 
vol. IV, no. i, p. 38. 



464 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Removal, of course, does not result in absolute preven- 
tion of breeding, but simply in the transportation of the 
fly-breeding manure to some more or less distant place 
(usually to the country for fertilizer). There the eggs 
already present (as well as those later deposited) will hatch 
out even if the manure is buried or plowed under ground 
(fly grubs have been known to emerge through six feet of 
sandy soil). Such methods protect the towns which en-, 
force removal of manure, but the general prevention of 
breeding, including the country districts, is a much more 
difficult problem and one which has not yet been practi- 
cally solved. 

For methods of disposal of manure see page 459. 

2. GROUND-PROOFING. A certain amount of breeding 
may take place in the soil under and around stables, in old 
stray, decayed urine-soaked boards, etc. ; hence the flooring 
of stables should be watertight and well drained and general 
cleanliness and good repair should be observed. 

3. CHEMICAL TREATMENT. As direct measures for 
killing the larvae and insects in the course of their develop- 
ment, various chemical substances have been employed, 
such as Paris green (recommended by U. S. Public Health 
Service) and copperas solutions, kerosene and other in- 
secticides. 1 

Regular treatment cannot, of course, be secured unless 
frequent inspections are made to apply the insecticide or 

1 From Asheville, N. C., where special attention has been devoted 
to the fly problem, comes the following recommendation: " Some 
experiments carried out last summer [1912] have convinced me that 
where manure is not taken out of the city limits promptly the best 
larvacide is Paris green, used as it is on potato plants, about one ounce 
to ten gallons of water. Where this is conscientiously sprinkled on 
fresh manure the larva does not grow. It is so cheap that there is no 
excuse on that point for not using it, and as an economic proposition 
I calculate that it saves about one-third of the fertilizing value of the 
manure from being destroyed by the maggots." (L. M. McCormick, 
Inspector.) 



NUISANCES 465 

to see that it is being properly applied. The method cer- 
tainly merits attention where frequent removal is imprac- 
ticable, as, for example, in rural districts. 

In this connection the treatment of manure in specially 
constructed maggot traps offers considerable possibilities, 
though the method has not as yet been entirely worked out. 1 

4. CARE OF REFUSE OTHER THAN MANURE. Since 
accumulations of garbage, offal and the like are not usually 
permitted to remain as long as those of stable manure, the 
amount of fly-breeding due to them is comparatively small. 
Such refuse should, however, be kept covered and should 
be removed regularly at frequent intervals. The preven- 
tion of obvious nuisance in the popular sense fortunately 
requires this. Markets should receive special attention as 
regards disposal of wastes. Fly-breeding may readily take 
place in garbage dumps, which also tend to support a popu- 
lation of rats. Such dumps should be prohibited on these 
specific grounds as well as in their character as a general 
public nuisance. 

5. SCREENING of privies, sick-rooms, kitchens and other 
rooms in dwelling houses, restaurants, milk-rooms and the 
like is a useful means of guarding against flies which cannot 
practically be eliminated by the foregoing fundamental 
measures. Citizens may be advised to screen dwelling 
houses in order to protect foods, baby's bottle, etc. The 
screening of places where food for public consumption is 
handled or otherwise exposed may be required by ordinance. 
Cases of communicable disease may be required to be 
screened and the flies within destroyed; even the poorest 
families can usually afford mosquito netting. 

The most important measure of this class is the fly- 
proofing of privies (see under Privies). 

1 Levy and Tuck, " The Maggot Trap A New Weapon in Our 
Warfare Against the Typhoid Fly," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, 
vol. Ill, no. 7, p. 657; Levy, " Modern Methods of Fighting the House- 
fly," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 5, p. 439. 



4 66 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The health officer of a southern city where privies and 
flies are numerous reports as follows : 

As a result, I believe, of the screening of the privies and sick rooms, 
the number of cases of typhoid reported to the Health Department 
during 1911 was 148 against 329 for 1910, the deaths for the same 
years being 40 against 62. ... Not only did this reduction occur, but 
we found that the distribution of the cases as to privy or sewer districts 
was practically reversed in 1911 from that of 1910, showing no dis- 
proportion of cases in the privy districts. 1 

Even if only a part of the above improvement were 
finally proved to be directly due to screening, it would still 
be a result of special significance to communities having 
the unfortunate combination of privies and flies. 

In considering the use and value of screening we must 
bear in mind the various circumstances under which it may 
be applied. In urban districts, where population is thick 
and stables and other possible sources of flies few, the fun- 
damental measure of fly elimination should certainly be 
applied. In country districts, on the other hand, where 
breeding may go on to a greater extent and is relatively 
difficult to prevent, the fly-proofing of privies and the use 
of screens for milk-houses and dwellings are to be con- 
sidered as a possible alternative. 

Popular education, as to the manner of breeding of the 
fly and its role in disease conveyance, is a useful auxiliary 
measure, but cannot take the place of vigorous enforcement 
of anti-fly ordinances. In Asheville, N. C., an effective 
exhibit illustrating the breeding of the fly is used, and the 
inspectors carry small specimens showing the stages of 
development of the insect. 

Ordinances should be adopted covering the points above 
mentioned and declaring the accumulation of manure, 

1 Terry (Health Officer, Jacksonville, Fla.), " Fly-borne Typhoid 
and Its Control in Jacksonville," Southern Med. Jour., 1913, vol. VI, 
no. 6, p. 355. 



NUISANCES 467 

garbage or other substance in which fly larvae breed to be 
a nuisance subject to penalty for each day maintained. 
The orders adopted by the District of Columbia have been 
justly praised. 1 It is desirable to require licenses for 
stables in order to impress stable proprietors with their 
responsibility and to obtain compliance with stable and 
manure regulations. 

Campaigns for the destruction of flies by means of traps, 
"swatting," poisons, fly paper, etc., are more remarkable 
for spectacularity than for efficacy. It is evident, in the 
first place, that trapping and the like, even when most 
efficient, do away with but a comparatively small propor- 
tion of the adult fly population, particularly if it is being 
constantly added to by uncontrolled breeding places. 
Then, when it is considered how (as already explained) a 
few flies are capable of breeding a large crop, in connection 
with the fact that many flies must escape trapping, the 
futility of such measures, instead of the prevention of 
actual breeding, is evident. Fly "swatting" should, there- 
fore, not be permitted to distract attention from the funda- 
mental problem. 

Traps (preferably of the large size, about two feet high 
and fifteen inches in diameter as manufactured) are more 
useful for gauging the prevalence of flies and the success of 
anti-fly measures than for reduction of the numbers of the 
insects. Flies caught in large numbers need not be counted, 
but may be measured on a basis of 13,000 to the quart. 

The solution of the problem in general hinges, in towns, 
chiefly upon the proper construction of stables and the 
removal or treatment of stable manure. In the rural dis- 
tricts, on the other hand, stables may be poorly constructed, 
the manure frequently cannot be conveniently removed to 
a distance, it is difficult or impossible to compel proper 
treatment of manure and frequent inspections perhaps 
cannot well be made. In the latter case the fly-proofing of 
1 Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 231. 



4 68 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

privies and the use of screens may perhaps at present be 
relatively more practicable. 

REFERENCES 

U S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletins 459 (House Flies) 
and 540 (The Stable Fly) (apply to Supt. of Documents, Washington, 

D.C.). 

Howard, "The House Fly Disease Carrier; An Account ot 
Its Dangerous Activities and the Means of Destroying It," Stokes Co., 
New York, 1912. 

Ross, " The Reduction of Domestic Flies," Lippincott, Phila., 1913. 

Hewitt, " House Flies and How They Spread Disease," 1912, 

Doane, " Insects and Disease." 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 223 ff. 

Material on anti-fly campaigns is published by the American Civic 
Assn., 913 Union Trust Bldg., Washington, D. C. 

' In addition to papers cited see Terry, " Extermination of the House 
Fly in Cities, Its Necessity and Possibility," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
1912, vol. II, no. i, p. 14. 

II. MOSQUITO SUPPRESSION 

Nature and Control of Work. The mosquito problem 
may affect public health, or public comfort, or both. Where 
mosquito-borne disease malaria or yellow fever l 
exists or threatens, mosquito suppression becomes an 
obvious duty of the health authorities; in communities 
where these diseases do not exist the matter is simply one 
of public comfort and property values. For this reason, 
and because thorough work in mosquito-ridden localities 
requires extensive operations of a special nature, it is fre- 
quently desirable that the work be performed on a large 
scale say county-wide by special authorities. 2 When, 

1 For discussion of the relations of mosquitoes to these diseases see 
p. 207 ff . 

2 In New Jersey long experience of the inability or unwillingness of 
boards of health to cope with the mosquito problem has led to the 
establishment, by a law of 1912, of County Mosquito Extermination 
Commissions, which not only perform inspections but also carry out 
much of the work such as elimination of marshes necessary to a 
thorough mosquito reduction campaign. The results show that such 



NUISANCES 469 

however, the duty rests with the health authorities they 
should if possible carry it out thoroughly, remembering, 
however, that sufficient work and money must be applied 
if material results are to be expected, and that there may 
be other public health demands more pressing. 

The problem of mosquito reduction involves far more 
labor and expense than the average citizen or health officer 
supposes. For adequate inspection the ordinary board of 
health staff of inspectors must practically be doubled, and 
a great deal of extra duty is thrown upon the health officer 
and office. Besides, it is usually necessary to employ 
special labor for ditching, etc. Furthermore, unless the 
work is done thoroughly, very little result may be evident 
and the work will be discredited. 

The Mosquito. Besides the disease-bearing species, 
there are others, Culex a presumably harmless insect 
being the commonest. All mosquitoes breed in standing 
water and nowhere else some in salt and some in fresh 
water. The malaria and yellow fever mosquitoes breed 
only in fresh water. 

The life history of the mosquito embraces four stages: (i) 
e g> ( 2 ) larva, (3) pupa and (4) adult. The eggs are de- 
posited on the surface of stagnant water, particularly that 
which is rich in organic matter, even if distinctly foul. The 
egg hatches out into a larva (or "wiggler," such as is fre- 

a plan might well be adopted wherever a great amount of inspection 
and labor is required. The work may thus be specialized under experts 
and all communities derive equal benefit. Under the plan of control 
by local boards of health a community which carries on an effective 
campaign may still suffer from the inaction of its neighbors. (Infor- 
mation on the work in New Jersey may be obtained from the State 
Entomologist, New Brunswick, N. J.) 

A plan for giving power to local health authorities to abate breeding 
places and for organizing mosquito reduction work on a state- wide scale, 
under the Director of the State Experiment Station, has been proposed 
in Connecticut. (Report on Mosquito Control, Civic Federation of 
New Haven, 1913 (Chamber of Commerce Bldg., New Haven, Conn.) 



470 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

quently seen in rain barrels), and the latter into the shorter 
but much larger-headed pupa. All of these stages are 
passed in the water and finally the adult mosquito bursts 
from the pupa and flies away. The whole cycle, from egg 
to adult insect, takes practically from nine days to three 
weeks, depending upon temperature and food supplies. 
In warm weather and with abundant organic matter present, 
the complete development will take place in a minimum 
length of time. 

It is a popular belief that mosquitoes breed without 
water in grass, bushes, weeds and the like. This is un- 
true, for a continuous existence in stagnant, or at least 
standing, water is necessary for development. It is, how- 
ever, true that such growths shelter the adult mosquitoes 
(which die if exposed to the sun and deprived of moisture), 
and also keep them from being carried away by wind; 
hence the cutting down of tall grass, weeds, etc., assists to 
that extent. 

The mosquito survives from one summer season to the 
next by the hibernation of a few insects or eggs. 1 

Discrimination may easily be made between the fresh- 
water mosquitoes (e.g., Culex pungens, Anopheles (malarial), 
A'edes (yellow fever)) and the salt-water species (of which 
one of the chief is the Culex sollicitans of the Atlantic Coast 
marshes) . The latter may be distinguished by thin striped 

1 Many mosquitoes hibernate in the cellars or basements of dwellings 
and the proposal has been made in some quarters to kill all such mos- 
quitoes before the breeding season begins. To materially reduce the 
numbers by this process would be expensive and of doubtful value. 
The labor and money might much better be applied to abolition 
of breeding places as hereinafter described. For, if such abolition 
be effective the hibernated mosquitoes would find no place to deposit 
eggs, while if it be not effective, even a very few hibernated mosquitoes 
(laying several hundred eggs apiece) would be sufficient to start a big 
season's crop. 

However, for the purpose of killing adult mosquitoes in dwellings 
an insecticide may be used e.g., sulphur, pyrethrum powder or Mim's 
culicide. (See pp. 588, 592.) 



NUISANCES 471 

legs and the bar across the proboscis of the female, as well 
as by their antipathy to entering dwelling houses. The 
Anopheles (malarial) mosquito may be recognized by its 
attitude when resting or biting, in which the body and pro- 
boscis form an acute angle with the surface on which the 
insect rests; the body of the Culex, on the contrary, re- 
mains practically parallel with the resting surface. 

BREEDING-PLACES. The great and fundamental means 
of mosquito reduction is the elimination of accumulations 
of stagnant water, even in small quantities. A neglected 
tin can holding water may breed hundreds of mosquitoes 
during a season. The following are examples of the breed- 
ing places of Culex and Anopheles most frequently found 
in practice: 

Swamps and marshes, pools, rain puddles, ditches, puddles of standing 
water along watercourses, the margins of ponds, etc. 

Brook beds (in dry weather). 

Cesspools and liquid contents of privy vaults. 

Vats and barrels in manufacturing plants, gardens and greenhouses. 

The water surrounding commercial gastanks, etc. 

Sewer catchbasins, manhole catchbuckets, wells (occasionally in hot 
weather), rain barrels, cisterns, tubs, cans, pails, watering-pots and other 
receptacles left standing so as to harbor water (such receptacles are ready 
breeders unless tightly covered or screened). 

Various places, frequently out-of-the-way, such as the crotches of 
trees, depressions in roof gutters and the like, in fact, any place where 
water may stand for ten days or more in warm or moderately warm 
weather. 

The breeding habits of the Aedes (yellow fever mosquito) 
differ from those of the above genera. The breeding- 
places of Culex and Anopheles are much more widely dis- 
tributed and require more labor to detect and abolish than 
those of Aedes, which is practically limited to artificial con- 
tainers in the vicinity of human habitations. The adult 
Aedes also tend to remain comparatively close to their 
birthplace. 

Administrative measures for reduction apply, on the one 
hand, to the large marsh areas, where engineering skill is 



472 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

required and which should be handled by state or county 
authority; and, on the other hand, to the numerous breed- 
ing-places in the vicinity of dwellings which may, if need 
be, be dealt with by local inspections and action. 

i . PERMANENT. Whenever possible, more or less 
permanent measures, even if high in first cost, should be 
applied. 

First, all cisterns, rain barrels, cesspools and other con- 
tainers which cannot be abolished must be perfectly cov- 
ered or screened. Care must be taken that the screen 
is sufficiently fine-meshed (at least twenty strands to the 
inch), as not all of the screens on the market are perfectly 
mosquito-proof. All such coverings should be frequently 
reinspected to ensure that they remain perfectly tight. 

The best way to treat small receptacles is, if possible, to 
break or pierce them so that they cannot act as containers 
of water, otherwise to turn them upside down. 

Secondly, swampy land, pools, ditches and the like 
should be drained or filled. When ditches are used for 
draining, they must be cleaned and graded from time to 
time. Where such work is extensive, it is just that this 
expense be defrayed by public funds, except in so far as the 
value of the property is increased. 

Ponds and pools which contain fish do not commonly 
breed mosquitoes, for the larvae are devoured by the fish. 
Gold-fish are especially effective in this respect; hence 
pools, fountains and the like which are kept for decorative 
or useful purposes may be kept mosquito-free by stocking 
with a few of these fish. It may sometimes be more feasible 
to flood a swampy area and introduce fish than to drain or 
fill it. A caution is required, however, in relation to the 
borders of ponds, where mosquito larvae may be protected 
by grass and weeds and in pockets and puddles. 

Where permanent abatement is not practicable, oil 
may be applied at intervals as a routine measure (see 
below). 



NUISANCES 473 

All such measures require systematic inspections. In 
towns these take the form of periodic house-to-house in- 
spections, made not less frequently than every nine or ten 
days, this being the usual minimum breeding period. The 
inspector should himself see to the abatement of as many 
breeding "nests" as possible, emptying and inverting or 
puncturing neglected receptacles, requiring the removal or 
burial of old cans and other rubbish, applying oil in emer- 
gency, and so on. In instances where work is required on 
the part of property owners or proprietors, written notice 
may be given. Detailed accounts of all inspections are to 
be kept, and the areas should be laid out in such a way that 
the whole district may be covered in due time. 

The health ordinances should contain a provision making 
the breeding of mosquitoes a nuisance and the finding of the 
larvae a proof of the fact; such nuisance is to be promptly 
dealt with. 

Popular educational circulars may be issued with the 
object of obtaining public support and aid in abating 
breeding. Little, however, can be accomplished by volun- 
tary effort alone; rigid inspection and enforcement of law 
are necessary. 

2. TEMPORARY. As a temporary measure, as well as 
a routine measure in cases where permanent abatement is 
not practicable, the application of oil to the water is useful. 
The oil used may be common kerosene, or (better because 
less expensive when purchased in barrel lots or more) the 
partly refined petroleum known as "fuel oil" price about 
five cents per gallon in quantities. It has the effect of 
preventing egg-laying and of killing at once any larvae or 
pupae already present (through clogging the air-tubes when 
the organisms rise to the surface to breathe). A pint is 
sufficient for a water area fifteen or twenty feet in diameter. 
Care must be taken that the distribution is even, that small 
spaces are not protected from the spread of the oil film, by 
sticks, grass, weeds and the like, that wind does not blow 



474 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

it to one side, etc. A spray pump, a can with nozzle, or a 
mop may be used for distribution. Deft scattering by means 
of a small dipper is also effective, as well as simple. Owing 
to evaporation, wind action, etc., the application must be 
repeated at intervals of ten days or so, depending on con- 
ditions. Inspectors should note such places on their rounds. 

In brooks having stagnant spaces along the banks a con- 
tinuous slow application may be effected by means of a 
drip can; this consists of a five-gallon can having a large 
wick extending from the bottom up through the opening 
in the top, and hanging down on the outside to a length an 
inch or two below the bottom of the can. The wick, which 
acts as a slow siphon, is tied securely in place and the whole 
appliance is hung under a bridge or tree or in some other 
secure place just above the surface of the water. Such 
cans of course require periodic renewal of oil. 

The disadvantage of oiling is that it entails continued 
labor and expense, so that permanent abatement should be 
secured whenever practicable. 

Screening, etc. If the above measures were thoroughly 
carried out there would be no need of nettings and screens 
(unless for flies and other insects) and the use of citronella 
and other mosquito repellents, on which expedients many 
thousands of dollars are spent annually. But in localities 
where mosquito suppression is non-existent or incomplete 
and malaria or yellow fever mosquitoes exist, the rigid 
screening of cases of these diseases and of dwellings in 
general, combined with the capturing 1 or chemical ex- 
termination (page 592) of mosquitoes which may have 
gained admittance, constitute a very valuable protection. 

REFERENCES 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletins 444 (Remedies and 
Preventives Against Mosquitoes), 450 (Malaria), and 547 (Yellow 
Fever Mosquito) (apply to Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C). 

1 See Orenstein, " Mosquito Catching in Dwellings in the Pro- 
phylaxis of Malaria," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 2, p. 106. 



NUISANCES 475 

Doty, " The Mosquito: Its Relation to Disease and its Extermina- 
tion," 1912. 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, sec. I, chap. IV. 
Boyce, " Mosquito or Man " (relates especially to the Tropics). 
Doane, " Insects and Disease." 
See also references, p. 209. 

The roles of other insects and vermin (especially rats) in 
the spread of disease have already been referred to (page 
2iof.). The use of certain insecticides is also referred to 
in Appendix A. Health departments do not undertake 
the general extermination of such insects and vermin un- 
less there is direct or threatened danger to public health. 



III. MISCELLANEOUS NUISANCES 

I. Spitting. Promiscuous spitting in public places 
should be prohibited on the scores both of disease preven- 
tion and of decency. While the danger to health from such 
spitting has doubtless been exaggerated (relative, for ex- 
ample, to other more direct modes of the spread of tuber- 
culosis), nevertheless some danger probably exists. Such 
ordinances usually prohibit spitting upon the floor, plat- 
form or any other part of a public conveyance, upon the 
floor, steps or stairs of any public building, school, hall, 
church, store, shop or railway station, upon the sidewalk of 
any public or private street, upon the pathway of any park, 
or in any other public place (spitting on the street roadway 
and gutter excepted), and such spitting may be declared 
a nuisance. The fine should be comparatively small, say 
one or two dollars, so that arrests and convictions may 
readily be secured, and the police should be empowered to 
make arrests for this cause. In fact, without the action 
of the police little can be done by the sanitary inspectors 
unless they have the power of arrest. Small cards bearing 
a copy of the ordinance and a brief warning to be handed to 
offenders by patrolmen, street-car conductors and persons 



476 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

in charge of public places are useful. Cuspidors should be 
provided in public buildings and other places where neces- 
sary. They should be of ample size and of paper or filled 
with sawdust so that the contents may be disposed of at 
frequent intervals by burning. If the contents are not 
thus destructible the vessel should be readily cleansable 
and should be partly filled with a disinfectant solution. 

Under ordinary conditions the spitting nuisance appears 
to be less a matter of health than of decency. 

2. Smoke, Dust, Gases, Obnoxious Trades. Under 
this head we shall consider various aerial nuisances which 
have a decided bearing on comfort and more or less bear- 
ing on health, especially on the health of persons living 
near industrial plants or working in certain trades. In a 
general consideration of the smoke and dust nuisances there 
are, furthermore, economic waste and damage to be taken 
into account. Smoke and soot may also damage vegeta- 
tion. Health authorities have on the whole less control 
over nuisances of this class than over those previously 
mentioned, for the reason that proving injury to health is 
not infrequently difficult. In many cases it is necessary 
to have specific statutory power granted. 

THE SMOKE NUISANCE has been taken up by a number of 
cities and is being dealt with with increasing success as 
improved furnace design, mechanical stokers and methods 
of stoking are adopted in power houses and factories. 
The nuisance is greatest where soft coal is used. Unfor- 
tunately the data on the direct effect of smoke pollution 
on health are meagre. It seems clear, however, that 
deleterious effects in some cases very considerable 
must result. 1 

1 See White and Marcy, " A Study of the Influence of Varying 
Densities of City Smoke on the Mortality from Pneumonia and Tu- 
berculosis," Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, 
vol. Ill, pt. II, p. 1020; Benner, " How and Why Smoke is Injurious," 
ibid., p. 1015; Klotz, "Pulmonary Anthracosis A Community 
Disease," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 10, p. 887. 



NUISANCES . 477 

The discharge of "dense smoke" (from factories, power 
plants, automobiles, locomotives, etc.) is prohibited in a 
considerable number of cities; the experience of the New 
York City Health Department may be cited as indicative 
of what may be accomplished in this direction. The Ameri- 
can Civic Association has collected valuable data on the 
matter. 1 

THE DUST NUISANCE is another of this class. While it is 
generally accepted by sanitarians that the part played by 
ordinary dust in the transmission of disease is (as compared 
with other influences and modes of infection) a minor one, 2 
there are nevertheless certain circumstances under which 
dust may possibly convey infection (e.g., mouth strep- 
tococci and tubercle bacilli) or so wound the delicate linings 
of the respiratory passages as to give infection a foothold. 
Hence it may be that many of the respiratory diseases in 
windy, dusty towns are thus directly or indirectly caused. 
While it must not be supposed that ordinary dust ranks in 
the same class as contact and food infection in disease causa- 
tion (since, for one thing, bacteria tend to die out rapidly 
in dry, sun-exposed material), there is sufficient reason to 
consider the dust nuisance as one more or less prejudicial 
to health. 3 Also, of course, the consideration of public 
comfort enters into a large extent. 

The suppression of outdoor dust has scarcely been touched 
upon by public regulations, though with the increasing use 

1 "The Smoke Nuisance" (pamphlet, 25 cents), Am. Civic Assn., 
913 Union Trust Bldg., Washington, D. C. A number of publications 
on the subject may also be obtained from the American City Bureau, 
93 Nassau St., New York City. 

2 The statement made by Prudden in his monograph on " Dust and 
Its Dangers," written in 1890, still apparently holds good: " On the 
whole, the risk of infection out-of-doors from dust, even in crowded 
towns, unless they are notably filthy, is not actually very great." 

3 See Winslow and Kligler, " A Quantitative Study of the Bacteria 
in City Dust with Special Reference to Intestinal and Buccal Forms," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 9, p. 663. 



47 8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of motor vehicles and heavier traffic it becomes constantly 
more important, as affecting comfort, health and property. 
It is largely a matter of municipal cleanliness and highway 
engineering, properly to be dealt with by municipal street 
departments. 

Certain kinds of indoor dust, on the other hand, constitute 
a very serious health problem, as, for example, in the "dusty 
trades" (Chap. V). In private houses and in institutions 
the employment of dry dusting, sweeping, indoor beating of 
carpets, etc., should be discouraged by educational measures 
as being more or less detrimental to health. The damp or 
dustless duster should be substituted for the feather duster. 
The carpet sweeper, vacuum cleaner or at least damp 
sweeping should replace the ordinary dry use of the broom. 

GASES OBNOXIOUS TRADES. Nuisances due to es- 
cape of deleterious gases may be dealt with under the 
general power to forbid pollution of the atmosphere. In 
many such instances, however, it is much more difficult 
to prove detriment to health than interference with com- 
fort. The same is true of the so-called "noxious trades" 
(better called "obnoxious") which are often unpleasant to 
neighbors but which, for the welfare of society, must be 
carried on somewhere. Such trades are tanning, manu- 
facturing fertilizer, garbage reduction and the like. Such 
should be required to be conducted in the least possible 
objectionable manner and may perhaps be restricted to 
certain distances from neighboring habitations. 

Aside from special local atmospheric pollutions, there 
is likely to be more or less illuminating gas in the air of 
cities, due to leaks in gas mains and piping. If this is 
excessive it may, as shown in Chapter V, be a distinct 
detriment to health. 

3. Noise. Excessive noise has long been recognized as 
a nuisance affecting comfort, but only recently has scientific 
attention been directed to it as a detriment to health. 
Even as yet (as is the case with many of the nuisances of 



NUISANCES 479 

class III) there is little direct evidence as to its effects on the 
human organism, although there is no question in experience 
that such effects result in losses in health, comfort and 
efficiency, which, in the case of many persons of sensitive 
nervous temperament, may be very considerable. With the 
increase of noise in cities and in the neighborhood of indus- 
trial plants and with the increased strains placed on the 
nervous system by modern life in many directions, there is 
developing a movement for the suppression of unnecessary 
noise. The difficulty will be to determine which noises, 
out of those incidental to life in modern communities, are 
unnecessarily detrimental to public health and comfort. 
In many legal decisions on record, the courts have expressed 
themselves as perplexed over questions on this point. 
Health authorities have not gone very far in noise suppres- 
sion, and most of the decisions have been under police 
actions or suits by private persons for indictments or 
damages for disturbance of comfort or of use of property. 
Already "zones of quiet" for the protection of hospitals 
are established in some cities, and the movement for general 
restriction of noise, under control of either police or health 
authorities, should continue to develop. 1 Such movements 
indicate the increasing attention being paid to the protec- 
tion of the senses in modern life. 

1 See Blake, " The Suppression of Unnecessary Noise," Trans. XV 
Internal. Congress on Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. Ill, pt. II, p. 533; 
and Bell, " Existing Legal Provisions with Regard to the Suppression 
of Unnecessary Noises," ibid., p. 536. A number of publications on the 
subject may be obtained from the American City Bureau, 93 Nassau 
St., New York City. 



CHAPTER VII 
SANITARY LAW 

The general status and powers of health authorities have 
already been outlined in Part I, Chapter I. We shall add 
here only a few remarks on the making and enforcing of 
ordinances. 

Laws and Ordinances. Under the police powers 
assigned to local health authorities by state legislatures 
which powers are defined by the statutes in general rather 
than in specific and detailed terms it is necessary that 
such authorities exercise a quasi-legislative function in pass- 
ing ordinances to meet local conditions. Such ordinances 
should be framed by the legal counsel of the board of health, 
on the basis of data submitted by the health officer, so as 
to be in conformity with legal powers as well as sanitary 
requirements. Further, the law frequently provides for 
the just right of citizens to be heard on an ordinance pending 
passage and for the advertising of ordinances proposed or 
adopted, prescribing the procedure to be followed. 

Without going into technical legal points, it is well that 
health authorities should recognize the following principles 
in the adoption of regulations. 1 

(1) The condition which is sought to be met must be suffi- 
ciently important to warrant the remedy proposed. In other 
words, the public health must be materially and demonstra- 
bly affected and the benefits to be gained from the remedy 
greater than its expense and inconvenience. 

(2) The remedy proposed must be reasonably adequate. 
It is proper, however, since perfect control and regulation 

1 Evans, W. A., " Legal Powers of Health Departments," The 
American City, Aug., 1912, p. 121. 

480 



SANITARY LAW 481 

can in practice be gained only by stages, to establish ad- 
vancing standards, that is, to proceed from moderately 
stringent to more stringent ordinances. In cases where a 
very radical set of regulations would be impossible to enact 
and enforce, the control may be gained by steadily raising 
the requirements from time to time. Ordinances may be 
adopted providing for the application of certain regulations 
after a certain date or permitting one standard for future 
installations or performances and another for present or 
past. Thus the theoretical principle of perfect adequacy 
is compromised by practical considerations, the highest 
standards enactable and enforceable at the time being 
adopted in progression. But, on the other hand, under 
propitious conditions e.g., a new administration or favor- 
able public sentiment it may be possible to put through 
sweeping changes. 

If ordinances are reasonable, as above implied, they 
will not work undue hardships on the property and rights 
of individuals. Very stringent regulations working serious 
hardship may, however, be necessary when a grave con- 
sideration of public health is at stake. Health authorities 
must, of course, be prepared to justify such regulations. 

Legal Remedies. The sanitary law affords several 
different kinds of remedies (some of which have been men- 
tioned in the last chapter) under both civil and criminal 
procedure, by private and by public action. These include 
suit for damages and fines, injunction, etc. The procedure 
commonly adopted by health authorities is that of suit for 
collection of the penalty or penalties for a statute or health 
ordinance which has been violated. On filing of a com- 
plaint in proper form the court issues against the defendant 
a warrant (for arrest) or summons (for appearance), as the 
case may require, usually the latter. 

An important and necessary part of every ordinance is 
the penalty clause, without which it is impotent. In this 
connection it may be observed that, while very heavy 



482 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

penalties are impressive, there is likely to be hesitancy in 
their enforcement; the penalty should be adapted to the 
importance of the offense and should be greater for second 
and subsequent offenses. In the case of nuisances and 
other continued conditions each day should constitute a 
separate offense. Statutes may provide, for cases in which 
the fine is not promptly paid, the further measure of im- 
prisonment. In some instances costs of nuisance abate- 
ment, etc., may become a lien on the property of the 
offender. 

Enforcement. No matter how much willing coopera- 
tion is obtained by the health department there will always 
remain a certain number of instances in which compliance 
with the law can be obtained only by prosecution. As 
soon as such cases are recognized by the authorities they 
are bound to take legal action without fear or favor. 

There is, however, one preliminary to be disposed of. 
Although there is a legal maxim that "ignorance of the law 
is no excuse for its breach," it is nevertheless an accepted 
principle that the person responsible for a condition or act 
contrary to public health law receive due written notice in 
order that he may have the opportunity to adjust himself 
and his property to the requirements of the law. This is 
only reasonable, since most persons are unacquainted with 
the more detailed and technical requirements. The giving 
of such notice and its form and manner are usually provided 
for in the law itself. This has in some instances been 
carried to extremes of formality. Notices need only be so 
worded, in accordance with the terms of the ordinance, as 
to be clear to a man of average intelligence. The neces- 
sary blank forms for notices should be drawn up. under 
legal advice; then only the particulars need be filled in for 
each case. The notice is then served strictly in the manner 
required by law. 

In all cases care should be taken to notify and, if neces- 
sary, prosecute, the person who is actually responsible 



SANITARY LAW 483 

rather than an employee or agent, though the latter is 
sometimes the only one who can be reached. Thus, in 
prosecutions under ordinances governing milk supplies, the 
person or firm under whose care improper handling or adul- 
teration takes place, wholesaler or retailer, should be the 
object. But if it is found that the wholesaler or farmer is 
at fault and cannot be reached by local prosecution, the 
retailer of the supply should be given notice so that he may 
change his supply and thus avoid prosecution. 

The following points in regard to prosecutions are worth 
noting: 

(1) The evidence upon which a case is to be based must 
be adequate and reliable. Recourse should not be had to a 
court of law without a reasonable certainty that sufficient 
proof can be offered. Witnesses must be reliable and testify 
of their own direct knowledge regardless of hearsay, which 
is of course worthless as evidence. 

(2) The authorities should be prepared and determined 
to push every case through to its logical conclusion. Appeal 
to higher courts should be taken if necessary and the case 
is one in which success is reasonably to be expected. Very 
frequently after a case has been started the defendant will 
at once take steps to comply with the law, and this may be 
argued as a reason fof- discontinuing the suit when com- 
pliance is seen to be secured. But as a general rule judg- 
ment should be secured and the penalty should be exacted 
as a deterrent from future offences and in order partly to 
repay the health department for the time put into the case. 
The authorities who gain a reputation for fighting to the 
end will find their work much facilitated, while a reputation 
for leniency can only have the opposite effect and lead to 
disrespect for the law. 

(3) The publicity given to prosecutions is a valuable 
assistance in securing compliance with law. 

(4) .Laws should be enforced uniformly and prosecutions 
should not be withheld on account of the personal influence 



484 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS ' , 

or reasons. Such a policy is not only unjust, but in the 
long run leads to disrespect of, and resentment against, the 

law. 

Tendencies in Sanitary Legislation. Several note- 
worthy tendencies are to be seen in public health legislation 
today. One of these is the increasing importance of specific 
statute law defining the powers and duties of health authori- 
ties. This is in line with the growth of definite scientific 
knowledge of methods of prevention. So long as legal 
powers are vague and overgeneral, action is uncertain, but 
specific law both permits and requires effective action. 
Health reforms clearly needed should be crystallized in 
such law. 

Along with this there is the movement to require expert 
service and to entrust technical questions to those qualified 
to deal with them. 

Again, while in the past there has been perhaps an undue 
emphasis on the vested rights of individuals and corpora- 
tions, it is now the tendency to enact thorough socially 
constructive laws by which those rights, while duly re- 
spected, are subordinated when public health is at stake. 
At the same time damages to the private individual through 
public conditions over which he has no control are coming 
into a status as subjects for compensation. Thus it is 
possible, according to at least one important decision l 
for the individual to recover damages for sickness caused 
by a polluted public water supply. Again under work- 
men's compensation acts the purity of water supplied by 
employers (as well as other sanitary matters) may come into 
question. 

In general, a reform of public health laws to harmonize 
with modern sanitary science is needed. This would result 
in a correct perspective and in considerable clarification 
through the elimination of obsolete sections of the law. 
The new public health law and regulations recently adopted 
1 See note, p. 413. 






SANITARY LAW 485 

in New York State is an example of such reform. On the 
other hand, a uniformity which would stifle development 
of procedure is to be avoided. 

Finally, it must be remembered that, under a democratic 
system, consent to the adoption of laws depends ultimately 
upon public sentiment, which should be gradually moulded 
to sanction the standards needed. 

REFERENCES 

Among the legal works dealing with public health are the following: 

Parker and Worthington, " The Law of Public Health and Safety," 
1892. 

Joyce, " The Law of Nuisances," 1906. 

As an example of a manual on local state law (New York State) may 
be cited Bender's " Health Officers' Manual " (Bender and Co., Al- 
bany, N. Y.). 

Cf. papers by Ball and Hemenway in Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 
1911, nos. 2, 4, on powers of health authorities. 






CHAPTER VIII 
THE ANNUAL REPORT 

Value and Use of Annual Report. One of the major 
duties of the health department is to publish a good an- 
nual report. For communities of the smaller size such 
report need not necessarily be lengthy or expensive, but 
should cover all the essential points. The importance of 
the annual report has not been sufficiently recognized; by 
too many health officers and boards it is regarded as a 
perfunctory extra labor to be put off to the latest possible 
time or even to be omitted entirely. Needless to say this 
attitude is a mistake. The annual report is the necessary 
accounting of the health officer to the board for the work 
of the year; it is the accounting of the health department 
to citizens and municipal government for the funds ap- 
propriated; it is to the health officer himself an indis- 
pensable review of the year's work and a basis for laying 
plans for the future and making recommendations; and 
if it sets forth administrative progress as it should it is 
of comparative interest and value to health departments 
of other communities. It should also embody matter of 
popular information and use, as when the names of milk 
dealers are published in the order of their standings. 
Since the results of public health work are not evident to 
the public eye as those of some of the other departments 
of municipal activity, it is all the more important that they 
should be set forth as tangible facts. 

If proper weekly and monthly (and even daily) reports 
of health officers and inspectors are kept, the composition 
of the annual report should not be an excessive task. The 

486 



THE ANNUAL REPORT 487 

health officer should present monthly a written report to 
his board summarizing the work performed by him and 
under his direction, and these monthly reports will assist 
greatly in making up the annual report. The facilitation 
of reporting is indeed one of the chief advantages of a 
good recording and filing system; but on the other hand, 
if work is performed without constant record being kept 
it is impossible to make it appear and obtain credit for it. 

For the maximum value of an annual report two things 
are necessary: that it should be in proper form and in- 
clusive of all essential points, and that it should be issued 
with reasonable promptness. Care should be taken that it 
is in the hands of the municipal authorities at the time 
when appropriations are made. In any case a report pub- 
lished long after the close of the year has lost a great deal 
of its interest and value. 

Standard Plans for Reports. Owing to the lack of 
uniformity in essentials in local health reports, the formu- 
lation of standard plans for the assistance of the health 
officer has been undertaken in at least two states (Massa- 
chusetts and New Jersey) by committees between which 
there was some conference. The plan adopted by the 
Health Officers' Association of New Jersey is reprinted in 
the present volume (Appendix G). That of the Massa- 
chusetts Association of Boards of Health has already been 
published elsewhere. 1 

The use of such a plan should not discourage initiative 
and individuality of treatment, for it applies only to the 
fundamentals which should be covered by any health 
report. 

A consideration of the published health reports of the 
better class is recommended. Among small cities which 
issue full and effective reports may be mentioned Mont- 
clair, Orange, and Plainfield, N. J., Brockton, Mass., and 
Palo Alto, Cal. In Montclair an approach is being 
1 See note, p. 621. 



488 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

made toward the presentation of unit costs for the various 
items of health work. Among reports issued by the larger 
cities those of Providence, R. I., Richmond, Va., and 
Jacksonville, Fla., merit special mention for analysis of 
administrative problems and interpretation of * vital 
statistics. 

DISTRIBUTION. The annual report should be distrib- 
uted by mail or by direct hand distribution to city officials, 
physicians, the more prominent citizens, ministers, milk 
dealers, and others who would be directly interested. A 
certain number should also be sent, as "exchanges," to 
other health departments, particularly those of places of 
about the same size and those in the same state. The 
reprinting of certain portions of the report and its dis- 
tribution as a popular bulletin will be mentioned in Chap- 
ter X (page 553). 

PRESS NOTICE. It is important that arrangements be 
made for a good press notice in connection with the re- 
port. Local newspapers should be furnished several days 
beforehand with copies of the report which the health 
officer intends to read to his board, or at least of the more 
important portions of it; which may be thus printed at 
some length as soon as the reading has taken place. Such 
publicity is very valuable and the press will appreciate the 
opportunity to print and perhaps support by editorial 
comment the annual message thus delivered by the health 
officer. 



CHAPTER IX 
VITAL STATISTICS 

Vital statistics, according to Newsholme, is the science 
of numbers applied to the life history of communities and 
nations; Wilbur calls it the Cinderella of modern public 
hygiene, sitting in the chimney corner sifting the ashes of 
dusty figures while the proud sisters, bacteriology and pre- 
ventive medicine, go to the ball and talk about the wonder- 
ful things they have done; a third statistician, Guilfoy, 
defines it more precisely as "the numerical registration and 
tabulation of population, marriages, births, diseases, 1 and 
deaths, coupled with analyses of the resulting numerical 
phenomena with the end in view of ' searchlighting ' the 
path of sanitary progress."' 

Vital Statistics are the Indispensable Basis of Public 
Health Work. This is a fact not sufficiently recognized 
among health officers, who not infrequently regard the 
annual report with its necessary tabulations as formal 
rather than useful. On the contrary, public health work 
can no more be directed intelligently without statistics 
than can a business be conducted without figures for in- 
come and expenditure, profit and loss. Instead of being 
regarded as mere formality and history, vital statistics 
should be the constant basis of public health work. If 
certain tabulations are kept up from week to week and 
from month to month, the health officer will always have 

1 The term "vital statistics" is not always taken to include statistics 
of disease (morbidity statistics). J. S. M. 

2 Guilfoy, W. H., "Vital Statistics In the Promotion of Public 
Health," New York Medical Journal, November 5, 1910, and Jour. 
Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. I, p. 486. 

489 



490 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the main data in mind and the dreaded composition of the 
annual report will be much facilitated. This will also 
make for promptitude, for statistics should be fresh - 
tabulated as soon as data are complete. Those published 
months later have lost both in interest and virtue. 

Practically, the value of vital statistics may be seen. 
Thus Abbott, writing some years ago, said that "Those 
states which have made the most commendable progress 
in preventive medicine are also the states which have 
brought their systems of registration to the highest de- 
gree of perfection." 

The processes of vital statistics are frequently thought to 
be highly technical and mathematical. It is true that the 
"theory of statistics" is a mathematical subject and one 
which easily runs into abstruseness in its advanced aspects. 
But the health officer need not be discouraged, for the com- 
paratively little theory which he needs to know is simple, 
though he needs to know this little very thoroughly. 
The former Chief Vital Statistician of the U. S. Census, 
Dr. Wilbur, tells us that "no great degree of mathematical 
attainment is necessary for some of the most important practi- 
cal applications of vital statistics. The ordinary ratios or 
'rates' employed in vital statistics are as easily com- 
puted and understood as the 'percentages' so familiar to 
the baseball public." The necessary knowledge of vital 
statistics and its processes is, therefore, well within the reach 
of the health officer. 
Says Whipple: 

Vital bookkeeping is carried on much as ordinary bookkeeping. 
There are daily entries of accessions and losses as they occur, corre- 
sponding to receipts and payments; there are weekly statements, monthly 
statements, and annual statements; and at longer intervals there is a 
taking account of stock, that is, a census. This difference, however, 
should be noted. Accounts are accurate records of transactions and if 
properly kept an exact balance will be obtained. Vital statistics are 
not always accurate. The individual data are incomplete and sub- 
ject to error. The results, therefore, lack the precision of monetary 



VITAL STATISTICS 491 

accounts. It is necessary to keep this fact constantly in mind when 
interpreting the results of statistical studies. 1 

Vital statistics, to be of benefit to the community, must 
be used, says Whipple, "with truth, with imagination, and 
with power." They must be accurate, their application 
to the situation must be brought out, and they must be 
brought home forcefully to the people and those responsible 
for the care of the public health. A conspicuous example 
of the use of vital statistics on an enormous and highly 
practical scale is to be seen in the life insurance companies ; 
whose actuaries have been successfully occupied for years 
in turning vital ratios into dollars and cents, the se- 
verest test of practicality. 

The need of having the care of vital records of births, 
marriages and deaths in charge of the health department 
and not in the office of the town clerk or other non-sanitary 
official has been discussed in Part I. Only by that ar- 
rangement can the records be properly controlled and the 
tabulations be conveniently made. 

TWOFOLD VALUE OF VITAL RECORDS. The records of 
births, marriages, and deaths have two separate and dis- 
tinct uses: 

First, as permanent legal evidence of the events to which 
they certify. Until the enactment of registration laws, 
births, marriages and deaths were registered only in family 
records and churches, and it is unfortunate that even 
today, owing to the deficiency of local records, recourse 
must sometimes be had to those uncertain sources. Be- 
cause of their important legal functions the absence of a 
proper record may cause grave inconvenience if not actual 
loss to the individual. 

Second, as the basis for vital statistics. Every certificate 
contains some information which' is for the identification 

1 Whipple, George C., "The Use of Vital Statistics in the Public 
Health Service," Pub. Health Jour, (organ of the Canadian Public 
Health Association), June, 1913. 



49 2 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of the individual but of no use for statistical purposes, 
some which has both an identificational and statistical 
value, and finally, some which is primarily statistical. 
Birth certificates, moreover, have a special use as the basis 
of infant hygiene work, while death certificates of tuber- 
culosis and other diseases are of direct value in the control 
of those diseases. 

REGISTRATION 

The various steps in registration are: 

1 . Recording. 

2. Tabulation from records. 

3. Study of statistics thus obtained. 

4. Presentation and interpretation of results. 
They will be taken up individually. 

i. Recording. 1 The first of these steps presupposes a 
good registration law. The laws of the various states 
differ greatly, and the obtaining of a good state system of 
registration, being incumbent largely upon state author- 
ities, need not be dwelt upon here. 

For the reporting of births the time limit allowed in 
various states varies from 24 hours to 30 days, while in a 
few instances there is no law at all on the subject. The 
persons required to report are: physicians, midwives, and, 
in the absence of professional attendance, the parents. 
Experience shows that allowing a greater length of time 
does not tend to increase the efficiency of reporting; on 
the contrary, compliance with a short time limit may 
reasonably be expected if certificates are accepted, when 
need be, without the given name of the child. In this case, 
however, it is necessary to see that the name is returned 
later, as a legal correction to the certificate. It has been 
proposed, in order to obtain prompt information for the 
purposes of infant hygiene, that there should be provision 
for (i) a preliminary notification within a short time, say 

1 See distinction between recording and registration, p. 614. 



VITAL STATISTICS 493 

24 hours, after the birth, giving the name and address, 
this to be followed later by (2) a full registration. 1 

The laws governing the recording of deaths and marriages 
vary. It is required under efficient systems that the death 
certificate be filed and a burial or removal permit be issued 
before the body is permitted to be buried or removed. 

GOOD REGISTRATION AND How TO OBTAIN IT. There 
are two requisites to good registration: first, that it be 
complete; second, that it be accurate. Thus, the registrar 
must not only see that all certificates are recorded; he 
must also scrutinize each one for errors and deficiencies 
and refuse to receive incomplete or apparently inaccurate 
certificates. 

While the law is as a rule state law, the enforcement of 
it devolves first of all upon the local registrar. This means 
constant vigilance, a searching out of deficiencies and, 
frequently, an active campaign for good registration. 
Where registration is poor the situation is almost always 
due to lack of strictness on the part of the local registrar. 
Most of the physicians and others who are remiss in their 
duty of reporting are unconsciously so and need only be 
stimulated to proper performance by a clear statement 
from the registrar dwelling on the importance of good 
registration and his intention of obtaining it. In those few 
instances where notification is disregarded the guilty party 
should be brought to book and made to pay the legal 
penalty. The physician, being protected in the practice of 
his profession by the state, should be all the more active 
in complying with the state law, by reporting his births 
promptly. 

Reporting of deaths is, in general, much better than 
that of births, owing to the now widespread practice 
of requiring the death certificate to be exchanged for a 

1 Atherholt, G. W., Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, p. 451. 
Such a provision has been adopted in Massachusetts (Chapter 280, 
Acts of 1912). 



49 4 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

burial permit before burial or removal, under severe 
penalty. 

Marriages should be recorded with the same degree of 
care as the other vital records. What has been said in 
regard to the enforcement of the birth registration law ap- 
plies in principle here. In those states where a marriage 
license requirement is in effect, the completeness of the 
marriage returns may be checked up on the license stubs. 

Every efficient registrar will devise various checks by 
which he can ascertain what deficiencies there may be in 
the returns and can locate the persons responsible for them. 
Such data furnish a' means of extending the value of the 
statistics and at the same time of improving registration. 

CHECKS UPON BIRTH RECORDS. The following checks 
are applicable to birth recording: 

(i) All deaths of infants under two years of age should 
be checked back against the birth records in order to 
ascertain whether the births were reported, omitting of 
course those where the death certificate gives an out-of- 
town place of birth. This may conveniently be done 
monthly when the certificates are being made ready to 
transmit to the state authorities. Cases in which the name 
is missing from the birth records are made the subject of 
a visit to the home for further information. If it is found 
that the birth occurred in town and that the professional 
attendant failed to report, the matter is then to be taken 
up with the latter. 1 

1 The following extract from the Report of the Board of Health of 
Montclair, N. J., for 1913, is illustrative of the defects found: "In 
checking back the deaths of children to determine whether the corre- 
sponding birth certificates had been filed we also found gross irregu- 
larities, especially in the spelling of the family name. In many cases it 
was impossible to locate the birth record from the card index, and it was 
only by looking up the record in the original book, using the date of 
birth as stated on the death certificate as a guide, that the correspond- 
ing certificates could be found. Any method of checking up the per- 
centage of reported births from the death records is bound to be in error 



VITAL STATISTICS 495 

(2) It may be feasible to make canvasses of certain dis- 
tricts, obtaining names, addresses, and dates of all births 
that have occurred within the year, which may then be 
checked back upon the records. 1 

unless the original records, arranged in chronological order, are searched. 

The following illustrates some of the discrepancies found: 

Death Record Birth Record 

Colone Calama 

Cerona Tchiron 

Steffano Stivale 

Ferrari Veria 

Entille Intile 

Spariano Spaciamma 

De Gaita Di Kito 

Christophi Christianna 

Aoccella Cicollela 

Garis, Willie Garis, Nellie 

Ryan (out of wedlock) Phelan 

Sheppard (out of wedlock) Bradley 

Yanno (out of wedlock) De Angelo." 

1 The following is the experience of Montclair, N. J. (Rpt. just 
quoted) : 

"In a large section of the town that was canvassed for unreported 
births we found only one case in which a physician had failed to file the 
return, and he claimed that he had mailed it, but we found about a 
dozen cases in which midwives had not made returns and we also found 
that there were gross errors in names, dates of birth, and in other par- 
ticulars on many of the certificates that had been filed . . . Our birth 
records, will not be complete until a yearly house-to-house inspection 
of the entire town is made for this purpose. Even if all doctors and 
midwives reported all of their births there would still remain the few 
cases in which there was no attendant at birth or in which some unreg- 
istered person officiated." 

The following procedure is also proposed: 

"We have decided that we can nearly reach the 100 per cent mark in 
birth registration, and also gain the great advantage of having accurate 
records, by the following method: As soon as a certificate of birth is 
filed a transcript is made on a specially attractive form and sealed with 
the official seal of the office. This copy is mailed to the parent of the 
child, together with a circular letter in which the importance of accurate 
birth registration is outlined and in which the request is made that the 



496 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Health department nurses and inspectors, if alert, may 
in the course of their rounds learn of births and may be re- 
quired to keep regular lists of these, with data as to name, 
date and place of birth, to be checked up on the records. 

(3) The records of hospitals may, through the courtesy 
of the hospital authorities, be examined at least once a 
year for comparison with the official birth records. There 
may be a lack of understanding between institution and 
physicians through which there is failure to report. 

CHECKS UPON MARRIAGE RECORDS. Marriages may be 
checked up through the marriage licenses where these are 
required by law. Otherwise announcements published in 
the newspapers may be used as a partial check. 

CHECKS UPON DEATH RECORDS. The records of ceme- 
teries may be compared from time to time to ascertain 
whether any burials have taken place without the legal 
filing of a death certificate (or whether burial permits have 
been obtained in the wrong sanitary district, as sometimes 
occurs). Access to the records of deaths in hospitals may 
also be obtained. The law requiring proper burial per- 
mits should be very strictly enforced and the practice of 
burying first and obtaining a permit afterward should not 

record be returned for correction if errors are noted. [Text of letter 
given.] ... It is expected that parents will soon learn that they 
should receive such a certificate and will send to the office for it in case 
they do not receive one so that we will thereby obtain a record of un- 
reported births. We believe that errors will be corrected promptly and 
the value of the certificates thereby greatly increased. We expect that 
the school authorities will cooperate by requiring the presentation of 
such a certificate upon admission to school, so that we will thereby 
obtain a check upon the records of children born four or five years ago." 
It scarcely needs be said that all this represents an effort for perfect 
registrative efficiency and one requiring considerable increase in clerical 
work. There would also be much extra work if the certificates were 
followed up in ignorant or foreign families whence they would not other- 
wise be returned. The practicability of the plan would, therefore, de- 
pend upon the intelligence and cooperation of families and upon the 
labor available for its operation. 



VITAL STATISTICS 497 

be tolerated. Burial without due procedure as required 
by law constitutes a serious offence. 

Proper recording further demands a proper system of 
copying 1 and transcribing records, with regular returns of 
the original certificates to the state registration office. It 
is customary to make certified transcripts of the records 
for persons requesting them at a small fee, these consti- 
tuting prima facie legal proof of the record. It is scarcely 
necessary to say that the official may not alter a record in 
any particular; this can only be done by the person re- 
sponsible for making the return. If the original certificate 
has been transmitted, a corrected certificate or other legal 
form may be made out and filed. 

2. Tabulation. The objects and methods of tabula- 
tion will be taken up presently. 

3. Study of Statistics Obtained. This is a most im- 
portant point, though too frequently neglected. Indeed, 
even to determine the tabulations required demands some 
study of conditions and of the figures for previous years. 
As Whipple says, "the man who merely tabulates data 
and does not study them is a clerk and not a statistician." 
The consideration demanded is usually in the nature of 
analysis, detection of errors and fallacies, and searching 
into underlying factors. These matters will be taken up 
later. 

1 The best form for permanent local copies of records is probably a 
series of books into which the certificates are copied by hand, an alpha- 
betical card index divided by years being kept. Births, marriages and 
deaths should, of course, be kept separate. Stillbirths should be kept 
in a separate book, also "late birth returns," when deficiencies in the 
records for previous years have had to be supplied. Births may con- 
veniently be indexed under the name of the father (for births out of 
wedlock under the name of the mother) and marriages under the name 
of each party. The chief disadvantage of card index systems is that 
cards may be misplaced; this may be guarded against by having a lock- 
ing index such that cards cannot be removed, and by checking up each 
batch of certificates against the index before transmittal to the state 
authorities. 



498 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Finally come : 

4. Presentation and Interpretation of the statistics, by 
which alone they can be made clear and forceful to others 
than the official who has made the study and by which 
they become even more cogent to him. 

We have dealt thus far with original statistics, those 
produced from records in the local health office. But it is 
sometimes necessary for the health officer to refer to vari- 
ous 'official sources. Here, while the figures may be ac- 
cessible in convenient form, certain dangers and fallacies, 
which we shall mention in a special section, must be guarded 
against. We may distinguish three kinds of published 
(official) statistics federal, state and local. These are 
in general to be relied upon in the order given, the federal 
being the most, and the local the least trustworthy. 

For population figures recourse is to be had to the re- 
sults of the Federal Census, taken every ten years e.g., 
1900, 1910, etc., and, in certain states, to the State 
Census, 1 taken every ten years on the half-decade 1895, 
1905, etc. By the use of these figures, together with 
proper estimates for the non-censal years (see p. 504), an 
accurate population basis for vital statistics may be ob- 
tained. 

The Federal vital statistics of births and deaths, while 
the most trustworthy that we have, are subject to certain 
limitations which the Census Bureau recognizes and de- 
scribes. The United States has as yet no general statistical 
system such as has been established in some of the older 
countries. The Bureau of the Census has been steadily 
striving to improve the registration of deaths and with 
success, as is evinced by the addition from year to year of 
states to its "registration area." This registration area, it 
may be stated, comprises those states (and certain cities 

1 Inquiry should be made as to whether such censuses are approved 
by the U. S. Census Bureau. 



VITAL STATISTICS 499 

in other states) in which the death returns are considered 
sufficiently accurate to be included in the Federal mor- 
tality tables. In 1910 it included 21 states, and returns 
were also accepted from the District of Columbia (City 
of Washington) and 43 other cities in non-registration 
states, or a total population of not quite three-fifths 
(58.3 per cent) of the population of the country. The 
registration area for births was established later and in- 
cludes a much smaller reporting population (about one- 
fourth of the population of continental United States). 
Without a full registration of births no correct infant mor- 
tality rates can be computed for large areas in which that 
registration is deficient. 1 The present incompleteness of 
federally-collected statistics is, therefore, due to the lack of 
proper state and local registration. 

The careful student of vital statistics will notice certain 
discrepancies between the figures given by local, state and 
Federal authorities for the same city. These, due to 
differences in classification, differences in the exact period 
covered, and even to typographical errors and other causes, 
have been discussed by the Chief Vital Statistician of the 
Census in a paper to which those who wish to inquire into 
the matter are referred. 2 

However, from year to year published reports are on the 
whole becoming more inclusive and trustworthy. 

ELEMENTS OF THEORY 

In statistics we deal with units such as single cases or 
deaths the data from which are combined to form num- 
bers, which are then considered as regards their distribu- 
tions and their ratios to other numbers. 

1 See "Birth Registration," Monograph No. I, Children's Bureau, 
Department of Commerce and Labor, 1913. 

2 Wilbur, "The Necessity for Uniformity of National, State and 
Municipal Vital Statistics," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 5, 
P- 4I3- 



500 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

First Principles. In statistical work the following 
three rules must be observed : 

(1) Define clearly the units which are taken as a basis - 
e.g., if they are deaths, state exactly what deaths are in- 
cluded, so as to leave no doubt of the scope of the statistics. 
Such definition should be made in the heading of each 
statistical table. Mention also any conditions which may 
affect the value of the figures, also any material assumptions 
which are made. 

(2) Have accurate and sufficient data. The greater the 
number of separate units included, the greater the ac- 
curacy of the figures, for incidental errors tend to counter- 
balance one another when taken in large numbers. Just 
how accurate and how numerous the data must be is a 
question to be settled by circumstances. 

(3) Focus the figures on one or a very few points at a 
time, eliminating so far as possible all other points. It is 
frequently desirable to make a number of separate tabula- 
tions rather than attempt to cover all the points at issue in 
one, which would be too complex and extensive. 

Numbers may be either absolute or relative. Absolute 
numbers tell us nothing, for no number is significant ex- 
cept by comparison; hence the statistician does not stop 
with an absolute number, but compares it or combines it 
with some other or others. For example, to state that 
100 deaths occurred in a certain town in a certain year 
means nothing unless the population of the town is known, 
and for a thorough knowledge of the significance of the 
figures we should have to know the causes of the deaths, 
the ages of the decedents, and other facts. From such facts 
we may form the relative distribution and ratios (or rates) 
which alone are significant. 

DISTRIBUTIONS. If a number be made one of a series 
so that its relation to the rest of the series is apparent, 
useful comparisons may be made. This is what is done 
when the death rate of a town for one year is compared 



VITAL STATISTICS 501 

with the rates for other years. Or, if a number which con- 
veys little or no information be analyzed, its components 
may be found significant. A quantity of " 60 typhoid fever 
cases" would give only a crude idea of the typhoid situ- 
ation; but if the distribution of the cases according to 
residence, age, sex, source of water and food supplies, etc., 
were known, valuable conclusions might be drawn. Thus, 
if an absolute number be made one of a series of relative 
and comparable numbers, or if it be split up into such a 
series, useful information may be obtained. 

RATIOS, OR RATES. A distribution involves several 
numbers, whereas a ratio is the relationship of one number 
to another. Conversion into ratios is the commonest way 
of making absolute numbers relative and comparable. 
This gives the birth rates, death rates, etc., which play 
so large a part in statistics. 

Among statisticians, certain rules have been formulated 
for the calculation of the principal rates and other figures, 
and certain terms have been agreed upon. Thus only 
can rates be ''corrected" or standardized so as to be com- 
parable. This matter of standardization will be taken up 
again under the subject of death rates, to which it chiefly 
applies. 

AVERAGES, MAXIMA, MINIMA, ETC. The health officer 
need not usually go into the mathematical theory of prob- 
ability, error, etc.; his data may usually be judged on 
other considerations. One or two cautions may, how- 
ever, be in place. 

In taking an average^- (or arithmetical mean, obtained by 
dividing the sum of a number of quantities by the number 

1 The term "normal," which is frequently met with in such expres- 
sions as "the normal temperature for the month," "the normal typhoid 
death rate," and the like, is usually meant in the sense of "average." 
Used in this sense it is likely to mislead;, e.g., a death rate which has 
been for a number of years "normal" to a certain place may be in 
reality highly abnormal when judged by proper public health standards. 
The term "average" should be used in all such cases. 



502 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

of the quantities taken), care must be taken that the 
number of facts is sufficiently numerous to insure a true 
representation. Thus, if we average 2 deaths in one 
month with 10 deaths in another the monthly average ob- 
tained is 6, but the significance of this figure is much less 
than if the number of months taken were greater, say in- 
cluding a whole year. This can readily be seen in such an 
instance, where there is so great a variance from month to 
month. Again, to average the results of only two or three 
analyses of a certain milk-supply would perhaps be mis- 
leading, while the average of a greater number of samples 
taken within a short period of time would give a trust- 
worthy figure. 

The average, moreover, is not always the truly indicative 
figure. It may frequently be the maximum or the minimum 
which is really required. A milk-supply, for example, 
might run excessively high in bacteria during one or two 
periods which would be concealed in a general average for 
the year. A water-supply might be subjected to occasional 
pollutions sufficient to cause epidemics while its general 
average appears quite respectable. In the same way the 
total of the typhoid fever cases during a year might give 
no distinct indication of epidemic increases which had 
taken place at particular times during the year. In other 
words, averages give no indication of distribution or vari- 
ation j while maxima and minima have the virtue of indi- 
. eating undesirable extremes. 

A figure known as the median is sometimes used. This 
figure is such that in a series of quantities there are just 
as many above as below it. This figure is especially useful 
and is more indicative than the average in any series 
where the distribution of the quantities is so uneven that 
the inclusion of those at one extreme unduly influences the 
average obtained. Thus, in the series I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 
20, 30, 40, the median is 6, while the average, on account 
of the three high numbers at the end, is 11.5. In the U. S. 



VITAL STATISTICS 503 

Registration Area in 1910 the average age at death of 
bronchopneumonia cases was 19.7 years; but the median 
was only 1.5, showing the disease to be one chiefly of 
infants, an important fact not indicated by the average. 

As to theory and practical statistical work, it must be 
remembered that while in institutions, etc., and under 
special conditions very exact work is possible, in general 
public health work the conditions are at present far from 
ideal. The quantities dealt with are by no means mathe- 
matically exact, many fluctuations are unmeasured, and 
the health officer as statistician must be constantly cor- 
recting, elucidating and qualifying. 

STATISTICS OF POPULATION 

Population is the basis of vital statistics. The study of 
populations and of the " movement of population" (the 
effect of births, deaths and migration) is an important 
branch of statistical science included in the general scope 
of the science of Demography (a term from the French 
statisticians, not as yet in very general use). 

Censuses. A growing population is subject to increase 
by the surplus of births over deaths (since births are com- 
monly more numerous than deaths) called the "natural 
increment"; it is also influenced by migration. In the 
United States, where immigration is so much more im- 
portant than emigration, great increases are experienced 
from the latter cause. The total increase in population 
from time to time is called the "actual increment," being 
the net result of all factors affecting the population. The 
population is determined at certain intervals by means of 
a census, which is taken as of a certain definite date. The 
United States Census, under the Bureau of the Census, 
Department of Commerce, is taken every ten years on the 
even decades: 1900, 1910, 1920, etc. In addition, certain 
states take a census of their own on the intermediate semi- 



504 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

decades: 1905, 1915, etc. 1 The results of the Federal 
Census are published in a series of bulletins and volumes, 
the 1910 Census being known as the Thirteenth. 

Population Estimates. It is necessary to determine the 
population for intercensal years by estimation. For this 
purpose various methods have been proposed. Since pop- 
ulations are subject to all kinds of unmeasured fluctuations, 
any estimate is subject to error and the question arises as 
to what method is the most dependable. 

This question has been answered by the Bureau of the 
Census, which, after thorough consideration of various 
methods, recommends what is known as the U. S. Census 
method of estimation, 2 which consists in arithmetical inter- 
polation between and beyond the two latest censuses. In 
other words it assumes that the actual amount of increase 
of the population each year is the same; so that it is only 
necessary to take the difference in population between two 
censuses, divide by the number of years intervening, and, 
beginning with the earlier census, add that quotient for 
each successive year. In its simplest form, to illustrate 
the principle without for the present referring to the cor- 
rection for mid-year population which will be taken up 
below, the following example is given. 

Example. The population of a certain town was 
15,321 in 1900, and 19,542 in I9io. 3 The interval between 
the censuses we shall assume is exactly ten years, during 
which the town gained 19,542 minus 15,321, or 4,221 in- 
habitants, an average annual increase of (4221 -r- 10 =) 
422.1 inhabitants per year. To obtain the populations for 
the intercensal years simply add the average annual in- 
crease, 422 (dropping the fraction for simplicity), for each 
year, thus: 

1 See note, p. 498. 

2 Used in the U. S. Census publications and prescribed for use by 
health officials and others by the American Public Health Association 
(Rules of Statistical Practice, 1908). 

3 These should be mid-year populations, as will be explained below. 



VITAL STATISTICS 505 

Population for 1900 (census) I 5.3 21 

Add 422 



Population for 1901 (estimate) 15, 743 

422 



Population for 1902 (estimate) 16,165 

And so forth, the last figure being: 

Population for 1909 (estimate) 19,119 

Add 422 



["Population for 1910 (by addition) 19,541"! 

LPopulation for 1910 (census) 19, 542 J 

The last sum, being practically the same as the census 
population, being a check on all the previous additions. 

To obtain the estimates for postcensal years, assuming 
that there is no census later than 1910, simply continue on 
as above: 

Population for 1910 (census) I 9.54 2 

Annual addition 422 

Population for 1911 (estimate) 19,964 

422 



Population for 1912 (estimate) 20,386 

Etc. Etc. 

From this example, for the sake of simplicity, is omitted 
one noteworthy feature of the method that is the use of 
mid-year populations. Where annual rates are to be cal- 
culated the greatest degree of accuracy will be obtained by 
basing them upon the assumed population at the middle 
of the year, July i. Formerly the Federal Census was 
taken as of June I of the census year, and this was so near 
mid-year that the Census, in calculating rates, made no 
correction for the difference. But in 1910 the Census was 
taken as of April 15, making a difference of 2.\ months from 
the middle of the year; and beginning with 1910 the 
Census has applied a correction so as to base its rates 
upon mid-year populations. Local registration officials 



506 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

should follow this example and reduce all their population 
figures to a mid-year basis. This is the more important 
the more rapid the growth of the community. 

The process of estimating the mid-year populations for 1900 and 1910 
from the census enumerations as of June I and April 15, respectively, is 
very simple. In former estimates, when each census was of date June I , 
the interval between them was exactly ten years or 120 months. The in- 
terval between the census of June i, 1900, and the census of April 15, 
1910, is not 120 months, but only 118.5 months; dividing the observed 
increase of population for a given area by 118.5, the average monthly 
increase during the decade is obtained. This monthly increase added 
to the population June I, 1900, gives the mid-year population for 1900, 
and two and one-half times the monthly increase added to the popula- 
tion of April 15, 1910, gives the mid-year population for 1910. One- 
tenth of the difference between the two mid-year populations is then 
added successively for the intercensal years 1900 to 1910 and the post- 
censal years beginning with 1911 [just as in the example above]. Suit- 
able allowance must, of course, be made for changes of area. 1 

The final check on the postcensal estimates, i.e., estimates 
made since the latest census, lies in the nearness of their 
agreement with the results of the next following census. 
Thus, according to the estimation in the above example, 
the population for 1920 would be 23,762, but if the 
census of that year should show an actual population of, 
say, 22,478, then the estimates since 1910, being in error, 
must be revised to agree with the new figure. There is al- 
ways, of course, such an error, greater or less, in estimated 
postcensal populations. Since the error is frequently very 
considerable, good practice demands that this rule be fol- 
lowed: after each census revise the postcensal estimates pre- 
viously made: re-estimate the populations, taking the new 
population figure into account, and where necessary re- 
compute the rates based upon the first and less accurate 

1 Annual Bulletin on Mortality Statistics, 1909, Bureau of the 
Census. (Quoted in Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 
'9I3. P- 90I-) The U. S. Census method may readily be applied by the 
health officer to the local population figures, or the Census Bureau will 
estimate the populations for any community on request. 



VITAL STATISTICS 507 

population estimates. Where state censuses are taken in 
the interval between Federal censuses they may, if ap- 
proved by the Federal Census Bureau, be made use of, 
the estimation being made through five- instead of ten-year 
periods. 

DEATHS 

DEATH RATES 

Of chief interest to the health officer are mortality 
statistics, for the information afforded by death rates is of 
the greatest importance. The following are the general 
definitions relating to death rates. The terms paired in 
brackets are contrasted with each other. 

A general death rate is the ratio obtained by dividing 
total deaths (irrespective of cause, age, etc.) into the 
population among which they have occurred. This is the 
common meaning of the term "death rate" when used 
without qualification. 

A specific death rate is a rate for a specified cause, for a 
specified nationality, age-group, or the like; especially 
one "based upon a specified or limited group of popu- 
^lation" (U. S. Census). 

A gross, or apparent, death rate includes all the deaths 
which have occurred in a given district in a given time, 
regardless of deaths of non-residents occurring therein. 
An actual, or true, death rate is one from which the 
deaths of non-residents in local hospitals and other in- 
stitutions are excluded, while deaths of residents occur- 
ring in institutions elsewhere are so far as possible 
included. 1 

1 While the terms used in these two definitions are not in general 
or official usage, it seems desirable to adopt them for present purposes. 
The term "actual," while accepted in England, is. not yet familiar in 
this country, nor is any corresponding term, because the procedure 
as to resident and non-resident deaths mentioned in the definition is not 
yet properly established here. 



508 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

A crude, or unstandardized, death rate is one which is un- 
corrected for the various factors of age and sex distri- 
bution and the like, in the population, which would tend, 
aside from sanitary conditions, to affect mortality. 

A standardized death rate is one in which mathematical 
correction is made for such factors, usually for age and 
sex distribution of population. 1 
A death rate may be described by more than one of the 

above terms. Thus, the general death rate of a city might 

be the actual rate, but unstandardized. 

The standardizing of death rates requires a detailed 

statistical process which need not be described here. 2 It 

It would be very desirable to have a provision of law in every state 
that whenever the death of a non-resident occurs in a hospital (or 
other institution) in any sanitary district, the local registrar should, 
within a limited time, make out a duplicate of the certificate and trans- 
mit the same to the local registrar of the district where the decedent 
was previously resident. In this way such non-resident deaths (as deter- 
mined by a stated rule) could be not only subtracted from the statistics 
of the district where they occurred but do not belong, but they could 
also be added to the district where they do rightfully belong. Such 
correction would be made not only locally but also by the state regis- 
trar, so that all published statistics would be "actual." The law could 
readily be enforced by inspection of the various local records by state 
registration officials. Such a provision would also subserve private 
convenience in obtaining official data relating to residents who have 
died in some other municipality. Some rule should also be adopted 
relative to deaths of transients not in institutions. For present status 
of the whole matter of deaths of non-residents and transients see Ap- 
pendix E, Rule No. 3 of 1908. 

Since the numbers and rates published in state and Federal reports 
at the present time are gross rates, local reports should, in stating their 
general figures, give both gross and actual. 

Similar regulations should be made for births in the case of non-resi- 
dent mothers. 

1 Such rates are frequently called "corrected rates." The above is 
preferred as the term suggested by the Census (Mortality Statistics for 
1911). 

2 Described in Newsholme's "Vital Statistics"; and by Wilbur, in 
Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 901. Cf. 
Appendix IV of Whipple's "Typhoid Fever," 1908 (reprinted from Ann, 
Rpt. Mass. State Bd. of Health for 1902). 



VITAL STATISTICS 509 

is chiefly of value in comparisons between the rates for 
different communities, and hence is of comparatively little 
interest to the local health officer. 

The rates published in state and Federal reports at the 
present time are, except as otherwise specified, gross and 
unstandardized. 

Nevertheless, while the standardization is infrequently 
applied, it should constantly be borne in mind that death 
rates are influenced by a large number of factors, many of 
which have no relation to sanitary conditions. It is the 
net effect of these which is summed up in the general death 
rate, which therefore, while it is an important figure, can- 
not, as a sanitary index, be accepted without qualification. In 
fact, the general death rate may give little real indication of 
the sanitary situation, and it becomes necessary to con- 
sider the specific rates for various diseases, ages, etc., in 
order to accurately estimate health conditions. Some of 
the various factors involved will be taken up below. 

The general (annual) death rate is obtained by dividing 
the number of deaths during the year by the estimated 
mid-year population in thousands for that year, so as to 
express the rate as ''per thousand of population." Thus: 

Death rate (per thousand) 

Number of deaths during year 
Mid-year population -f- 1000 

Specific death rates are calculated in a similar manner, 
though differently expressed. The common expression of 
death rates for specific causes is "per 100,000 of popula- 
tion" (sometimes per 10,000), as the expression of such 
rates "per 1000" would necessitate a clumsy use of deci- 
mals. Thus, for typhoid fever: 

Typhoid fever death rate (per- 100,000) 

Typhoid fever deaths during year X 100 
Mid-year population -f- 1000 



510 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Such a specific rate as that just given is calculated upon 
the whole population, but there are others which should be 
based upon a limited or group population. Thus, if it is 
desired to calculate the general death rate of a certain ward 
in a city the rate should be based, not upon the whole pop- 
ulation of the city, but upon the estimated mid-year 
population for that particular ward. The rule is, cor- 
respondence of figures is a prerequisite to combination. (See 
also under Fallacies, p. 526.) 

The factors which determine death rates may be summed 
up under three heads: 

i. COMPOSITION OF POPULATION. The nature of the 
population has an important influence on death rates. 
Some of the factors under this head are susceptible of sani- 
tary control or mitigation; others are not. But in any 
case, all those mentioned in this section constitute at least 
initial disadvantages. 

Thus, for example, in the distribution by age a large per- 
centage of the very old or the very young (the latter indi- 
cated by a high birth rate) will tend to increase the general 
death rate. Death rates at various ages are shown in 
Chart i, p. 74. l 

In sex distribution the proportion of males, who experience 
a higher mortality at most ages, tends to increase the rate. 

Certain races, e.g., the negro race, tend to higher death 
rates. In Richmond, Va., where 37 per cent of the popu- 
lation is colored, the negro death rate is 80 per cent higher 
than the white. The negro death rates for the more 
important causes should be shown separately. 2 

1 The U. S. Census in its analysis of mortality has established the 
following sets of age-groups: (A) Under i year, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4, 4-5; 
under 5, five-year periods from 5 to 100, 100 and over, unknown age. 
(B) Under i, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4, 4-5, 5-10, ten-year periods from 10 to 100, 
100 and over, unknown age. See also the grouping in Table i, p. 73. 
(A) and (B) are in accordance with the population classification of the 
Census. 

2 See Terry, "The Negro: His Relation to Public Health in the 
South," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 4, p. 300. 






VITAL STATISTICS 51 1 

Ignorance and careless modes of life among the popu- 
lation are evidently potent factors in increasing death 
rates. 

2. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS NOT SUBJECT TO SANITA- 
TION. Among these are to be reckoned climate and 
weather. Southern climates furnish the most favorable 
conditions for the life of disease germs in the environment, 
for the transmission of inSect-borne diseases, make the 
preservation of milk and other foods difficult, and depress 
the vitality of some individuals. Such conditions may be 
counteracted by sanitation, but since they cannot be re- 
moved by it, constitute a distinct handicap. The rigorous 
northern climates also have their disadvantages, although, 
on the whole, mortality is higher the nearer the tropics 
are approached. Hot weather increases infant mortality 
through its effect upon the infant organism and upon the 
milk supplies, while cold weather favors pneumonia, bron- 
chitis, and other diseases of the respiratory system. 
Changeable weather, and particularly rapid changes of 
temperature, increases the mortality through its strain on 
the adapting powers of the feeble, the very old, and the 
very young. The various communicable diseases have an 
incidence which varies with the season, intestinal dis- 
eases in summer (cf. remark on typhoid fever, p. 193), 
respiratory and skin diseases (diphtheria, scarlet fever) 
in winter. 1 Health officers would do well to include in 
their reports some comment on local temperature and 
other meteorological conditions, based on official Weather 
Bureau data. 2 The relation between summer heat and 
infant mortality is particularly important. Poverty, with 
the accompanying lack of sufficient and nourishing food 
and of adequate clothing, frequently combined with alco- 

1 Cf. North, "Seasonal Diseases and Seasonal Temperatures," Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 3, p. 322. 

2 Address the nearest local weather office, or the Weather Bureau, 
Department of Agriculture, Washington. 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

holism, is a potent adverse influence which need only be 
mentioned. Overwork and anxiety enter into the problem 
as large factors. Lack of work- "hard times" -pro- 
duces an injurious poverty for some of the population, 
although for others it may necessitate abstinence from 
overwork and injurious self-indulgences, 1 for prosperity 
no doubt has, as well as protections and advantages, cer- 
tain incidental excesses detrimental to health. On the 
whole, an economic condition of moderate prosperity 
would seem to be most conducive to low death rates. 

3. SANITATION. Under this head are to be in- 
cluded all the forces of public health administration 
as well as of sanitary works such as water-supply, 
sewerage, etc. 

One of the adverse factors which might have been 
mentioned in the preceding section is congestion of the 
population. This, while an environmental state difficult 
of administrative modification, is the matrix of a num- 
ber of sanitary evils which call for a special degree of 
control. Congestion, the crowding of large numbers of 
persons upon a small area and of families into cramped 
dwelling quarters, favors communication of disease, un- 
cleanliness and inadequate ventilation; while accompany- 
ing it are commonly poverty, ignorance, low standards 
of intelligence and living, alcoholism and the like. These 
influences show statistically in infant mortality and the 
death rates from tuberculosis and other diseases. Hence 
it is that urban, or concentrated, populations present 
greater sanitary problems than rural, or segregated, popu- 
lations. 

Trades deleterious to health some subject to great, others 
to little modification by sanitation may also be men- 
tioned as a special factor tending to increase mortality and 
presenting serious sanitary problems. 
1 See note, p. 92 f. 



VITAL STATISTICS 513 

SPECIFIC MORTALITY FIGURES 

From what has been said it may be seen that the inter- 
pretation of a general death rate is not an easy matter, and 
especially that sanitary administration may not be directly 
measured by it. If the various non-sanitary factors 
change but little from year to year the variations in the 
general death rate over several years may be taken as an 
approximate indication of sanitary conditions. If the non- 
sanitary factors are subject to variation, due allowance 
must, of course, be made. It is because of the uncertainty 
of these non-sanitary factors that comparisons of crude 
general death rates must be made with caution. Es- 
pecially should comparisons of different communities (or 
of sections of the same community) be distrusted unless all 
the factors are taken into consideration. 

It is for such reasons as these that study of the sanitary 
status of a community demands analysis of the general 
death rate through the use of specific mortality figures. 1 

The specific numbers and rates most frequently taken 
are according to cause of death. Other specific figures are 
sometimes used, as for age-groups, nationalities, occupa- 

1 A good discussion of specific causes of death and the scope and 
significance of the various terms is given in U. S. Mortality Statistics 
for 1911. In the annual reports of the Superintendent of Health of 
Providence, R. I. (Dr. C. V. Chapin), for 1905 and subsequent years, 
will also be found illuminating remarks on the various specific causes of 
death and the statistical relationships between them. 

The establishment of a sanitary index to include the combined effect 
of the preventable causes of death has been proposed. (Batt, "The 
Establishment of a Sanitary Index Based upon Certain Specific Mor- 
tality Rates," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 2, p. 132.) 
Such an index would take account of communicable diseases (titles I to 
16 of the Internat. list, excepting possibly influenza, cholera nostras 
and dysentery), tuberculosis (all forms) -and infant mortality (under 
one year). It is stated that the curve for this index does not always 
follow the general death rate from year to year, hence the necessity for 
consideration of specific rates. 



514 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

tions, etc., in combination with total deaths or deaths from 
specific causes, but on the whole the most light is obtained 
through consideration of causes of death. 

On certificates of death as filled out by physicians, not 
only are thousands of different terms used in the state- 
ment of the cause of death, but these terms are subject to 
greater or less inaccuracies and are frequently combined in 
such a way as to make determination of the true cause 
difficult. It is the problem of the vital statistician to 
classify the deaths under a limited number of titles, other- 
wise they cannot be intelligently studied; and those titles 
must be as exact as scientific nomenclature can make them. 
The problem has fortunately been much simplified through 
the system known as: 

The International Classification of Causes of Death. - 
This classification, sometimes called after its originator 
the "Bertillon System," is employed by the U. S. Bureau 
of the Census and the registration states and by all pro- 
gressive registration offices and officials. An International 
Commission of Revision meets every ten years for the pur- 
pose of revising it, the latest revision having been made 
in 1909. A Manual of the International List is published 
by the U. S. Census Bureau, as is also a Physicians' Pocket 
Reference which has been distributed to all physicians in 
the country so that they may aid in bringing about a 
uniform and general use of the terms. Both of these pub- 
lications may be obtained on request, and the former 
should be a ready reference book in use by every health 
officer and registrar. 

In the International List all causes of death are arranged 
under 179 specific titles, each having a definite number and 
name, and only these titles are used in reporting statistics. 
As an example of the simplification effected: under the 
first title, "i. Typhoid fever," are included 33 separate 
terms used in death certificates to denote this disease. 
There is also an Abridged Classification which consists of 



VITAL STATISTICS 515 

only 35 titles, formed by combinations of the extended list; 
this, however, has a comparatively limited use; the titles 
of the full list should be used in general tables of causes of 
death. It is an invariable rule that in reports all statements 
and tabulations of causes of death should be strictly according 
to the International Classification. 

The Manual issued by the Census Office gives instruc- 
tions for the assignment of deaths under the Classification 
which are indispensable to the registrar in making up his 
reports. In a third or so of death certificates two or more 
"causes" of death are given, and it is the task of the 
registrar to determine the correct title, always bearing in 
mind that it is the real primary or underlying cause of death, 
and not mere complications or terminal conditions, which 
is to be selected. Upon the care and skill with which this 
is done will depend to a great extent the value of the re- 
sultant statistics. A knowledge of pathology as well as 
familiarity with the International List is required for this 
task and the health officer if not a medical man should 
obtain medical advice in marking the causes of death. 
So far as possible individual opinion on doubtful cases 
should be subordinated to the rules given in connection 
with the use of the International List. Since this matter 
is fully discussed in the Manual, no further mention need 
be made here. 

Death Rate for Specific Causes of Death. Rates for 
specific causes of death may be expressed in several different 
ways (the first of which has already been mentioned) : 

(1) Per 100,000 of population. This is the commonest 
and most useful form of expression. 

(2) As a percentage of the total mortality from all causes. 
Of limited and uncertain value (see p. 528). 

(3) As related to certain groups of the population. For 
example, the percentage of tuberculosis deaths among a 
certain number of workers in a certain trade. This method 
is very valuable in special studies of occupational mortality, 



516 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

solving questions which cannot be touched through more 
general statistics. 

(4) With communicable diseases, as a percentage of the 
number of cases of the disease. This figure is sometimes 
known as the "fatality," or "case mortality," or "percent- 
age mortality." 

EXPRESSION OF INFANT MORTALITY. The standard 
form of expression of infant mortality is the ratio of deaths 
under one year of age per 1000 births}- (Enumerations or 
estimates of population under one year of age are unreliable 
and are not considered a permissible basis for this ratio.) 
This figure is known specifically as the "infant mortality 
rate"; its employment, however, is sadly handicapped by 
deficiencies in the reporting of births. For this reason the 
Census authorities state (1911) that it is "impossible to 
present satisfactory rates of infant mortality for the great 
majority of states and cities." 

The rate "deaths under five years of age per 1000 of 
population under five years" is also used. The percentage 
of deaths under one year (and under five years) based on the 
total deaths of % all ages may be given. Deaths of infants 
under five years of age should be given by age as follows: 
by days for the first week, by weeks for the first month, 
by months for the first year, and by years for the five 
years. (See Chapter II, Child Hygiene.) 

In Appendix G is indicated the statistical material which 
should be presented in local board of health reports. In 
addition to such material the health officer may make any 
special studies of the local mortality that circumstances 

1 In order to determine the infant mortality rate exactly it would be 
necessary to consider what proportion of the infants born in any one year 
die before reaching the age of one year, so that both births and deaths 
refer to the same group; but as the number of births does not usually 
vary too greatly from year to year it is more practical to divide the 
deaths by the births for the same year, as implied in the definition. 



VITAL STATISTICS 517 

render desirable, consisting in statistical investigation, or, 
perhaps more often, illuminating comment upon the local 
statistics. 

ERRORS IN DEATH CERTIFICATES. Statistics being no 
more accurate than the original data from which they are 
drawn, registrars should be vigilant in obtaining complete 
and, so far as may be ascertained by inspection, accurate 
certificates. The United States Standard Certificate of 
Death is now widely used throughout the country. 1 It 
contains twenty numbered items, eleven of which are of 
statistical interest, the remainder being only of legal or 
personal value. 'Special attention should be paid to items 
7 (age), 8 (occupation) and 17 (cause of death). In the 
last instance the spaces for primary and secondary (con- 
tributory) causes of death should be as exactly filled out 
as the physician's knowledge of the case allows ; and where 
there is uncertainty in the assignment of the certificate 
under the International List of Causes it may be desirable 
to obtain fuller information from the physician. (Cf. 
the note on the reverse of the certificate.) Under item 
1 8 (length of residence), care should be taken that this 
space is filled in case the death occurs in a hospital or 
other institution; and in such instances the "former or 
usual residence" is to be given by place if out-of-town and 
by street and number if local. Only thus can deaths of 
non-residents in institutions be separated and deaths of 
residents in such institutions be assigned to their proper 
wards, both of which procedures are necessary for obtain- 
ing "actual" death rates as has already been described. 

RELATION BETWEEN BIRTH AND DEATH RATES. On 
the whole, a high birth rate tends to produce a high death 

1 A discussion of its points is given by Dr. Wilbur, formerly of the 
Census Bureau, in Rosenau's " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, 
p. 883. Copies of the certificate may be obtained on application to the 
Bureau of the Census, Washington. 



5 i8 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

rate. This is due to the influence, through the larger num- 
ber of infant deaths in proportion to the population, of 
the higher infant mortality occurring in the congested 
districts where the birth rate is high. This would not, 
however, be the effect if infant mortality were so limited 
by hygienic measures that the proportion of vigorous per- 
sons of child-productive age counterbalanced or outweighed 
the number of infants dying. A high birth rate may, 
therefore, sometimes be taken as an explanation, though 
never as a justification of a high death rate. 

In some communities the phenomena of a lowered birth 
rate (due to later marriages, voluntary limitation of 
families, etc.) and a lowered death rate (due to improved 
hygiene) go hand in hand. 

How FAR MAY DEATH RATES BE LOWERED? It is an 
interesting question to just what point the general death 
rate can be lowered in any community. It is clear that 
even if all causes of death except old age were eliminated, 
there would still be a limit to the reduction. 

As a general proposition, the level toward which the 
death rate would sink as sanitary measures became more 
and more effective would be determined by the amount of 
mortality from non-preventable causes, i.e., roughly con- 
stitutional disease, accidents, and old age. In any given 
community the actual amount of such mortality would de- 
pend upon the composition of the population according to 
age, sex, race, and upon environmental factors not subject 
to sanitary control (see p. 5iof.). These vary greatly 
from one community to another. In one community the 
sum total of such factors might produce an irreducible 
minimum death rate of 8 per thousand ; in another, having 
greater natural problems, it would be higher. The factors 
often vary in the same community from year to year. 

We must repeat that the absolute level of the general 
death rate considered by itself, being the resultant of many 
factors both sanitary and non-sanitary, cannot be taken 



VITAL STATISTICS 519 

without analysis as an accurate gage of sanitary adminis- 
tration alone. Of course, certain rough ideas may be 
formed. If the rate is very low, say below 12 per thou- 
sand, there is a presumption that there are peculiarly 
favorable conditions (e.g., as to ages) in the population. If 
the rate is very high, say above 20, there is the presumption 
that the mortality from infant mortality, tuberculosis or 
other causes is excessive. But such general presumptions 
are of little value; detailed knowledge of specific death 
rates and all-important external factors is demanded. 
Such knowledge will throw light upon the amount of pre- 
ventable mortality. Then, the reduction of this to zero, 
rather than any calculated effect upon the general death 
rate, is the true goal. 

MARRIAGES 

There is little in marriage statistics to interest the health 
officer. The principal figure is the annual marriage rate 
which is calculated in the same way as the death rate, as 
"marriages per thousand of population." Some authorities 
prefer to give the rate as ' ' persons married per thousand of 
population," but this form has not come into very general 
use. In many states a license (the local registrar usually 
being the licensing official) is required for marriages in 
order that marriages contrary to the provisions of the 
law shall not take place. This requirement incidentally 
improves the registration of marriages by making it an 
easy matter to check them up. 

On account of their legal importance care should be 
taken to secure full and accurate registration of marriages. 

BIRTHS 

Value of Birth Records. In spite of the great legal and 
statistical importance of birth records, the standard of 
registration in the United States is much below what it 
should be. Deficiencies in reporting by physicians are due 



520 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

not merely to lack of realization of the value of the records 
but also, more especially, to the failure of registrars to 
point out that value and insist upon prompt and complete 
registration. 

There is hardly a relation in life from the cradle to the grave in which 
such a record may not prove to be of the greatest value. For example, 
in the matter of descent; in the relations of guardians and wards; in 
the disabilities of minors; in the administration of estates; the settle- 
ment of insurance and pensions; the requirements of foreign countries 
in matters of residence, marriage, and legacies; in marriage in our own 
country; in voting and in jury and militia service; in the right to ad- 
mission and practice in the professions and many public offices; in the 
enforcement of laws relating to education and to child labor, as well as 
to various matters in the Criminal Code the irresponsibility of chil- 
dren under ten for crime or misdemeanor, and determination of the 
"age of consent," etc. As the country becomes more densely settled 
and the struggle for existence sharper, many of these matters, which 
have hitherto been of minor significance, will take on a deeper meaning 
and acquire greater importance. 1 

The chief statistical use of birth records lies in their 
being the indispensable basis for studies of child life and 
particularly of infant mortality. The calculation of the 
"infant mortality rate" depends directly upon a complete 
registration of births, and if that registration is materially 
impaired the rate based upon it is of little or no significance. 
"What do we know about infant mortality, which we are 
all so anxious to prevent," asks Dr. Wilbur of the Census 
Bureau, "when not a single State or city in the United 
States has the data for a correct statement? It depends 
upon the accurate registration of all births." It is to be 
hoped that through the efforts of health officers and regis- 
trars this reproach will soon be removed as it can be if 
registration laws are simply strictly enforced. 

1 Dr. F. W. Reilly, quoted in "Birth Registration," Monograph No. 
I, Federal Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept. of Labor, 1913, which con- 
tains an important practical discussion of the birth registration problem. 
Cf. pamphlet, "Why Should Births and Deaths be Registered?", 
published by Am. Med. Assn., 535 Dearborn Ave., Chicago.) 



VITAL STATISTICS 521 

Registration Methods. A special effort should be made 
to obtain prompt returns. Here, as elsewhere, a return 
postponed is not infrequently a return neglected. Legal 
provision should be made (as is the case in some states) 
that the given name of the child may be registered by 
means of a report supplementary to the regular return, so 
that there is no necessity for delaying the latter on account 
of delay in naming the child. In such case the registrar 
should systematically follow up the cause of unnamed 
infants and obtain the supplementary return, for from the 
legal standpoint registration of the full name is most im- 
portant. The time limit for birth reporting varies in the dif- 
ferent states. The "model law" of the Children's Bureau 
specifies ten days, which is certainly ample. Prompt 
reports are required primarily for the sake of infant hygiene 
work and prevention of blindness. A very effective plan 
consists in requiring "notification" of the birth within 36 
hours, this to consist simply of a statement of name, ad- 
dress, and date and time of birth, to be followed later by 
complete "registration." The registrar could easily see 
that the latter was done in all cases. Of 36-hour notifi- 
cation in England, it has been said that no other one 
expedient has done so much toward lessening infant mor- 
tality in that country. A statute of Massachusetts 
(Chapter 280, Acts of 1912) requires notification within 48 
hours, with registration in full within two weeks. 1 

Birth Rates. The birth rate is calculated in precisely 
the same manner as the general death rate, being expressed 
as births per thousand of population. If all the births 
that have occurred in the district during the year are in- 
cluded, the rate is, strictly speaking, a "gross" or ap- 
parent rate. In order to obtain the actual rate it is neces- 
sary to exclude the births of infants born in local hospitals 

1 In Montclair, N. J., midwives are required to notify the health 
office by telephone or telegraph immediately after being called to attend 
a confinement. 



522 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

to non-resident parents, just as non-resident institutional 
deaths are cast out of the death rate. 1 Unfortunately the 
data for separating such "non-resident" births do not ap- 
pear upon the standard form of birth certificate, but the 
necessary information may be obtained from hospital 
records at the close of the year (when it should be the 
custom to check over such records to ascertain that all 
hospital births have been reported). Local reports should 
publish both the gross and the actual total numbers and rates, 
though only the actual resident births need be included in 
detailed tabulations. For the non-residents, however, a 
statement should be given of the places of residence. 

BIRTH CERTIFICATES. The United States Standard 
Certificate of Birth, 2 approved by the Bureau of the 
Census, now adopted in substance in many of the States, 
contains, like the Standard Death Certificate, items both 
of legal and of statistical value. Of these 23 items, the 
most important to the vital statistician are: place of 
birth, including address; date of birth; color, or race, and 
birthplace of father; and same items for mother. Some 
forms of certificate include a question as to the use of 
prophylactic solution for the prevention of blindness in the 
newborn, mainly as a reminder to the physician or midwife 
that this treatment should be applied in all cases. The 
Massachusetts certificate bears a statement of the law 
requiring reporting of ophthalmia neonatorum, and also 
requires the physician to state whether or not he personally 
attended the birth, it being a practice in some instances for 
physicians to sign certificates for midwives. 

Birth certificates should be examined, at time of filling, 
for accuracy and completeness, though not so much subject 
to error as death certificates. 

1 Properly, all births by non-resident mothers, whether or not in hos- 
pitals, should be separated. The remarks regarding non-resident deaths 
(p. 507 f .) apply in substance to non-resident births. 

2 Copies of this certificate may be obtained from the Census Bureau, 
Washington. 



VITAL STATISTICS 523 

STILLBIRTHS 

The one important statistical consideration here is that 
figures for stillbirths must invariably be kept separate and 
distinct from those of births and deaths, not being included in 
either. It is sometimes unfortunately impossible to de- 
termine whether some published tables of births and deaths 
are inclusive or exclusive of stillbirths. Therefore, general 
tables of births and deaths should always bear the state- 
ment ''stillbirths excluded." There is little in the way of 
statistical work in connection with stillbirths, and a brief 
statement by causes (so far as these are stated) is all that 
need usually be given. More light on the exact causes and 
prevention of stillbirths is needed. 

For definition of stillbirth and rules regarding still- 
births see Rules of Statistical Practice of the American 
Public Health Association (Appendix E). 

MORBIDITY STATISTICS 

Under the head of communicable diseases we have 
mentioned morbidity statistics, i.e., statistics of disease. 
There is this disadvantage in dealing with morbidity 
figures: that they are neither so full nor so accurate as 
those of deaths. Nevertheless, with improved methods of 
diagnosis and more extended recognition and reporting of 
the various diseases, this department of statistical science 
will doubtless receive in future more attention than at 
present. Recent developments have brought about a 
demand for reports of diseases of occupation and of epi- 
lepsy, feeble-mindedness, and the like, and these are now 
required by law in certain states. The same may be 
said of the statistics of accidents and disabilities, incurred 
in industry, and of statistics relating to housing, health and 
industry, and other related social problems, to which ever 
increasing attention is being directed. 

Morbidity statistics, we may note in passing, are not 



524 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

considered under the head of vital statistics in the usual 
sense. 

SOURCES OF STATISTICAL ERROR 

Perhaps no other science holds so many pitfalls for the 
unwary nor offers so many hidden liabilities to producing 
false results as statistics. Traditional popular distrust, 
which unfortunately has some foundation in the careless 
and prejudiced uses to which figures are not infrequently 
put, should be disarmed by care and frankness in the use 
of statistical data on the part of the health officer. 

The sources of statistical inaccuracy may in general be 
put down under three heads: (i) mistakes, (2) errors and 
(3) fallacies. 

1. Mistakes. Under this head we include mistakes in 
counting and copying, arithmetical mistakes, misprints 
and the like, in the clerical work of statistics. Such are 
not to be tolerated in statistical work, though, to be sure, 
they may creep in where masses of such work are per- 
formed. They must, therefore, always be guarded against. 
The critical reader may compare figures given in different 
statements or tabulations in the same report to see if they 
agree in their common quantities. Those who compose 
statistics should make use of all feasible checks, such as 
are suggested in this chapter, under "Methods " 

2. Errors. By errors (as distinct from mistakes or 
blunders) we mean those inaccuracies which are inherent 
to a greater or less extent in even the most careful sta- 
tistical work. Practical statistics is not an exact mathe- 
matical science, for it is occupied in dealing with variable 
quantities which can rarely be exactly measured. Its 
natural errors must be accepted, care being taken to see 
that they do not materially impair the practical value of 
the figures. 

Some of the sources of ordinary statistical error are the 
following : 



VITAL STATISTICS 525 

(a) In the original data taken from certificates, office 
records, etc., which are subject to certain inaccuracies and 
are sometimes incomplete. We have already referred to 
matters of this nature in the paragraphs on birth and 
death certificates above. 

(b) Lack of "correction" or standardization in numbers and 
rates. The objects and principles of such correction have 
already been referred to (p. 508 f.), and while it is not 
usually feasible to "correct" rates, nevertheless, comment 
should be made to show the nature of the allowances which 
should be made. When the need of correction is entirely 
overlooked and produces serious error it partakes of the 
nature of a fallacy (see below, False Comparisons). 

(c) The use of too few data. It is a well-recognized statisti- 
cal principle that the smaller the number of unit cases taken 
the greater is the relative error involved in variations. 

For an extreme example, the writer, in studying the 
typhoid fever death rates of Massachusetts towns, found 
that a certain town had a death rate in a certain year which 
was twice as great as it was the year before, and that both 
rates appeared to be very excessive, one being 40 and the 
other 80 per 100,000. But on examining into the matter 
it was found that the town had only 2500 population and 
that there had been a difference of but one death between 
the two years, the deaths for the two years having been I 
and 2 respectively. The difference of I death had made the 
astounding change of 40 (per 100,000) in the rate. Further 
investigation showed that in many other years there had 
been no typhoid fever deaths whatever, the rate in those 
years being, therefore, zero. In order to determine whether 
the typhoid fever death rate of that small town was really 
excessive or whether it was increased fortuitously, so to 
speak, by the occurrence of two of three cases of possibly 
outside origin, it would be necessary to take the average 
rate over a series of years, and thereby obtain a large 
enough number of deaths to be statistically indicative. 



526 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

And a consideration of the numbers of cases, which are 
about ten times as numerous as typhoid deaths, would, if 
knowledge of all cases could be obtained, give a far better 
indication. Of course, really well-marked outbreaks in 
single years would be another matter. 

Statistical theory proves that by increasing the number 
of observations, the accuracy increases as the square root 
of that number. In other words, the average of 16 cases 
or observations would be subject to but half the error in- 
cident to an average of 4. Just how numerous the data 
should be to warrant reliance is a matter for determination 
in individual instances. In general, it must be considered 
how great an effect variations ordinarily to be expected 
would have upon the final statistical results. 

The estimation of error is an important part of sta- 
tistical work, and in advance statistics various methods of 
calculating numerical error are used. But in local health 
statistics a careful examination of the figures and their 
possible sources of error should suffice to ensure freedom 
from errors of such magnitude as would practically impair 
the results. 

3. Fallacies. By a fallacy is meant an illogical as- 
sumption or process which results not merely in estimable 
error but in an essentially false conclusion. Subtle fal- 
lacies may be unconsciously established, but the more 
common are recognized by all statisticians. They may 
consist in: 

(a) The use of absolute numbers instead of relative num- 
bers and rates. 

(b) Failure to define terms, and the false use of terms. 
Statistical terms having a commonly accepted meaning 
should be used only in that sense, and .others should be 
clearly defined. 

(c) Use of irrational ratios and combinations. Common- 
sense and observance of the rule, correspondence of figures 
a prerequisite to combinations usually serve to avoid 






VITAL STATISTICS 527 

this pitfall, the nature of which is illustrated by the follow- 
ing extract from a recent editorial in the New York Times: 

The mortality figures recently published by the Census Bureau have 
been interpreted in some quarters to prove that a man is past his prime 
at forty years. A careful examination of the figures themselves shows 
that this conclusion is utterly unwarranted. The specific death rates, 
corrected for age and sex, indicate that, in 1911, 14.5 persons died among 
every thousand males between the ages of 35 and 44, while the death 
rate for women of the same age was only 10. Between the ages of 45 and 
54 the specific death rate was 23.3 for every thousand men and 16.2 for 
every thousand women. Certain alarmists have added together these 
specific death rates in the attempt to show that the mortality between 
the ages of 35 and 54 is 63 per thousand of population. Statisticians 
know very well that specific rates cannot be added in this way, and con- 
clusions based on such crude and ignorant manipulation of government 
figures need occasion no anxiety. 

The principle has an important bearing in occupational 
and other statistics which should have a specific basis. A 
statement, for example, that the tuberculosis death rate 
among the employees in a certain industry, say hatting, is 
150 per 100,000 as compared with a rate among teamsters 
of 50 is valueless if based upon the general population, for 
we do not know the relative total numbers of hatters and 
of teamsters. The incidence in a certain group should be 
based upon the total number of employees in that group, 
to be expressed in the form of rational rates as "annual 
deaths per 1000 of hatters," and the like. (See also re- 
marks on calculation of specific rates, p. 515.) 

(d) Fallacious Comparisons. Perhaps the most com- 
mon statistical fallacy lies in the making of comparisons 
which are false because of failure to analyze the quantities 
compared. An example will illustrate. Several years ago 
a statement of the death rate in the United States Army 
in the Philippines was made, calling attention to the lowness 
of this rate as compared with that of most American cities. 
The fallacy lay in the failure to add that since the army of 
occupation was composed of vigorous men in the prime of 



528 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

life, it would not be predisposed, apart from sanitary con- 
ditions, to nearly as high a death rate as prevails in the 
ordinary city. It may be that the sanitation was better, 
but the unqualified statement did not prove the point; 
this only a study of "corrected" rates could do. 

Again, cities with a young and vigorous population can- 
not be compared, without correction, with older cities 
having a less favorable age distribution. Places, further- 
more, which are health resorts attracting advanced invalids 
will, aside from sanitary conditions, have a high death rate, 
in the interpretation of which allowance should be made for 
the deaths of persons who are virtually non-residents. 

The making of comparisons by the use of the "ratio of 
deaths [from a certain cause, or in a certain age-period] to 
total deaths" is unsound. Obviously, such ratios will vary 
greatly with the actual number of total deaths and with 
the composition of the population. Specific rates based 
upon total or group population afford the proper basis for 
such comparisons. 

The rule to be followed in making statistical comparisons 
is that the quantities to be compared must be so based or 
corrected as to be substantially comparable in respect to 
the point at issue. In the ideal comparison all conditions 
on both sides would be the same except the one upon which 
the comparison is to be made. 

(e) The rough use of averages and other general figures 
without reference to conditions in detail; a point which 
has already been dwelt upon. 1 

(/) The common fallacy of post hoc reasoning, not of 
course confined to statistical study, according to which 
if a certain phenomenon which we call A is followed by a 
certain phenomenon which we call B, B is erroneously 
supposed to be necessarily due to A. Thus it was formerly 
thought that disinfection of clothing and other fomites 
was effective in checking yellow fever because epidemics 
1 P. 501 f. Also Quetelet's third rule, footnote to p. 538. 



VITAL STATISTICS 529 

happened to die out after such disinfection had been per- 
formed ; we now know that fomites have nothing to do with 
its transmission. As Whipple truly says : " This and other 
fallacies are very likely to creep in unawares in statistical 
work under cover of apparent accuracy and thoroughness 
of investigation implied by the use of long columns of 
figures." And he adds this remark applicable to statistical 
investigation in general: 

Bailey has well said that the phrase, "Other things being equal," has 
covered up a multitude of sins. As a rule, the other things are not 
equal. He also warns against the hidden errors that may lie in the use 
of the terms, "It is undoubtedly true that," and "It is probable in this 
case that . . . ." Of great importance is it, therefore, to make sure 
that the data collected are sufficient in kind and number for the purpose 
for which the statistics are intended. No better preparation for the 
work of the statistician can be had than that given in a course of study 
in formal logic. . . . First of all vital statistics must be used with 
truth. 1 

STATISTICAL METHODS 

Assuming that a reliable registration has been obtained 
and a proper system of recording established, and that 
there has been mapped out a scheme of tabulations to be 
made, the question arises: What are the best practical 
methods for obtaining the results contemplated? This is 
a question of clerical system and technique which will 
naturally be worked out in each ofhce and for which few 
details can here be laid down. 

Tabulation Systems. In devising methods of tabula- 
tion two requirements should be kept in mind: first and 
chiefly, avoidance or correction of mistakes; and second, 
convenience and speed. Since it is difficult to avoid some 
mistakes in the first working of masses of data, the detec- 
tion and rectification of mistakes after the tabulation is 
made and before it is approved is a most practical and 
necessary requirement, and methods should be chosen with 
this object chiefly in view. In making tabulations from 
1 Op. cit., p. 491 supra. 



530 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

the original vital records it is the usual practice to make a 
direct tally from these records. To illustrate: suppose that 
a tabulation by causes is to be made from a number of 
death records. It is assumed that the records have pre- 
viously been gone over and each death marked with the 
International List number to which it is assigned (see p. 
514 f.). A large sheet is prepared with spaces marked off 
for each cause (sub-spaces for age, sex, etc., if desired). 
The data are then read off and for each cause a mark is 
placed in the appropriate space. Every fifth mark is 
made diagonally across the other four, so that it is very 
easy at the completion of the tabulation to count up 
the totals. The method is simple, but has certain dis- 
advantages, such as: difficulty in quickly locating the 
spaces on a large sheet and the liability to mistake in so 
doing, inconvenience and liability to mistake in making 
corrections, the tendency of spaces to become cramped, 
and possibility of losing the place in case of interruption. 

For such reasons the writer has adopted another method 
of making tabulations which, though indirect, appears to 
be somewhat more convenient and less liable to mistakes. 
This consists in working with dummy certificates made 
from the original records. Suppose, for example, that the 
above tabulation of deaths is to be made by this method. 
The death certificates having been marked with the Inter- 
national numbers for causes, then, with one person reading 
and another marking (an arrangement which is more rapid 
and safer than individual work), a dummy memorandum is 
made for each certificate, bearing the desired data in the 
form of abbreviations such as the following: 

Cause of death: by International number. 

Sex: m or/. 

Color: w or c. 

Age: exact number or by age period. 

Residence (for institutional deaths): r (resident), nr (non-resident). 
(Wards may also be given for all resident deaths if desired, with 
any other data required for tabulation.) 



VITAL STATISTICS 531 

A dummy memorandum containing the above items 
would look something like this: 

Data Dummy 

No. of Records, 324. 
Cause of death, 128. 
Resident. 
Male. 
Age, 25. 
White. 



324 128 r 

m 25 w 



The number appearing in the upper left-hand corner is the 
number of the original record, to which it is thus easy to 
refer back in case of question or need of additional data. 
The data are always placed in the same relative positions 
on the card, there being space in the example given to add 
any other data desired. For making the dummies it is 
convenient to use cards about 3x4 inches of about the same 
stiffness and weight as used in card indexes. Paper slips 
are undesirable as being very difficult to handle. Both 
sides of the card may readily be used. 

When the cards have been made, tabulation is a rapid 
and simple process of sorting and counting, with these ad- 
vantages: that any desired combinations can readily be 
made, that the studies may be extended or modified in any 
direction, that in the process of counting the accuracy of 
the sorting may be verified, that if the totals do not come 
out correctly the error can readily be found. The flexi- 
bility of the method, combined with non-liability to serious 
error, is its chief recommendation. Care should be had to 
transcribe on the cards at -the start all data which are to 
be used, for it is inconvenient, though possible, to re-sort 
and add data afterwards. 

In working with large tables the frequent use of the 
ruler is recommended. One of the sources of statistical 
mistake is confusion of columns. The eye finds it particu- 
larly difficult to follow through a long horizontal row, but 
if a straight-edge be laid on the sheet or page, ease and 
accuracy are obtained. This applies particularly to the 



532 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

abstraction of figures from extensive tables such as those 
of the Census, where the figures are small and the rows and 
columns long. In tabular work the ruler is as indispensable 
as the pencil. 

METHODS OF COMPUTATION. The arithmetical oper- 
ations required in statistics may be performed in the usual 
manner, although, where many operations of multiplication 
or division are to be performed the engineer's slide rule 
may be found useful. The use of this instrument can 
readily be learned without special mathematical knowledge, 
and with it ratios may very quickly be found to a pre- 
cision of about I in 500 (higher with the larger sizes). 1 

Methods of Checking. No statistical results should be 
utilized or published which have not been verified by 
reasonable and appropriate checks. The following are 
general methods which may be used : 

(1) Automatic Checks. In some instances an automatic 
check on a series of numbers may be obtained by addition or 
otherwise. An example of this may be found in the popu- 
lation estimates given on p. 505. % 

(2) Repeating. A calculation may be checked by 
simply repeating it. In order to avoid repeating mistakes 
in method or arithmetic, it is desirable that if possible the 
re-calculation be performed by a second person, or at any 
rate at another time when the original details are not too 
vividly in mind. 

(3) Use of Alternative Methods and Sources. A useful 
check on many figures consists in approximation obtained 
through mental calculation. Suppose, for example, the 
percentage ratio ^Q is to be calculated. A glance at the 
figures shows that the desired result will be something over 
20 per cent (since -g^TT would be exactly 20 per cent) , and 
apparently not far from 21 per cent. Exact calculation 

1 Discussion of tabulating, adding and multiplying machines and 
methods in use in large statistical offices is beyond the scope of this 
manual. 



VITAL STATISTICS 



533 



shows the correct figure to be 21.1 per cent. Such mental 
calculation made before the exact calculation prevents 
gross mistakes, especially such as would be the result of 
putting the decimal point in the wrong place, and for some 
figures it may be a sufficient check. 

Where calculations have been performed by the regular 
arithmetical processes, the slide rule (see above) is a useful 
check. 

In tables, both the columns (vertical) and the rows (hori- 
zontal) should be added; a check on additions may then 
be obtained by seeing that the grand total obtained by 
adding vertically is the same as that obtained by adding 
horizontally. In the following example: 





Col. i 


Col. 2 


Col. 3 


Total 




Row i 


8 




2 


1 7 




Row 2 


c 


4 


6 


I c 




Row 3 
Total 


2 
15 


^3 
14 


i 
9 


6 
38 = Grand 


total 















the figure 38, being the sum of both the vertical and hori- 
zontal totals, checks all additions in the table. 

Care should be taken that corresponding figures appear- 
ing in different tables be checked against each other. It 
is confusing and discouraging to consult a report and 
find, say, 80 deaths from pulmonary tuberculosis given in 
the general mortality table and only 70 in the section on 
communicable disease, without a hint as to any reason for 
the discrepancy. 

Certain graphic checks may sometimes be made use of. 
Thus a plot may disclose variations which do not so dis- 
tinctly appear in columns of figures. 

DEFICIENCIES IN DATA. All large masses of data are 
subject to deficiencies; that is, in some of the individual 
cases the facts, even with the greatest care in registration, 
will not be completely known. Thus in any given tabu- 



534 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

lation there may be some facts which must be classified as 
"unknown" or "not stated." If these are very few in 
number they will not substantially impair the value of the 
tabulation. It is bad practice to endeavor to eliminate the 
figure for unknowns by distributing it, as is sometimes 
done, among the other items. It should always be sepa- 
rately stated, giving thus a measure of the residual defi- 
ciencies which remain after the data have been made as 
nearly complete as possible. 

PRESENTATION OF RESULTS 

The effective presentation of statistical results in written 
or published reports, through the spoken word, in charts, 
exhibits, etc., is evidently of the greatest practical impor- 
tance. Two principles apply here : first, that the presenta- 
tion should be truthful; second, that it should be impressive. 

In general there are two methods of presenting statistical 
results: the numeric and the graphic. The first of these 
deals with numerical statements and tables, the second 
with plots, diagrams, charts, maps and the like. Both 
ways have their uses, and it is even frequently desirable to 
repeat results, so as to make them clearer and more im- 
pressive, in two or more different ways. Some minds are 
more readily appealed to through columns of figures, state- 
ments of ratios and the like, and others through the lines 
of a diagram. 

i. Statements and Tables. Tables should contain all 
needed data and no more. This statement seems obvious, 
yet reports are published containing many pages of de- 
tailed statistics which are of no apparent practical value, 
the same reports omitting simple tabulations which are 
indispensable in any report. At the present time there 
are great divergencies in the content and form of statistical 
health reports, a situation which fortunately seems likely 
to be remedied through the adoption of uniform tables for 
the more important purposes. (Cf. Chapter VIII.) 



VITAL STATISTICS 535 

In line with the principle for presentation of tables is 
one for presentation of figures: figures should be presented 
with adequate precision but without unwarranted refinements. 
Further, the degree of precision should be evident from the 
way in which the figure is stated. In this way a factitious 
appearance of great precision is avoided. To illustrate: 
in a population of 8000 there occur 117 deaths in a year. 
Computing the death rate we obtain the figure 14.625 per 
1000. How many digits after the decimal point are to be 
used in expressing the result? Now the smallest possible 
change, i.e., one death, would make a difference of one 
part in 117 in the computed rate. Hence as we express 
the rate to one part in 146, i.e., as 14.6, we have done all 
that the figures warrant. Expressing it as 14.62 would in- 
dicate an accuracy of one part in 1462 which is not war- 
ranted by the figures, the last digit not being "significant," 
and to do so would be to add a useless digit *and to indi- 
cate a degree of precision which does not exist in the data 
taken. One to 146 is of course a greater degree of precision 
than I to 117, but we should not drop the 6 in 14.6 and call 
the figure 15, for then the accuracy would be only I to 15. 
The rule would be to express this result to an accuracy of 
between I to Ji/ and I to 1170 (which is fulfilled when the 
result is stated as I to 146 I to 15 and I to 1462 being 
outside the limits), and in all such cases the same prin- 
ciple applies. 

The degree of precision is determined by the least precise 
quantity in the data. In the above example it has been 
assumed that the death figure is less precise than the popu- 
lation figure, although in such cases usually the population 
is an estimated figure not more precise than the deaths 
probably not as much so. However, in case of doubt we 
are justified in expressing the result to a figure that will 
certainly do justice to the data. 

In dropping digits the nearer figure should be taken for 
the last digit retained according to whether the one follow- 



536 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ing is more or less than 5. 14.64 would become 14.6, 
while 14.66 would become 14.7, the dividing line being 
14.65. If the figure is 14.65, it may be so given, or it may 
be called 14.6 or 14.7, or, if necessary for the sake of 
accuracy, it may be worked out to the next place to 
determine whether greater or less than exactly 14.65,- 
according to whatever rule is adopted. 

2. Graphic Presentation. We refer here to the use of 
diagrams, charts, maps, etc. In most plots quantities, in- 
stead of being represented by numbers, are represented by 
distances laid off to a certain scale. In this way their mag- 
nitudes and relations can frequently be apprehended much 
more readily than from the figures. The tables and figures 
may give all the data that are needed and must always 
appear, but appropriate diagrams make their import more 
striking. Consequently extensive health reports frequently 
include diagrams. 

There are a number of forms of diagrams, employing 
lines, bars, blocks, circles, etc. (for some examples see the 
charts in the present volume). Diagrams in two dimen- 
sions, showing how one quantity varies in relation to 
another, are known as "curves" (see Chart i, p. 74). For 
percentages of a total the circle (see Chart 4, p. 301) is 
convenient, the requisite number of degrees being laid off 
for each quantity. 

Diagrams intended for reproduction by printing should 
be drawn on a large scale preferably twice or more 
times as large as the final plate is designed to be, in strong 
or even coarse lines; in the reproduction process minor 
blemishes disappear and the lines appear much finer in the 
resulting "zinc etching" or "line cut," as the engraving is 
called. Such cuts are not expensive. Large size charts 
used for public exhibitions and the like are readily reduced 
to any desired size. 

In the preparation of charts (unless a draughtsman or 
sign-painter be employed) time may be saved and neatness 



VITAL STATISTICS 537 

gained by the use of gummed letters, which may be ob- 
tained in |, |, I inch and larger sizes in black, white, or 
red through any stationer or directly from the Tablet and 
Ticket Company of New York. 

In laying off scales it will be found convenient to make 
use of an " engineer's scale," which has six different sizes 
of scales. 

It is frequently desirable to have charts drawn by an 
architect's or engineer's draughtsman, under careful direc- 
tion, and the preparation of placards and the like not de- 
manding accuracy in detail by a professional sign-painter. 

In style, charts of all kinds should be simple, clear and 
striking, without ornament or exaggeration. 

Maps are frequently of value, especially in the office, use 
being made of colors, pins, spots and the like. The "spot 
map" for contagious diseases, deaths, etc., is of this nature. 
The short tacks having heads of various colors, known to 
the stationer as "routing tacks," are useful for such pur- 
poses. 

Titles. No point is more important and none so fre- 
quently neglected in the presentation of statistical data as 
the use of full and clear titles, both to tables and to charts. 
Too often important comparisons are made impossible by 
the failure to state just what a table contains, or how it is 
composed, or what its purpose is. Tables of births and 
deaths, for example, should always bear in the title a 
statement that stillbirths are (as they should be) excluded, 
what exclusions are made (if any) and the like. An over- 
full title is far better than a too scanty one. A study of the 
titles used in the mortality bulletins of the U. S. Census 
will be illustrative of "good form." Similar rules apply to 
diagrams, which also should bear a statement as to what 
tables they are based upon. The sources of figures which 
are not of local composition, such as census figures, shpuld 
be stated. Where population figures are given their exact 
nature should be described: whether census enumeration 



538 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

or estimate, and if the latter, the method of estimation. 
Estimates made (as they should be) for the middle of the 
year are to be described as "estimated mid-year popula- 
tion." All special terms used should be clearly denned or 
indicated. In short, there should be no question as to 
basis, terms or methods. 

Criticism and Interpretation. Statistics are only half 
a report. Their significance must be brought out by dis- 
cussion, by criticism and interpretation. 

The best form of criticism is a discussion of deficiencies 
and their remedies. Nothing so clearly marks a good 
statistical report as a frank appraisal of the figures for 
what they are. The statistician's own estimate of the de- 
gree of trustworthiness of the results is in fact a necessary 
preliminary to a thorough consideration of the evidence set 
forth. 

As to interpretation, there must be freedom of bias as 
to the conclusions to be drawn. 1 Erroneous conclusions 
and uses of figures are sure to react sooner or later, and 
frankness, be the results favorable or otherwise, is the best 
policy in the long run. 

For those who have to study the reports from various 
places it may be added that, aside from arithmetical mis- 
takes, the chief deficiencies in local statistics are: failure 
to define methods and terms, lack of comparability with 

1 The first of the four rules laid down by the eminent statistician, 
Quetelet, was: 

"i. Never to have preconceived ideas as to what the figures are to 
prove." 

The others are as follows: 

"2. Never reject a number which seems contrary to what you might 
expect, merely because it departs a good deal from the apparent average. 

"3- Be careful to weigh and record all the possible causes of an 
event, and do not attribute to one what is really the result of the com- 
bination of several. 

"4. Never compare data which have nothing in common." 
. (As given by Newsholme, "Vital Statistics.") 



VITAL STATISTICS 539 

figures from other places (or sometimes even with figures 
from the same place at different times), and failure to give 
all of the essential figures demanded. Locally published 
death rates should be confirmed by comparison with the 
rates published by State and Federal authorities. Some- 
times, too, through comparisons among the tables in the 
same report internal discrepancies may be discovered. 

The compilation of vital statistics can be manipulated in many ways, 
and by over-estimates of population or exclusion of deaths for various 
reasons the death rates may be, apparently, reduced so that boastful 
claims of the 'healthiest city' may seem to be justified. Such claims 
are usually open to question, and frequently will be found to depend 
either upon grave deficiencies in registration, the unjustifiable omission 
of certain deaths, over-estimates of population, or, perhaps most fre- 
quently of all, the utter ignoring or lack of knowledge of the fact that 
general or crude death rates are unreliable criteria of sanitary efficiency, 
and that the age, sex, or other peculiar constitution of the population 
must be taken into consideration. 1 

State reports differ so much that no general comment 
can be made. Statistics so published must be judged 
partly on such internal evidence as can be gleaned from a 
critical study of the figures, partly by comparison with 
Federal figures, and partly on the estimation of the Federal 
Census Bureau, which classifies those states from which 
the returns are considered sufficiently trustworthy as 
' ' registration states. ' ' 

THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF VITAL 
STATISTICS 

It is unfortunate that to many persons, including many 
health officers, vital statistics are looked upon as intangible 
calculation apart from practical endeavor as historical 
facts to be placed on file rather than the impetus to health 
work in the living present. The following experience, 

1 Wilbur in Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, 
p. 875. 



540 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



which, it is to be hoped, is an extreme instance, illustrates 
the intensely practical nature of vital statistics when 
properly applied. 

In the summer of 1910, I was invited by a board of county commis- 
sioners and board of aldermen to visit their county town and inspect a 
small collection of water on the outskirts of the town that was supposed 
to be responsible for a large amount of their sickness. After looking 
over the pond in the morning and making a general sanitary survey of 
the town, I walked over to the local registrar's office to see how many 
people were dying and what they were dying from. At five o'clock I 
consulted with the board of aldermen, several physicians, and health 
officers and others. I called their attention to the fact that the small 
collection of water was but one very small item for consideration in their 
health situation; that malaria had caused very few deaths in their 
town, and it was doubtful if the pond had much to do with their malaria 
as there were so many other breeding places for mosquitoes; that with a 
little ditching and kerosene oil (I went into details), the pond could be 
dismissed as a health menace; that whereas the pond was of little con- 
sequence, other conditions of health in their city were of grave conse- 
quence; that, taking statistics from their own official, they had a death 
rate of 27.5 per thousand which meant 12.5 people out of every thousand 
of their population died in excess of the average death rate that ob- 
tained throughout the United States; that for four thousand population 
this meant an annual unnecessary loss of fifty lives to their town; that 
even if they had a death rate of fifteen some of the fifteen would be from 
preventable diseases and, therefore, the fifty lives lost must necessarily 
be regarded as excessive preventable deaths; that their records showed 
a death rate from tuberculosis of three hundred and seventeen per one 
hundred thousand instead of the average of one hundred sixty-seven; 
that their records showed a death rate from typhoid of seven and one- 
half times the average; that during the last winter their town had had 
its share of deaths from measles for sixty years; that this last fact meant 
one of two things; either an extremely malignant epidemic or more prob- 
ably inefficient quarantine; that they were most inconsistent in having 
required a railroad that passed through the town to build an overhead 
bridge at a cost of $18,000 because during ten years the railroad had 
killed, at a crossing, as many as ten people; that the interest on the 
original investment of the railroad, and the wear and tear of the bridge, 
would amount to at least $1,500 per year, which they were forcing the 
railroad to spend to prevent one needless death; that while they were 
requiring the railroad to spend this amount to prevent one death, they, 
the aldermen, were spending only $150 to prevent fifty deaths . . . 



VITAL STATISTICS 541 

Since that visit, and, I believe, largely as a result of that visit, that town 

and county have taken an unusual interest in public health work . . . 

There are many people who will become enthused over generalities, 

but the practical, cool heads that we usually find dictating municipal 

policies are men who want facts, and the only way to reach this necessary 

influence in bringing about sanitary reforms is through vital statistics. 

... As some one has said, they are the chart and compass of the 

sanitarian and he who attempts sanitary campaigns and neglects vital 

statistics will sooner or later find himself lost in a sea of generalities. 1 

REFERENCES 

Wilbur, "Vital Statistics," being Section IX in Rosenau's "Preven- 
tive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913. 

Newsholme, "The Elements of Vital Statistics," 3rd edition, London, 
1912. 

"Mortality Statistics" and other publications of the Bureau of the 
Census, Washington. 

The reports of the Registrar-General of England, besides containing 
English and International data, are highly instructive. 

1 Rankin, "The Practical Value of Vital Statistics in the South," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. Ill, no. 5, p. 453. 



CHAPTER X 
PUBLICITY 

No phase of public health work in recent years is more 
striking than the movement for popular education in mat- 
ters of hygiene. Not only, in the Earl of Derby's phrase, is 
"sanitary instruction even more important than sanitary 
legislation," but, under the conditions of a democracy, 
neither legislation, funds, nor public cooperation can be 
obtained, nor will sanitary regulations be thoroughly effec- 
tive, without it. The term "instruction" might well be 
taken to include in a broad sense the general teaching in 
schools and colleges, the technical training of public health 
officers and experts, and publicity for the instruction of 
the general public. It is the last, however, that will here 
be specially discussed. 

Objects. All sanitary education of any kind has as its 
object one or both of two things: the improvement of per- 
sonal hygiene, and the support of the administration of 
public hygiene. With both of these the health officer is 
concerned, but more immediately with the latter. When 
an adequate support of public measures shall have been 
secured health authorities can then turn their attention 
more particularly to the longer educative process of im- 
proving the habits of the people. Publicity, with such an 
immediate object, then, is 

. . . the indispensable preliminary of legislation and the necessary 
accompaniment of effective administrative control. It is here that 
many of our health administrations fail lamentably. It is doubtful if 
there is any department of our State and municipal governments whose 
aims and methods are less understood by the public than the depart- 

542 



PUBLICITY 543 

ment of health. It is apt to be viewed with suspicion and antagonism 
by physicians, and with apathy and neglect by the laity. 

Particularly in smaller communities failure to act by the health 
authorities is explained by lack of public support. The fault is often, 
if not usually, that of the department itself. The public is not taken 
into its confidence, and we see on every hand the discouraging spectacle 
of the health officer plodding slowly behind, instead of leading and 
stimulating his local public opinion. An organized system of publicity 
should be in operation in every health office in the country. Wherever 
intelligently tried, whether in the greater cities or in towns of smaller 
population, the results are always worth while. 1 

The foundations of sanitary education are naturally laid 
in the home and the school. With these, however, the 
health officer has little to do. The selection of textbooks 
on hygiene to be used in the schools is a matter for the 
educational authorities, though it might sometimes be 
wished that the health officer were more often consulted in 
regard to them. Fortunately, well-balanced school hy- 
gienes are now readily to be had. Health mottoes, and 
even "jingles" embodying single precepts, may also be 
taught effectively (see p. 262 f.). 

Passing on to the general public, we find that vast num- 
bers of people (even among those otherwise well-informed) 
are ignorant of many of the simplest sanitary principles. 
Were such principles inculcated by the ready means of 
publicity, not only would the people benefit directly, but 
the health department would gain a much-needed co- 
operation in its public measures. The rate of progress of 
public health work is determined by public permission. 

Principles. Much the same practical psychological 
principles apply to all publicity work, whether it be that 
of the commercial advertiser, of the journalist, or of the 
health officer seeking to instruct his public. The three 
main objects in the present connection are: to (i) gain 

1 Farrand, "The Development of Educational Efforts in Public and 
Personal Hygiene in America," Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. 
and Demogr., 1912, vol. iv, part ii, p. 438. 



544 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

effective attention, (2) to impress and (3) to produce a 
desire to act or avoid. To attain these objects it is only 
necessary to observe a few simple rules. These may be 
studied out in as great detail as necessary, by those who 
make a specialty of publicity work, in the various manuals 
on advertising and publicity methods. 1 Health officers in 
small places may, however, obtain a great deal of excellent 
publicity material from the sources which make a specialty 
of supplying it. 

i. GAINING ATTENTION. Effective attention may be 
gained by the use of originality in captions, cartoons, charts 
and the like, and arrangements of material which bring out 
strikingly one particular aspect or at most a very few 
aspects of the matter at a time. In a word, gaining 
primary interest is largely a matter of emphasis and origi- 
nality. The object is to avoid the commonplace, while at the 
same time not distorting the subject. It is, .of course, easy 
enough to attract attention through the specious device of 
exaggerating one item of the subject to the detriment of 
others; the proper method is to present all the essential 
facts which are usually not many but at the same 
time afford a convenient "handle" which the mind cannot 
help grasping at first sight. The various aspects by which 
a subject may be approached usually afford several such 
"handles," of which the most appropriate may be chosen. 
As regards originality we may add a word of caution on 
the avoidance of undesirable extremes. In the desire to 
be novel and striking one should avoid overemphasizing 
aspects which excite disgust or dread; and on the other 
hand, humorous devices should not be permitted to dis- 
tract attention from the serious meaning to be conveyed. 
Joking and alarmism are equally out of place, detrimental 
and unnecessary for exciting a normal and effective 
interest. 

1 Cf. Dearholt, "Educational Publicity in Offense and Defense," 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 12. 



PUBLICITY 545 

2. PRODUCING AN IMPRESSION. When attention has been 
attracted to the subject clearness and simplicity of language 
must be relied upon to convey the necessary message. 
Technical language must be translated into the language of 
the street. Words short and common must take the place 
of the longer, more uncommon terms naturally used by the 
scientist. Note, for example, the superior popular effec- 
tiveness of the phrase "Do Not Spit," as compared with 
"Expectoration is Prohibited." Very few ideas at a time, 
and those only of the first importance, should be placed 
before the public. Bulletins, circulars, lectures, should be 
brief, without too much detail, centered forcefully about a 
nucleus of thought that everyone will be able to remember 
without great effort of thought. If the thought can be 
condensed in a striking epigram or catch-phrase, its power 
is vastly heightened. 1 Again, the ideas must be presented 
in a concrete form and with such use of homely analogies 
and visible effects that people will connect them with, and 
carry them out in, everyday life. The microscopic or- 
ganisms of disease, for instance, may be vivid enough to the 
bacteriologist, but the layman's effort to visualize the 
other's descriptions has resulted in the grotesque microbe 
of the comic supplement. The results would be happier if 
more emphasis were placed on the effects of the germ and 
the human habits by which it thrives. 

3. PROVIDING A MOTIVE. To produce the desire to 
act, or in hygiene frequently to avoid or refrain from the 
forbidden action, it is clear that appeal may be made to the 
instinct of self-protection. But the motive of altruism, of 
regard for one's neighbors, should also be invoked. Per- 
sonal and civic pride, moreover, are considerations. Above 
all, the citizen should be made to feel that he can play his 
personal part, however" small, in the sanitary campaign. It 
is he who composes "the public. 

1 The " healthgrams " used by the Chicago Department of Health 
deserve special mention in this connection. 



546 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

A word of warning may be added as to the danger of 
exaggeration involved in aiming to make striking present- 
ments. This has been a frequent fault of sanitarians in the 
past when it was not always otherwise easy to obtain strict 
obedience to regulations. Fortunately accuracy is com- 
patible with force in statements, a fact recognized by the 
Philadelphia Milk Show, which adopted the motto "To 
enlighten, not to frighten." The health officer should make 
no statements which he cannot fully substantiate or act 
upon. Inaccuracy reacts upon its source. The same 
principle applies to the opposite temptation, perhaps even 
more common, to gloss over real evils. 

Again, more emphasis should be placed upon remedies 
than upon detailed descriptions of menacing conditions. 
The human mind is quicker to grasp a danger than to com- 
prehend the means of avoiding it. 

Finally, publicity work should be specific and should take 
up one subject at a time, driving it home in different ways. 
The endeavor to cover several subjects at once results in 
confusion and apathy of the popular mind. The effects 
which have been obtained in the publicity of the tuber- 
culosis campaign exemplify what can be accomplished by a 
concentrated attack on a matter of paramount importance. 

MODES OF PUBLICITY 

/. THE PRESS 

Perhaps the most effective action of the health officer in 
the field of publicity is to maintain, through careful state- 
ments, a good press service. The press is a great, in fact an 
indispensable, ally of the health authorities. Local news- 
papers are always ready to publish statements emanating 
from the health office which have a definite news value. 

Value and Use of the Press. The press far outranks 
other forms of publicity in that it is the only means of se- 
curing compliance with law through wide public knowledge 



PUBLICITY 547 

that the law is being enforced, and in that it is practically 
the only means of justification of the administration in the 
eyes of the general public. A single conspicuous account of 
a prosecution for violation of an important health ordinance 
may accomplish more toward securing compliance than a 
month's inspection work. Through the news columns the 
skilful health officer may talk to his public, explaining new 
measures, refuting objections and denying false rumors, 
attacking current hygienic mistakes and superstitions, de- 
fending the health budget, allaying groundless alarm, and 
even, in case of emergency, warning the public of sources 
of danger as, for example, has actually happened in 
instances where it was necessary to issue warnings to "boil 
the water." 

The secret of being able to talk thus with the public lies 
first, of course, in having the confidence and support of the 
newspaper editor. Once this point is gained, the editorial 
columns as well as the news columns will speak for the health 
administration. Secondly, the health officer must have a 
clear conception of what constitutes news. The "news 
sense" may be acquired in a sufficient degree by the health 
officer, yet it is here that he frequently makes mistakes. 
For example : it is desired to bring out the means of avoid- 
ing the common diseases of childhood. If the health officer 
prepares a list of "Don'ts" on this topic it probably either 
will prove unacceptable to the newspaper or will appear as 
"filler" in an emasculated and inconspicuous paragraph, 
simply because it is not news. But suppose the same re- 
marks are made the substance of an address by the health 
officer or some prominent physician or are printed as a 
bulletin and distributed through the schools; then it is 
quite possible that they will appear in toto and if striking in 
expression receive editorial comment. On the same prin- 
ciple events relating to the health department which the 
newspapers see fit to report should frequently carry with 
them some illuminative comment by the health officer or 



548 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

other influential person. It is the repeated impressions on 
the public mind, produced by such bits, that spell popular 
education. 

In the consideration of news value, it is important to 
know what the editor will consider the best news, for it is 
this that he will "feature." It is the special feature of a 
"story" which will be headlined, and many persons will 
scarcely read beyond the headline. Sometimes a com- 
paratively unimportant, or even a trivial, matter will be 
thus rendered conspicuous. It is a good rule always to 
give the press a "feature," but one which will serve the 
cause of good administration. 

PRESS BULLETINS. In order to guard against error, 
important statements from the health office should be given 
out in writing. It is a simple matter, if there is more than 
one local paper, to make typewriter carbon copies for each, 
marking them with a date and hour (for example, "For 
release at 12 noon, April 25 ") for the guidance of the editors, 
and giving them out at least three hours, and if possible a 
day or two, before the earliest paper goes to press. The 
more condensed a statement is, and the earlier it is received 
by the newspaper, the more likelihood there is that it will 
appear in full. Thus, whenever possible, instead of send- 
ing in matter at the last minute the preferable procedure is 
to mark it to be held up until the following day's edition. 
Such written statements should bear a brief title (not head- 
lines) to indicate the subject. 

PRESS INTERVIEWS. The newspaper reporter usually 
"covers" the health office as part of a regular "beat." 
There is scarcely any individual with whom it is more im- 
portant to keep on cordial and even confidential terms 
than the reporter. Such relations are fraught with bene- 
fit to both sides. It is an excellent practice to meet the 
representatives of the press every morning for a few minutes 
at a stated hour for interview. Everyday matters may fur- 
nish good news items, while on the other hand hints or 



PUBLICITY 549 

rumors dropped by the reporter may turn out to be of im- 
portance to the health officer. If it is desired to impress 
upon the public some extensive subject, information may be 
given out piecemeal and thus spread out for several days 
in a series of news items; in this way, too, a desirable run- 
ning interest in health department matters is kept up in the 
public mind. At any rate it is always desirable to give out 
something of interest, however slight. It may sometimes 
be necessary to share certain confidences, and at such times 
the discretion of a worthy reporter may be relied upon. In 
giving out official news as to communicable disease and the 
like, reference to names should be avoided, as is even re- 
quired by law in some states. Such cases may be referred 
to in general numbers. Regarding official records in general 
the health officer should inform himself as to legal provisions 
and the desirability of making public the facts contained 
therein. 

ACCURACY. It is not infrequently charged that the 
newspaper press is inaccurate, for which reason some per- 
sons go to the illogical length of refusing it all confidence. 1 
In cases of inaccurate reporting or writing certain palliating 
factors should be taken into account : such as the unfamili- 
arity of the journalist with special fields of knowledge and 
endeavor, the necessity of haste, the difficulties encountered 
in collecting information in fragments or from conflicting 
sources, etc., not as excusing all inaccuracies, but merely 
as indicating adverse conditions which should influence 
the public official to modify his judgment of the news- 
paper man and to endeavor to decrease the latter's 
difficulties in these respects. Where a press account is 
misleading, either through misstatement of fact, through 
wrong implication, or through misplaced emphasis (e.g., 

1 It is interesting to note, however,, that in some fifty newspaper 
clippings relating to board of health work, collected by a press clipping 
bureau from all parts of the United States, the writer has been unable 
to find any instances of apparent material inaccuracy. 



550 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

in the captions), the fact may in some instances be 
attributed to the health official from whom the information 
originated. The latter, familiar with his specialty, may 
easily fail to convey an accurate idea to the interviewer, who 
is a layman so far as sanitary science is concerned. A 
health officer, for example, makes a hasty statement to the 
effect that the colon bacillus has been found in the city 
water several times in I c.c., the finding indicating the 
necessity for cleaning up a certain contamination. The 
reporter, having nothing further to go upon, returns to 
his paper with the statement that the typhoid germ (not an 
unnatural inference for the layman) has been found in the 
city water and that the health officer considers the situa- 
tion serious. A little time taken to explain the nature of 
B. coli and the significance of quantitative findings, with a 
word of caution to spare alarm, would have radically changed 
the character of the report. But familiarity with the sub- 
ject caused the sanitarian to neglect all this. While such 
instances are perhaps uncommon, they illustrate the neces- 
sity for making all such statements clear and explicit. 

UNUSUAL CONDITIONS. The question may arise as to 
how far publicity may be authorized and just what matters 
should be given out when unusual conditions prevail, e.g., 
in case of an epidemic. Unless some certain benefit is 
otherwise to be gained, it is usually and rightly the policy 
of health departments to preserve silence until some degree 
of publicity becomes necessary. If only a small super- 
normal number of cases of communicable disease exist no 
notice will probably be taken, but if there is a well-defined 
epidemic, sooner or later the press will appear with rumors 
for confirmation or denial or facts for explanation; the 
health officer must then speak. 

To make "no comment" under such circumstances is 
to leave the reporter with only the rumors or evidence 
which he has collected elsewhere to go upon, with the in- 
ference that they contain more or less truth, and the publi- 



PUBLICITY 551 

cation of these may frequently result in producing an 
erroneous or even decidedly harmful public impression. To 
avoid this serious danger, as well as to avoid any suspicion 
of a policy of concealment, it is wise to make some definite 
statement, however brief or non-committal. This it is 
always possible to do with good faith and a regard for truth, 
and if credible information has come to the notice of the 
press it has a virtual right to such a statement. Moreover, 
it is in many cases wise to be absolutely frank with the 
newspaper men in telling them all the essential facts in 
confidence, at the same time pointing out those aspects, the 
publication of which would be deleterious and indicating 
just what statement may truthfully be made with the 
approval of the health officer. Such confidence will always 
be respected by the reputable newspaper man and will con- 
tribute greatly to easing the situation and establishing 
mutual good relations. The safest plan is to give out a 
careful written statement accompanied by confidential 
discussion. 

Suppose, for example, that there is an outbreak of typhoid 
fever, on which no data, except the increased number of 
reported cases, have as yet been ascertained. The first 
bulletin may well contain a statement of the number of 
cases, with the comment that this should lead to no appre- 
hension on the part of the citizens at large ; it may be added 
that the matter is under investigation, certain facts are 
being ascertained, etc. By the next day the distribution 
of cases may perhaps have been sufficiently determined to 
show that only a restricted locality is seen to be affected. 
A statement may then be given out that one possible source 
- the general city water supply has been exonerated. 
This furnishes reassurance and a news story. As further 
progress is made, the facts may be announced in a careful 
manner until it can be stated that the source of the epidemic 
has been run down and is under control. In all of this the 
mention of personal names and details should be avoided; 



552 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

cases should be mentioned by numbers and general location, 
and special care should be taken to spare so far as possible 
mention of persons whose reputations or business might 
be unjustly injured. Such a policy of frank but cautious 
publicity will both allay public anxiety and increase con- 
fidence in, and respect for, the health administration. 

//. PRINTED MATTER 

Important as is the press as a means of general publicity, 
it has the drawback that the health officer is unable to 
govern directly the impression to be made on the public. 
This difficulty is absent in the "literature" of the health 
department the various bulletins, pamphlets, circulars, 
leaflets and posters which it may issue from time to time, 
usually for special purposes. In these the health officer 
has a free hand, subject to the general publicity principles 
already set forth, and through them can reach directly the 
more intelligent portion of the community. 

Bulletins. It is desirable, circumstances permitting, 
that the larger municipal, as well as the state, health de- 
partments publish regular monthly bulletins containing 
popular educational matter and setting forth concisely the 
state of the public health. 1 In such bulletins emphasis 
should be laid upon matters within the comprehension of 
the average citizen and in which his cooperation is feasible, 
rather than upon tables of statistics. A mistake has been 
made in some instances of printing detailed tables of vital 
statistics and other matters of permanent record but not of 
popular interest, in space which might much more profitably 

1 Health bulletins are now issued regularly by a number of state and 
municipal health departments. Among the former we may mention 
especially California, Kansas, Massachusetts, New York, North Caro- 
lina and Virginia; among the latter, Chicago, New York and (as an 
example of a small city) Asheville, N. C. Sefe Greeley, "What the 
States and Cities of the United States are doing in Public Health Ed- 
ucation Work," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1914, vol. IV, no. 9, p. 733. 



PUBLICITY 553 

have been utilized in printing simple and interesting in- 
structive matter. An apt cartoon is always in order. 

If a periodic bulletin is published, advance copies should 
be sent to the local press several days before issuance of the 
regular edition. Some boards of health, e.g., those of 
Montclair, N. J., and Palo Alto, Cal., arrange with a local 
newspaper to print each week in this paper a ''board of 
health corner," the material being furnished by the health 
officer. In this "corner" or column, which takes the place 
of a circular bulletin, a very brief resume of the week's 
work of the health department is given, including numbers 
of cases of communicable diseases and deaths from principal 
causes, some public health subject is treated in a popular 
manner in a short 'essay, and questions on public health 
topics are answered by the health officer. This is a useful 
means, not only of disseminating information, but also of 
putting to rest rumors as to the communicable disease 
situation, etc. It must, however, be remarked that the 
maintenance of any such regular service places a consider- 
able demand upon the time and thought of the health officer 
and had better not be attempted unless there is certainty 
that it can be constantly kept up. 

Reprints from Annual Report. Another thing that 
may be done, more easily and with good effect, is to reprint 
those portions of the annual health report which are of 
especial interest to the public: for example, the sections 
giving the ratings of milk dealers, dealing with special 
problems in which the cooperation of the public is desired, 
and the like. This has been done by the health department 
of Montclair, N. J., for several years, copies being dis- 
tributed to every dwelling in the city, and the cooperation 
gained, especially in eliminating the undesirable milk dealer, 
has well repaid the practice. Inasmuch as much of a 
thorough annual report is by no means of popular interest 
and would be wasted upon any but the most intelligent 
citizens, the value of the popular reprint is clear. In that 



554 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

town, also, a pamphlet entitled "Rules, Regulations and 
General Information Concerning Communicable Diseases" 
has been printed and circulated among physicians, medical 
inspectors, teachers, heads of families and nurses. It may 
be added that in this instance there is a large proportion of 
intelligent citizens who profit by such literature and en- 
courage the issuance of it. 

For certain specific purposes the issuance of special cir- 
culars, posters, etc., may be desirable. Exhibitions and 
campaigns for pure milk, against the spitting nuisance, for a 
general ''clean-up," and the like, demand plenty of auxiliary 
printed matter, both to advertise and to explain. 1 

For some purposes posters are effective and may be dis- 
played in store windows, on public bulletin boards, etc. 
The Chicago Department of Health, for example, has been 
successful with large posters (4 by 6 feet) . Even the bill- 
boards may on occasion be utilized, as has been done in the 
tuberculosis campaign. 

Distribution. The question of distribution will natu- 
rally arise. Bulletins and reports are frequently sent out 
on a mailing list comprising (i) citizens and local officials 
who will benefit by them and (2) a selected number of 
"exchanges," i.e., interested boards of health, organizations 
and individuals in other municipalities. A local list may 
readily be started by means of the ordinary or the telephone 
directory. For certain classes of matter a mail distribution 
may be all that is required. The labor of stamping may be 
avoided, if the number of identical pieces of mail matter 
amounts to a thousand or more, by taking them to the post- 
office in bulk. If, however, the distribution is to be general 

1 Printed matter for publicity on stock subjects may be obtained 
from sources mentioned in note, p. 563; also from Cameron, Amberg, 
and Co., 15 West Lake St., Chicago, and Kirchner, Mechel and Co., 
117 North 5th Ave., Chicago. 



PUBLICITY 555 

and the cost of postage (let alone addressing, folding, in- 
serting, stamping and other clerical labor) is taken into 
account, house-to-house distribution is cheaper. 1 

For certain classes of circulars, etc., the health officers 
may be able to obtain distribution by volunteer workers 
from local organizations. 

Circulars, etc., may often be most advantageously dis- 
tributed through the schools; by this means there is ob- 
tained a wide, though not universal, distribution at 
practically no expense. In obtaining the permission of the 
schools a statement may be secured showing the number of 
pupils in each room and the circulars may then be delivered 
in properly counted and marked bundles. The success or 
failure of the method will depend upon whether or not the 
cooperation of the school authorities is obtained to such an 
extent that the necessity of taking the circulars home is 
impressed upon the children. After some experience the 
writer believes that under the best conditions the great 
majority of the circulars will reach the homes. It is well 
to print in heavy type at the top of the sheet, or upon an 
envelope enclosing the matter, the legend "To be Taken 
Home," or something similarly impressive. 

The publicity technique of printed matter will depend 
partly upon general principles, partly upon the class of 
persons to be reached. For persons who will read and 
reason, a plain piece of text at some length may be accept- 
able, but this class is usually small and the brief statement 

1 In Montclair, N. J. (population 25,000), approximately 1000 
annual reports and 3000 reprints from annual reports are distributed 
by the house-to-house method. The cost is $22 for the 4000 copies 
($5-50 per 1000), at $2 per man per day. This includes ringing each 
door-bell and handing the report in. It is intended that every family 
shall have either a report or a reprint. "Our reports cost 3 cents each 
to mail. If they cost only i cent distribution by messenger is cheaper, 
even in a scattered community like Montclair." (Information from 
C. H. Wells, Health Officer, Montclair, N. J.) 



556 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

or striking cartoon is much more effective. The best cir- 
cular or poster (unless purely of the cartoon type, which is 
in some respects the most useful of all) is a combination of 
text and pictorial matter. 

///. EXHIBITIONS 1 

Of recent years civic exhibitions have been growing in 
favor and, among them not only general public health ex- 
hibitions but also those devoted to special subjects, such as 
tuberculosis or milk supply. If given plenty of publicity, 
especially through press notices and the activities of strong 
cooperating committees of citizens, and if made conspicuous 
by striking and original features of local application, ex- 
hibitions draw large crowds and start waves of popular 
interest as scarcely anything else can. Moreover, an 
impetus is given for a steady campaign, which may as 
it should be kept up long after the exhibition is over. 
Aside from the direct educational effect, the improved pub- 
lic opinion ,makes adequate health funds easier to obtain 
and facilitates administration. There is no better way for 
an energetic health officer to start a campaign for general 
support, or for some special object, such as tuberculosis or 
infant hygiene work or control of milk supply, than this. 
There are few towns in the United States which would not 
be benefited by a good health exhibition. 

Such an exhibition may perhaps take place in connection 
with a "Health Week" as has been conducted in Louis- 
ville, Ky., a "Baby Week," as in New York, and the like. 

Exhibitions have a particular advantage in that they 
impress various kinds of persons: the literate and the illiter- 
ate, the intelligent and unintelligent; even the unwilling 

1 By an "exhibition" is meant a more or less extensive display having 
a number of related special parts. The term "exhibit" is reserved for 
smaller displays, especially those limited to one subject, or point. Thus 
an "exhibition" would be composed of a number of individual "ex- 
hibits." 






PUBLICITY 557 

are first interested and then persuaded. Almost all the 
various modes of publicity may be pressed into action: 
pictorial posters, photographs and diagrams to attract 
attention; printed placards, literature and attendants to 
explain; all kinds of models and mechanical devices; lec- 
tures, stereopticon views and motion pictures. All of these, 
combined with the press notices which are sure to accom- 
pany a good exhibit, constitute a veritable battery of 
publicity. 

PLANNING AND MANAGING AN EXHIBITION 

It frequently happens that inexperienced persons are called upon to 
handle exhibitions and that much time is wasted in preparation and much 
of the final effect lost through neglect of simple though not always 
apparent considerations. In fact, shortcoming in a single important 
matter, such as organization, the choice of a location, or the means of 
publicity may impair or prevent successes. 

SECURE COOPERATION. Let us suppose that the health officer has 
decided that the publicity power of an exhibition is needed in some one 
or in all departments of public health work in his community. How is 
he to go about starting a campaign for that object, and how, in outline, 
is the campaign to be carried out? In the first place he may be able to 
persuade his board that an exhibition is needed and to obtain from the 
city treasury the necessary funds. If, however, there is question of 
this, it may be well to do first what should be done in any case, secure 
the interest of as many as possible prominent and public-spirited citizens 
and the local civic societies. The cooperation of the local anti-tubercu- 
losis society, visiting nursing association, and other related organiza- 
tions should also be secured.' The indispensable value of cooperating 
citizen committees in securing prestige and publicity will be mentioned 
again later. 

FORM GENERAL COMMITTEE. Assumed that the possibility of a 
successful exhibition has been assured, the first step will be the forma- 
tion of a general committee of influential persons. This committee 
should be fairly large, and even if some of the members furnish no more 
than their sanction, it forms a responsible body of well-known citizens 
who will lend importance and dignity to the project and plans and will 
obtain the cooperation of persons who are desirable for the associated 
committees which will be described below. Upon the latter devolves 
responsibility for carrying out the various assigned divisions of activity. 



558 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

The general committee will elect its chairman, who should be a promi- 
nent citizen who will act as presiding officer but not director of the work. 

FUNDS. The first and most important question to arise will then 
be that of funds. The whole scope and quality of the exhibition will 
necessarily depend upon the amount of money which can be raised and 
expended. Some appropriation can perhaps be obtained from the 
board of health or municipal council, but this, especially on short notice, 
would not be likely to be sufficient for an adequate exhibition. Hence, 
subscriptions from private persons and organizations must be obtained. 
It may be that guarantees can be obtained without delay from such 
sources sufficient to insure that an exhibition on the scale desired can be 
held; or a committee on ways and means may be appointed to obtain 
subscriptions. 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND DIRECTOR. As soon as funds are 
assured an executive committee should be appointed (see below as to 
composition). This committee holds frequent meetings, reporting its 
plans and activities to the general committee for approval from time to 
time. It is here that the driving force of the work resides, and particu- 
larly in its chairman, who acts virtually as executive director. This part 
may, perhaps, though not necessarily, be taken by the health officer. 
At any rate the person chosen should possess executive ability, tact, and 
good taste, and should be thoroughly acquainted with the principles of 
the modern public health movement. It would be a vast advantage 
in those places which can afford it and where the local leaders can be 
led to appreciate the advantage, to employ a trained professional director. 
Not only the training of such an expert director, but also his outside 
point of view is an advantage. Even where such a director cannot be 
employed, outside expert advice is of great value. 1 

COOPERATING COMMITTEES. These should be formed at the same 
time as the executive. It is best to form each of these under the chair- 
manship of a member of the executive committee. The latter should 

1 The Russell Sage Foundation of New York has recently organized 
a Department of Surveys and Exhibits having as one of its chief aims 
to assist communities in planning and executing health exhibitions, an 
aim which had earlier been adopted by the Bureau of Municipal Re- 
search of New York. Both of these have a national scope and infor- 
mation and services are furnished by them to local organizations. The 
former publishes a pamphlet on "Social Welfare Exhibitions" (price 
25 cents). Addresses: Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd Street, New 
York City; Bureau of Municipal Research, 261 Broadway, New York 
City. Valuable hints may be obtained from the reports of the Phila. 
Baby Saving and Milk Shows (already referred to, pp. 344, 395). 



PUBLICITY 559 

be no larger than is necessary for this purpose, but members may be 
added to it from time to time if required. It would perhaps be wise to 
have the chairmen of the cooperating committees report and confer in 
informal meetings of the executive committee and report only occasion- 
ally in a formal manner to the general committee. In this way the 
latter would be kept in touch with the actual activities going on, and 
could give its general approval; though after the start its position 
would be largely formal. 

The most important of the cooperating committees would be some- 
what as follows: Finance, Publicity, Hall, Exhibits, and Program. The 
main duties of these committees will be indicated in order below. It 
may, of course, be desirable to arrange the functions somewhat differ- 
ently or to subdivide some of the committees above suggested. It 
would be well to get as many persons working on the various committees 
as can be effectively managed, as not only is more help thus obtained 
but a wider circle of influence in attracting publicity is the result. The 
whole organization should be as elastic and adaptable and free from 
unnecessary formality as possible, but for each committee and each 
person the duties would be very clearly defined. 

One of the first important points to be determined by the general or 
the executive committee is the time when the exhibition is to be held. 
Assuming that satisfactory arrangements for location can be made, the 
dates should be such that full public attention can be secured, free from 
the distraction of other public events and activities. It should, more- 
over, be some weeks in advance, so as to allow plenty of time for material 
to be collected, worked into form, and set up. No one who has not had 
to do with the preparation of even a small exhibition realizes the time 
and labor involved in the production of first-class exhibition material, 
and no other kind should be invited. Exhibits are likely to be late and 
accidents may occur, but eleventh hour hurry should be avoided. The 
duration of an exhibit, and the daily hours, may constitute a question. 
Favorable hours are 12 to 10 P.M. A period of less than a week would 
scarcely be worth while for any exhibition; a longer time is better. 
The reason for this is that during the first few days, the public is scep- 
tical, and the scepticism can only be broken down by a steadily in- 
creasing attendance and the interest aroused by the accounts of the 
press and of the early spectators. The interest will usually grow up 
to about the end of the first week and then remain for some days at a 
maximum. 

The duties of the finance committee (which may be the original ways 
and means committee continued) require no special comment. 

PUBLICITY. The publicity committee has functions of first im- 
portance. At every stage it conducts a full press service, in which the 



560 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

cooperation of the newspapers may be counted upon. It also makes 
effective use of the other modes of publicity, such as public bulletins 
and posters, handbills, "sandwich men," and any other legitimate and 
novel devices. The cooperation of the schools may be enlisted and 
circulars sent out by distribution to the pupils with the instruction to 
take home. Announcements in churches, clubs, labor organizations, 
lodges, etc., may be requested. The exact time and hours of the ex- 
hibition should be emphasized and it should be made evident that 
everybody is expected and that a large attendance is expected. An 
important point at the time of the exhibition is to have the approaches 
and entrance well placarded. The publicity committee will have plenty 
of opportunity for the exercise of activity and imagination. 

LOCATION AND HALL. The committee on hall will find a place for 
the exhibition to be held and make all arrangements (e.g., cleaning, 
heating, lighting) in connection therewith. This may be determined 
somewhat by space requirements (see below). It is essential, however, 
to secure a place where people are accustomed to go and where they will 
find it easy to go. An assembly hall, armory or part of a school may 
serve well, provided it has a prominent location near the business center 
of the town. It should be on the ground floor, or at least not higher 
than one flight up, and the entrance should be large and conspicuous. 
A sufficiently large empty store is very favorable. It should be possible 
to find a place of one of these kinds where no charges, or only very 
moderate charges for light and janitor service, need be paid. 

A common mistake is to secure too little space, resulting in a cramped 
exhibition "viewed" by a swarm of hot and irritated spectators worm- 
ing their way through congested aisles and corners. Even leaving out 
of account esthetic considerations, the demands of ventilation make 
full space a prime desideratum. There is little danger of getting too 
much; the amount of -wall area which an exhibition may be extended 
to cover with good effect is surprising. Proper grouping will prevent a 
straggling appearance, but nothing can obviate the sense of confusion 
produced by crowding even well composed exhibits. Better a fully 
spaced though comparatively limited exhibition than a more preten- 
tious one injured by serious cramping. 

Another consideration is that there shall be an auditorium, or 
a space where a platform and hired chairs can be placed, for the 
addresses to be held in connection with the exhibition. Special ar- 
rangements are also usually necessary for erecting and operating a 
stereopticon or motion picture machine. Gas or electricity must be 
looked after and legal regulations, if any, ascertained. 

EXHIBITS. To the exhibit committee belongs responsibility for the 
composition and arrangement of the exhibition as a whole. It must 



PUBLICITY 561 

naturally work in close touch with director and health officer. It has 
to make the necessary arrangements for obtaining exhibits from various 
sources, when necessary, advising the planners of the individual exhibit. 
The latter in their turn should see that the material to be presented is 
put in proper form through the services of draughtsmen, photographers, 
and sign-painters; amateur work in these lines, unless expert, is ineffec- 
tive. 

There should be kept constantly prominent by the director and ex- 
hibit committee a well-proportioned plan for the exhibition as a whole, 
into which the various groups shall fit harmoniously and in proper 
degrees of emphasis. 

In order to insure orderly and timely installation certain definite 
rules should be adopted, e.g.: 

(1) That each organization or department contributing be assigned 
a definite amount of space proportioned to the importance of that 
organization. 

(2) That a definite date be set when all exhibits are to be in place; 
say two days before the public opening. 

Through tactful conference with those furnishing material it should 
be so far as possible edited both as to content and as to form. The 
great difficulty with all exhibitions is to know what to leave out. The 
material at the disposal of the exhibitor is so great and all seems to him 
to be so important that there is an almost irresistible tendency on the 
part of the inexperienced to include too much. Too many facts are 
worse than too few, for the latter situation is at least in accord with the 
psychological principle of publicity that only a very few facts can be 
presented at a time. Spectators find exhibits tiring and confusing 
on account of the excessive amount of material displayed and find it 
impossible to make the round properly in the limited time at their 
disposal. It may be taken as an axiom, therefore, that only the few 
essential points should be presented and those as vividly and simply as 
possible. In the long run quality will count strongly, while quantity is 
only a hindrance. Detailed information, it is to be remembered, may 
be always available, in the form of circulars, reports, etc. But to pre- 
sent everything that is merely presentable, through a mistaken sense 
of proportion, is a fatal error, and a vast waste of time and labor. 

Exhibits are much enhanced in value through the presence of demon- 
strators or explainers to draw attention to them, explain, answer ques- 
tions and give out literature. Arrangements should be made for the 
services of such persons at the most important exhibits, at least at the 
hours of greatest attendance. For this purpose a schedule for the volun- 
teer services of members of societies and other interested persons may 
be arranged. 



562 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

PROGRAM. The program committee plans and makes all arrange- 
ments for the addresses and lectures to be given during the course of the 
exhibition. It is assumed that the hall committee has arranged a suit- 
able auditorium or space of sufficient size where an audience may be 
accommodated. In composing the program both its attractiveness and 
its educative value should be considered. It is good policy to obtain 
addresses by the Mayor and prominent citizens, or, better, have one such 
person preside at each session, the Mayor, if possible, on the opening 
night. The president of the local board of health, the health officer, 
prominent physicians and others may be included. If at all possible 
addresses by public health experts from outside the community should 
be secured, these carrying special weight. Addresses should be brief, 
say not over five or ten minutes except for the main lecture of the even- 
ing; even the latter, however, should be limited if possible to half an 
hour. We speak here of the actual time consumed, which always, as 
explained below, exceeds that literally allowed. In general, in view of 
the necessity of allowing time for the exhibit to be viewed, the audience 
should not be expected to remain in the seats over an hour. Agree- 
ment should be made with each speaker as to the time he is to occupy, 
so as to do justice to the others on the program. Speakers are very 
prone to run over time, and to correct this tendency, instead of endeavor- 
ing to enforce a strict rule, it is better to assign each speaker a very 
limited time on the unexpressed assumption that he is almost certain to 
excess it more or less. Thus "ten-minute" speeches almost always last 
fifteen or twenty minutes, "fifteen-minute" ones nearly half an hour, 
and so on, and a session which figures up on the program to three- 
quarters of an hour will actually run to something over an hour, even if 
there is no discussion. 

A good arrangement is to devote each session to a special subject or 
limited group of subjects, with a main address by a prominent speaker 
preceded by brief addresses by several others. The latter may be five- 
or ten-minute speeches. A lecture illustrated with stereopticdn or a 
motion picture exhibition forms an especially good main "feature" for 
a session. Subjects may be subdivided or combined to fit the number 
of sessions or addresses which can be devoted to them. Distinction 
should be made between the afternoon and evening sessions; com- 
paratively few adults will be able to attend the former and hence they 
may perhaps be used for prearranged visits of groups of school children, 
for whom no formal or extensive program, possibly only a brief illus- 
trated lecture, is required. If various nationalities are represented in 
the community another arrangement of the program is possible, allow- 
ing a special night for each of the important ones. Other population 
groups may also be arranged for, especially in an industrial community. 
Further remarks on lectures will be made in a later section. 



PUBLICITY 563 

Special Exhibition Material. Some of the best ex- 
hibition work can be done by means of rented or borrowed 
material from special sources. When such material is used 
a great deal of local planning, labor and expense can be 
saved. 1 Very useful small exhibits (see next section) can 
also be thus obtained. Local health officers can do a great 
deal to further the health exhibition movement by inducing 
their state departments of health to provide traveling ex- 
hibits, and by approaching the extension departments of 
their state universities with a similar object. Some of the 
latter, particularly in the upper Mississippi Valley, are 
already taking up social welfare and health exhibition work. 
Groups of towns or cities could also work up a cooperative 
arrangement, each one developing an exhibit dealing with 
some special subject, these to be interchanged among them. 
All arrangements by which the same material can be utilized 
repeatedly by various communities make it possible to 
produce the highest grade of exhibits at the minimum of 
cost. Economy may also be practiced by getting models 
and devices and cartoons prepared by local manual training 
or art schools and by other organizations or persons who are 
interested. A good idea of the kind of material used in 
health exhibitions may be gained by a visit to those acces- 
sible in New York, Chicago and other large cities. 2 Sug- 
gestions may also be gathered from the reports of the 
Philadelphia Milk Show and Baby Saving Show. 3 

1 Such material can be obtained from: the Department of Health, 
Chicago; Am. Assn. for Prevention of Infant Mortality, 1211 Cathedral 
St., Baltimore; Dept. of Child Helping, Sage Foundation, 130 East 
22nd St., New York City; Nat. Child Welfare Exhibition Committee, 
200 Fifth Ave., New York City; Nat. Assn. for Study and Prevention 
of Tuberculosis, 105 East 22nd St., New York City; and other national 
health organizations; also from the Educational Exhibition Co., 26 
Customhouse St., Providence, R. I. 

2 List of these will be supplied on application to Dept. Surveys and 
Exhibits, Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd St., New York City. 

8 See pp. 344 and 395. 



564 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

IV. SMALL EXHIBITS 

In many cases, especially in small towns, it may not be 
possible to work up an exhibition on the scale suggested 
above. In such instances the use of single exhibits is 
highly to be recommended, and under any circumstances 
it is desirable that the health department have constantly 
one or more such exhibits on view. It is possible for prac- 
tically every health department to make up, or purchase 
or hire from one of the sources given above, one or more 
simple but effective exhibits which can be set up in vacant 
stores, store windows, schools and other places in the public 
view. In the larger towns such exhibits may be moved 
occasionally to a new place so as to attract the notice of a 
different portion of the public. 

Again, it not infrequently happens that a fair or local 
exposition affords an opportunity for the health department 
to take part. Thus, if the chamber of commerce or busi- 
ness men's association holds a local fair or industries expo- 
sition it will often be possible for the health officer to obtain 
an exhibition booth rent-free. Such opportunities occur 
from time to time in a great many towns. 

Small exhibits may consist in models, charts or demon- 
stration material. As to subjects, instead of trying to 
cover the subject of public health in a general way, the 
aim should be to present one seasonable idea at a time, and 
even to use only a single effective model, chart, cartoon 
or device. 1 

V. LECTURES 

The progressive health officer will frequently be called 
upon to deliver lectures, addresses and talks before more or 
less influential civic and philanthropic bodies and before 
popular audiences. There is only one important caution 
about accepting such invitations : be sure that the audience 

1 Such may be purchased or hired if desired. See preceding section 
and note, p. 563. 






PUBLICITY 565 

will be worth the effort and publicity entailed. It is, there- 
fore, discreet to choose only the best. Time and energy 
may be consumed addressing very minor organizations, 
which could better be concentrated on a few occasions to 
deliver definite "messages" which will have wide publicity 
and influence. Better, in short, half a dozen important 
speeches a year than several dozen minor ones. 

While the health officer is the natural leader of all dis- 
cussion on public health topics, addresses by the president 
of the board of health, the mayor and other prominent and 
well-informed physicians or laymen are frequently useful. 

METHODS. A public speech cannot be too carefully pre- 
pared, and the speaker should be ready to have searching 
questions put to him. A good short address without the 
use of notes is usually, perhaps, most impressive. On the 
other hand, if an effective speech cannot be so deliv- 
ered, it is better to write out and speak (not merely 
read) from the manuscript. Clear and simple charts, dia- 
grams, photographs and models may serve in lieu of notes, 
and the same purpose is served by the lantern views of an 
illustrated lecture. These accessories are also frequently 
desirable to make one's meaning clear and to interest and 
impress the audience. 

The principle already mentioned that only a few points 
should be taken up and these treated in a vivid manner 
and illustrated by striking, even humorous, examples 
applies to public addresses, as well as do the other basic 
principles of publicity. Rarely should an address be over 
a half-hour in length (illustrated lectures excepted), and 
a quarter-hour concentrated upon one or two important 
topics is sometimes even better, especially when there 
are other speakers on the program. Even at that the 
speaker has an opportunity to deliver about 2000 words 
if newspaper columns or three times as many words as 
the editorials of metropolitan dailies devote to the prin- 
cipal topics (without taking into account the fact that 



566 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

one reads about twice as fast as the public speaker speaks). 
There is a tendency on the part of all speakers to run over 
time, a ten-minute speech becoming fifteen or twenty 
minutes, a fifteen-minute speech half-an-hour, etc. Hence, 
the caution is in order never to run over the allotted time. For 
inexperienced speakers (and some experienced ones as well) 
the hint to speak somewhat slowly and distinctly may often 
be of Value. It is advisable to bring out clearly in the open- 
ing words the subject of the discourse, and in the closing 
words to draw together the points to be emphasized. 

In passing, a word may be said as to statistical and other 
data. It is necessary for the health officer to have such 
facts near the tongue's end for ready reference at any time. 
While the quoting of "round figures" has its dangers, neither 
is it necessary to memorize columns of figures which weary 
both speaker and hearer. What the public desires and 
understands is not detailed statistical analysis but a few 
definite, accurate figures which can be simply stated with- 
out " about V and " approximately 's." 

As to publicity, press notices are especially important, 
not only before but also after the event. In order to guard 
against misquotation and to insure a good press account, 
the speaker should if possible prepare a draft, at least in 
outline, of his address and furnish to the newspapers several 
days beforehand "advance" copies marked with a memo- 
randum of the date, hour and place of delivery. The fact 
that an address is delivered to only a comparatively small 
number of people is thus compensated for by the wide cir- 
culation given by the press to even a portion of the matter 
delivered. 

The use of lantern slides, charts, etc., in lectures is an 
especially important consideration. The value of such 
material depends upon its choice and the method of use. 
Such illustrations should not only be strictly appropriate 
to the particular use that is made of them, but should also 
be fully explained. Too rapid exhibition may interest 



PUBLICITY 567 

the audience without allowing sufficient time for explana- 
tion of each point by the lecturer and its comprehension 
by the audience. In short, the lecturer should not make 
his remarks a mere passing commentary on the illustrations 
but should rather use them as texts for his discussion. 
Thus comparatively few slides or charts, if to the point, 
need be used. Their order should be carefully planned, so 
that a logical sequence may be obtained. 

Good lantern slides, separately or in sets, may now be 
obtained at a moderate cost, or the lecturer may have slides 
made from his own material by the firms specializing in 
their manufacture. 1 Lantern slides should be technically 
perfect, and good plain slides are better than inferior colored 
ones. 

VI. MOTION PICTURES 

The influence of motion pictures is obviously wide, and 
their impressiveness from a psychological point of view 
great. There is now a wide range of educational films upon 
the screens and among them a number which deal with 
public health subjects, e.g., tuberculosis, unsanitary work- 
ing conditions, typhoid fever, etc. The managers of moving 
picture theatres frequently have lists of such films 2 and are 
usually glad to obtain and show them as a regular part 
of their performance if the health department or other 
organization will give them some publicity. With the more 
extensive development of small-size motion picture appa- 
ratus for schools, clubs, lodges and other similar audiences, 
this form of publicity will become increasingly available. 

Motion pictures have, however, certain limitations. It 
must not be supposed that they can satisfactorily displace 
any other method. As an attraction their value is high, 

1 For information as to the various sources of such material apply 
to the Dept. of Surveys and Exhibits, Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd 
St., New York City. 

2 Or apply to Sage Foundation (supra). 



568 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

but a disadvantage lies in the fact that very little explana- 
tory matter can go with them on the screen and practically 
none at all by word of mouth. They are based on action, 
and a great many important facts can be conveyed by action 
in only a roundabout way or not at all. It seems to the 
author that the educational as distinguished from the 
attractional value of this form of entertainment tends 
to be overrated. It must also be remembered that it is 
difficult, expensive or impossible to arrange for moving 
pictures in many places where other effective forms of 
publicity are more readily available. 

PUBLICITY AND ADMINISTRATION 

While wise and persistent publicity will accomplish much, 
we cannot close the subject without a caution as to its 
limitations. It must be remembered that there are great 
numbers of people who are not affected or are affected 
only remotely by publicity, and that the sanitary edu- 
cation of the masses is a limited and gradual process. 
Publicity can, in fine, only facilitate or supplement admin- 
istration, not supply a substitute for it. 

On the other hand, apart from the question of permanent 
educational effects, publicity has a direct and immediate 
value in stimulating public opinion to a sense of community 
health needs, thus conducing to adequate funds and moral 
support. 



APPENDIX A 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS 1 
TERMS 

Disinfection is the process of destroying pathogenic (disease-produc- 
ing) microorganisms. It does not necessarily mean the destruction of 
all microorganisms which is sterilization. Absolute sterilization is 
not usually necessary in public health practice; efficient disinfection 
destroys the harmful organisms, while those remaining are for the most 
part hardy but harmless forms, the destruction of which is impracticable 
and unnecessary. Only in the case of a few infections e.g., anthrax 
and tetanus which have resistant spores is absolute sterilization 
necessary. It is, however, sometimes desirable to require practically 
complete sterilization (e.g., of milk utensils) in order to insure that 
there is thorough disinfection. 

Agents, physical or chemical, which disinfect are called disinfectants. 
Those which destroy germs, without reference to their character, are 
called germicides, a term frequently used interchangeably with the 
other. 

There is another class of substances known as antiseptics. These 
simply retard or prevent the growth and activity of microorganisms 
without necessarily destroying them. In other words they hinder or 
prevent "sepsis" (bacterial fermentation). Thus a minute quantity 
of formalin (say i to 50,000) will prevent the development of bacteria, 
but it requires a much greater quantity (3 to 5 per cent) actually to 
kill the bacteria within a reasonably short time. In the former in- 
stance the formalin is used as an antiseptic, in the latter as a germicide 
(or, if infectious disease organisms are present, as a disinfectant). 

Asepsis is a state of freedom from living microorganisms. Thus a 
process of sterilization results in a condition of asepsis, which may be 
maintained indefinitely by excluding all germs. In this sense we speak 
of aseptic methods in surgery. 

A class of substances quite distinct from the above are the deodor- 
ants, which destroy or neutralize odors due to putrefaction, etc. Many 
of the disinfectants are, as it happens, also deodorants, but the popular 
impression that deodorants are always disinfectants is incorrect, for only 

1 For general remarks as to the value and modes of employment of 
disinfection see Part II, Chapter I, pp. 123 f., 131 ff. 

569 



570 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

in certain instances is this the case. Charcoal, for example, absorbs 
odors, but exerts no disinfectant or germicidal power. On the other 
hand bichloride of mercury acts as a germicide without removing odors. 
Formalin, however, is an example of a substance which possesses both 
properties. The term deodorant does not, it may be noted in passing, 
properly apply to those strong-smelling substances which merely mask 
one odor with another. 

DISINFECTANTS 

For removing or destroying the danger of infectious material the 
best agents are those which are- simplest and nearest to hand : cleanli- 
ness and heat in its various forms. Too much stress has in the past 
been placed upon chemical disinfectants, which are not always readily 
available, which are frequently ineffectively applied, and which are 
often powerful poisons. To prepare disinfectant solutions requires a 
degree of intelligence which cannot always be expected, but any house- 
wife can apply soap and water and either burn up infected objects and 
materials or simply boil them on the stove. Except for the disinfec- 
tion of excreta and the care of the nurse's hands, there is little need 
for chemical disinfectants, which are only too often used to ward off 
the dangers of carelessness and uncleanliness. 

The following descriptions are by no means exhaustive; rather is 
stress laid on the simpler methods which may be readily applied in 
any household. 

The value of cleanliness particularly of personal cleanliness 
as a prophylactic measure cannot be too strongly insisted upon. While 
only a part of the dirt ordinarily met with may be the vehicle of infec- 
tion, nevertheless decency and prudence bid that all filth be treated 
with the same abhorrence. And this has reference particularly to the 
transference of even small amounts of secretions and discharges from 
person to person. If cleanliness in this sense were maintained by all 
persons certain communicable diseases would be practically wiped 
out. If such cleanliness were maintained in the sick-room the need 
for chemical disinfection would be much lessened. But owing to 
popular ignorance as to modes of infection, possible carelessness, and 
the practical obstacles to an ideal degree of cleanliness, the additional 
safeguard of disinfectants is relied upon to prevent infection from 
known cases of communicable disease. 

PHYSICAL AGENTS 

In nature there are various agents, e.g., sunlight, desiccation, extreme 
heat and cold, etc., which tend to diminish greatly the pathogenic 
organisms at large. It is the part of sanitary science to utilize so far 
as possible these natural means. 






APPENDIX A 571 

Sunlight has a certain germicidal effect. Practically, however, it 
can only be utilized as supplementary to the usual methods. Rooms 
and articles which have been disinfected should, whenever possible, be 
exposed to fresh air and sunlight. 

Heat is a highly efficient and practical disinfectant agent. It may 
be applied either dry or moist. Assuming the temperature is the 
same in both cases moist heat is more effective. 

The simplest application of dry heat is by means of burning, and 
many articles such as cloths, rags, papers, sputum cups and others of 
little or no value are best burned up. 

The simplest application of moist heat is by boiling. This method 
is available in practically all households and highly to be recommended. 
Bed linen, personal linen, eating utensils and other washable articles 
are thus most readily and surely disinfected. Moist heat of 60 C. 
(140 F.) for 20 minutes will destroy the microorganisms of cholera, 
typhoid fever, dysentery, diphtheria, plague, tuberculosis, pneumonia, 
erysipelas and practically all non-spore-bearing bacteria 1 (Rosenau). 
Boiling kills them at once, but should be prolonged for some minutes 
in order to insure penetration. 

Dry heat is effective but is not as satisfactory as moist heat for the 
reasons that it lacks power of penetration and is injurious to fab- 
rics. A temperature of 150 C. for one hour will destroy all forms of 
life, even the most resistant spores. "The ordinary household cook- 
ing oven is as good as any specially contrived apparatus for the disin- 
fection of small objects by dry heat. In the absence of a thermometer 
it is usual to heat the oven to a point necessary to brown cotton and 
expose the objects no less than one hour" (Rosenau). 

1 The bacilli of anthrax and tetanus form hardy spores which resist 
the ordinary methods of disinfection, though as a rule (not invariably) 
they are killed in streaming steam or boiling water in 60 minutes. 
"Tetanus [and, since their resisting powers are about the same, an- 
thrax] spores resist the action of 5 per cent carbolic acid for 10 hours, 
but are killed in 15 hours. A five per cent solution of carbolic acid, 
however, to which 0.5 per cent of hydrochloric acid has been added, 
destroys them in 2 hours. Bichloride of mercury, I to 1000, kills the 
spores in 3 hours, and in 30 minutes when 0.5 per cent of hydrochloric 
acid is added to the solution. . . . Tetanus [and anthrax] spores are 
destroyed with certainty when exposed to dry heat at or above 160 C. 
for one hour, or to steam at 120 C. for 20 minutes." (Rosenau, " Pre- 
ventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 71.) Organic matter hinders 
the effect of chemical disinfectants, which must be used in excess in 
its presence (see p. 576). For the disinfection of hides for anthrax 
see p. 251. Fortunately the health officer has to deal with these 
organisms but seldom. 



572 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



The above are methods readily applicable in any household. In 
the laboratory and under other special conditions it is feasible to make 
use of special apparatus and, furthermore, of a most valuable agent 
steam. Steam is quick, reliable and penetrates deeply. Further, 
it does more than disinfect; with the few exceptions already noted, it 
sterilizes. 

Either streaming steam or steam under pressure may be used. 
The former is the principle utilized in the Arnold steam sterilizer or 
the Koch steamer in the laboratory. When steam is held under 
pressure its temperature increases and it becomes very highly effective 
as a sterilizing agent. This fact is made use of in the laboratory 
digestor or autoclave and in the larger steam disinfecting chambers. 

Rosenau l states that "streaming steam has the same disinfecting 
power as boiling water, and an exposure of half an hour to an hour is 
sufficient. ... At a pressure of 15 pounds to the square inch steam 
has a temperature of approximately 120 C. and may be depended 
upon to sterilize in 20 minutes. At 20 pounds pressure it has a tem- 
perature of approximately 125 C. and will sterilize in 15 minutes." 

CHEMICAL AGENTS 
A. Liquid Disinfectants 

Various chemical substances are used, either in solution or in sus- 
pension, as disinfectants. We can here mention only the more im- 
portant and their chief modes of employment. The effect of organic 
matter in lessening the effects of disinfectants must be borne in mind 
(see p. 576). 

Lime is a cheap and efficient germicide. Lime mixtures must, how- 
ever, be made from freshly burned quicklime, for the reason that lime 
in any form loses its disinfectant power on standing in contact with 
air, by being converted into calcium carbonate, which has no germi- 
cidal property. Since lime is cheap, it may be used freely so as to in- 
sure thorough action. 

Convenient Formula z 
(Milk of Lime) 

Slake a quart of freshly burned lime, in small pieces, with three- 
fourths of a quart of water, or, more exactly, 60 parts of water by 

"Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 982, where a full 
account of the methods of this class will be found. 

2 The "Convenient Formulae" given in this Appendix are reprinted 
from Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 1023 f., 
by permission of D. Appleton and Company. Copyright, 1913, by 
D. Appleton and Company. 



APPENDIX A 573 

weight with 100 parts of lime. A dry powder of slaked lime (cal- 
cium hydroxide) results. Prepare the milk of lime shortly before 
it is to be used by mixing I quart of this dry calcium hydroxide 
with 4 quarts of water. Air-slaked lime is worthless. Slaked lime 
may be preserved some time if inclosed in an air-tight container. 
Milk of lime is especially useful for the disinfection of feces; an 
equal quantity should be added to the mass and thoroughly mixed. 
Since the lime settles to the bottom of the container, the milk of 
lime should be thoroughly agitated just before use. If necessary to 
preserve lime mixtures for any length of time they must be kept in 
air-tight containers. It is best prepared fresh each day and kept 
covered. 

If quicklime is used directly without previous addition of water it 
should be mixed thoroughly with the excreta or other matter to be 
disinfected, and there should be sufficient liquid present to insure its 
being fully slaked. 1 

Chlorinated Lime (Hypochlorite of Lime, Calcium Hypochlorite, 
" Chloride of Lime ") 2 is one of the most efficient germicides, and its 
cost, even at retail, is low. Popularly it is known as "bleaching 
powder" or, incorrectly, as "chloride of lime." Its efficiency is 
measured by the amount of available chlorine which it contains; this, 
according to the U. S. Pharmacopoeia, should be not less than 35 
per cent. It should be purchased and kept in air-tight containers, 
for it deteriorates on contact with the air, such deterioration being indi- 
cated by a strong odor of chlorine gas (freshly prepared it has only a 
very slight odor) and a pasty condition of the substance. In this con- 
dition its germicidal power is much reduced; it should therefore be 
used only in a fresh or well-preserved condition. 

The dry substance may be used to disinfect excreta. For this pur- 
pose, recommends Rosenau, enough of the chlorinated lime must be 
added and well incorporated with the mass to be equivalent to a 4 or 5 
per cent solution. 

Convenient Formula 3 

Chlorinated lime 3 ounces . 30 grams 

Water I gallon . i liter 

1 A method depending upon the heat evolved in the slaking of lime 
is described by Prausnitz in Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and 
Demogr., 1912, vol. IV, pt. I, p. 30. See infra, p. 584. 

2 For a complete account of the uses of this substance as a disin- 
fectant see Hooker, "Chloride of Lime in Sanitation," John Wiley and 
Sons, Inc., 1913. 

3 From Rosenau, see note, p. 572. 



574 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Mix. This is about a 3 per cent solution. It is exceedingly 
powerful and is useful for the disinfection of excreta, privy vaults, 
cesspools and many other purposes. It is an active bleaching 
agent and destroys fabrics in this concentration. 
If kept for any length of time the solution should be placed in a 
stone jug with tightly fitting stopper, to check deterioration by light 
and air. 

Since chlorinated lime is cheap it may be used freely in excess of 
theoretical requirements, so as to insure thorough action. 

A special use of chlorinated lime is in the disinfection of drinking 
water (see p. 412). 

Carbolic Acid (phenol and allied chemical compounds) is an efficient 
germicide, though expensive unless the crude variety is used. 

Convenient Formula l 
Crude carbolic acid (or phenol) 7 ounces . 50 c.c. 

Water I gallon . i liter 

The solution is facilitated by dissolving in hot water. This 
makes approximately a 5 per cent solution. The addition of from 
12 to 14 ounces of common salt to each gallon increases its germi- 
cidal power, especially when used for the disinfection of excreta. 
The crude carbolic acid is more powerful than pure phenol, but 
can only be used for rough work, such as floors, feces, sputum, etc. 
For the disinfection of clothing phenol should be used and the 
solution may be mixed half and half with water, making approxi- 
mately a 2.\ per cent solution. 

The Cresols are substances related to carbolic acid, such as cresol, 
creosote, trikresol, etc. They have a smell similar to that of carbolic 
acid and are efficient germicides, having coefficients higher than pure 
carbolic acid. Most of the commercial disinfectants on public sale 
are mixtures in which such substances play the chief part. The 
"liquor cresolis compositus" of the U. S. Pharmacopoeia is a mixture 
of this class. The various commercial preparations of this kind are 
too numerous to mention here. Many of them have high coefficients, 
but they should be subjected to bacteriological test (see p. 589), before 
being relied upon. Many have been so tested by the Hygienic Labo- 
ratory of the U. S. Public Health Service z and by various state, city 
and private laboratories. A great deal is to be said for the cresols 
as cheap, effective disinfectants having comparatively low poisonous 
properties. 

1 From Rosenau, see note, p. 572. 

2 Apply to the Hygienic Laboratory for information. Cf. list pub- 
lished in Hyg. Lab. Bull., no. 82. 



APPENDIX A 575 

Bichloride of Mercury (Corrosive Sublimate), a powerful germicide, 
is a white powder or crystals soluble in water. Solutions may be 
conveniently prepared from the bichloride tablets sold by druggists. 
These tablets contain a blue coloring matter to distinguish the solu- 
tion as highly poisonous. The formula below may also be used. 
While bichloride is a valuable germicide for certain purposes, being 
one of the most powerful known to the chemist, it has, in addition to 
its poisonous character (which makes it especially dangerous when 
children or careless or ignorant persons have access to it), the disad- 
vantages that its strength is absorbed by organic matter (through pre- 
cipitation by albuminous substances) and that it attacks metals. Thus 
its use, while dependable under proper conditions, has certain limita- 
tions. 

Convenient Formula l 

Bichloride of mercury i dram I gram 

Water i gallon i liter 

Mix and dissolve. Label "Poison!" This is approximately 
a i to 1000 solution. One ounce of this solution contains very 
nearly half a grain of corrosive sublimate. Useful for disinfecting 
clothing, the hands, the surfaces of walls, floors, furniture, etc. 
Not serviceable for feces or material containing much organic 
matter. 

A little bluing may well be added as a warning as to its poisonous 
nature. Keep in glass, earthenware or wooden vessels. Do not put 
into metal receptacles nor pour into metal drains. 

Formalin, a solution of formaldehyde gas in water, is one of the most 
trustworthy and useful germicides available for general use. It is 
effective, not very poisonous, not injurious to most articles (it has, 
however, an injurious effect on leather, furs and skins), and in addition 
acts as a true deodorant. Formalin solution is somewhat unstable 
and should be kept cool, dark and well corked. Disinfection with 
formaldehyde gas will be described presently under the head of Gases. 

Convenient Formula^ 

Formalin 13 ounces 100 c.c. 

Water i gallon i liter 

Formalin is a watery solution containing 40 per cent formalde- 
hyde. The above solution contains approximately 10 per cent of 
formalin and is useful for the disinfection of clothing and a great 
variety of objects. As it has no corrosive action it does not 

1 From Rosenau, see note, p. 572. 



576 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

bleach pigments or rot fabrics. When used to disinfect feces 

twice the above strength should be used. 

EFFECTS OF ORGANIC MATTER. 1 In the use of chemical disin- 
fectants it must be borne in mind that their action may be more or less 
weakened by organic matter, which may hinder the disinfection process 
either by chemically absorbing the strength of the disinfectant as 
in the case of bichloride of mercury or, if the organic matter is pres- 
ent in the form of particles, by physically preventing the access of the 
disinfectant solution to all parts of the substance to be disinfected. 
The latter is likely to be the case with sputum, feces, thick pus and the 
like, unless care is taken thoroughly to break up and mix the mass 
with the disinfectant. Further, it is wise to use an excess of the disin- 
fectant, and to employ those cheap substances, such as cresols, chlo- 
ride of lime, etc., which may without hesitation be used liberally, 
though of course such liberality does not dispense from all due care in 
the operation. Bichloride should never be used for disinfecting organic 
matter. 

B. Gases 

Disinfection by gas, popularly called "fumigation," is a measure 
commonly employed for room disinfection after removal, death or re- 
covery of the patient. The limitations even absence of value in 
most cases of this process have already been discussed in Part II, 
Chapter I. The methods are here given for what they may be worth 
and because extreme precaution may at times require this form of 
disinfection, which is still in very general use. 

Effective gaseous disinfection, while it does not penetrate deeply 
into fabrics and the like, disinfects the surfaces upon which infectious 
matter is lodged or smeared. The object is to disinfect such surfaces 
and not the air, which (except possibly in some cases for dust), is 
practically not a vehicle of infection. If proper routine disinfection 
of discharges and infected articles is carried during the course of a 
communicable disease and possible infected surfaces washed or wiped 
off with a liquid disinfectant, it is obvious that terminal disinfection 
by means of formaldehyde or other gas should be of little or no value 
and may under such circumstance be discarded as a routine measure 
(see p. 131 ff.). 

Fumigation with sulphur and other special gases, on the other hand, 
is a valuable measure in exterminating insects. 

Formaldehyde. The chief, and almost the only, gas employed for 
destruction of pathogenic microorganisms is formaldehyde, which is 
practically non-poisonous to man and animals and non-destructive. 

1 Cf. reference to standardization of disinfectants with and without 
organic matter, p. 590. 



APPENDIX A 577 

It is effective to this purpose if applied with attention to all essential 
details. A great deal, however, of room disinfection as carried out in 
routine practice at the present time is undoubtedly ineffective, for the 
reason that insufficient materials are used, the apartment is not prop- 
erly prepared, or essential conditions as to moisture, temperature, etc., 
are neglected. 1 Room disinfection requires skill, judgment and care 
on the part of the disinfector, and directions must be strictly adhered to. 

Anything less than thoroughness in gaseous disinfection is a waste 
of time, labor and materials. Where it is deemed advisable, it is 
certainly worth carrying out completely in accordance with scientific 
principles. It should, therefore, not be left to the householder or family 
physician, but should be performed by an expert official of the health 
department, and at public expense; thus only can uniformly reliable 
results be assured. 

The first step in practical application is the preparation of the apart- 
ment. Since the room must be vacated before the disinfection process 
is applied, it is customary for the patient to take a disinfectant bath 
and put on fresh clothes, leaving the old ones in the apartment. 

First, articles to be disinfected -should be distributed about or (e.g., 
bedding) hung on lines so as to allow free access of the gas, but on the 
other hand they should not be so much rearranged from the original 
order as to cover up possibly infected parts. Bureau drawers and 
closets should be opened and their contents spread out. Articles of 
little or no value which have been exposed to infection and may be 
destroyed by fire should be at once so treated. 

Second, the room must be properly sealed. Since the amount of 
gas which may escape even from a well-sealed apartment is much 
greater than would be supposed, it is essential to make the room as 
nearly air-tight as possible. Chimneys, registers and other large open- 
ings must be closed or tightly stopped up. Cracks and crevices, e.g., 
the cracks about doors and windows, the keyholes, etc., should be 
either well caulked (as with paper or cotton), or sealed with adhesive 
tape. The cracks under doors are likely to be wide and should be 
thoroughly stopped. When adhesive tape is used the dust should first 
be wiped from the surfaces to which it is to be applied. Health depart- 
ment adhesive tape about i\ inches wide is manufactured for the 
purpose and is very convenient, but care must be taken to see that it is 
really adhesive after drying. A damp cloth or sponge for moistening 
the tape and cleaning dusty surfaces is a convenient part of the disin- 
fector's outfit. 

1 See experiments reported in Ann. Rpt. of the State Inspectors of 
Health of Massachusetts, 1910, pp. 108-120, quoted in Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 1912, vol. II, no. 2, p. 131. 



578 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

All crevices and openings having been stopped up except one door 
or window left for exit, the operator starts the process for liberating 
the gas, leaves the room and seals the cracks around the exit door or 
window on the outside. 

The 'secret of success in any process of formaldehyde disinfection is 
to liberate a large volume of the gas in a short time and with the right 
physical conditions. Hence the following requirements: 

1. The amount of material used should be somewhat in excess of 
the estimated requirements, in order to make up for loss by leakage, 
through conditions not being quite perfect, etc. 

2. The gas should be liberated rapidly. 

3. Moisture is necessary, and the more humidity produced the 
more active the disinfectant action (hence the advantage in processes 
which liberate more or less moisture). 

4. The room should be warm at least comfortable living tempera- 
ture (65 F.). 

If any one of the above conditions is not fulfilled the results may be 
vitiated. 

The time necessary varies according to conditions, and since practi- 
cal conditions are usually not perfectly favorable, an excess of time 
should be allowed. The least time allowed should be six hours. At 
the end of the time the gas may be dispelled by opening doors and 
windows, so far as possible from the outside. If necessary for the 
operator to enter a room where there is considerable gas he may cover 
mouth and nose with a wet towel and act quickly, for the gas, though 
not poisonous, is highly irritating to the mucous membranes of the 
nose, throat and eyes. The best time to disinfect is at night, for then 
the room may remain closed over night and in the morning niost of 
the gas will probably be found to have diffused away. 

The chief limitation of formaldehyde gas lies in the fact that it 
does not penetrate to any material extent in fabrics, e.g., bedding and 
the like; hence if these are to be subjected to more than surface disin- 
fection they should be soaked in disinfectant solution or subjected to 
some other more penetrating process. 

Controls of Disinfection. The final test of gaseous disinfection is 
whether the microorganisms present are actually killed. Such a test 
may readily be carried out by means of a bacteriological "control." 
If there is any doubt as to the efficiency of a process of disinfection it 
should be so tested. For this purpose Rosenau recommends saturat- 
ing threads with an active culture of B. prodigiosus. These are attached 
to little strips of paper which are then exposed in various parts of the 
room. After the process of disinfection the threads are inoculated 
into Dunham's peptone medium. If the B. prodigiosus has survived 
the characteristic red color appears in the culture medium. 1 

1 "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 969. 



APPENDIX A 579 

Methods of Formaldehyde Production. Formaldehyde gas dis- 
solves in water and the solution thus formed, containing about 40 
per cent of the gas by weight, is known as formalin (p. 575). The 
gas may. also be condensed into a powder known as paraform. For 
purposes of disinfection formaldehyde gas may be produced by boiling 
formalin either under or without pressure or under partial vacuum, 
by heating paraform powder, by mixing potassium permanganate and 
formalin (or paraform with water), or by mixing formalin, lime and 
aluminum sulphate. Formaldehyde disinfection may also be per- 
formed by sprinkling articles hung up in the room with formalin solu- 
tion, which evaporates, thus permeating the room with the gas. 

The following are among the more practicable methods of producing 
the gas: 

THE PERMANGANATE-PARAFORM METHOD. The following method 
has been tested out by the Department of Health of New York City 
and found both effective and convenient. 1 

Formula: 

Potassium permanganate 75 grams 2.5 ounces 

Paraformaldehyde (solid formal- 
dehyde in powder form) . . t . . . 30 grams I ounce 
Water 90 grams 3 ounces 

The two chemicals are put up separately in small round paper 
boxes. A number of these may be prepared at one time and, if dipped 
in melted paraffin so as to make them air-tight, may be kept on hand 
in a cool place for some weeks. After a pair of samples have been 
' carefully weighed out small measures may be made and the rest of the 
amounts may be rapidly measured out by volume. For mixing and 
for setting off the mixture small deep tin trays (| quart size) may be 
used. Where there are many disinfections to be performed it is con- 
venient to use water-tight paper trays 5 or 6 inches square and about 
3 inches in depth which may be abandoned after use. Both boxes and 
trays may be obtained inexpensively if purchased in lots of 500 or 1000 
or more from manufacturers of paper goods. The disinfector should 
be provided with a small measure for water. A unit for each 1000 
cubic feet would consist of one box of each chemical and one measure 
(3 oz.) of water. The two chemicals are thoroughly mixed dry in the 
tray or trays (several should be used if the apartment contains more 
than 2000 cubic feet of air space). For safety's sake each paper tray, 
where these are used, should be placed in a dish or tin pan containing 

1 Schroeder, "Municipal Disinfection in New York City as Re- 
cently Reorganized," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. ii, no. 8, p. 591. 



580 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

warm water to the depth of half an inch or so. Warm water to the 
quantity required is then added to the contents of each tray and rap- 
idly and thoroughly mixed in with a small glass or wooden rod. The 
evolution of the gas does not begin at once, so the operator has time to 
leave the room and seal the door without being annoyed by the fumes. 
The gas is practically all given off in five to ten minutes. The mois- 
ture necessary for efficiency is evolved at the same time. The method 
has the advantages of efficiency, lightness of materials, convenience of 
operation and low cost (about 9 cents per unit of 1000 cubic feet). 
Materials, as with other methods, should, in order to insure thorough 
action, be used somewhat in excess of estimated requirements. 

THE PERMANGANATE-FORMALIN METHOD. 1 Use 500 c.c. [17 
fluid oz.] of formalin and 250 grams [8.8 oz.] of potassium perman- 
ganate for each thousand cubic feet of air space. The perman- 
ganate is first placed in a bucket or basin and the formalin poured 
upon it. An active effervescence takes place and considerable 
heat is evolved; therefore a pail of sufficient capacity, and espe- 
cially of sufficient height, should be used to prevent splashing or 
boiling over. In Board of Health work it is advisable to have 
galvanized iron pails made for this purpose with a flaring top. 
The floor should be protected against the heat by placing the bucket 
upon a brick, board, or other suitable device. 

When the permanganate of potassium and formalin are brought 
in contact very active oxidation takes place, with the formation 
of formic acid and heat. It is the heat that liberates the formalde- 
hyde gas. Chemically, therefore, the method is a wasteful one, 
but practically a very serviceable one: It was first described by 
Johnson of Sioux City, Iowa, in 1904. In the same year Evans 
and Russell of Augusta, Maine, used the method. 2 

THE FORMALIN-LIME AND ALUMINIUM SULPHATE METHOD. S 
This method was first described by Walker of the Department of 
Health, Brooklyn, N. Y. It is somewhat slower than the potas- 
sium permanganate method, but otherwise appears to be just as 
efficient. 

1 This method and the following are reprinted from Rosenau, "Pre- 
ventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, pp. 996-97, by permission of 
D. Appleton and Company. Copyright, 1913, by D. Appleton and 
Company. 

2 A convenient permanganate-formalin outfit consisting of a unit 
for a single room is described by Freeman, Am. Jour. Pub. Hyg., 1909, 
vol. xxv, p. 361. 

3 Reprinted, by permission, from Rosenau. See note supra. 



APPENDIX A 581 

The proportions for each 1000 cubic feet are as follows: 

Sol. A. Aluminium sulphate 150 grams [ 5.3 oz.] 

Dissolved in hot water 300 c.c. [10.2 fluid oz.] 

Sol. B. Formalin (40% CHOH) . . 600 c.c. [20.4 fluid oz.j 

Lime. Unslaked lime 2000 grams [70 oz.] 

Mix solutions A and B and pour upon the lime. 

In practical work 20 to 25 pounds of the commercial aluminium 
sulphate is dissolved in 5 gallons of hot water. This is sufficient 
to mix with 15 gallons of a 40 per cent formaldehyde solution 
and then used in the proportions as stated above. The lime 
should be freshly burned, broken into small particles, and should 
slake rapidly in cold water. The lime is placed in a large bucket. 
The formalin and aluminium sulphate solutions should be mixed 
and poured over the lime. In a few minutes the lime begins to 
slake and the heat evolved drives off the formaldehyde gas. 
Commercial "candles" or "lamps" for the production of formalde- 
hyde from paraform compounds are on the market; some of these are 
convenient and to a greater or less degree effective. They do not, 
however, as a rule supply the extra moisture frequently needed. Such 
articles should be bacteriologically tested as above described before 
purchasing, and should be retested from time to time in order to detect 
possible deterioration in manufacture or storage. In selecting a method 
of disinfection expense must be considered and the unit costs (per 
thousand cubic feet) of the various methods proposed should be com- 
pared. Prices on formalin, permanganate, etc., in bulk will be quoted 
by wholesale chemical dealers. The strength of formalin is likely to 
vary below the theoretical 40 per cent solution (average, according to 
Rosenau, 36 per cent), so that unless its strength is known an excess 
should be figured. The amount of air space for which each candle is 
effective, in the case of the commercial "candles," should be deter- 
mined by bacteriological experiment to check up the manufacturer's 
statement. 

DISINFECTANTS FOR SPECIFIC USES 

The choice of a disinfectant in any given case will depend upon: 
(i) its efficiency and its applicability to the purpose in view; (2) ease 
of application \ (3) cost and (4) disadvantages. 

Health authorities should definitely prescribe practical and effective 
methods of disinfection, and should also supply any needed chemicals 
in a convenient form at public expense. In many instances this im- 
portarjt phase of prevention is slighted and the measures taken are 
perfunctory and ineffective. The primary responsibility for seeing 
that disinfection is properly performed throughout the course of each 



582 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

case of communicable disease rests with the health authorities, whose 
rules in connection with such cases should be explicit and should 
be explained and their observance supervised in detail by the sanitary 
inspector. 

The following are the disinfectant agents chiefly to be recommended 
for certain specific uses. For formulae and application see preceding 
pages. 

Two rules should be borne in mind throughout: 
Disinfection may supplement care and cleanliness in the sick-room and 
house, but cannot take its place. 

Prefer heal (burning and boiling), the simple and universal disinfectant, 
so far as possible, to other methods. 

Sputum, Discharges from Mouth and Nose, etc., should so far as 
possible be caught on pieces of cloth, gauze, or absorbent cotton, and 
burned up. Destructible sputum cups are useful. Chemical disinfec- 
tants, to be allowed to stand in contact half an hour or more: carbolic 
acid, 5 per cent; formalin, 10 per cent or stronger; chlorinated lime, 
3 per cent; but these frequently do not penetrate into particles of 
sputum, etc. Ordinary cups or cuspidors should contain water, which 
will hold the sputum until it can be disinfected. Paper cuspidors 
which can be frequently burnt up and replaced are to be recommended. 
Excreta. Proper disinfection of feces and urine requires care in 
the application of any of -the following methods: 1 

From patients the discharges should be received in a glass or 
impervious vessel containing some of the germicidal substance, 
more of which is added afterwards, and the mass thoroughly mixed. 
The mixture should stand at least one hour before the contents 
are disposed of, and the vessel given a thorough cleansing and dis- 
infection before it is again used. At least an equal quantity of 
the germicidal solution should be used to the mass disinfected and 
enough should always be added to entirely submerge the mass. 
Excreta must always be protected from flies and other insects, 
even while undergoing disinfection. 

Milk of Lime. Use freshly prepared milk of lime containing 
i part by weight of the freshly slaked lime to 4 parts of water. 
Add at least an equal quantity to the amount of material to be 
disinfected and allow the mixture to stand no less than two hours 
before final disposal. The perfunctory sprinkling of fecal matter 
with lime or milk of lime, as is often done, is not effective. Lime 
should not be thrown into the hoppers of water-closets for the 
1 Reprinted from Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 
I9I3. P- 1030, by permission of D. Appleton and Company. Copy- 
right, 1913, by D. Appleton and Company. 



APPENDIX A 583 

disinfection of dejecta, for otherwise a thick mass will accumulate 
and obstruct the pipes. In disinfecting excreta with lime the 
reaction of the resulting mixture must be alkaline else the object 
will not be attained. 

Lime or milk of lime is very useful for the disinfection of privies, 
or trenches in camp, or in country practice. For its use under these 
circumstances the amount required may be arrived at as follows: 
The amount of fecal matter per person is reckoned at 400 grams a 
day. If the urine is also to be disinfected this may be counted as, 
1500 to 2000 c.c. per person daily. For the disinfection of the 
solid excrement alone 5 grams of lime, or 40 c.c. of the milk of lime 
(i to 8), must be reckoned for each person per day. If the urine 
is included it will take four to five times as much. The mixture 
must have an alkaline reaction. Attention is again called to the 
fact that air-slaked lime is inert. 

Chlorinated Lime. This is one of the most useful and potent 
germicidal substances for the disinfection of feces. Use at least 
a 3 per cent solution and an amount equal to the mass to be dis- 
infected. Thoroughly mix and allow to stand at least 2 hours. 
Chlorinated lime combined with air is rendered inert by organic 
matter; therefore an excess should always be used. 

Formalin. A 10 per cent solution of formalin may be de- 
pended upon,, to disinfect feces if thoroughly incorporated with 
the mass and allowed to stand at least one hour. As a deodorant 
it acts almost instantly. 

Carbolic Acid. A 5 per cent solution of crude carbolic acid 
added to an equal bulk of excreta may be depended upon to disin- 
fect in one to two hours, provided the germicide is thoroughly 
incorporated throughout the mass. 

The cresols and the alkaline coal-tar creosotes are valuable 
agents for the disinfection of fecal matter in small amounts on 
account of their energetic action and because their efficiency is 
not greatly impaired by the presence of albuminous matter. As 
a rule substances in emulsion lack the power of penetration, and if 
used must be very thoroughly mixed and incorporated with the mass. 

Dry earth promotes the disinfection of excreta, thus delaying 
putrefactive changes while absorbing the odors. It has no inher- 
ent germicidal qualities. Corrosive sublimate is unfit for the 
disinfection of feces and sputum. 

(For formulae and details for the use of the above-mentioned disin- 
fectants see pp. 572-5.) 

Doty calls attention to the practical difficulties of the ordinary 
methods of disinfecting excreta by chemical agents, mentions the 



584 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

necessity for disinfecting the vessel as well as the contents, and recom- 
mends the use of heat, describing a water-bath which is applicable 
where the necessary apparatus can be improvised or installed. The 
method has thus far, apparently, been utilized only in hospitals. 

I believe there is but one way to deal with infected discharges 
of this kind, if it can be made use of, and that is by heat either 
boiling water or steam. Some simple means of performing this 
may be improvised wherever a metal receptacle of sufficient 
capacity and a fire can be secured, or a simple and inexpensive 
apparatus may be made as follows: A sheet-copper receptacle 
sufficiently large to hold a full-sized bedpan may be easily con- 
structed, having metal supports to raise it above the ground high 
enough to allow room for a lamp or gas apparatus to secure the 
necessary heat. The cover should, if possible, be made sufficiently 
heavy to offset a slight pressure of steam. This, however, is still 
further provided for by a spout which is attached to the portion 
of the top not involved in the cover and for the same purpose that 
a spout is used on a teakettle to allow the escape of steam. 
The upper end of this should be connected with a flexible tube, 
which may be carried out of the window in order that the steam 
does not escape into the apartment itself. When not used the 
temperature of the water may be kept short of the boiling point. 
The addition of a small amount of potassium permanganate will 
usually prevent any unpleasant odor. The value of this method 
lies in the fact that when the bedpan is brought from the patient 
and placed in the bath and exposed to boiling water for 20 min- 
utes we may be certain that both the pan and the discharge are 
disinfected and it makes little difference what is done with them 
afterwards. This apparatus is only a suggestion of the principle 
which may be carried out on a larger scale. In the hospitals 
which have been under my direction large apparatus were con- 
structed along these lines capable of holding eight bedpans at one 
time. Steam may be used instead of boiling water. This method 
of disinfection is valuable in any form of infectious disease for the 
treatment of discharges or textile fabrics or other articles which 
may have been directly contaminated. 1 

Slaking of Quicklime. - What is apparently the most effective 
method of all for the disinfection of excreta consists in making use 
of the heat evolved in the slaking of quicklime? It consists in add- 

1 Doty, Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr., 1912, vol. 
IV, pt. I, p. 17. 

2 Prausnitz, Trans. XV Internal. Congress Hyg. and Demogr:, 1912, 
vol. IV, p. 30; H. Linenthal and H. N. Jones, Boston Med. and Surg- 
Jour., Jan. 8, 1914 (reprinted in Mo. Bull. Mass. State Bd. Health, 
Jan., 1914. 






APPENDIX A 585 

ing enough hot water to cover the stool in the receptacle and then 
adding an amount equal to at least one-fourth of the entire bulk of 
liquid present or about a cupful of quicklime, covering the 
receptacle and allowing it to stand for two hours. The slaking of 
the lime generates enough heat to destroy intestinal organisms. 
The water added should have a temperature of at least 5O-6o C. 
(i2O-i4O F.); cold water cannot be depended upon. A porcelain 
vessel retains the heat better than a metal one. The lime should 
be broken up into small fragments and distributed evenly over the 
stool. The method is simple and is applicable in the household. 
If necessary, water should be heated in the sick-room, in order to 
avoid any communication with the kitchen for that purpose. Use 
fresh unslaked lime which has been protected from the air; old, air- 
slaked lime is inert. 

The Hands. Disinfection of the hands of persons nursing cases 
of communicable disease is of prime importance. Chronic carriers of 
disease should also take precautions to keep their hands free from 
infection, which means that the hands must be disinfected after every 
exposure to contamination. 

To free the hands from infection does not require elaborate measures. 
In the first place, thorough washing with soap and water, followed by 
rinsing in running water and thorough wiping, results, as experiment 
has shown, in freeing the hands from microorganisms. The operation 
as performed by careful persons under ordinary circumstances would 
remove at least the great majority of germs. This is a fact of impor- 
tance to all persons who desire to protect themselves from the contact 
infection which, as we have pointed out in the discussion in previous 
pages, is readily conveyed, from known or unknown sources, by con- 
taminated fingers. Dirty hands, even though the dirt is unseen, spell 
danger at all times; clean hands, relative safety. But, since most 
persons cannot be depended upon to be sufficiently careful, it is well, 
where there is question of protection from known infection, to practice 
chemical disinfection as a safeguard. 

In connection with cases of communicable disease, the nurse should first 
carefully wash her hands, then dip them for not less than one full minute 
by the clock in a solution of bichloride, carbolic acid (2^ per cent) or one 
of the cresols, alcohol, eau-de-Cologne or other suitable disinfectant; 
the disinfectant should then be rinsed off with clean water and the 
hands should be wiped dry with a towel used for no other purpose. 
The process should be repeated after each handling of patient, in- 
fectious matter or infected articles. 

Care should be taken that the hands do not become unconsciously 
recontaminated by handling infected vessels or articles, and the waste 



586 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

water resulting from the above process should be disposed of so as 
to occasion no danger of infection, disinfectant being added to it if 
necessary. 

Chronic Carriers of typhoid or other disease should be instructed 
to take similar precautions after every possible contamination of the 
fingers; thorough washing and wiping of the hands is the least that 
should be demanded, preferably followed with the use of a disinfectant. 

Dishes and Other Eating Utensils should be placed in a metal 
vessel (e.g., a dish-pan) and entirely covered with water. This vessel 
should be kept outside of the sick-room door and twice a day it should 
be removed to the kitchen stove and its contents well boiled in the same 
vessel for twenty minutes. The use of chemical agents is not necessary. 

Body and Bed Linen should be similarly treated in a separate vessel 
such as an ordinary washboiler. During the boiling the materials 
should be agitated so as to insure penetration of the boiling water to 
all parts. With such a process no chemicals are necessary. 

Bedding, such as blankets, mattresses, etc., which cannot be boiled, 
may be thoroughly sprayed on all parts with formalin and shut up in 
a warm and tight closet, box, or drawer for at least 12 hours and then 
should be exposed to sun and air. A gaseous formaldehyde disinfection 
will disinfect the surfaces of such things if they are exposed so that the 
surfaces may be reached by the gas. Some health departments in the 
larger cities remove bedding, disinfect it by steam, and then return it. 

Miscellaneous Articles, if of little or no value, may be burned. Or 
they may be boiled or immersed in a disinfectant solution. Or each 
article may be sprayed with formalin by means of a hand atomizer 
and placed in a wooden or pasteboard box having a tight-fitting cover, 
which should be sealed and kept in a warm room for twelve hours. 
Articles which would be injured by much moisture may be placed in a 
tight box or compartment and subjected to formaldehyde gas with a 
moderate amount of moisture. Magazines and books which have 
been used in the sick-room may, if of little value, be burned, or may be 
disinfected as described below. In boiling bright metal objects the 
addition of a small amount of alkali, e.g., cooking or washing soda, 
will prevent corrosion. 

Books may be disinfected externally by formaldehyde gas and 
internally by placing two or three drops of formalin solution on every 
second page, with care to distribute the drops well. The book is then 
placed in a tight box or drawer in which more formalin has been sprin- 
kled and left in a warm place for not less than 24 hours. The follow- 
ing method, adaptable to larger numbers of books, is given by Dr. 
Robert J. Wilson, Superintendent of Hospitals of the Department of 
Health of New York. 



APPENDIX A 587 

Books can be successfully disinfected by formaldehyde fumiga- 
tion. In order to insure thorough fumigation the books must be 
so arranged as to insure penetration of the gas between all the 
pages. This is best accomplished by opening the book until the 
covers come together at the back, holding them in this position by 
a rubber band or clothespin. This will cause the leaves to separate 
and allow the gas to pass between them. The books should then 
be placed on perforated shelves, preferably made of wire netting, 
standing on end. Formaldehyde gas, [derived from] 40 per cent 
[formalin] solution, from any kind of an approved generator, in the 
proportion of I ounce of solution for every 100 cubic feet of 
space, should be supplied in an air-tight box that contains the 
books. The exposure to the gas should not be less than four hours. 
Test organisms of common pathogenic organisms exposed under 
these conditions have been destroyed by the action of the gas. 1 
The internal disinfection of books is usually of little practical 
value. 

Surfaces, such as woodwork, furniture, and the like, unless directly 
exposed to infection by smearing, handling, coughing, etc., need no 
general treatment. For door-knobs, bed-frames, and other parts 
which have been exposed, the cresol compounds are to be recommended; 
also bichloride solution and other liquid disinfectants. Washing or 
scrubbing with soap and water with the addition of a cresol is useful. 
With such exceptions treatment of woodwork, etc., is unnecessary if 
cleanliness has been observed during isolation. 

Terminal or Room Disinfection. If the above-mentioned meas- 
ures have been carried out, general room disinfection should be unnec- 
essary as a terminal routine measure (see discussion in Part II, Chapter 
I). If proper care has been exercised during the isolation there will 
only remain a few articles and surfaces in the sick-room which can 
possibly require disinfection, and these can be dealt with as already 
described. At the present time terminal disinfection with formalde- 
hyde gas can only be regarded either as an endeavor to atone for lack 
of proper measures during the course of the disease or as an extreme 
precaution when such measures have been taken. (Methods have been 
given a few pages back.) 

1 Jour. Outdoor Life, 1914, vol. xi, no. 4, p. 118. Other methods of 
book disinfection, especially for larger numbers of books, are given in 
Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 1033. Moist 
hot air in a specially constructed chamber has been recommended by 
Nice, Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. i, no. II, p. 775, and 
Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 1912, vol. Iviii, no. 16, p. 1201. 



588 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Stables are difficult to disinfect thoroughly, but disinfection may be 
necessary on account of glanders, tuberculosis and other animal dis- 
eases transmissible to man. The disinfection should be accompanied 
by a thorough cleaning and a cleansing of all surfaces. Rosenau rec- 
ommends: first, sulphur fumigation (see below) to destroy surface 
infection and vermin, followed by burning or disinfection of such as 
harness, blankets, combs, etc., by appropriate methods; then a liberal 
application of an antiseptic solution (e.g., a cresol compound); then 
cleaning woodwork with hot lye or strong alkaline soap solution fol- 
lowed by another application of disinfectant. After several days 
exposure to air and sunshine the interior should receive a fresh coat of 
whitewash, applied quickly, and prepared from freshly burned lime. 
Watering troughs and the water contained in them may require dis- 
infection, the disinfectant being afterwards thoroughly washed out. 
Ground may be disinfected with fresh quicklime. Carcasses and ex- 
creta may be buried in quicklime. 1 

SULPHUR FUMIGATION 

Sulphur fumigation is highly efficient for the destruction of insects 
and vermin. 2 Although it is not a very efficient germicide it has also 
a certain value in destroying surface infection. Sulphur is cheap and 
may be obtained even in country stores, and the application is simple. 

As a germicide sulphur dioxide (the gas formed by combustion of 
sulphur) requires moisture. It does not penetrate, however, and is 
therefore only useful for surface disinfection. It does not kill spores. 

As an insecticide it does not require moisture, and penetrates very 
effectively. It quickly kills all forms of insect and animal life, e.g., 
mosquitoes, flies, fleas, rats, etc. (On mosquito destruction cf. p. 592.) 

Its disadvantages are that it bleaches colors, corrodes metals and 
tends to disintegrate fabrics, and the more moisture there is present 
the more pronounced are these effects. Metal surfaces may, however, 
be protected by a thin coating of heavy oil or grease (e.g., vaseline); 
while if exposed fabrics are at once washed most of the damage to them 
can be avoided. 

1 For more detailed account of methods above outlined, see Rose- 
nau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 1027. 

2 Hydrocyanic acid gas (prussic acid) is highly efficacious against 
insects and vermin, but as it is extremely poisonous to human beings 
it must be used with special precautions and great care; hence, while 
it may only be used in special classes of buildings, it has a very limited 
place as an insecticide in the disinfection of dwelling houses. See 
Dept. of Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 194. 
The U. S. Dept. of Agriculture publishes instructions for its use. 



APPENDIX A 589 

The pot method, described below, is recommended. Similar condi- 
tions to those required for formaldehyde disinfection should be obtained 
if germicidal action is desired, viz., a well-sealed room, sufficient mois- 
ture and at least comfortable room temperature. To insure insecticidal 
action the sealing of the compartment is also important (see page 592). 
The gas is evolved slowly and if there are many cracks and crevices may 
escape nearly as rapidly as evolved. At low temperatures a good deal 
of the gas may be condensed by the moisture present. 

The pot method is at once the easiest, cheapest and probably 
most efficient method of using sulphur dioxide. The only mate- 
rials required are iron pots and some sulphur. The best way to 
apply the method is by placing the sulphur in large, flat, iron pots 
known as Dutch ovens. Not more than 30 pounds of sulphur 
should be placed in each pot. The sulphur is preferably used in 
the form of flowers of sulphur. If it is in sticks or rolls it should 
be crushed into a powder, which may conveniently be done by 
placing the sulphur in a stout" box and pounding the lumps with a 
heavy timber. The pot holding the sulphur should be placed in 
a tub of water [being raised on supports off the bottom of the 
latter]. The water not only diminishes the danger from fire and 
protects the floor, but by its evaporation furnishes the moisture 
necessary to hydrate the sulphur dioxide, upon which the disin- 
fecting power of the gas depends. Thus the moisture is furnished 
automatically and does away with the necessity for its introduc- 
tion by means of steam or a spray. Although the specific gravity 
of sulphur dioxide is greater than that of air, when hot it rises, 
aided by the upward current produced by the burning sulphur. 
Hence the pots should not be on the floor, or at the bottom of the 
hold in the case of vessels, lest the cold gas settle and the flame, 
being deprived of oxygen, be extinguished before all the sulphur 
is burned. The pots may therefore be placed upon a table or box or, 
in the holds of ships, upon piles of ballast or on the " 'tween decks." 
The sulphur may be lighted by means of hot coals or a wood 
fire, but the most reliable way to get it well lighted is by alcohol, 
turpentine, or kerosene on a pledget of waste. Make a little crater 
of the sulphur, soak liberally with alcohol, and ignite. The sul- 
phur then burns in the center, and as it melts runs down from 
the sides and forms a little lake at the bottom of the crater. If the 
sulphur is heaped up in a mound in the pot the flame is liable to 
go out. 

Upon the principle of not putting all our eggs in one basket, it 
is best to have a number of pots when a large compartment is to 
be fumigated. A pot should contain not more than 30 pounds of 



590 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

sulphur, and the pots should be well distributed in various portions 
of the place to be disinfected. 

Use 5 pounds per 1000 cubic feet where a germicidal action is 
desired, and at least 2 pounds per 1000 cubic feet for insecticidal 
purposes. For the destruction of bacteria an exposure of from 
6 to 24 hours is necessary, while for the destruction of vermin from 
2 to 12 hours is sufficient, depending upon the size and shape of 
the compartment to be treated. 1 

STANDARDIZATION OF DISINFECTANTS 
Disinfectants may be bacteriologically standardized by the method 
originated by Rideal and Walker, and modified by the U. S. Hygienic 
Laboratory and others, which gives the strength of the disinfectant as 
compared with carbolic acid taken as a standard. The figure thus 
obtained is known as the "carbolic (or phenol) coefficient." 2 

Local health authorities may rely upon substances of known value, 
but if there is any question or a new disinfectant is to be adopted, it 
should be tested by some competent authority, such as a state labora- 
tory or the Hygienic Laboratory of the U. S. Public Health Service at 
Washington. The latter has already tested a number of commercial 
disinfectants, some of which were found to have little or no value 
(Bull. no. 82). The question of expense also enters in, and the cost of 
the commercial preparation in question, even though efficient, should be 
compared with that of the ordinary disinfecting substances. 

HOUSEHOLD DISINFECTANTS AND DEODORANTS 
A number of commercial preparations are sold as "household disin- 
fectants," being alleged to free the house in a general way from infec- 
tion. It scarcely needs be repeated that the best prophylactic measure 

1 Reprinted from Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 
J 9I3 PP- 997 ff. (where other methods are also described), by permis- 
sion of D. Appleton and Company. Copyright, 1913, by D. Appleton 
and Company. 

2 See Rosenau, "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," 1913, p. 974; 
Anderson and McClintock, Method of Standardizing Disinfectants 
with and without Organic Matter, with determination of the phenol 
coefficient of some commercial disinfectants, Bull. no. 82, Hyg. Lab., 
Wash., 1912; Worth Hale, Method for Determining the Toxicity of 
Coal-tar Disinfectants, with report on relative toxicity of some com- 
mercial disinfectants, Bull. no. 88, Hyg. Lab., Wash.; and papers and 
reports of special Committee in Am. Jour. Pub. Health for 1912, et 
seqq. The matter is now in the hands of an international committee 
appointed at the International Congress of Hygiene and Demography 
and International Congress of Applied Chemistry in 1912. 



APPENDIX A 591 

of general availability is domestic cleanliness, avoidance of dissemi- 
nation of filth, and a plentiful use of soap and water supplemented by 
air and sunlight. Under normal circumstances and except as ordered 
by health authorities it is practically unnecessary to keep powerful 
chemical disinfectants in the house, and some (as bichloride of 
mercury) are poisonous. Where antiseptics are needed coal-tar sub- 
stances (cresols), being comparatively non-poisonous, may be used. 
Money should not be wasted on worthless "household disinfectants," 
a number of which are on the market. 

The absurd idea that aromatic vapors or disinfectants placed in 
saucers about a sick-room purify the air should be deprecated as a 
fetish, distracting attention from matters of real importance. Any 
needful purification of the air can be accomplished by cleanliness and 
airing. Instead of neglecting cleanliness and attempting to mask, 
neutralize or absorb foul odors by the use of "disinfectants," they 
should be traced to their source and the latter removed, or, if necessary, 
treated as mentioned below. 

Under certain circumstances, when freedom from bad odors in and 
about toilet fixtures, garbage pails, cellars, etc., cannot be entirely 
secured by measures of cleanliness, the use of a deodorant is justifiable. 
Chloride of lime acts as a deodorant as well as a disinfectant. The 
odor of chlorine which it emits is, however, disagreeable to sensitive 
noses. 

A common, cheap and effective deodorant is lime. The use of lime 
(or any other deodorant) in the form of powder is not satisfactory for 
the reason that a thorough admixture with the substance to be deodor- 
ized frequently cannot readily be secured. Ordinary whitewash or 
milk of lime made from freshly burnt quicklime is a good deodorant 
as well as a disinfectant. Glue is frequently added to whitewash to 
increase its adhesiveness. 

Lime combined with copper is even more effective. Doty recom- 
mends a formula of one pound of copper sulphate ("blue vitriol," not 
"copperas"), one pound of unslaked lime ("rock-lime") and ten 
gallons of water, which may be prepared as follows at a cost of about 
eight cents per ten gallons: 

In preparing the mixture ... it is advisable to first dissolve 
the copper by placing it in a linen bag suspended by a string just 
below the surface of the water. In this way it is dissolved much 
more rapidly than when the copper is thrown in the bottom of 
the receptacle and stirred. For example, the copper may be dis- 
solved in six or eight gallons of water, leaving the remainder of the 
ten gallons to prepare the lime, which is done by placing the 
latter dry in the pail or other receptacle and gradually adding 



592 



A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 



water and stirring until the ."steaming" or "slaking" is com- 
pleted. The lime is then gradually added to the water in which 
the copper has already been dissolved, the mixture being con- 
stantly stirred during this time; a precipitation then takes place. 
In a tightly-covered receptacle the mixture may be kept indefi- 
nitely as a stock solution, always to be well stirred before using. 1 
The deodorizing principle exists in the precipitate, hence the mixture 
must be kept stirred during use. It may be applied with brush or 
sprinkling pot with enlarged holes in the nozzle. Offensive liquids may 
be deodorized by admixture of the lime-copper solution in the pro- 
portion of one gallon to 30 to 50 gallons, estimated. 

As a safe and simple household deodorant about woodwork and the 
like formalin may be used. It has the further advantage of being a 
germicide. Formalin may be obtained in small quantities from any 
druggist. It should be kept in a cool, dark place. It is inexpensive 
if diluted and sparingly used, little being necessary for deodorization. 

INSECTICIDES 

For sulphur, which is the best general fumigant for insects, see page 
588. 

For killing mosquitoes in houses where sulphur fumes would be ob- 
jectionable Mim's culicide, composed of equal parts of phenol crystals 
and camphor thoroughly combined, is useful. The material is evapo- 
rated from an earthenware basin over an alcohol lamp, in the amount 
of 4 ounces per thousand cubic feet. If necessary, use several sets of 
apparatus, not more than 8 or 10 ounces to each. The space should 
be left closed for at least one, and better, two hours. Care should be 
taken that the compound does not catch fire, the basin being placed at 
a proper distance above the flame. The apparatus should be placed in 
a pan containing half an inch of water, and previous experiments should 
be made to assure safe and proper working. A ventilated support for 
the evaporating basin, made of a section of stove pipe, is a useful 
adjunct as a protection against drafts. The fumes do not affect metals, 
fabrics and paints as does sulphur, though varnishes may be softened. 
They are somewhat irritating but not especially poisonous. The insects 
are stunned but not always killed; hence they should be swept up and 
burned directly after the fumigation. 

In all insecticidal fumigation the apartment should be sealed as com- 
pletely as possible (see page 577 f.) and crevices and folds in fabrics, etc., 
where the insects may escape or take cover, should be stopped up or re- 
moved. If all windows are covered but one, the insects will seek the 
light and tend to collect there. 

1 "Prevention of Infectious Diseases," 1911, pp. 202-09. 



APPENDIX A 593 

REFERENCES 

A detailed discussion of disinfection theory and methods, also of 
insect extermination, will be found in Rosenau's "Preventive Medicine 
and Hygiene," 1913, upon which many of the statements in the fore- 
going condensed treatment of the subject are based. 

Cf. also: Doty, "Prevention of Infectious Diseases," 1911; Whipple, 
"Typhoid Fever," 1908 (appendix). 



APPENDIX B 

STANDARD RULES FOR THE PRODUCTION, 

HANDLING AND DISTRIBUTION 

OF MILK 

(Commission on Milk Standards of the New York Milk Committee, 

I9I3) 1 

As a basis for the promulgation of rules and recommendations gov- 
erning the production, handling and distribution of milk, it is recog- 
nized that we have to deal with two kinds of milk, raw and pasteurized, 
although there may be several grades of each of these two kinds. In 
order for any grade to be safe, it is recommended that the regula- 
tions herein set forth under the heading "Requirements " be enforced. 
The regulations herein set 'forth under the heading " Recommenda- 
tions " should be adopted wherever practicable as a means of improving 
the milk supply above the actual point of safety. (The term " milk " 
shall be construed to include the fluid derivatives of milk wherever 
such construction of the term is applicable.) 

LICENSES 
Requirements 

No person shall engage in the sale, handling, or distribution of 

milk in until he has obtained a license therefor from the health 

authorities. This license shall be renewed on or before the 1st day of 
of each year and may be suspended or revoked at any time for 
cause. 

Recommendations 

The application for the license shall include the following statements: 

(1) Kind of milk to be handled or sold. 

(2) Names of producers with their addresses and permit numbers. 

(3) Names of middlemen with their addresses. 

1 This entire Appendix is reprinted from Reprint No. 141 from the 
Public health Reports, U. S. Public Health Service, Aug. 22, 1913. 
The committee holds frequent meetings, and additional resolutions 
are recorded in its annual reports published in the Public Health 
Reports. 

594 



APPENDIX B 595 

(4) Names and addresses of all stores, hotels, factories and restau- 
rants at which milk is delivered. 

(5) A statement of the approximate number of quarts of milk, cream, 
buttermilk and skim milk sold per day. 

(6) Source of water supply at farms and bottling plants. 

(7) Permission to inspect all local and out-of-town premises on 
which milk is produced and handled. 

(8) Agreement to abide by all the provisions of State and local 
regulations. 

PERMITS 

Requirements 

No person shall engage in the production of milk for sale in , nor 

ehall any person engage in the handling of milk for shipment into 
until he has obtained a permit therefor from the health authorities. 
This permit shall be renewed on or before the 1st day of of each 
year and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause. 

I. RAW MILK 

COW STABLES 
Requirements 

1. They shall be used for no other purpose than for the keeping of 
cows, and shall be light, well ventilated and clean. 

2. They shall be ceiled overhead if there is a loft above. 

3. The floors shall be tight and sound. 

4. The gutters shall be water-tight. 

Recommendations 

1. The window area shall be at least 2 square feet per 500 cubic 
feet of air space and shall be uniformly distributed, if possible. If 
uniform distribution is impossible, sufficient additional window area 
must be provided so that all portions of the barn shall be adequately 
lighted. 

2. The amount of air space shall be at least 500 cubic feet per cow, 
and adequate ventilation besides windows shall be provided. 

3. The walls and ceilings shall be whitewashed at least once every 
six months, unless the construction renders it unnecessary, and shall 
be kept free from cobwebs and dirt. 

4. All manure shall be removed at least twice daily, and disposed 
of so as not to be a source of danger to the milk either as furnishing 
a breeding place for flies or otherwise. 

5. Horse manure shall not be used in the cow stable for any purpose. 



596 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

MILK ROOM 
Requirements 

Every milk farm shall be provided with a milk room that is clean, 
light and well screened. It shall be used for no other purpose than 
for the cooling, bottling and storage of milk and the operations inci- 
dent thereto. 

Recommendations 

1. It shall have no direct connection with any stable or dwelling. 

2. The floors shall be of cement or other impervious material, 
properly graded and drained. 

3. It shall be provided with a sterilizer unless the milk is sent to a 
bottling plant, in which case the cans shall be sterilized at the plant. 

4. Cooling and storage tanks shall be drained and cleaned at least 
twice each week. 

5. All drains shall discharge at least 100 feet from any milk house 
or cow stable. 

COWS 
Requirements 

1. A physical examination of all cows shall be made at least once 
every six months by a veterinarian approved by the health authorities. 

2. Every diseased cow shall be removed from the herd at once and 
no milk from such cows shall be offered for sale. 

3. The tuberculin test shall be applied at least once a year by a 
veterinarian approved by the health authorities. 

4. All cows which react shall be removed from the herd at once, 
and no milk from such cows shall be sold as raw milk. 

5. No new cows shall be added to a herd until they have passed a 
physical examination and the tuberculin test. 

6. Cows, especially the udders, shall be clean at the time of milking. 

7. No milk that is obtained from a cow within 15 days before or 5 
days after parturition, nor any milk that has an unnatural odor or 
appearance, shall be sold. 

8. No unwholesome food shall be used. 

Recommendations 

1. Every producer shall allow a veterinarian employed by the 
health authorities to examine his herd at any time under the penalty 
of having his supply excluded. 

2. Certificates showing the results of all examinations shall be filed 
with the health authorities within 10 days of such examinations. 



APPENDIX B 597 

3. The tuberculin tests shall be applied at least once every six months 
by a veterinarian approved by the health authorities, unless on the last 
previous test no tuberculosis was present in the herd or in the herds 
from which new cows were obtained, in which event the test may be 
postponed an additional six months. 

4. Charts showing the results of all tuberculin tests shall be filed 
with the health authorities within 10 days of the date of such test. 

5. The udders shall be washed and wiped before milking. 

EMPLOYEES 
Requirements 

1. All employees connected in any way with the production and 
handling of milk shall be personally clean and shall wear clean outer 
garments. 

2. The health authorities shall be notified at once of any communi- 
cable disease in any person that is in any way connected with the 
production or handling of milk, or of the exposure of such person to 
any communicable disease. 

3. Milking shall be done only with dry hands. 

Recommendations 

1. Clean suits shall be put on immediately before milking. 

2. The hands shall be washed immediately before milking each cow, 
in order to avoid conveyance of infection to the milk. 

UTENSILS 
Requirements 

1. All utensils and apparatus with which milk comes in contact 
shall be thoroughly washed and sterilized, and no milk utensil or 
apparatus shall be used for any other purpose than that for which it 
was designed. ' 

2. The owner's name, license number, or other identification mark, 
the nature of which shall be made known to the health authorities, 
shall appear in a conspicuous place on every milk container. 

3. No bottle or can shall be removed from a house in which there 
is, or in which there has recently been, a case of communicable disease 
until permission in writing has been granted by the health authorities. 

4. All metal containers and piping shall be in good condition at all 
times. All piping shall be sanitary milk piping, in couples short enough 
to be taken apart and cleaned with a brush. 

5. Small-top milking pails shall be used. 



598 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Recommendations 

1. All cans and bottles shall be cleaned as soon as possible after 
being emptied. 

2. Every conveyance used for the transportation or delivery of 
milk, public carriers excepted, shall bear the owner's name, milk-license 
number and business address in uncondensed gothic characters at least 
2 inches in height. 

MILK 

Requirements 

1. It shall not be strained in the cow stable, but shall be removed 
to the milk room as soon as it is drawn from the cow. 

2. It shall be cooled to 50 F. or below within two hours after it is 
drawn from the cow and it shall be kept cold until it is delivered to the 
consumer. 

3. It shall not be adulterated by the addition to or the subtraction 
of any substance or compound, except for the production of the fluid 
derivatives allowed by law. 

4. It shall not be tested by taste at any bottling plant, milk house, 
or other place in any way that may render it liable to contamination. 

5. It shall be bottled only in a milk room or bottling plant for 
which a license or permit has been issued. 

6. It shall be delivered in bottles, or single service containers, with 
the exception that 20 quarts or more may be delivered in bulk in the 
following cases: 

(a) To establishments in which milk is to be consumed or used on 
the premises. 

(&) To infant-feeding stations that are under competent medical 
supervision. 

7. It shall not be stored in or sold from a living room or from any 
other place which might render it liable to contamination. 

Recommendations 

1. It shall be cooled to 50 F. or below immediately after milking 
and shall be kept at or below that temperature until it is delivered to 
the consumer. 

2. It shall contain no visible foreign material. 

3. It shall be labeled with the date of production. 

RECEIVING STATIONS AND BOTTLING PLANTS 
Requirements 

i. They shall be clean, well screened and lighted, and shall be used 
for no other purpose than the proper handling of milk and the opera- 



APPENDIX B> 599 

tions incident thereto, and shall be open to inspection by the health 
authorities at any time. 

2. They shall have smooth, impervious floors, properly graded and 
drained. 

3. They shall be equipped with hot and cold water and steam. 

4. Ample provision shall be made for steam sterilization of all 
utensils, and no empty milk containers shall be sent out until after 
such sterilization. 

5. All utensils, piping and tanks shall be kept clean and shall be 
sterilized daily. 

Recommendatio ns 

i. Containers and utensils shall not be washed in the same room in 
which milk is handled. 

STORES 
Requirements 

1. All stores in which milk is handled shall be provided with a suit- 
able room or compartment in which the milk shall be kept. Said 
compartment shall be clean and shall be so arranged that the milk will 
not be liable to contamination of any kind. 

2. Milk shall be kept at a temperature not exceeding 50 F. 

Recommendations 

I. Milk to be consumed off the premises may be sold from stores 
only in the original unopened package. 

GENERAL REGULATIONS 
Requirements 

1. The United States Bureau of Animal Industry score card shall 
be used, and it is recommended that dairies from which milk is to be 
sold in a raw state shall score at least 80 points. 

2. Every place where milk is produced or handled and every con- 
veyance used for the transportation of milk shall be clean. 

3. All water supplies shall be from uncontaminated sources and 
from sources not liable to become contaminated. 

4. The license or permit shall be kept posted in a conspicuous place 
in every establishment for the operation of which a milk license or 
permit is required. 

5. No milk license or permit shall at any time be used by any per- 
son other than the one to whom it was granted. 

6. No place for the operation of which a license or permit is granted 
shall be located within 100 feet of a privy or other possible source of 



600 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

contamination, nor shall it contain or open into a room which contains 
a water-closet. 

7. No skim milk or buttermilk shall be stored in or sold from cans 
or other containers unless such containers are of a distinctive color 
and permanently and conspicuously labeled " skim milk " or " butter- 
milk," as the case may be. 

8. No container shall be used for any other purpose than that for 

which it is labeled. 

Recommendations 

1. Ice used for cooling purposes shall be clean and uncontaminated. 

2. No person whose presence is not required shall be permitted to 
remain in any cow stable, milk house or bottling room. 

SUBNORMAL MILK 

Requirements 

i. Natural milk that contains less than 3.25 per cent, but more 
than 2.5 per cent milk fat, and that complies in all other respects with 
the requirements above set forth, may be sold, provided the percentage 
of fat does not fall below a definite percentage that is stated in a con- 
spicuous manner on the container; and further provided that such 
container is conspicuously marked " substandard milk." 

CREAM 
Requirements and Recommendations 

I. It shall be obtained from milk that is produced and handled in 
accordance with the provisions hereinbefore set forth for the produc- 
tion and handling of milk. 

STANDARDS FOR MILK 
Requirements 

1. It shall not contain more than 100,000 bacteria per cubic centi- 
meter. 

2. It shall contain not less than 3.25 per cent milk fat. 

3. It shall contain not less than 8.5 per cent solids not fat. 

Recommendations 
I. The bacterial limit shall be lowered if possible. 

STANDARDS FOR CREAM 
Requirements 

1. There shall be a bacterial standard for cream corresponding to 
the grade of milk from which it is made and to its butter-fat content. 

2. It shall contain not less than 18 per cent milk fat. 



APPENDIX B 60 1 

Recommendations 
Same as above for milk. 

STANDARDS FOR SKIM MILK 
Requirements 

1. It shall contain not less than 8.75 per cent milk solids. 

2. Control of sale of skim milk: Whether skim milk is sold in 
wagons or in stores all containers holding skim milk should be painted 
some bright, distinctive color and prominently and legibly marked 
" skim milk." When skim milk is placed in the buyer's container, a 
label or tag bearing the words " skim milk " should be attached. 

II. PASTEURIZED MILK 

Pasteurized milk is milk that is heated to a temperature of not less 
than 140 F. for not less than 20 minutes, or not over 155 F. for not 
less than 5 minutes, and for each degree of temperature over 140 F. 
the length of time may be I minute less than 20. Said milk shall be 
cooled immediately to 50 F. or below and kept at or below that tem- 
perature. 

COW STABLES 

Requirements and recommendations same as for raw milk. 

MILK ROOM 
Requirements and recommendations same as for raw milk. 

COWS 
Requirements 

The same as for the production of raw milk, with the exception of 
the sections relating to the tuberculin test. 

Recommendations 

That no cows be added to a herd excepting those found to be free 
from tuberculosis by the tuberculin test. 

EMPLOYEES 
Requirements and recommendations same as for raw milk. 

UTENSILS 
Requirements and recommendations same as for raw milk. 



602 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

MILK FOR PASTEURIZATION 
Requirements 

1. The same as for the production of raw milk, with the exception 
of sections I, 2 and 6b. 

2. It shall be cooled to 60 F. or below within two hours after it is 
drawn from the cow, and it shall be held at or below that temperature 
until it is pasteurized. After pasteurization, it shall be held at a tem- 
perature not exceeding 50 F. until delivered to the consumer. 

3. Pasteurized milk shall be distinctly labeled as such, together 
with the temperature at which it is pasteurized and the shortest length 
of exposure to that temperature and the date of pasteurization. 

Recommendations 

1. No milk shall be re pasteurized. 

2. The requirements governing the production and handling of 
milk for pasteurization should be raised wherever practicable. 

PASTEURIZING PLANTS 
Requirements 

The same as under " Receiving stations and bottling plants " for 
raw milk. 

Recommendations 

The same as under " Receiving stations and bottling plants " for 
raw milk. 

STORES 
Requirements and recommendations same as for raw milk. 

GENERAL REGULATIONS 
Requirements 

1. It is recommended that dairies producing milk which is to be 
pasteurized shall be scored on the United States Bureau of Animal 
Industry score card, and that health departments, or the controlling 
departments whatever they may be, strive to bring these scores up as 
rapidly as possible. 

2. Milk from cows that have been rejected by the tuberculin test, 
but which show no physical signs of tuberculosis, as well as those which 
have not been tested, may be sold provided that it is produced and 
handled in accordance with all the other requirements herein set forth 
for pasteurized milk. 

3. Ice used for cooling purposes shall be clean. 



APPENDIX B 603 

Recommendations 
The same as for raw milk. 

PASTEURIZED CREAM 
Requirements 

1. It shall be obtained only from milk that could legally be sold as 
milk under the requirements hereinbefore set forth. 

2. Pasteurized cream, or cream separated from pasteurized milk, 
shall be labeled in the manner herein provided for the labeling of pas- 
teurized milk. 

STANDARDS FOR PASTEURIZED MILK 
Requirements 

1. It shall not contain more than 1,000,000 bacteria per cubic centi- 
meter before pasteurization, nor over 50,000 when delivered to the con- 
sumer. 

2. The standards for the percentage of milk fat and of total solids 
shall be the same as for raw milk. 

Recommendations 

I. The limits for the bacterial count before pasteurization and after 
pasteurization should both be lowered if possible. 

STANDARDS FOR PASTEURIZED CREAM 
Requirements 

1. No cream shall be sold that is obtained from pasteurized milk 
that could not be legally sold under the provisions herein set forth, nor 
shall any cream that is pasteurized after separation contain an exces- 
sive number of bacteria. 

2. There shall be a bacterial standard for pasteurized cream corre- 
sponding to the grade of milk from which it is made and to its butter- 
fat content. 

3. The percentage of milk fat shall be the same as for raw cream. 

PENALTY 
Every milk ordinance should contain a penalty clause. 



APPENDIX C 

LEGAL DECISIONS REGARDING THE 
TUBERCULIN TEST 

The decision of the Supreme Court of New Jersey by which the right 
of the Board of Health of Montclair, N. J., to require the tuberculin- 
testing of dairy cattle was affirmed, is of such importance, not only for 
its bearing upon the status of the tuberculin test but also as a general 
comment upon the powers of local authorities in the supervision of 
food supplies, that the principal points of the decision are here given. 1 
Below is the section of the Sanitary Code of Montclair which the 
company contesting the regulation sought to have set aside: 

" No milk 2 shall be sold or offered for sale or distributed in the 
town of Montclair except from cows in good health, nor unless the 
cows from which it is obtained have within one year been exam- 
ined by a veterinarian whose competency is vouched for by the 
State Veterinary Association of the State in which the herd is 
located, and a certificate signed by such veterinarian has been 
filed with the board of health, stating the number of cows in each 
herd that are free from disease. This examination shall include 
the tuberculin test, and charts showing the reaction of each indi- 
vidual cow shall be filed with this board. All cows which react 
shall be removed from the premises at once if the sale of milk is 
to continue, and no cows shall be added to a herd until a certifi- 
cate of satisfactory tuberculin tests of said cows have been filed 
with this board." 

(The Board had previously required simply physical veterinary 
examinations.) 

1 For further details see Rpt. Montclair Board of Health for 1911 
(containing complete decision and review of case) and preceding years 
back to 1907, when the contested ordinance was adopted; and Wells, 
" The Successful Efforts of a Small City to Secure a Milk Supply from 
Tuberculin-Tested Cows," Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. ii, no. 9, 
p. 702. 

2 Under another section of the ordinance the same requirements 
apply to cream. 

604 



APPENDIX C 605 

By an amendment adopted a little later, pasteurization under con- 
ditions prescribed by the Board of Health was allowed as a substitute 
for the tuberculin test. 

The case was argued before the State Supreme Court in 1911, a 
large mass of testimony from some of the most eminent authorities in 
the country being taken, and every point at issue was decided in favor 
of the Board of Health. An appeal was taken by the company to the 
higher court of Errors and Appeals, but was later withdrawn, so that 
the legal status of the tuberculin-test requirement reverted to the 
Supreme Court decision and the ordinance became effective. By its 
firmness and persistency in upholding its case, which, moreover, re- 
quired large legal expenditures, the Montclair Board of Health thus 
finally succeeded in establishing the legal basis for the statement of 
its Health Officer that " with the present-day knowledge of the rela- 
tion between bovine and human tuberculosis any board of health that 
does not require the tuberculin test, or pasteurization of the milk as an 
alternative, must be considered negligent." 

Below (somewhat rearranged) are the chief points in the summary 
of the Supreme Court decision. 

1. Boards of Health are empowered by the act of 1897 (P. L. 
270), and by the Pure Food Law of 1907 (P. L. 485), taken in con- 
junction with the act of 1887 (P. L. 80), to prohibit the sale of 
milk from diseased cows. 

2. Whether cows from which a municipality is supplied with 
milk are diseased, is a question that may, in the first instance, be 
determined by the local board of health. 

3. In determining whether cows from which a municipality is 
supplied with milk, are diseased, the method of diagnosis adopted 
by the local board of health should be one that is well recognized, 
thoroughly approved, and as reliable as any. 

4. A local board of health may prohibit the sale within the 
municipality of milk from cows that react to the " tuberculin test." 

(The following considerations relate particularly to the value of the 
tuberculin test): 

7. We find that the tuberculin test is the most reliable method 
of diagnosis of tuberculosis in cattle now known; that while it is 
not perfect, the percentage of error is as small as in any method 
suggested, and that it is more accurate than the method by physi- 
cal examination. We rest this conclusion not merely upon the 
testimony in the case but upon the fact that it has been approved 
by judicial decision in Minnesota, Louisiana, Wisconsin and Penn- 
sylvania, and adopted by the most recent statute in Delaware, 
Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North 



606 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Dakota, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Wash- 
ington and Wisconsin, and for some purposes by Maine, Massa- 
chusetts and Vermont. The " tuberculin test " referred to in 
the act of South Dakota is probably the same. A similar act was 
passed by our own Legislature in 1899 (P. L., 484). These stat- 
utes are legislative testimony of cumulative force to the value of 
the tuberculin test as a diagnostic agent. We think, therefore, 
that the board of health is justified in the position that the cattle 
which react to the tuberculin test are diseased. That conclusion 
may occasionally be erroneous, <but it is as nearly accurate as is 
possible. The statute empowers the board of health to prohibit 
the sale of milk from such cattle. 

8. It seems to be established that there is very little chance 
of communication of bovine tuberculosis to human beings above 
the age of sixteen years, but that there is very serious danger of 
communication through the medium of milk to human beings 
under the age of sixteen years of age and especially to children 
under five years of age. It is conceded that there are such cases. 
The concession that bovine tuberculosis may be communicated to 
young children and that although it appears in them in the less 
common form rather than in the form of pulmonary tuberculosis, 
suffices to justify action to guard the young against the contagion. 
It is for the board of health to decide how many lives must be 
endangered, and whether the lives of a few infants or children are 
worth the effort and the financial loss. 

9. The evidence justifies a finding that the subjection of the 
cows from which a supply of milk is derived to the tuberculin 
test is a reasonable method of determining not only whether they 
are diseased but also whether their milk may carry the germs of 
tuberculosis. 

10. Surely milk from cattle that react to a tuberculin test, has 
been exposed to disease, and if the cattle themselves may be kept 
out of the state, it is fairly within the discretion confided in boards 
of health to exclude also milk, the produce of the cattle, which it is 
proved may at times convey the disease. 

(The following have a general bearing on the powers of health authori- 
ties): 

5. The action of a local board in adopting measures for the 
protection of public health will not be set aside by the court if the 
board has acted reasonably upon evidence that might satisfy a 
reasonable man. 

6. Regulations for the protection of the public health are within 
the police power of the state and are not an illegal interference 



APPENDIX C 607 

with interstate commerce if they have a real substantial relation 

to a public object which government can accomplish, and are not 

arbitrary and unreasonable and beyond the necessities of the case. 

More recently a tuberculin test ordinance of the Milwaukee Board 

of Health has been upheld by the United States Supreme Court, 1 so 

that the legal status of the test is now practically established beyond 

question. 

A tuberculin-test ordinance of Los Angeles, Cal., was defeated in 
1912 by a popular referendum vote. 2 This, however, it is to be pre- 
sumed, has no bearing upon the legal status of the test itself. 

1 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, vol. iii, no. 8, p. 837. 

2 Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. ii, no. 7, p. 586 and editorial. 



APPENDIX D 
THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT LABORATORY 

The necessity of laboratory facilities in modern public health work 
has been brought out in the foregoing pages; also the fact that such 
facilities should be as near at hand as possible. The local laboratory 
is for most purposes the ideal, provided expert service is available. 
State laboratories are useful, especially as they may command the 
services of experts who devote their entire time to laboratory work 
while local bacteriologists may be employed for so few examinations 
that their practice does not keep up to par with the latest and best 
methods. But the disadvantage is that the state laboratory is usually 
at some distance, and the delay in transmitting specimens and obtaining 
results is a serious drawback in this class of work. 

The functions of the laboratory include bacteriological and serum 
diagnosis (diphtheria, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, etc.), bacteriological 
and chemical work on milk and perhaps other foods, bacteriological 
tests of water-supplies (the chemical tests are beyond the range of the 
usual local laboratory), the keeping and distribution of antitoxins and 
other sera, etc. Every health department should perform, or arrange to 
have performed, every kind of laboratory service required in public health 
work. Thus routine examinations may be made locally, while if neces- 
sary unusual kinds of work may be transmitted, by arrangement, to a 
state or completely equipped city laboratory. 

Since as much local work as possible should be done, and boards of 
health in small towns are frequently unable to afford to pay for the 
necessary installation and services, it is highly desirable that several 
neighboring towns combine in the maintenance of a joint laboratory 
and bacteriologist. Sometimes such a laboratory can be run in con- 
nection with a hospital requiring the services of a diagnostic bacteri- 
ologist. Where the valuable plan of a joint health office (see Appen- 
dix F) is in operation, the joint laboratory is a natural part of the 
scheme. Where two or more communities are thus linked together, 
and even in single towns covering rather a large area, arrangements 
may be made for several culture stations, e.g., in drug stores, where 
outfits may be secured and specimens left for collection and trans- 
mission to the laboratory at regular hours. 

608 



APPENDIX D 609 

The following list of laboratory equipment for a small board of health 
laboratory, for diagnostic work, and examination of milk and water, 
with approximate costs, is taken from the paper by E. B. Phelps, 
quoted in Appendix F. In the installation of such a laboratory possible 
expenses for plumbing, gas piping, electric wiring, benches, cabinets, 
and other carpentering, refrigerator, and the like should be considered. 
To the list should also be added the cost ($30 or $40) of hot air and 
steam (Arnold) sterilizers. Exact costs may be figured by consulting 
the catalogues of the laboratory supply companies, some of which 
make a discount from their list prices. Once such a laboratory has 
been installed the running expenses are moderate. 

Analytical balance $125.00 

Babcock machine and accessories, with special sedi- 
ment head 100. oo 

Incubator 125.00 

Microscope and accessories 125 . oo 

I gross diphtheria outfits, complete 15. oo 

I gross typhoid and malaria outfits, complete 10.00 

6 dozen sputum outfits, complete 5. oo 

I gross ophthalmia loops 5. oo 

Glassware (see schedule) 150. 40 

Chemicals (see schedule) 22. 35 

Miscellaneous (see schedule) 78. oo 

Total $760.75 

Glassware 

200 Petri dishes. 

100 I -cubic-centimeter pipettes. 

100 8-ounce bottles for dilutions. 

10 gross 6-inch test tubes for media. 

i counting plate. 

i gross microscope slides. 

1 dozen 4-ounce stain bottles. 

2 Liebig condensers, 25 inches. 
6 i -liter round-bottom flasks. 

6 graduated cylinders, 100 cubic centimeters, 250 cubic centimeters, 

and i liter. 

6 5O-cubic-centimeter burettes, glass stoppered. 
6 25O-cubic-centimeter evaporating dishes. 
2 pounds glass stirring rod. 
12 Nessler jars, 50 cubic centimeters. 
I gross 8-ounce reagent bottles. 



6lO A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Chemicals 

8 pounds acid, sulphuric. 
6 pounds acid, hydrochloric. 
I pound acid, acetic. 
i pound acid, nitric. 
I pound acid, oxalic. 
5 pounds alcohol. 

4 ounces amidonaphthalene. 

I pound ammonium chloride. 

i pound copper sulphate. 

i pound ether. 

i ounce ferrous ammonium sulphate. 

i pound lead acetate. 

i pound mercuric chloride. 

I pound manganese sulphate. 

I pound phenol. 

i pound potassium permanganate. 

i pound potassium iodide. 

5 pounds potassium hydroxide. 

i ounce potassium sulphocyanide. 

i pound silver nitrate. 

I ounce silver nitrite. 

I pound sodium thiosulphate. 

i pound sodium carbonate. 

i pound sodium chloride. 

Stains and indicators. 

I ounce methyl orange. 

I ounce phenolphthalein. 

i ounce erythrosine. 

I ounce fuchsine. 

I ounce methylene blue. 

I ounce Bismarck brown. 

4 ounces Wright differential blood stain, 

i pound starch (potato). 

4 ounces sulphanilic acid. 

Miscellaneous 

5 grams No. 18 platinum wire, 
i platinum evaporating dish. 

4 Bunsen burners. 

4 ring stands. 

5 pounds rubber tubing. 
5 pounds cotton batting. 



APPENDIX D 6ll 

6 wire baskets for tubes. 

Assortment enameled iron dishes and pans. 

4 special milk-collecting baskets to order. 

Printed forms, etc. 

I dozen box labels. 

Other small articles. 

REFERENCES 

Boiling, " The Development of a Municipal Laboratory," Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, vol. ii, no. 6, p. 409. 

Standard Methods of the American Public Health Association for 
the examination of milk, air, water and sewage. These methods 
should be exactly observed by public health laboratories. (Apply to 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 755 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.: "Bacterial 
Examination of Milk and Air," 25 cents; " Examination of Water and 
Sewage, physical, chemical, microscopical and bacteriological," $1.25, 
postpaid.) Amendments are made by committee reports of the Labora- 
tory Section of the Association from time to time. 

No attempt can be made here to give a complete bibliography of 
the various works on the different phases of laboratory work. The 
following are among the more important: 

Jordan, " A Text-Book of General Bacteriology," W. B. Saunders, 
Phila., 1914. 

Park and Williams, "Pathogenic Micro-Organisms; including Bac- 
teria and Protozoa," Lea Bros, and Co., Phila., 1910. 

MacNeal, "Pathogenic Micro-Organisms" (based on Williams's 
"Manual of Bacteriology"), P. Blakiston Son and Co., Phila., 1914. 

Prescott and Winslow, " Elements of Water Bacteriology," John 
Wiley and Sons, Inc., N. Y., 1914. 

Rosenau, " Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," Appleton and Co., 
N. Y., 1913, sees. Ill (Foods), IV (Air) and VI (Water). 

Woodman and Norton, "Air, Water, and Food" (composition and 
physical and chemical tests), John Wiley and Sons, Inc., N. Y., 1914. 

Farrington and Woll, "Testing Milk and Its Products," Mendata 
Book Co., Madison, Wis., 1912. 

Bull. 100, Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, " Some 
Forms of Food Adulteration and Simple Methods for Their Detection." 

The more exhaustive treatises on water, foods, milk, etc., may also be 
consulted. 



APPENDIX E 
RULES OF STATISTICAL PRACTICE 

(Adopted by the American Public Health Association and by the 
Bureau of the Census.) 1 

RULES ADOPTED IN 1908 

STATEMENT OF OCCUPATION 

1. An attempt should be made to secure not only the kind of occupa- 
tion (e.g., laborer), but also the kind of industry (e.g., pottery). 

2. Occupations should be stated for all decedents over 10 years of 
age (and for decedents under 10 years of age if employed in a mill, 
factory or in any gainful occupation). 

STATISTICAL DEFINITION OF DEATHS 

3. 2 Total deaths, as stated in mortality reports and bulletins, should 
include all deaths that occurred in the area of the state or city during 
the specified time. 

1 1908, 1909 and 1910 Rules from U. S. Census Bulletin 108 (Mor- 
tality Statistics, 1909); 1914 rules not yet in print at time of writing, 
but were furnished by courtesy of Dr. Louis I. Dublin, Secretary of 
Section on Vital Statistics, A. P. H. A. 

2 Referring to Rules 3, n and 15: the present ruling (which was 
adopted for reasons of expediency) requiring inclusion of deaths of non- 
residents is unsatisfactory for the reason that, if it is strictly followed, 
communities having hospitals and other institutions located within 
their limits have their death rates unduly swelled by the inclusion of 
the deaths of non-residents occurring in such institutions. It is there- 
fore necessary, for correct interpretation of the figures, to state such 
deaths separately, and they should, in fact, be tabulated entirely apart 
throughout statistical reports. Such tabulations should, however, be 
accompanied by a statement of the general death rate including all 
deaths within the district and a statement indicating exactly what rule 
for exclusions has been followed. Such procedure is sanctioned by the 
following resolution adopted by the American Public Health Association 
in 1913: 

" Pending the final determination as to forms of statistical tables 

612 



APPENDIX E 613 

STILLBIRTHS (AS RELATED TO DEATHS) 

4. Stillbirths should not be included in deaths. 

5. Children born alive and living for any time whatever, no matter how 
brief, after birth, should not be classed as stillbirths, even though re- 
ported by the attending physicians or mid wives as " stillborn." 

6. Whenever age, in days, hours, or minutes, is reported for a " still- 
born " child, or indicated by a difference between dates of birth and 
death, the registrar should secure a statement that will enable the case 
to be classed with certainty either as a stillbirth or as a death. If no 
additional information can be obtained, the statement of age should 
govern, and the case be compiled as a death, not as a stillbirth. 

PREMATURE BIRTHS 

7. Premature births (not stillborn) should be included in total deaths 
(classified under International Title No. 151) [and in total births]. 

8. Premature births (stillborn) should be classed under stillbirths, 
and should not be included in total deaths. 

9. When a premature birth is reported as " stillborn " and an in- 
consistent statement of age (days, hours, minutes) is also given, the 
registrar should endeavor to secure a statement that will enable the 
case to be classed with certainty either as a stillbirth or as a death. If 
no additional information can be obtained, the statement of age should 
govern, and the case be compiled as a death, not as a stillbirth. 

10. When a premature birth is reported with no statement of age 
(space left blank), the local registrar should endeavor to obtain a state- 
ment of age, or at least that the child was born alive; but, in the absence 
of any further data, the case should be compiled as a stillbirth. 

DEATHS OF NON-RESIDENTS 

ii. 1 All deaths of transients or non-residents occurring in a state or 
city should be included in the tables of total deaths. 

and the adoption of definite rules of statistical practice, it is the sense 
of the Section on Vital Statistics of the A. P. H. A. that bulletins and 
reports may contain (i) a statement of mortality including deaths of 
all persons and for all causes with corresponding death rates, and (2) a 
statement of mortality based on deaths of residents only with corre- 
sponding death rates, which should be accompanied with a full expla- 
nation as to the exact class of cases and period of time of residence 
covered in the exclusions." 

It is to be hoped that some definitive ruling will be given in the near 
future. See also page 617 (rules pending) and the discussion on page 
507 f. (note) of the present volume. AUTHOR. 

1 See preceding note. 



614 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

DEATHS IN INSTITUTIONS 

12. Deaths of residents of a city in a hospital or institution situated 
within the city limits should be distributed by the local registrar to the 
districts of residence (borough, ward, sanitary district) as far as possible. 

PERIOD COVERED IN BULLETINS AND REPORTS 

13. Total deaths should include all deaths that occurred in the given 
area during the period stated in the table, and no others: 

(a) A weekly bulletin should include all deaths that occurred during 
the week ending at 12 p.m., Saturday, and no others: Provided, that 
in order to secure earlier publication, a weekly bulletin may include 
" deaths reported " up to any time, but should definitely state that fact. 

(b) A monthly bulletin should include all deaths that occurred during 
the calendar month, and no others. [Amended, see Rule no. i, 1910, 
below.] 

(c) An annual report should include all deaths that occurred during 
the calendar year, and no others. 

HEADINGS OF TABLES 

14. Every table of total deaths should explicitly state in its heading 
that stillbirths are not included, and if any classes of deaths are omitted 
from a table apparently relating to total deaths, the items excluded 
should be explicitly stated either in the heading or in a footnote. 

DEATH RATES BASED ON TOTAL DEATHS 

I5. 1 Any statement of the death rate (general, crude or gross death 
rate) of a state or city should be understood to be based, unless expressly 
qualified, upon the total deaths, exclusive of stillbirths, and without any 
omissions of deaths whatsoever. 

VIABILITY OR NONVIABILITY 

16. Statement of viability or nonviability of an infant prematurely 
born shall not be considered in classification. 

STATISTICAL DEFINITION OF STILLBIRTHS 

17. For registration purposes, stillbirths should include all children 
born who do not live any time whatever, no matter how brief, after 
birth. 

1 See note, p. 612. 



APPENDIX E 615 

18. Birth (completion of birth) is the instant of complete separation 
of the entire body (not body in the restricted sense of trunk, but the 
entire organism, including head, trunk and limbs) of the child from the 
body of the mother. The umbilical cord need not be cut or the placenta 
detached in order to constitute complete birth for registration purposes. 
A child dead or dying a moment before the instant of birth is a stillbirth, 
and one dying a moment, no matter how brief, after birth, was a living 
child, and should not be registered as a stillbirth. [In the latter case 
both a birth certificate and a death certificate should be filed.] 

19. No child that shows any evidence of life after birth should be 
registered as a stillbirth. 

20. Stillbirths should not be included in tables of births or in tables 
of deaths. They should be given in separate tables of stillbirths. 

21. It is not desirable that midwives~be allowed to sign certificates 
of stillbirths. 

STATISTICAL DEFINITION OF BIRTHS 

22. Total births should include children born alive only, and headings 
of tables should state that stillbirths are excluded. 

23. Whenever, under the foregoing rules a death should be registered, 
there should be a corresponding registration at some previous time of a 
birth; and whenever a stillbirth is registered it should be rigorously 
excluded from both the statistics of births and deaths. 

ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS 

24. The deaths must be recorded immediately after their occurrence. 
Note. In statistical practice the terms " record " and " recording " 

should be used in the limited sense of receiving and filing, while the 
term " register " and " registration " should be used as embracing the 
further idea of inclusion of the records in the statistics of the area. 

25. Certificates of death of standard form should be used. 

26. Burial or removal permits are essential to the enforcement of the 
law. 

27. Efficient local registrars are necessary. 

28. The responsibility for reporting deaths to the local registrar 
should be placed upon the undertaker or other person having charge 
of the disposition of the body. 

29. The central registration office should have full control of the 
local machinery, and its rules should have the effect of law. 

30. The transmission and preservation of returns should be provided 
for. 

31. Penalties should be provided and enforced. 

* [Additional rules regarding deaths adopted in 1910 (see below).] 



616 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS 

32. Births must be recorded immediately after their occurrence. 

33. Certificates of birth of standard form should be required. 

34. Some check is necessary to secure enforcement of the law. 

35. Efficient local registrars are necessary. 

36. The responsibility for reporting births to the local registrar 
should be placed upon the attending physician or midwife, and upon 
the parents if no physician or midwife was in attendance. 

37. The central registration office should have full control of the local 
machinery, and its rules should have the effect of law. 

38. The transmission and preservation of returns should be provided 
for. 

39. Penalties should be provided and enforced. 

METHOD OF TESTING ACCURACY OF REGISTRATION OF DEATHS 

40. The accuracy (completeness with respect to total number) of the 
registration of deaths in a state or city may be satisfactorily determined 
by the proportion found actually registered out of a sufficiently large 
number (10 per cent of the total ?) derived from any independent source, 
e.g., newspaper reports, and properly distributed throughout the state. 

41. Local registrars should regularly note newspaper reports of 
deaths, in order to detect omissions and secure complete registration. 

42. Registrars should periodically examine the records of interments 
in cemeteries used by their districts and check up any interments made 
without proper registration and permit, in order to ascertain the num- 
ber of unregistered deaths. 

METHOD OF TESTING ACCURACY OF REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS 

43. The accuracy (completeness with respect to total number) of the 
registration of births in a state or city may be satisfactorily determined 
by the proportion found actually registered out of a sufficiently large 
number (10 per cent of the total ?) derived from any independent source, 
e.g., newspaper reports or lists of infants registered as births, and whose 
certificates of death enable the place and date of birth to be fixed, pro- 
vided they are properly distributed throughout the state. 

CONSTRUCTION OF STANDARD TABLES OF VITAL STATISTICS 

44. Every state or city registration office should publish an annual 
(or biennial) report and include therein a table showing the population 
(as estimated by the United States Census Bureau for intercensal years), 
total number of births exclusive of stillbirths, total number of deaths 
exclusive of stillbirths, total number of stillbirths, total number of 
marriages l and total number of divorces l for each year of registration. 

1 Provided this item can be obtained. 



APPENDIX E 617 

45. It is desirable that the corresponding rates be given, but the 
primary figures should be presented whether it is possible to present 
rates or not. 

46. Notes should be given in all instances where discrepant figures 
have been officially printed relative to returns for any year, and the 
correct figures should be definitely stated. 

47. Notes should be given on changes in methods of compiling still- 
births, and a correct statement of stillbirths should be established for 
each year, on the basis of the definitions approved. If necessary, re- 
examination of the original return should be made for the purpose of 
obtaining comparable figures. 

ADOPTION OF UNIFORM AGE PERIODS IN MORTALITY STATISTICS 

48. Unknown ages should never be accepted in returns. The approx- 
imate age, according to the best judgment of the reporter, should be 
given if the exact age is unknown. When accepted by the central 
registration office, however, they should be given a place in the state- 
ment of ages, in order to show the imperfect quality of registration. 

RULES ADOPTED IN 1909 
Revised United States Standard Certificate of Death 

[The five rules adopted in 1909 (with Rule no. 2 of 1910) provide for 
a uniform mode of statement of causes of death upon certificates of 
death, the need of efforts to obtain more definite and satisfactory state- 
ment of causes of death, and prescribing the adoption of the Revised 
United States Standard Certificate of Death (or at least of the standard 
form of statement of cause of death and occupation) with the minimum 
instructions printed on the reverse thereof. 1 It is also advised that 
instructions in regard to reporting of occupations be uniform in popula- 
tion, industrial and mortality schedules (certificates of death).] 

RULES ADOPTED IN 1910 

i. [APHA] Rule no. 13 of 1908, paragraph (&), shall be amended to 
read as follows: 

" (6) A monthly bulletin should include all deaths that occur during 
the calendar month and no others, provided, however, that in order 
to secure earlier publication, a monthly bulletin may include ' deaths 
reported ' during the calendar month, but should definitely state that 
fact." 

1 Copies of the certificate may be obtained on application to the 
Division of Vital Statistics, Bureau of the Census. 



618 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

2. The instructions as printed upon the reverse side of the Revised 
Standard Certificate of Death in regard to the reporting of occupation 
shall be the minimum instructions employed for this purpose, and 
shall be enforced as provided for by [APR A] Rule no. 3 of 1909 [i.e., by 
state registration offices]. 

3. Passengers dying on trains or vessels should be registered as 
deaths at the station or port where the bodies are removed. 

4. Deaths caused by railroad accidents or by disasters incident to 
navigation should be registered in the district that includes the place 
of death, or where the bodies were brought ashore. 

5. [Provides for a modified form of the Standard Certificate of Death 
for the use of coroners (or medical examiners) where such special forms 
are deemed necessary.] 

RULES ADOPTED IN 1914 

1. It is desirable that all stillbirths, irrespective of the month of 
uterogestation, be registered. 

2. A table of stillbirths should be given which will show the number 
registered at each completed month of uterogestation, together with 
the number for which no statement of the duration of uterogestation 
was given. 

3. For comparative statistical purposes the main tables of stillbirths 
should include only those stillbirths which have attained the age of 
six (6) completed months of uterogestation, or, in other words, have 
advanced to the seventh (yth) month of uterogestation or were born 
after the sixth (6th) month of uterogestation. Such tables should state 
explicitly that they exclude certain stillbirths that were or might be 
registered: " Stillbirths (exclusive of those stated as less than six months 
of uterogestation)." 

[No rules were adopted in 1911, 1912 or 1913. Rules are still pend- 
ing which propose: (i) that separate columns for deaths of non- 
residents may be given including deaths in hospitals and institutions 
and of transients and non-residents at place of death less than 6 (?) 
months and less than the duration of the disease causing death; (2) 
that deaths of residents occurring in institutions (e.g., almshouses) 
situated outside of a city but which draw inmates therefrom be included 
in the statistics of the city; and (3) that deaths in state or government 
institutions be included in the statistics of the areas containing them, 
but that special columns may be employed to permit separate statement 
as in case of non-residents.] 



APPENDIX F 

COOPERATIVE HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 
AMONG SMALL COMMUNITIES 

There is today in the public health field no more vital problem than 
how small towns and cities can, with their limited resources, obtain the 
expert service which they require. This pressing problem has already 
been discussed in Part I, Chapters I and II, in which two possible solu- 
tions were outlined. One of these is the New York State plan, by 
which a greater degree of supervision of state over local authorities is 
established, a plan which at the present time (1914), while holding 
out great promise, is still in the inceptive stage. The other plan is that 
of cooperative maintenance of a joint health office by two or more neighbor- 
ing communities. Fortunately there are already available data on the 
successful outcome of an experiment the first noteworthy one of its 
kind illustrating the joint plan as it has been worked out in a certain 
group of Massachusetts towns. The results are set forth at length in 
a recent paper by Earle B. Phelps, summarized as follows: 

The local health office in the smaller communities is the most 
essential and least efficient part of the present-day public health 
machine. The highly specialized character of public health work 
and the financial inability of the smaller community to support a 
properly trained health organization are in large measure respon- 
sible for this condition. 

Consolidation of adjoining communities in a cooperative health 
office will provide a sufficient population to support the requisite 
minimum organization for efficient health work at a per capita 
charge much less than that usually imposed in the larger cities for 
work of a similar character. 

The Cooperative Plan 

The details of such a cooperative effort inaugurated among cer- 
tain Massachusetts towns by the officers of the department of 
biology and public health of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology are given. 

This work was assisted by the Surgeon General of the United 
619 



620 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

States Public Health Service through the detail of a sanitary 
bacteriologist and through the devoting of a portion of the writer's 
time to the general supervision of the work since October i, 1913. 

An organization comprising an administrative officer, a bacte- 
riologist and secretary, a sanitary and plumbing inspector, a field 
assistant, and two clerks served a population of 32,650 in all de- 
partments of the work except plumbing inspection (a population 
of 8385 being served) and an additional population of 30,000 in 
milk inspection and control, at a cost of $7603.51 for the year. 

The output of such a health office can be increased by the appoint- 
ment of assistance at less than a proportionate increase in main- 
tenance costs. 

Results 

The prompt measures taken in the preliminary investigation of 
every case of contagious disease, backed up by the findings of the 
diagnostic laboratory, have, in at least two cases, prevented serious 
outbreaks of contagious disease and would undoubtedly have pre- 
vented a third outbreak and one death had they been in force in a 
neighboring town from which a carrier case was imported. 

The average bacterial content of the milk supply has been re- 
duced by approximately two-thirds without any restrictive meas- 
ures having been imposed upon the producers themselves other 
than those already in force. This has been done by a systematic 
laboratory control of the milk supply embodying monthly chemical 
and bacterial analyses, by a policy of publicity, and by helpful, 
constructive criticism given to the producers upon request. The 
improvement is of especial significance in view of the generally 
good quality of the milk supplies in question. Starting with 32 per 
cent of the individual supplies below 10,000 bacteria per cubic 
centimeter and 50 per cent below 20,000, one year later 31 per cent 
were below 5000, 56 per cent below 10,000, and 74 per cent below 
20,000. 

Prompt and energetic measures were adopted in the control of 
contagious diseases, every effort being made to locate the initial 
source. 

Campaigns for mosquito and fly suppression were carried through 
successfully. 

Costs 

An accounting system, showing full details of the costs of this 
work, was employed. The work of the diagnostic laboratory and 
the milk inspection and control cost approximately 3 cents per 
capita per annum each, and the work of sanitary inspection and 



APPENDIX F 621 

control of contagious disease cost slightly more. The total cost 
of the work, exclusive of plumbing inspection, was 19 cents per 
capita per annum. 

A population of about 60,000 would develop each of the various 
subdivisions of the work to a point of maximum efficiency and 
could support the work of a complete organization, including two 
district nurses and medical and veterinary advisory services, at a 
per capita cost (exclusive of plumbing inspection) of one-half the 
average cost of board of health work in the large cities of the 
United States. 

Organization 

Such a cooperative office may be organized among the towns 
themselves, through the initiative of State or educational authori- 
ties, or under the direction of a consulting sanitarian, or it may be 
conducted entirely by an outside consulting office specializing in 
public health work. 

The equipment and duties of a local health office, the problems of 
local administration and the minimum requirements of such an office 
are discussed at some length, and the year's work under a permanent 
organization is reported upon in detail, with analysis of costs. Appen- 
dices giving the form of agreement adopted and a list of the necessary 
laboratory equipment for a small board of health laboratory (see Appen- 
dix D of present volume) are added. 

Such a cooperative plan, it may be added, does not necessarily imply 
the consolidation of town interests in any other respect than that of 
public health, or even complete consolidation in that. 

This important paper is printed in Public Health Reports for Septem- 
ber 25, 1914 (copies of which may be obtained from the U. S. Public 
Health Service, Washington), and should be carefully read by all health 
officers for its analysis of needs and methods as well as for its account 
of the cooperative plan. 



APPENDIX G 

STANDARD PLAN FOR ANNUAL REPORTS 1 
FOREWORD 

This report is a schematic outline, more or less detailed, for annual 
reports of municipal boards of health. By expansion or contraction, 
the outline submitted may be applied to cities of any size. As it deals 
only with fundamentals, its adoption need not prevent originality of 

treatment. 

GENERAL OUTLINE 

I. Title Page. 

II. Members of Board and Staff. 

III. Table of Contents. 

IV. Summary of the Year's Work. 
V. Report of the Executive Officer. 

1. Introduction. 

2. Vital Statistics. 

3. Communicable Diseases. 

4. Infant Welfare. 

5. Medical Inspection of Schools. 

6. Foods and Drugs. 

7. Water and Ice Supply. 

8. Sanitary Inspection of Buildings. 

9. Nuisances. 

10. Municipal Wastes. 

11. Plumbing. 

12. Insects and Rodents. 

13. Special Problems and Research. 

14. Publicity. 

15. New Ordinances. 

1 6. Prosecutions. 

17. Conclusion and Recommendations. 
VI. Financial Statement. 

1 Health Officers' Association of New Jersey, 1913. The plan adopted 
by the Mass. Assn. of Boards of Health, which is closely comparable with 
the above, has already been published in the Am. Jour. Pub. Health 
(1913, vol. Ill, no. 6, p. 595). The Massachusetts plan embraces: a 
form for a report suitable for cities of 30,000 inhabitants and over, a 
form for smaller places, explanatory notes and forms for tables. 

622 






APPENDIX G , 623 

When no work has been done along any line indicated in the general 
outline, statistics should be presented to demonstrate existing needs; 
or, if the work has been done by another municipal department or by 
a private organization, that fact should be noted. Special endeavor 
should be made to interpret concisely all tabulated statistics. In the 
following outlines, capital letters in brackets indicate tables. 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

Section i, Introduction 
Section 2, Vital Statistics 

Comment should be made on existing laws, methods of enforcement 
and need for further legislation. 

I. POPULATION 

(A) POPULATION as of July I for the year and for each of the ten 

years preceding. Estimates should be made according to the 
method of the U. S. Census Bureau. (Reference no. I at the 
end of the report.) 

(B) POPULATION, for the current year at least, tabulated by (i) 

wards, (2) age periods, (3) color and (4) principal nationalities. 

II. BIRTHS 

Children born to non-resident mothers in hospitals should be tabu- 
lated separately. Stillbirths should be tabulated separately, not with 
births or deaths. 

(A) BIRTH RATES per thousand of population for the year and 

for each of the ten years preceding. 

(B) BIRTH RATES, for the current year at least, by (i) wards, 

(2) color and (3) principal nationalities. 

(C) NUMBER OF BIRTHS tabulated by (i) wards, (2) color, (3) 

principal nationalities, (4) sex, (5) number of child, (6) plural 
births, (7) legitimacy, (8) number attended by midwives and 
(9) completeness of the certificates as to the given name of the 
child. 

III. DEATHS 

Deaths should be classified according to the international system. 
(Reference no. 2.) Deaths of non-residents in hospitals should be tab- 
ulated separately. 

(A) DEATH RATES per thousand of population for the year and 
for each of the ten years preceding by (i) wards, (2) color 
and (3) principal nationalities. 



624 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

(B) DEATH RATES per hundred thousand of population for deaths 

during the current year due to communicable diseases and 
principal causes. 

(C) NUMBER OF DEATHS during the year tabulated by (i) 

wards, (2) color, (3) principal nationalities and (4) age 
periods. 

Each cause for which there was an unusual number of deaths should 
be discussed in detail. 

IV. MARRIAGES 

(A) MARRIAGE RATE per thousand of population. 

(B) NUMBER OF MARRIAGES classified according to (i) resi- 

dence, (2) color and (3) principal nationalities. 

Give the name and title of the person issuing marriage license and 
any other necessary information relating thereto. 

Section 3, Communicable Diseases 

Distinguished as to residence of the cases and place where disease was 
contracted; i.e., separate locally contracted cases of residents, cases of 
residents contracted out of town and imported cases of non-residents. 
Exclude from local statistics cases of non-residents treated in local 
hospitals and include, so far as possible, cases of residents treated at 
out-of-town hospitals. State the method of disinfection used (give 
names and quantities of materials) and show for what diseases employed. 

(A) CASES AND DEATHS for each of the communicable diseases 

for the year and for each of the ten years preceding. 

(B) DEATH RATES per hundred thousand population for the year 

for each of the chief communicable diseases. 

(C) DEATHS FROM PRINCIPAL COMMUNICABLE DIS- 

EASES tabulated by (i) wards and (2) months. 

(D) CASE MORTALITY for each of the chief communicable dis- 

eases. 

Discuss prevalence, methods of control, possible sources of infection, 
use of laboratory diagnosis, average length of isolation, and methods of 
determining time of release for each of the communicable diseases. 

For diphtheria, tabulate length of isolation by five-day periods and 
for scarlet fever, by weeks, separating home and hospital cases. Indi- 
cate, also, extent of hospital treatment and numbers of multiple and 
return cases. A statement as to the use of antitoxin should be made 
under the heading of diphtheria, giving number of cases where used, 
result on mortality and extent of free distribution to indigent persons. 

Distinguish between " pulmonary " and " other forms " of tubercu- 



APPENDIX G 625 

losis. If anti-tuberculosis work is carried on by private agencies, an 
outline of its extent and character should be given. 

Under the heading smallpox, give (i) the vaccinal status of all cases, 
(2) of all school children and (3) the extent of free vaccination. 

Section 4, Infant Welfare 

Conditions affecting infant welfare and all agencies and means for 
reducing infant mortality should be discussed. 

(A) NUMBER OF DEATHS during the year and each of the ten 

years preceding, (i) under five years of age, (2) under one 
year and (3) percentage of total deaths for each of these age 
groups. 

(B) RATE OF DEATHS UNDER FIVE YEARS PER THOU- 

SAND OF POPULATION UNDER FIVE YEARS by (i) 
wards, (2) color and (3) principal nationalities. 

(C) DEATHS UNDER FIVE YEARS OF AGE tabulated by (i) 

days, for the first week, (2) weeks, for the first month, (3) 
months, for the first year and (4) by years for the first five 
years, showing (a) chief causes of death, (6) color and (c) 
nativities of parents. 

(D) DEATHS FROM DIARRHCEA AND ENTERITIS UNDER 

TWO YEARS OF AGE (title 104 of the International Classi- 
fication) and rate per hundred thousand of population for the 
year and for each of the ten years preceding. 

(E) RATE OF DEATHS UNDER ONE YEAR OF AGE PER 

THOUSAND BIRTHS for the year and for each of the ten 
years preceding, tabulated by (i) wards or districts, (2) color, 
(3) nationalities, (4) hospital or institutional care and (5) 
seasonal distribution. 

Section 5, Medical Inspection of Schools 

Public and private schools should be reported separately. Separate 
reports for general, dental, eye and other kinds of examinations, to 
include the work of examining physicians, of the school nurse and of 
free clinics. State whether school or calendar year is covered and report 
for the last complete year. 

Section 6, Foods and Drugs 

An outline of the food control problem and its sanitary significance is 
necessary to a proper appreciation of the work of this department. 
Endeavor to make all information, especially such as relates to the 
standing of the various milk supplies, comprehensible and useful to 
the public. Technical terms should be explained or avoided. The dairy 



626 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

score card devised by the U. S. Department of Agriculture is recom- 
mended. Any deviation from the laboratory methods of the American 
Public Health Association should be mentioned and explained. The 
methods described in the report of the Committee on Milk Standards 
are recommended. (Reference no. 3.) Explain system of dairy and 
creamery inspection. 

(A) GENERAL AVERAGE OF DAIRY SCORES for each of the 

preceding five or more years. 

(B) NUMBER (OR PER CENT) OF DAIRIES WHOSE SCORES 

FELL BETWEEN CERTAIN LIMITS for above years. 

(C) TABLE OF ALL RETAIL DEALERS giving scores of dairies 

supplying each. 1 State whether milk dealers are licensed by 
the Board and give the number of milk supplies excluded with 
reasons. 

Indicate the method and frequency of taking samples of 
milk and cream for analysis. 

(D) GENERAL AVERAGE BACTERIA COUNT (OR BAC- 

TERIAL CONTENT, Reference no. 3) for each of the pre- 
ceding five or more years. 

(E) INDIVIDUAL AVERAGE (OR " BACTERIAL CONTENT ") 

for each dealer for the year. 2 

(F) MONTHS DURING WHICH EACH DEALER'S BACTERIA 

COUNT FELL WITHIN CERTAIN LIMITS. 

(G) Where " loose " milk is sold, contrast the bacteria counts of 

bottled and loose milk. 
(H) BACTERIA COUNTS. Results of each analysis for each 

dealer. 

(I) FAT AND TOTAL SOLIDS. Figures for percentage fat and 
total solids may be given correspondingly with bacteria counts 
in (D), (E) and (H) above and may be conveniently included 
in tables with the latter. 

Microscopic examinations and tests for sediments, preservatives and 
thickeners should be recorded if made. 

Give results of inspection and measures to protect each kind of food, 
both during preparation (at slaughterhouses, bakeries, ice cream fac- 
tories, etc.), and during sale (at restaurants, markets, etc.). Report 

1 It scarcely need be said that these scores should be up to date at 
time of report, and that dealers should have been given a reasonable 
time to make improvements before scores are published bv name 
J. S. M. 

2 Bacteria tests must be sufficiently numerous to give a fair average 
for each dealer. J. S. M. 



APPENDIX G 627 

on the adulteration and misbranding of foods and drugs and the sale 
of habit-forming drugs, if subjects for local action. 

Section 7, Water and Ice Supplies 

Sources, quality and treatment of the various public and private 
water supplies; results of analyses and inspections. Similar data for 
ice supplies. 

Section 8, Sanitary Inspection of Buildings 

Results of inspections of schools, tenements, lodging houses, hotels, 
factories and other buildings. 

Section 9, Nuisances 

Classify and tabulate complaints received during the year as to (i) 
nature of complaint and (2) abatement. House-to-house inspections, 
control of special nuisances: (i) disposal of excreta, (2) dead animals, 
(3) smoke, (4) foul odors, (5) poisonous gases, (6) noise, etc. 

Section 10, Municipal Wastes 

Describe the system of collection and disposal of (i) garbage and 
offal, (2) ashes and non-combustible waste and (3) combustible waste, 
considering each separately under the following heads: (a) methods 
(by whom, for combined or separate, frequency), (b) amounts (in cubic 
yards or tons), (c) costs and (d) nuisances and complaints arising from 
methods of collection and disposal. 

Section n, Plumbing 

(A) Permits of each class for the year and for each of the five years 

preceding. 

(B) Permits granted during the current year in (i) old and (2) new 

buildings, by wards. 

(C) Tabulation of preliminary tests, final tests and inspections passed 

and not passed, during the year. 

(D) Sewer connections. Number of permits and inspections. 

(E) Give number of dwellings not connected with the sewer on (i) 

sewered streets, and (2) unsewered streets. 

(F) Permits and tests for gas piping and fixtures. 

Section 12, Insects and Rodents 

Relation to public health, location of breeding places and measures 
of extermination. 

Section 13, Special Problems and Research 

Epidemiology and etiology of communicable diseases; improvements 
In administrative and laboratory methods. 



628 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

Section 14, Publicity 

Bulletins, exhibits, lectures, instruction in sanitation in the public 
schools, books on sanitation in the public library. 

Section 15, New Ordinances 
Give sections of special importance in full, others in abstract. 

Section 16, Prosecutions 

Causes, results, courts where prosecuted and amount of penalties col- 
lected. 

Section 17, Conclusions and Recommendations 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

Use the outline given in reference no. 4. Include statement of bills 
outstanding and receivable and statement of supplies on hand at the 
beginning and close of fiscal year. 

REFERENCES 

No. i. Bulletins no. 108 (pp. 8 and 9) and 109 (p. 9), Bureau of the 

Census. 
No. 2. International Classification of Causes of Sickness and Death, 

Bureau of the Census. 
No. 3. Reprint no. 78 from Public Health Reports, U. S. Public Health 

Service. 
No. 4. Uniform Accounts as a Basis for Standard Forms for Reports 

of Financial and Other Statistics for the Health Department, 

by L. C. Powers, Bureau of the Census. 

[It will be noted that in the above plan the details of laboratory work 
are distributed under the various heads. 

For details of vital statistics consult Chapter IX, of present volume.] 



APPENDIX H 
HEALTH OFFICE FORMS 

The following is a suggestive list of health office forms intended to 
represent the minimum requirements of the health department of a 
small city. It should naturally be modified to suit local requirements, 
for it is obvious that some departments would require forms which do 
not appear in the list, while others would perhaps employ procedures 
to which certain of the forms suggested are not applicable. In most 
cases printed forms are requisite. 

GENERAL 

Inspector's daily (or weekly) report blank. (Loose-leaf notebook 
advisable for daily records.) Daily record should account in detail for 
use of time. 

COMMUNICABLE DISEASE 

Physicians' (postal) report card for new cases, also for recoveries and 
deaths (two forms on same card). 

History cards for diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, etc. 

Placards. 

Instructions regarding isolation and disinfection. 

Book record for communicable diseases. 

Spot map of cases. 

Permit to attend school, business, etc. 

Physicians' application and receipt for diphtheria antitoxin or other 
serum (indigent cases). 

Forms to accompany bacteriological specimens (diphtheria, etc.) 
(name, address, etc.). 

Laboratory book record of examinations. 

Tuberculosis: l 

Physicians' special report blank for new cases (sealed envelope 
health departments should furnish self-addressed envelopes). 

Physicians' special report blank for removals and deaths (sealed 
envelope). 

1 Records of tuberculosis to be kept separate and distinct from those 
of other communicable diseases. 

629 



630 A MANUAL FOR HEALTH OFFICERS 

History card (with blanks or extra card for recording visits of nurse). 

Special book record. 

Form to accompany sputum specimens. 

Instructions for tuberculosis patients. 

Requisition form for sputum cups, etc. 

(Clinic records.) 

Spot map of cases and deaths (not public). 

(The law usually prescribes that tuberculosis records be kept private.) 

CHILD HYGIENE 

History card for each case, giving essential data, records of nurse's 
visits, consultation station (or clinic), examinations, weights, diets, etc. 
Monthly summary of work of nurse. 
Monthly summary of work of consultation station. 
Cards for clinic appointments (language of mother). 
Instructions for care of baby, diets, etc. 
Physicians' report card for cases of enteritis. 

MILK SUPPLIES 

License and permit forms. Application form for license (sources of 

supply, etc.). 

Score or inspection forms for dairies, creameries, bottling plants.^ 
Laboratory records for recording results of analysis and notifying 

dealers. 

OTHER FOOD SUPPLIES 

Score or inspection forms and forms of notification for bakeries, con- 
fectioneries, ice-cream factories, places where beverages are dispensed, 
restaurants and the like. 

WATER 

Forms for recording inspections of wells, etc., and analyses, so far as 
required. 

HOUSING 

House-to-house inspection forms. 

Summary reports on house-to-house inspection (by streets), with 
objectionable conditions found. 

Gas inspection: forms for new installations similar to those used 
for plumbing inspection; forms for recording inspections of old systems, 
tags for leaky fixtures and notification forms. 

Plumbing inspection: 1 (i) bond and registration forms; (2) plan of 

1 Plumbing inspection should be removed from the health depart- 
ment and assigned (where this is not already the case) to some other 
and appropriate department, such as that of building inspection. 



APPENDIX H 631 

proposed work; (3) permit placard to proceed with work; (4) inspec- 
tion certificates for roughing and water (or smoke) tests; (5) index card 
catalogue of plans. 

NUISANCES 

Inspector's report (a form 8| by II inches, to which duplicates of 
notices, etc., may be attached, and which may be folded twice for filing, 
is convenient). 

Notice blanks 1 (to abate nuisance, make sewer connection, etc.) in 
proper legal form. 

Inspector's notification blank (see under "oral notification," p. 447). 

Reinspection slip (to be used as inspector's memorandum until nui- 
sance is abated). 

Special forms for fly and mosquito inspections and notices, etc. 

" No spitting " placards for public buildings, etc., and warning cards 
or slips for spitters (for use by police, street-car conductors, etc.), if 
required. 

VITAL STATISTICS 2 

Standard birth and stillbirth certificates. 

Blank for supplementary report of given name of child, with explan- 
atory slip to accompany same. 
Standard death certificate. 
Burial and removal permits. 

Transcript books for preserving local copies of records. 
Forms for certified copies. 

PERMITS 
Application and permit forms. 

PUBLICITY 
Various. 

REGULATIONS 

Health authorities should keep in print their ordinances in the form 
of an indexed code. Printed copies of sections or articles dealing with 
specific subjects, such as communicable disease, 3 milk, etc., should also 
be kept on hand. If ordinances are published in newspapers, reprints 
should be ordered at time of publication. 

1 In some cases a special letter is preferable to the printed form. 

2 Vital statistics forms should be uniform and should be furnished 
by the state bureau of vital statistics. 

3 The Montclair, N. J., Board of Health publishes a pamphlet of 
" Rules, Regulations and General Information Concerning Com- 
municable Diseases " for distribution to physicians, school authorities, 
etc., which is an excellent example of what may be done in this line. 



APPENDIX I 

NEW YORK STATE SANITARY CODE 

Following the recent reorganization of the New York State Depart- 
ment of Health, with special reference to the improvement of local 
administration, the first and chief duty of the Public Health Council 
was the framing of a Sanitary Code to apply to the entire State with 
the exception of New York City. 

The aim of the Council in this important work was "to secure to the 
citizens of the State all the advantages which science and experience, 
especially during the last quarter of a century, have offered in the pre- 
vention of disease and in the promotion of the common welfare, with 
the least possible interference with the business, comfort and convenience 
of the people concerned." And, further, "to eliminate . . . the use- 
less sanitary procedures which mark the views and practices of an 
earlier day, now replaced by exact knowledge; to abandon in its text 
those technical terms which though still often used have lost their 
earlier meanings and values, and also those which are not readily 
comprehensible to the citizens for whose use and guidance the code is 
framed." 

Of special interest are the regulations relating to the control of com- 
municable disease, from which the following declarations as to incuba- 
tion periods and isolation are taken. 

Regulation 35. Maximum period of incubation. For the pur- 
pose of this code, the maximum period of incubation (that is, 
between the date of the exposure to disease and the date of its 
development), of the following communicable diseases is hereby 
declared to be as follows: 

Chickenpox 21 days 

Measles I4 days 

Mumps 21 days 

Scarlet fever 7 days 

Smallpox '. . 20 days 

Whooping cough I4 days 

Regulation 36. Minimum period of isolation. The minimum 
period of isolation, within the meaning of this code, shall be as 
follows: 

632 



APPENDIX I 633 

Chickenpox, until twelve days after the appearance of the erup- 
tion and until the crusts have fallen and the scars are completely 
healed. 

Diphtheria (membranous croup), until two successive negative 
cultures have been obtained from the nose and throat at intervals 
of twenty-four hours. 

Measles, until seven l days after the appearance of the rash and 
until all discharges from the nose, ears and throat have disap- 
peared and until the cough has ceased. 

Mumps, until two weeks after the appearance of the disease and 
one week after the disappearance of the swelling. 

Scarlet fever, until thirty days after the development of the 
disease and until all discharges from the nose, ears and throat, or 
suppurating glands have ceased. 

Smallpox, until fourteen days after the development of the 
disease and until scabs have all separated and the scars completely 
healed. 

Whooping cough, until eight weeks after the development of the 
disease or until one week after the last characteristic cough. 

This Code, which is the latest word in sanitary regulations, covers in 
some detail the control of communicable disease and the other branches 
of sanitary administration, including classification of milk supplies. 
For further details the reader is referred to the printed regulations, 
which may be obtained from the State Department of Health, Albany, 
N. Y. 

The Public Health Council also fixes the qualifications of division 
directors, sanitary supervisors, health officers and public health nurses, 
and regulates midwifery. A subject of peculiar interest dealt with by 
the regulations is that of labor camps. 

1 In New York City the quarantine period for measles has been re- 
duced (in 1913) to " five days after the appearance of eruption if no 
catarrhal discharges are present, cough has stopped, and patient is 
otherwise well. . . . That this procedure was justified is evidenced by 
the fact that there has been no increase in the occurrence of secondary 
cases. (Handbook of the Bureau of Infectious Diseases, 1914, sec. 80.) 



APPENDIX J 
THE SCHICK TEST 

A new agent in the control of diphtheria has been discovered which 
will serve as an important adjunct to antitoxin. It is known as the 
Schick test for immunity. The reaction depends on the local irritant 
action of minute quantities of diphtheria toxin when injected intracu- 
taneously. If antitoxin is absent in the cutaneous lymph, or present 
only in very small amounts, insufficient for neutralization, a positive 
reaction appears in twenty-four to forty-eight hours. 

The results of its use are already apparent. We are now reasonably 
certain that 80 per cent of the new-born, 50 to 60 per cent of children 
and 90 per cent of the adults are naturally immune from diphtheria. 
This throws new light upon the spread of the disease and explains why 
only certain persons take diphtheria even when exposed to it. This 
test will show whether a person has sufficient antitoxin in his blood to 
overcome an infection with diphtheria bacilli. 

Some of the other uses of the Schick test are summarized as fol- 
lows in a statement issued by the Massachusetts State Department 
of Health: 

1. It will enable the practising physician to diagnose doubtful 
membranes of the throat. 

2. It will enable us to separate the susceptible from the non-sus- 
oeptible individuals who have been exposed to diphtheria. 

3. It will enable us to administer antitoxin to only those who 
actually need it. 

4. It will enable us to prevent the accidents due to serum sick- 
ness, for we can determine by the use of this test whether a larger 
amount of antitoxin serum would have any ill effects. 

5. It will enable us to lessen the yearly expenditure for unneces- 
sary antitoxin. 

6. It will enable us, when diphtheria bacilli are demonstrated in 
the throat of an apparently well person, to determine whether this 
person is coming down with the disease or whether he is a " carrier." 

It will be seen from these uses that the Schick test has the possi- 
bility of a wide range of usefulness. 

The remarks in the text relative to the use of antitoxin (p. I37ff.) 
should be modified with reference to this recently developed agent. 
Outfits for the test are now distributed by public health laboratories. 

634 



INDEX 



Actinomycosis, 402. 

Acute anterior poliomyelitis, 243, 

294. 
Administration, local, 27. 

joint, 29. 

Adulteration of foods, 399. 
^Estivo. See Estivo. 
Age-groups in population, 510. 
Air, infection through, 119. 

poisoning of, by illuminating 

gas, 427. 

smoke, dust and gases in, 476 ff. 
Air supplies. See Ventilation. 
American Journal of Public 

Health, 60. 

American Public Health Associa- 
tion, 60. 

Anchylostomiasis, 205. 
Anthrax, 250. 

spores, destruction of, 571. 
Antiseptics, 569. 
Antitoxin, diphtheria, 137, 140. 

tetanus, 247. 
Antitoxins and vaccines, furnished 

by state authorities, 33. 
supervision of manufacture of, 

44. 

Appropriations, 7, 96. 
Asepsis, 569. 

and disinfection, 123. 
Aseptic methods in isolation hospi- 
tals, 117, 121. 

Atypical cases. See Missed cases. 
Averages, 501. 



B. coli in water supplies, 406. 
Bacillus-carriers. See Carriers. 



Bacteria, in decomposition of 
milk, 346. 

and theory of infection, 106 ff. 
Bakeries, 402. 
Barber shops, 265. 
Baths, public, disinfection of, 266. 
Bertillon System, 514. 
Beverages, commercial, 417. 

lead in, 407. 
Births, 519. 

certificates of, 522. 

premature, statistical rules re- 
garding, 613 f. 

records of, value of, 519. 

reporting of, 492, 521. 
checks upon, 494. 

supplementary name reports of, 
521. 

statistical rules regarding, 613 ff. 

See also Stillbirths and Vital 

records and statistics. 
Birth rate, 521. 

relation of, to death rate, 517. 
Blindness, preventable, 239. 
Board of health, local, 6. 

composition of, 6. 

status of, 7. 

appropriation to, 7. 

See also Local health authorities. 
Board of health physician, 18. 

and tuberculosis, 174. 
"Bob veal," 402. 

Books, and communicable dis- 
ease, 263 f. 

disinfection of, 586. 
Botulismus, 401. 
Brill's disease, 211. 



635 



INDEX 



Buildings, private. See Dwellings. 

public, 425. 
Bulletins, health, 552. 

state health, 36. 
Butter, 393. 

Carrier, milk-borne typhoid fever 

epidemic due to, 284. 
Carriers, 107 ff. 

chronic and transitory, 109. 
diphtheria, 141 ff. 
in institutions, 145. 
among school children, 142 ff. 
treatment of, 144 f. 
disinfection of hands of, 585 f. 
in causation of epidemics, 274. 
frequency of, in various diseases, 

109. 

supervision of, no ff. 
treatment of, no, 144 f. 
typhoid, in, 188, 198, 199, 200, 

284. 

.Case fatality, 516. 
Cemeteries, 461. 
Censuses, 498, 503. 
Cerebrospinal fever, 157, 294. 
Cesspools, 457. 
Charts. See Diagrams. 
Chickenpox, 245, 632 f. 

distinguished from smallpox, 

214. 

Child hygiene, 296. See also In- 
fant hygiene. 
Cholera, 203. 

"Cholera," infantile, etc., 204. 
Cleanliness, as disinfectant, 570. 

personal, value of, 115 ff. 
Cleansing, after tuberculosis, 176. 
"Clean-ups," 446. 
Climate, influence of, on mor- 
tality, 511. 

Clinics, tuberculosis, 177. 
Closets, sanitary, 454. 



Colds, 186. 

Colon bacillus. See B. coli. 

Common drinking cups, roller 

towels, etc., 264, 404. 
Communicable disease, 101. 

advice and action on, by state 
authorities, 32, 39. 

chief, important data concern- 
' ing, 294. 

classification of, by modes of 
transmission, 101. 

control of, 102. 
summarized, 122. 

diagnosis of, doubtful, 102. 

effects of, other than direct 
mortality, 78 f. 

hospital methods in, 117, 121. 

hospital for. See Isolation hos- 
pital. 

and infants, 303, 315. 

investigation and action con- 
cerning, 104. 

and libraries, 263. 

and milk, 368. 

mild cases of, unreported, 102. 

plural infections in, 102. 

recording of, 104. 

references on, 293. 

regulations for, N. Y. State, 
632 f. 

reporting of, 102. 

and season, 511. 

state authorities in relation to, 
32 f., 39- 

and schools. See Schools and 
School children. 

suspected cases of, 102. 

terms relating to, 101. 

See also Infection, Epidemics, 
Carriers, Missed cases, Iso- 
lation, Quarantine, Dis- 
infection. 
Computation, methods of, 532. 






INDEX 



637 



Confectioneries, 402. 

Congenital malformation and de- 
bility, 304. 

Congestion and death rates, 512. 

Consultation stations. See In- 
fant hygiene stations. 

Contact infection. See under In- 
fection. 

Contacts, surveillance of, 131. 

Contagious. See Communicable. 

Cooperative health administra- 
tion, 619. 

" Correction " of rates. See Stand- 
ardization. 

Costs of public health work, 96. 
in improving milk supplies, 

393 ^ 
vs. results, 272. 

of infant hygiene work, 339. 
Cream, 391. See also Milk, 
adulterants, etc., in, 390. 
"dipped," in stores, 382. 
Creameries. See Milk shipping 

establishments. 
"Croup." See Diphtheria. 
Cuspidors, public, 476. 

Dairies, and communicable disease, 
368. 

inspection of, 373. 

water supplies for, 417. 
Dairy score-card, 373. 
Dead animals, disposal of, 459 ff. 
Dead bodies, care of, 136. 

disposal of, 461. 
Death, causes of, 73 ff., 513 ff. 

certificates of, errors in, 517. 

See also Infant mortality and 

Vital statistics. 
Deaths, non-resident, 507. 

recording of, 493. 
checks upon, 496. 

statistical rules regarding, 612 ff. 



Deaths, See also Vital records and 

statistics. 
Death rates, 507. 
and birth rates, relation be- 
tween, 517. 
by cause, 513, 515. 
definitions and formulas of, 

507 ff. 

excessive, 540. 

factors determining, 92 f., 510. 
precision of, 535. 
reduction of limits to, 518 f. 
specific, 513. 
standardization of, 508. 
study and interpretation of, 513, 

516, 518 f. 

urban and rural, 48 f. 
in U. S. Registration Area, 71 ff. 
by age, 73, 74. 
by cause, 75 ff. 
Demography, 503. 
Deodorants, 569, 591. 
Desquamation, as source (?) of 

infection, 112. 
in scarlet fever, 147 f. 
Diagnosis, doubtful, 102. 
Diagrams, 536. 

titles for, 537. 
Diarrhceal diseases, 204. 

infantile, 204, 302. 
Diphtheria, 136, 294. 

bacteriological diagnosis and 

control of, 138, 146. 
carriers of, numbers and con- 
trol of, 109, 141 ff. 
in institutions, 145. 
among school children, 142 ff. 
treatment of, 144 f. 
epidemics of, 290 f. 
immunization against, of ex- 
posed persons, 137. 
in institutional outbreaks, 145. 
incidence of, 138. 



INDEX 



Diphtheria, isolation of, 141. 
length of, 146. 
terminal disinfection after, 

146. 

and milk supplies, 369. 
in relation to schools: 
school epidemics, 143. 
exclusion of school children, 

146. 

transmission, 138. 
Diphtheria antitoxin, use of, 137. 
furnished by health authorities, 

140. 

Dirt, sanitary significance of, 83. 
Diseases, preventable, 73 ff., 101. 

of occupation, 435 ff. 
Diseases not subject to public 

health measures, 79. 
Disinfectants, 570. 
action of, affected by organic 

matter, 576. 
household, 590. 
prescribed and supplied by 

health authorities, 581. 
standardization of, 590. 
for specific uses, 58 1 . See under 

Disinfection. 
Disinfectant agents: 
physical: 

cleanliness, 570. 

heat (burning, boiling, dry 

heat and steam), 571 f. 
sunlight, 571. 
chemical: 

bichloride of mercury, 575. 
carbolic acid, 574. 
cresols, 574. 
formaldehyde gas, 576. 

methods of production of, 

579- 

testing of efficiency of, 578. 
formalin, 575. 
hydrocyanic acid gas, 588. 



Disinfectant agents, chemical: 
lime, 572. 

lime, chlorinated, 573. 
sulphur dioxide gas, 588. 
Disinfection, 569. 
against anthrax, 250 f., 571. 
of bedding, 586. 
of body and bed linen, 586. 
of books, 586. 
defined, 569. 
of discharges, etc., 123. 
of dishes, etc., 586. 
of excreta, 582. 
gaseous, 131, 576. 

testing of efficiency of, 578. 
of the hands, 585. 
of miscellaneous articles, 586. 
of public baths and swimming 

pools, 266. 
references on, 593. 
after removal to hospital, 129. 
of rooms, 576 ff., 587. 
of sputum, discharges from 
mouth and nose, etc., 582. 
of stables, 588. 
of surfaces, 587. 
terminal, 131, 576, 587. 

abandoned in Providence and 

N. Y. City, 132. 
after tuberculosis, 134, 175. 
of water supplies, 412. 
of wells, 417. 
Dogs, registration and control of, 

223 ff. 

Dog-bites, action in case of, 226 ff. 
Drinking cups, common, 264. 
"Droplet" infection, 114. 
Drug habit, 253. 
Drugs, 41. 
Dust, indoor, 478. 
Dust nuisance, 477. 
Dwellings, types of, 423. 
Dysenteric diseases, 204. 



INDEX 



639 



Economic conditions and death 

rates, 92 f., 511 f. 
Economic value of public health 

work, 95. 

Education of public. See Pub- 
licity. 

Endemic, 267. 

Enteric fever. See Typhoid fever. 
Enteritis. See Diarrhceal dis- 
eases. 
Epidemics, carriers and missed 

cases in causation of, 274. 
curves of, 274. 
examples of, 275. 

contact infection (typhoid 

fever), 275. 
milk infection (scarlet fever), 

281. 
milk infection (septic sore 

throat), 288. 
milk infection (typhoid fever 

carrier), 284. 
shellfish infection (typhoid 

fever), 284. 
water infection (typhoid 

fever), 278. 
investigation of, 268. 
milk-borne, summary of, 289. 
points of interest in report- 
ing, 292. 

prevention of, 267, 272. 
primary and secondary cases in, 

274. 

publicity regarding, 550. 
types and characteristics of, 

273- 

See also under names of diseases. 
Epidemiology, 266. 

terms pertaining to, 267. 

references on, 293. 
Epizootic, 267. 
Estivo-autumnal fever, 207. 
Excreta, disinfection of, 582. 



Excreta, disposal of, 448, 454. 

removal of, from privies, 456. 
Exhibitions. See Publicity. 
Expenditures. See Costs. 
Eye inflammation in infants, 241. 

prevention of, 240. 

Factories, 434 ff. 

state supervision over, 42, 436. 
Fallacies, public health, 83. 

statistical, 526. 
Farcy, 248. 

Federal health authorities and or- 
ganization, 52. 
advisory functions, 52. 
executive functions, 53. 
proposed reorganization of, 56. 
Federal bureaus, 54. 
Flies, as conveyers of disease, 209, 

461. 

in typhoid fever, 190. 
manner of breeding of, 462. 
measures against, 463. 

urban and rural, 467. 
references on, 468. 
Fly-traps, 467. 
Fomites infection, 118. 
Food (esp. meat) infection and 

poisoning, 400 ff . 

Food and drink as vehicles of in- 
fection, 118, 199. 

Foods, establishments where pre- 
pared, exposed, etc., 402. 
other than milk, objects of 

regulation of, 398. 
publicity regarding, 404. 
references on, 404. 
_ typhoid fever transmitted by, 

191. 
Foods and drugs, relation of state 

authorities to, 41. 
Foot-and-mouth disease, 354. 
Forms for health offices, 629. 



640 



INDEX 



Fruit. See Vegetables. 
Funeral restrictions, 136. 

Garbage and offal, care and dis- 
posal of, 458 ff. 

Garbage dumps, 460. 

Gas, illuminating, air poisoning 
by, 427- 

Gas piping and fixtures, inspec- 
tion of, 428. 

Gases, deleterious, in air, 478. 

German measles, 154. 

Germs. See Pathogenic micro- 
organisms. 

Glanders, 248. 

Gonorrhoea. See Venereal dis- 
ease. 

Gonorrhceal ophthalmia, 239. 

Hands, cleanliness of, 115 ff. 
Health. See Public health. 
Health officer, 3, 12. 

and board, 4. 

training and qualifications of, 

14, 35- 

Health officers' associations, 65. 
Hog cholera infection of meat, 

400. 

Hookworm disease, 205. 
Hospitals and sanitoria, relation 

of state authorities to, 44. 
for tuberculosis, 177 ff. 
See also Isolation hospitals. 
House-to-house inspections, 431. 
Housing, 420. 

general considerations on, 421. 
in infant hygiene, 329. 
problem of, how to attack, 429. 

summarized, 433. 
references on, 434. 
See also Buildings and Dwell- 
ings. 
Hydrophobia. See Rabies. 



Hygiene, industrial. See Indus- 
trial hygiene, 
public. $ee Public health. 

Ice supplies, 418. 

and typhoid fever, 189, 418. 
Ice-cream, 391. 

as possible vehicle of typhoid 

fever, 190. 
Illuminating gas, air poisoning by, 

427. 

Incubation periods, 294, 632. 
Industrial hygiene, 434. 

references on, 437. 
Infants, eye inflammation in, 241. 
eyes of, prophylactic treatment 

of, 240. 
Infant hygiene, 300. 

costs and results of work for, 339. 
history of, 307. 
home instruction in, 308 ff. 
on clothing, 315. 
on communicable disease, 315. 
on feeding, 309. 
on nostrums, etc., 315. 
on milk, 310 ff. 
on ventilation, 314. 
housing and general sanitation 

in, 329- 

"little mothers" in, 327. 
control of mid wives in, 331. 
and milk supplies, 328. 
organization of work for, 333. 

in small towns and cities, 336. 
postnatal work in, 306. 
prenatal work in, 306, 330. 
references on, 344. 
results of calculation of, 343. 
underlying conditions in, 306. 
unofficial organizations in, 329. 
working mothers and, 333. 
Infant hygiene nurse, 308 ff. 
general functions of, 316, 334. 



INDEX 



641 



Infant hygiene stations, 318, 

334 & 

communicable disease to be re- 
ported to, 105. 
Infant mortality, 300. 
causes of, 301. 
by age, 306. 
reduction of, 307. 
preventability of, 304. 
in U. S. Registration Area, 72." 
Infant mortality rates, 305. 

expression of, 516. 
Infantile diarrhoea, 204. 
Infantile paralysis, 243, 294. 
Infection, modern theory of, 106. 
modes of: 
air, 119. 
contact, 113. 

epidemiological character- 
istics of, 273. 

prevention of, 115 ff., 264. 
epidemic of, typhoid fever, 

275- 

"droplet," 114. 
fomites, 118. 
food and drink, 118. 
insects, 120. 
special, 120. 
summary, 121. 
sources of, 112. 
types and characteristics of, 

273- 

See also Communicable dis- 
ease and Epidemics. 
Influenza, 186. 

Insects (and vermin), 461-475. 
destruction of, by fumigation, 

588, 592. 

as disease-conveyers, 120. 
diseases spread by, 206. 

epidemiological characteris- 
tics of, 274. 
Insecticides, 592. 



Inspectors, duties and training of, 

17, 35, 370 f. 
Instructive nurse. See Public 

health nurse. 
International Classification of 

Causes of Death, 514. 
Investigation and advice, by Fed- 
eral authorities, 52 f. 
by state authorities, 32. 
See also Surveys. 
Isolation, 124. 

application of principles in, 130. 
periods of, 295, 632. 
revisits to cases under, 129. 
Isolation hospitals, 134. 

aseptic methods in, 117, 121. 
removal to, 129. 
compulsory, 135. 

in tuberculosis, 179. 
See also Hospitals and Sanatoria. 

Joint administration, 29, 619. 
in milk control, 370 f. 

Laboratory, local, 21, 608. 

state, local service by, 33. 
Laboratory analysis, of milk, 384. 

of water, 405. 
Laboratory references, 611. 
Law. See Sanitary law. 
Lantern slides, 566 f. 
Lead poisoning from water and 

other beverages, 407. 
Lectures, 562, 564. 
Legal service. See under Local 

health department. 
Leprosy (Lepra), 252. 
Libraries and communicable dis- 
ease, 105, 263. 
"Little mothers," 327. 
Local health authorities, 3. 

executive staff of, II, 12. 

efficiency of, 27. 



642 



INDEX 



Local health authorities, forms for 

recording work of, 629. 
organization of, 4. 

in small communities, 28. 
powers and procedure of, 8. 
See also under Sanitary 
law. 

references on, 30. 
and state authorities, 44. 
Local health department: inspec- 
tion, 17. 

public health nurse, 19. 
labor, 22. 
laboratory, 21, 608. 

references on, 611. 
legal counsel and service, 22. 
medical service, 18. 
office, 23. 

veterinary service, 22. 
Local health ordinances, 480. 
Local registrar, appointment of, 
by health authorities, 40. 

Maggot traps, 465. 

Malaria, 207. 

Malignant pustule, 250. 

Malta fever, 354. 

Manure, 459, 461, 463. 

Maps, 537. 

Marine quarantine, 43. 

Markets, 403. 

Marriages, and marriage rate, 

519. 
recording of, 494. 

checks upon, 496. 
Maxima and minima, 502. 
Measles, 150, 294. 
Measles, German, 154. 
Meats, 399. 

infection and poisoning through, 

400 ff. 

Median, 502, 
Medical frauds, 254. 



Medical inspection of school chil- 
dren, 260, 296. 
references on, 300. 
Meningitis, epidemic cerebrospi- 
nal. See Cerebrospinal fever. 
Mental diseases, 253. 
Mid wives, control of, 331. 
Mild and atypical cases, 131. See 

also Missed cases. 
Milk, adulterants and preserva- 
tives in, 348. 
tests for, 390. 
bacteria in decomposition of, 

346. 

contaminated, effects of, 347. 
"dipped" or "loose," 381 ff. 

decision regarding, 25. 
fats in, 388. 
home care of, 313, 384. 
home modification of, 310. 
home pasteurization of, 311. 
for infants, 310 ff. 
pasteurization of, 354, 369. 
argument for, 356. 
cautions in connection with, 

358- 

control of, 358. 
definition and effects of, 354. 
methods of, 359. 
quarantine regulations regard- 
ing, 127. 

references on, 397. 
skim, 393, 390. 
solids in, 388. 
sterilization of, by electricity, 

36i. 
tests of: 

bacteriological, 386. 
chemical, 388. 
microscopical, 391. 
for sediment (visible dirt), 

389. 
watering and skimming of, 390. 



INDEX 



643 



Milk bottles and utensils, sterili- 
zation of, 379. 

Milk containers, cleansing of, 380. 
Milk inspector, 370 f., 396 f. 
Milk products, 391. See also 

Milk. 

Milk shipping and bottling estab- 
lishments, 375. 
Milk sickness, 354. 
Milk Standards, Commission on, 

362. 

Milk stations. See Infant hy- 
giene stations. 
Milk stores, 381. 
Milk wagons, 381. 
Milk supplies, 345. 
certified, 366. 
classification of, 363. 
improvement of, benefits of, 347. 

economic problem of, 393. 
and infant hygiene, 328. 
inspection of, 370. 
pasteurized, standard rules for, 

364 ff. 

publicity regarding, 395. 
regulation of, 361. 
methods of, 369. 
by inspection, 370. 
by laboratory, 384. 
objects of, 361. 
organization for, 395. 
requirements for, 345. 

minimum, 373. 
special, 367. 
standards for, 362. 

enforcement of, 393. 
standard rules for production, 
handling and distribution 
of, 593- 
tests of, frequency of, 391. 

collection of samples for, 384. 
in transit, inspection of, 379. 
temperature of, 380. 



Milk supplies, tuberculin-testing 
of, legal decisions regard- 
ing, 604. 
water supplies in connection 

with, 417. 
See also Dairies. 
Milk-borne disease, 348. 

bovine tuberculosis, 160, 349 ff. 
other diseases of animal origin, 

354- 

of human origin, 349. 
precautions against, 368. 
typhoid fever, 190. 
pasteurization as a safeguard 

against, 356 ff. 
septic sore throat, 245. 
Milk-borne epidemics, character- 
istics of, 273. 
examples of: 

scarlet fever, 281. 
septic sore throat, 288. 
typhoid fever (carrier), 284. 
points of interest in reporting, 

292. 

summary of, 289. 
Mim's culicide, 592. 
Missed cases, 107 ff. 

in causation of epidemics, 274. 
Montclair, N. J., tuberculin-test 

case, 604. 
Morbidity records and statistics, 

523- 
collected by state authorities, 

39 f- 

Morbilli. See Measles. 
Mortality. See Death rates. 
Mosquitoes, breeding of, 469. 

breeding-places of, 471. 

diseases conveyed by, 207. 

kinds of, 469, 470. 

references on, 474. 

suppression of, 468. 

permanent measures for, 472. 



644 



INDEX 



Mosquitoes, temporary measures 

for, 473. 

Motion pictures, 567. 
Mumps, 1 86, 632 f. 

National. See Federal. 
Negro mortality, 510. 
New York Milk Committee, stand- 
ard rules of, 594. 
New York State plan for control 

of rural districts, 50 f . 
New York State sanitary code, 632. 
Newspapers, 546 ff., 566. 
Night soil, disposal of, 455. 

systems of removal of, 456. 
Noise nuisance, 478. 
"Normal" rates, etc., 501. 
"Noxious" trades, 478. 
Nuisances, 439. 
classifications of, 440. 
classes of: 
due to dust, 477. 

excreta, 448. 

gases, 478. 

insects and vermin, 

461. 

noise, 478. 

obnoxious trades, 478. 
refuse, various, and 
uncleanliness, 458 ff. 
smoke, 476. 
spitting, 475. 
definition of, 439. 
and health, relation between, 

441. 
inspections and notifications of, 

447- 

legal remedies for, 442. 
non-sanitary, 445. 
relation of state authorities to, 

39- 

Nurse, in communicable disease, 
125. 



Nurse, public health. See Public 
health nurse. 

Occupation, diseases of, 435 ff. 
statistical rules regarding, 612, 

618. 

Odors, foul, 85. 
Ophthalmia neonatorum, 239. 
Ordinances, 9, 480. 
Organization. See under Local, 

State, Federal, Unofficial. 
Outbreaks. See Epidemics. 
Owen Bill, 56. 
Oysters. See Shellfish. 

Paratyphoid fever, 202. 

in meat, 400 f., 402. 
Pasteur treatment for rabies, 227 f. 
Pasteurization. See under Milk. 
Patent medicines, 254. 
Pellagra, 251. 

Pertussis. See Whooping cough. 
Picnic grounds, privies for, 456. 
Plague, 210. 

Plumbing inspection, 422, 445. 
Plural infections, 102. 
Pneumonia, 155. 

"typhoid," 187. 

Police, cooperation of, in abate- 
ment of nuisances,, 446. 
Poliomyelitis, acute anterior, 243. 
Popular education. See Publicity. 
Population, 503. 

censuses of, 503. 

composition of, by age, etc., 510. 

estimation of, 504. 
Posters, health, 554. 
Prenatal work in infant hygiene, 

330. 

Preservatives, 348, 390, 399. 
Press, the, 546. 

"Preventable" and "prevention" 
defined, 77, 79. 






INDEX 



645 



Preventable diseases, 73 ff., 101. 
Prevention, cost vs. value of, 272. 
Primary and secondary cases, 274. 
Privies, 449. 

cleaning service for, 456. 

construction and care of, 452. 

disposal of excreta from, 454, 

455- 
fly-proofing of, in reduction of 

typhoid fever, 466. 
sanitary requirements for, 449. 
sanitary systems of: 
"dry, "450. 
"wet," 451. 
for schools, etc., 454. 
temporary, 455. 
Prosodemic, 267. 

Providence, R. I., terminal disin- 
fection abandoned in, 132. 
Providence, R. I., City Hospital, 

117, 121. 

"Ptomaine poisoning," 402. 
Public baths and swimming pools, 

266. 
Public health, economic factors 

in, 92. 

fundamental needs of, 80. 
the new, 69, 88. 

compared with the old, 82. 
quantitative methods in, 89. 
scope of, 90. 
references on, 97. 
uncontrollable factors in, 92. 
Public health authorities, anoma- 
lous position of, 82. 
limits to scope of, 92. 
powers of, 24. 

legal decision regarding, 606. 
See also under Local, State, 

Federal. 

Public health fallacies, 83. 
Public health movements, auxil- 
iary, 64. 



Public health nurse, 19. 
in infant hygiene, 308 ff. 

general functions of, 316, 334. 
in tuberculosis, 169 ff. 
Public health problems, 71. 

statistical survey of, 71. 
Public health science, 69. 
Public health surveys and pro- 
grams, 97. 

Public health terms denned, 70. 
Public health work, costs of, 96. 
vs~ value of, 540. See also 

Prevention, 
economic value of, 95. 
motives for, 95. 
obstacles to progress in, 93. 
See also Sanitation. 
Publicity, 92, 542. 

and administration, 568. 
modes of: 

exhibitions, 556. 

special material for, 563. 
traveling, 38, 563. 
exhibits, small, 564. 
lectures, 562, 564. 
motion pictures, 567. 
the press, 546. 
printed matter, 552. 
objects of, 542. 
principles of, 543. 
by state health authorities, 37. 
distribution of, 554. 
technique of, 555. 

Quarantine, 126. 

application of principles to, 130. 

marine, 43. 
Quartan fever, 207. 
Quetelet's rules, 538. 

Rabies, 218, 294. 
diagnosis and recognition of, 
221 f. 



646 



INDEX 



Rabies, information to dog-owners 

regarding, 224 f. 
incidence of, 220. 
incubation period of, 219. 
ordinance regarding, 229. 
prevention of, 223. 
in general, 223. 
in specific cases, 226. 

Pasteur treatment for, 227 f . 
state system for, 231. 
references on, 233. 
transmission of, 219. 
types of, 221. 
Race, influence of, on mortality, 

5io. 

Railroad sanitation, 43, 409. 
Ratios and rates, 501. 
fallacies in, 526. 
precision of, 535. 
See also Vital statistics. 
Rats, 210, 460. 
Records, forms for, 629. See also 

Vital records. 
Refuse, care and disposal of, 

458 ff- 

Registration, 39, 492. 
Registration Area, 498. 
Registration States, 539. 
Relapsing fever, 211. 
Report, annual, 486. 

distribution of, 488, 554. 

press notice regarding, 488. 

publicity through reprints from, 
553- 

standard plans for, 487, 622. 
Reports, statistical, rules regard- 
ing, 614, 617. 

weekly and monthly, 486 f. 
Reservoirs, safeguarding of, 410. 
Restaurants, 403. 
Rubeola (rubella), 154. 
Rural districts, state control of, 48. 

Cf. Small communities. 



Rural and urban conditions com- 
pared, 48 f., 512. 

Sanitary. See also Public health. 
Sanitary authority, nature of, 24. 
Sanitary law, 8 f., 480. 

advice on, by state authorities, 

33 f- 

enforcement of, 482. 
notices to comply with, 10, 482. 
ordinances under, adoption of, 

9, 480. 

penalties under, 481. 
procedure under, 9ff. 
prosecutions under, 483. 
remedies under, 481. 
references on, 485. 
Sanitary index, proposed, 513. 
Sanitary legislation, tendencies 

in, 484. 
Sanitary science. See Public 

health. 
Sanitation and death rates, 512. 

See also Public health. 
Sanatoria. See Hospitals and 

sanatoria. 

"Sausage poisoning," 401. 
Scarlatina. See Scarlet fever. 
Scarlet fever, 147, 294. 
control of, 149. 
epidemic of, due to milk, 281, 

290 f. 

, incidence of, 149. 
and school children, 150. 
transmission of, 148. 
Schools: 

communicable disease in, 254. 
closure on account of, 255. 
in rural districts, 259. 
in urban districts, 256. 
summary remarks on, 259. 
exclusions on account of, 127, 
146, 254, 260. 






INDEX 



647 



Schools, communicable disease in: 

reporting of, 102. 
communicable disease to be 

notified to, 105. 
diphtheria epidemics in, 143. 
hygiene and sanitation of, 261, 

299. 

references on, 300. 
infant hygiene instruction in, 

327- 

open-air, 299. 
sanitary education in, 262, 299, 

543- 

School children, diphtheria car- 
riers among, 142 ff. 
medical inspection of, 260, 296. 

references on, 300. 
vaccination of, 217 f. 
Score-cards, 371. 

for dairy farms, 373. 

for establishments handling 

milk, 376. 

for milk stores, 381. 
Season and public health, 511. 
Secondary cases, 274. 
Septic sore throat, 245. 

milk-borne epidemics of, 288. 
Sewage disposal, 448, 457. 
domestic systems for, 457. 
municipal, 458. 
relation of state authorities to, 

42. 

Sewer gas, 85. 
Sewers, house connections with, 

448. 
Shellfish-borne typhoid fever, 191. 

epidemic of, 284. 
Sick-room, 124. 
"Skin test," 163. 
Small communities, problems of, 

28. 

solved by joint sanitary ad- 
ministration, 29, 619. 



Smallpox, 211, 294. 

control of, 212. 

diagnosis of, 214. 

incidence of, 212. 

modified by vaccination (vario- 
loid), 213. 

transmission of, 211. 

See also Vaccination. 
Smoke nuisance, 476. 
Soda fountains, etc., 404. 
Soda water. See Beverages. 
Spitting nuisance, 475. 
Splenic fever, 250. 
Springs. See Water Supplies, pri- 
vate. 
Standard methods and forms, 34, 

534- 

Standard plans for annual re- 
ports, 487, 622. 

Standardization of statistics, 508, 

525- 

error due to lack of, 525. 
State conferences, 34. 
State health authorities, 31. 
bulletin in service of, 36, 37 f. 
functions of, 31. 
advisory, 32. 
executive, 38. 

and local authorities, 34, 44, 48. 
local powers of, 44. 
and milk supplies, 395. 
organization of, 46. 
state sanitary supervision by, 

48. 
State health officers' associations, 

65. 

State registration system, 39. 
Statistics. See Vital statistics. 
Sterilization, 569. 

of milk bottles and utensils, 379. 
Stillbirths, 523. 

statistical rules regarding, 613, 
614, 615, 618. 



648 



INDEX 



Street sweepings, disposal of, 459. 

Surveys and programs, 97. 

"Suspects," 1 02. See also Con- 
tacts. 

Swimming pools, disinfection of, 
266. 

Syphilis. See Venereal disease. 

Tables, 534. 

headings of, 537. 
for deaths, 614. 
preparation of, 529. 
standard, 534, 616. 
Tabulation systems, 529. 
Tapeworm, 402. 
Tenements, 423. 

and state authorities, 42, 432. 
Tertian fever, 207. 
Tetanus, 246. 

antitoxin for, 247. 
destruction of spores of, 571. 
Tonsillitis, epidemic. See Septic 

sore throat. 
Towels, common, 264. 
Trachoma, 242. 

Trades deleterious to health, 512. 
Transportation, hygiene of, 43, 

409. 

Trichinosis, 402. 
Tuberculin, in diagnosis, 163. 
Tuberculin test, 351. 

legal decisions regarding, 604. 
Tuberculosis, 158, 294. 
and books, 264. 
bovine, 160, 349 ff. 
control of, 162. 

bacteriological diagnosis, 168. 
cases, registration of, 105 f., 

164. 
cleansing and disinfection, 

175- 

health department nurse, 169 
ff. 



Tuberculosis, control of: 

health department physician, 

174- 

home supervision, 168 ff. 
housing, factories, etc., 184. 
institutional care (clinics, dis- 
pensaries, sanatoria, hospi- 
tals), 177 ff. 
milk supplies, 184. 
segregation, compulsory, 179. 
popular education (publicity), 

181. 

various agencies, 181. 
cooperation of, 184. 
incidence of, 161. 
infection: 

nature of, 159. 
transmission of, 160. 
in meat, 402. 
in milk, 160, 349 ff. 
progress against, 184. 
references on, 186. 
Typhoid fever, 187, 294. 

bacteriological examinations for 

diagnosis, 196 f. 
for release, 198. 
carrier of, milk-borne epidemic 

due to, 284. 
carriers, 109, HI, 116, 188, 198, 

199, 200. 

disinfection of hands of, 585 f. 
control of, 195. 

fly-screening in reduction of, 466. 
epidemics of, 188, 191, 275, 278, 

284, 289 f. 

investigation of, 268 ff. 
incidence of, 192. 
inoculation (vaccination) 

against, 194, 200. 
and milk supplies, 369. 
references on, 203. 
residual, 192. 
transmission of, modes of, 1 88. 



INDEX 



649 



Typhoid fever, washing of hands 

a protection against, 116. 
watersheds, safeguarding of, 

against, 408 f. 
Typhus fever, 211. 

Uncinariasis, 205. 
Universities and state health de- 
partments, 37. 

"Unknown" numbers, 534, 617. 
Unofficial organizations, 59. 

local, 67. 

national, 60. 

state, 65. 

infant hygiene, 329. 

international, 65. 

Urban and rural conditions com- 
pared, 48 f., 512. 
Urotropine, 199. 
U. S. Bureaus, 54. 
U. S. Registration Area, statistics 

of, 71 ff. 
U. S. See also under Federal. 

Vaccination, 212 f., 215 ff. 
Vaccines. See Antitoxins and 

vaccines. 

Varicella. See Chickenpox. 
Variola. See Smallpox. 
Varioloid. See under Smallpox. 
Veal, 402. 

Vegetables and fruits, typhoid 
fever conveyed by, 191. 

decision regarding protection 

of, 26. 

Venereal disease, 233. 
Ventilation, 425. 

infant hygiene, 314. 

systems of, 425. 
Vermin. See Insects. 
Veterinary service, 22. 
Vital records: 

copying, transcribing and trans- 
mitting of, 497. 



Vital records: 

recording of, 492. 

tabulation from, 529. 

uses of, 491. 
Vital statistics, 489. 

application and value of, 489 ff., 

539- 

computations in, 532. 
definition of, 489. 
deficiencies in, 538 f. 

in data, 533. 
of disease, 523. 
error in, sources of, 524. 
methods in, 529. 
official (Federal, etc.), sources 

of, 498. 

of population, 503. 
presentation of, 498, 534. 
registration of, 39, 492. 
references on, 541. 
rules for practice in, 612. 
rules for, Quetelet's, 538. 
of states, 539. 
study and interpretation of, 

497, 498, 538. 
theory of, 499. 
See also Population, Births, 

Deaths, Marriages. 
Von Pirquet reaction, 163. 

Wassermann test for syphilis, 236. 
Wastes, disposal of, 448, 458. 
Water, bottled, 417. 

lead poisoning from, 407. 
running, imaginary purifica- 
tion of, 87. 
stagnant, and fevers, 86. 

breeding mosquitoes, 469 ff. 
typhoid infection through, 189. 
Water supplies, 405. 
analysis of, 405. 
bacteriological, 405. 
chemical, 406. 



650 



INDEX 



Water supplies, for dairy purposes, 

374, 417. 

disinfection of, 412. 
from ground sources, 409. 
inspection of, 405. 
microscopic examination of, 406. 
official responsibility for, 413. 
pollution of, 408 ff., 414 ff. 

traced by dye, 415. 
private, 414. 

procedure to abolish, 417. 
public, 408. 
purification of, 410. 
references on, 418. 
reservoirs for, safeguarding of, 

410. 

rural and urban, compared, 416. 
state authorities in control of, 42. 



Water supplies, from surface 
sources, 408. 

Water-borne infection, character- 
istics of, 273. 

Water-borne diarrhceal disease, 
189, 205. 

Water-borne typhoid fever, 189, 
278. 

Weather conditions and mortal- 
ity, 511. _ 

Wells, disinfection of, 417. 

Wells. See Water supplies, pri- 
vate. 

Whooping cough, 154, 294. 

Widal reaction, 196. 

Wool-sorters' disease, 250. 

Yellow fever, 208. 













& 
o 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Do not 
re move 
the card 
from this 
Pocket. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. ".Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



