The "Original Book" of 

Choice Recipes 




AS COMPILED BY 

CLARA G. MITCHELL 
OF DENVER. COLORADO 




THIRD EDITION 



DKXVEK, COLORADO 

■niv: sMiTH-rtHOOKs printing company 

PT^BLISHERS 



Entered according to the Act of Congress in the year 1897 by 

MRS. JOHN C. MITCHELL 

■n the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington 



First Edition, 1897 
second Edition, 1901 
Third Edition, 1915 



PREFACE 



In editing this little book the object is to keep this 
collection of recipes together for personal use and also for 
the use of those who are interested in home cooking. These 
recipes are not entirely new or original, but have been col- 
lected from relatives and friends during many years. 
They have been tried and proven good. 

That this little volume will be of some assistance to 
my friends and well-wishers, who it is trusted may be 
lenient to its shortcomings, is the wish of 

C. G. M. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Pages 

Beverages 175-17J) 

Bread 131-141 

Buffet Liiiiclieoii for Seventy-live People 225 

Cake 93-108 

Canapes and Fish Cocktails 7-8 

Candy 205-207 

Chafing Dish Recipes 43 

Chafing Dish Supper for Forty People 227 

Cheese Dishes " 85-87 

Desserts 113-126 

Entrees 35-38 

Fish 25-30 

Fritters 151 

Menus 21 9-220 

Miscellaneous 47-63 

Pickles 183-186 

Pies 145-147 

Preserves 191-196 

Puddings 155-163 

Pudding Sauces 169-170 

Recipes for the Tropics 229-232 

Salad 69-73 

Salad Dressing 79-80 

Sauces 199-201 

Soup 13-20 

Time Tables 233-235 

Useful Remedies 211-214 



Modern Cooking Methods (John M. Connelly) . . . .237-240 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2010 



http://www.archive.org/details/originalbool<ofchOOmitc 



CANAPES AND FISH COCKTAILS 

(For Dinners and Luncheons) 

MITCHELL SURPRISE CANAPE 

2 cans Anti-pasto, marked [ cup East Indian chut- 
No. 33 or Moon-face ney root pickled, cut in 

brand; small pieces, 

Breast 4-pound chicken, J- cup celery, 
4 small cooked beets 3 hard boiled eggs, 

(size of a silver dollar), | teaspoonful paprika, 

i teaspoonful white pepper. 
Salt to taste. 

Cut all in pieces, size of small dice; also the whites 
of the eggs. The yolks are used on top of each canap(^ 
Mix all together with mayonnaise dressing, and serve on 
round pieces of buttered toast, cut the size of a claret 
glass. Sprinkle top Avith yolks of eggs put through 
sieve ; dash of paprika on top of each canape. 



MITCHELL CR ABMEAT CANAPE 

Toast slices of bread, cut in round pieces with small 
biscuit cutter two and a half inches; butter while hot; 
spread buttered circles with sardine paste, seasoned with 
lemon and paprika. 

Place slices of ripe tomatoes tiiat have been mari- 
nated for an hour on the sardine toast; then, last of all. 
the crabmeat flakes, mixed with well-seasoned mayon- 
naise, on the tomato, with a sprinkling of paprika on to]). 

— 7 — 



CANAPES AND FISH COCKTAILS 



EGG CANAPE 

Half a hard boiled (^gg. stuffed with caviar and 
pimiento chopped fine, mixed with sour mayonnaise. 

Garnish with beets cut in small cubes around the 
egg. The beets must be well-seasoned before cutting. 
Sierve with hot buttered toast, one for each person. 

CANAPE OF SARDINE 

h pound can of boneless 2 teaspoonfuls chopped 
sardines, or green peppers, 

2 40-cent cans sardine 2 teaspoonfuls chopped 
paste. celery. 

1 teaspoonful chopped 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, 

chives. I teaspoonful paprika. 

9 2 pinches salt. 

Mix thoroughly ; spread on soft buttered toast strips 
three inches Ions: and two inches wide. 



FISH COCKTAIL 

Crabmeat and sweetbread cocktail mnde like oyster 
focktail. with sauce. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 

I] pints smallest oysters. 1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

Sauce: i teaspoonful paprika. 

J pint catsup, i teaspoonful salt, 

f tablespoonful Worcester- Juice of one lemon, 

shire sauce. 8 drops tabasco. 

Put oysters in sherbet glasses, pour the sauce over 
them, but don't mix. Set in ice box until time to serve. 
Will serve eight people. 



— 9 — 



— 10 



11 — 



— 12 — 



SOUP 

Stock for any Clear Soup 



CONSOIMIME OK BOUILLON 

A knuckle of veal. 1 turnip, 

A shin of beef, 8 blades of mace, 

1 onion, 4 sprigs of parsley. 

8 quarts cold water, 4 cloves, 

1 carrot, 1 teaspoonful peppercorns. 

3 hay leaves, 1 stick of cinnamon. 

Let it come to a boil and then simmer on the back of 
the stove all day or until reduced to half the quantity, 
then strain and put away over night. When ready to use. 
season with a level tablespoonful of salt, and more pepper 
if desired. This' quantity makes a ricli jelly and will serve 
twelve people. 



now TO CLEAR SOUP 

Whites of 2 eggs, slightly \ cup of cold water, 
beaten, 

Boil the soup and pour over the eggs and water, boil, 
and strain through a jelly bag. If not sufficiently clear, 
strain second time. A little sherry wine adds to the flavor 
of the soup. If not rich enough in color, add a teaspoon- 
ful of Kitchen Bouquet. 

Julienne soup is made by adding vegetables, cut in 
different shapes, to the above. 

Consomme Royale is made by serving small cubes of 
baked custard in consomme. 

— 13 — 



SOUP 



CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME ROYALE 

2 eggs. And a tablespoonful of 

2 tablespooufuls of milk. chopped parsley if de- 

\ teaspoonfiil salt. sired. 

Beat eggs with a spoon, add milk and salt: cook in a 
slow oveu. in a square. shalloAv dripping pan. placed in a 
larger pan of boiling water. Bake until firm enough to 
cut into fancy shapes. When ready to serve put into 
consomme. 



CREA.AI TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart or 1 can of Butter the size of an egg. 

tomatoes. 1 scant teaspoonful soda. 

1 quart of water. h scant teaspoonful salt. 

1 quart of milk. ^ teaspoonful white pepper. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 

Boil the tomatoes and water twenty minutes, stir in 
the soda thoroughly, add the milk, salt and pepper, and 
thicken with the butter and flour stirred together to a 
cream. Mash through a sieve and serve with croutons. 
Will serve ten people. 



OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart oysters. 2 quarts milk. 

Butter the size of a larg(^ -J teaspoonful salt, scant. 

Heat the oysters and milk separately, put the butter 
and salt in the milk just before serving. Put the milk 
and oysters together in the tureen, milk first and then 
the oysters. Will serve eight people. 

— 14 — 



SOUP 



ASPARAGUS PUREE 



^^ bunches of fresh or one 
can of Gordon & Dil- 
worth's asparagus, with 
enough cold water to 
cover, 

1 pint stock. 



1 pint milk, 

Butter the size of an egg. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
h teaspoonful of salt, 
.[ teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 



Cut the tips off the asparagus an inch long. Boil the 
stalks until tender, mash through a colander. Add the 
stock, milk and seasoning, and thicken with the butter 
and flour stirred together to a cream. Just before serving 
put through a fine soup strainer. Boil the tips in a little 
salted water until tender and add to the soup. Additional 
richness is given by adding a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream to each plate. This amount will serve eight people. 

Puree of spinach is made in the same way, using two 
pounds of fresh spinach for this quantity. 



PUREE OF CORN 



1 pint cream, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

^ teaspoonful salt, 

I teaspoonful white pepper. 



1 can of corn, 

3 cans of water (measured 

in the same can), 
Butter size of an eg^. 
3 pints of milk. 

Boil the corn until tender, mash through a colander, 
add the milk and cream and thicken with the butter and 
flour stirred together to a cream, put through a fine 
strainer and serve. Will serve eight people. Croutons or 
small cubes of bread fried in butter are very nice with it. 

Puree of peas, beans, cauliflower, artichokes or sal- 
sify, also celery, can be made in the same way. 



15 — 



SOUP 



CHESTNUT PUREE 



1 quart large cliestnuts. 

shell and scald in boiling 

water, 
1 pint white stock, 
H pints of milk. 



Butter the size of an egg, 
1 teaspoonful flour, 
.7 teaspoonful salt. 
I teaspoonful pepper. 



Heat the stock and milk and thicken with the butter 
and flour stirred together to a cream, add the pepper and 
salt. Boil and peel the chestnuts, rub through a sieve and 
add to the soup. An extra cup of chestnuts may be peeled 
and boiled and served chopped in the soup, or it may be 
served with croutons. AYill serve eight people. 



CHICKEN OKRA 



1 chicken, 

2 quarts sliced okra. 
1 quart tomatoes. 



4 quarts hot water 
^ pound salt pork. 
1 onion. 



Cut the chicken in small pieces, put in a kettle with 
the pork and onion (sliced) and fry half done, add the 
water and let it cook slowly until the chicken is almost 
done, then put in the okra and tomatoes and cook until 
all are well done. Add salt and pepper to taste and a tea- 
spoonful of sassafras powder. S5ervo with n tablespoonful 
of boiled riee in eaeh plate. 

— 16 — 



SOUP 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP 

2 quarts rich brown stock, 2 hard boiled eggs, cut in 
1^ cups chopped veal. small pieces, 

chicken or beef, 1 wine glass sherry, 

1 small lemon. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the stock and if it is not dark colored enough 
add a teaspoouful of Liebig's Extract of Beef, thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls flour stirred smooth in a little 
cold water. Peel the lemon and cut in slices one-fourth 
inch thick, cut the slices in small pieces and put in the 
tureen with the meat and eggs, pour the soup over them 
and add the wine just before serving. Will serve eight 
people. 



GAME OR TURKEY SOUP 

The remains of a game or turke}^ dinner may be used 
for soup in the following way : Cover the bones and meat 
with cold water, add a small head of celery, cut small. 
and one small onion sliced. Boil three hours, strain and 
thicken with one tablespoonful of flour and one table- 
spoonful of butter stirred together to a cream, add salt 
and serve with a cupful of boiled rice. A bay leaf and a 
few sprigs of parsley may be added if liked. 



NOODLES 

Beat two eggs together, make a paste with enough 
flour to roll out like cookies, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
let it dry an hour, then cut into thin slices, boil ten min- 
utes in soup. Can be kept for weeks. 

"Whipped cream, and croutons make a nice addition 
to the three following soups: 

— 17 — 



SOUP 



ONION SOUP 

1 quart shredded uii- 2 tablespuoufuls tluiir. 

cooked onions (cut ] pound butter, 

lengthwise). Yolks of tAvo eggs l)eatpii. 

1 quart Avhite stock. 1 quart milk. 

Cover onions with water, parboil and dram. Boil in 
stock fifteen minutes, then add other ingredients and 
thicken with butter and flour stirred together. Add the 
yolks of eggs when ready to serve. AYill serve eight 
people. 



]•. 



OYSTER BISQUE 

1 pint Avater. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 pint milk. 1 slice onion. 

1 pint cream. 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart oysters, with the Pinch cayenne pepper. 

liquor, dash of nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of butte 

Volks of two eggs, beaten, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 bay leaf, Chop the oysters. 
1 piece celery. 

Put liquor and seasoning together and simmer on the 
back of the stove half an hour. Mash the oysters through 
a colander and thicken A^-ith the flour and butter stirred 
together until smooth, then add the hot milk and cream 
and let simmer ten minutes. Add the eggs and cook one 
minute, but don't let it boil. Will serve eight people 
Can be macjp with clams instead of oysters. 

— 18 — 



SOUP 



VELVET SOUP 

] quart white stock. 1 small stick oi;' cinnamon. 

1 quart milk, (5 whole cloves, 

}j pint cream, 1 hay leaf, 

1 small onion, sliced, i cup sago or tapioca, cooked 

1 stalk celery, cut fine, in the stock, 

1 small piece of mace. 

Boil the onion, celery and spices together in 1 pint of 
water, strain and add to the stock. Thicken with three 
tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter stirred together 
until smooth, and add the hot milk and cream; pepper 
and salt to taste. Just before serving add the yolks of 
two eggs beaten light. Will serve eight people. 



OREOLE SOUP 

;J pints stock, 1 small stick cinnamon. 

1 quart can tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful curry 
I cup boiled rice, powder, 

1 large onion, sliced. 1 tablespoonful salt, 

1 stalk celery, 1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 bay leaf, 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

6 whole cloves, A little cayenne pepper. 
1 small piece mace. 

Cook tomatoes, onion, celery and seasoning with the 
stock for half an hour, strain and rub the tomato pulp 
through a fine sieve. Return the mixture to the stove and 
add flour, butter and curry powder rubbed together to a 
cream. Cook until it thickens, strain again, add the rice 
and cook ten minutes, when it will be readj^ to serve. 

— 19— ^-^ 



SOUP 

GUMBO SOUP 
(a la Creole) 

1 heaping tablespoonfiil 1 red pepper, parsley and 

lard, salt, 

1 small piece of ham, cut 1 tablespoonful of fionr, 

up, 1 can okra, 

1 large onion, cnt fine. 1 teaspoonful chili pepper. 

I can tomatoes. 

Cover all with boiling water, simmer slowly, when 
nearly done add one cup of crabs, shrimps or chicken. 
One tablespoonful of boiled rice in each soup plate. 



— 20 — 



2X 



— 22 — 



— 28 



24 — 



FISH 



FISH TIMBALE (HALIBUT) 

1^ cups boiled halibut, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 

^ cup of cream, 1 teaspoonful parsley. 
2 tablespoonfuls bread minced, 

crumbs, | teaspoonful salt, 

^ teaspoonful cayenne g teaspoonful white pepper. 

pepper, 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

Put the cream in porcelain-lined kettle and add the 
bread crumbs, salt and pepper. When boiling pour ovei- 
the well beaten yolks of eggs and add the lemon juice, 
parsley and the fish picked up in medium sized pieces. 
Lastly add the whites of the eggs, beaten very light, and 
mix gently through the fish. Put in a well buttered mould 
and steam two or three hours without letting water stop 
boiling. Serve with cream sauce or Holla ndaise sauce. 
Will serve four people. Very nice made of salmon. 



CREAM SAUCE FOR TIMBALE 

1 pint cream. Yolks of two eggs, well 

1 teaspoonful butter, beaten. 

1 teaspoonful flour. 

Thicken the cream with the flour and butter creamed 
together and add the yolks of the eggs just before serving. 

— 25 — 



FISH 



LOBSTER TERRAPIN 

5 pounds lobster or 5 large Butter size of a large egg. 

cups of lobster meat, J teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart milk, or ^ teaspoouful cayenne 

1 pint milk and 1 pint pepper, 

cream, 1 sherry glass ^Madeira or 

2 hard boiled eggs, sherry wine. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cut the lobster in medium sized pieces, boil the milk 
and thicken with the butter and flour stirred to a cream, 
add the eggs, cut in small pieces, then the lobster, lastlj' 
the Avine just before serving. This will serve eight per- 
sons. Chicken, mushrooms or frogs* legs are delicious 
fixed in this way. 



LOBSTER NEWBURG 

5 pounds lobster or 5 large 4 yolks of eggs. 

cups of lobster meat, H pints cream, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 4 tablespoonfuls slierry. 

Cut the lobster in good sized pieces and pour over it 
the wine, melted butter, pepper and salt; let it cook for 
five minutes. Add the cream to the well beaten yolks of 
eggs, then the lobster; cook two minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Will serve eight people. 

To prevent curdling, a teaspoonful each of melted 
butter and flour, creamed, may be added and cooked 
smooth before putting in the cream and eggs. 

— 26 — 



FISH 



PISH AU GRATIN 

2 pounds whitefisli or 1 tablespoonfiil Hour, 

trout, 1 cup bread crumbs, 

1 pint milk, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, j teaspoonful white pepper. 

Heat the milk and thicken with the butter and flour 
stirred together to a cream and add the salt and pepper. 
Pick up the fish in small pieces and pour the sauce over it. 
Butter individual dishes or one large one, put in the fish 
and cover with the bread crumbs, with small pieces of 
butter on top. Bake in a ]iot oven in n pan of water. 
Will serve eight people. 



OYSTER POULETTE 

1 quart oysters, 2 tablespoonful tlour. 

1 pint cream, Yolks of two eggs, 

1 large tablespoonful k teaspoonful salt, 

butter, I teaspoonful white pepper. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and let them come 
to a boil, add the flour and butter stirred to a cream, and 
lastly the yolks of eggs and cream beaten together; cook 
five minutes and serve on toast. Will serve six people. 



FRIED OYSTERS 

Drain your oysters first, put a little salt and pepper 
in the bread crumbs. Egg beaten lightly. 

Dip in bread crumbs first, then in egg, then in bread 
crumbs again, fry in deep lard, in wire basket. For 40 
New York Counts take five eggs, five coffee-cups of fine 
bread crumbs. 

— 27 — 



FISH 



CODFISH BALLfS 

S cups codfish, picked fine, 1 scaut teaspooiifiil butter. 
4 cups potatoes, cut small. Pepper and salt if necessary. 
2 eggs, beaten lightly. 

Wash the fish and put in small kettle with the pota- 
toes and cover with cold water ; boil until the potatoes are 
well done, drain off the water and mash until the potatoes 
and fish are well mixed, add the butter and pepper and 
lastly the eggs. Flour the hands well and form the mix- 
ture into balls and fry in deep lard. For those who like 
it a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce greatly im- 
provps codfish balls. 



>SALMOX TURBOT 

•"5 cups l)oiled salmon, cut ^ teaspoonful thyme or 

fine, summer savory, 

'2 tablespoonfuls floiu-, ^ small onion, 

1 tablespoonful butter. Salt and pepper to tast<\ 

1 pint milk. 

Put the onion in the milk and bring to a boil, thicken 
with the butter and fiour stirred together to a cream, re- 
move the onion and add the thyme, salt and pepper. But- 
ter a deep dish, put in the fish and pour the sauce over it. 
cover the top with buttered bread or cracker crumbs and 
set in the oven in a pan of water to brown. Will serve 
six people. 

Some of these recipes can be prepared on a chafing 
dish. 

— 28 — 



FISH 



HALIBUT MORNAIX 

3 large slices of boiled 1 pint milk, 

halibut, 1 tablespoonfiil butter, 

5 truffles, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 cup Parmesan cheese, 1 saltspoonful salt, 

1 cup button mushrooms, ^ saltspoonful of pepper. 

Butter a platter, place fish in it first, then the white 
sauce with mushrooms and truffles in it over the fish, 
then lastly sprinkle the cheese over all, with pieces of 
butter now and then on top. Place in the oven over a 
dripping pan containing water, so as not to crack the 
platter. 



WHITE SAUCE 

Heat the milk, stir in the butter and flour mixed to a 
cream, then salt and pepper, beat until smooth. 

— 29 — 



FISH 



CODFISH AND CREAM 

2 cups shredded salt cod- 8 tablespoonfuls flour, 
fish, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

3 cups milk (tea cups), butter. 
Yolks of 2 eggs, 

Cover shredded codfish with cold water in iron spider : 
let it come to a boil for five minutes ; then pour off water ; 
and put on cold water to blanch the codfish; drain that 
water off; add milk, butter and flour (stirred until 
smooth) to the codfish; cook until creamy. When ready 
to serve take from the stove ; add the beaten yolks of 
eggs to make it light and pretty color. 



CODFISH SOUFFLE 

Add the well beaten whites of the eggs to the above 
mixture and bake to a golden broAvn. 

— 30 — 



31 — 



32 



33 — 



— 34 — 



ENTREES 

CHICKEN TIMBALE 

Quenelle or Filling 

1 chicken, ^ cup butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls bread ^ teaspoonful salt, 

crujnbs, soaked with | teaspoonful pepper, 

cream before using, Yolks of five eggs, 

1 cup cream, .} teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Chop very fine and smooth in a chopping bowl — it 
must be like a paste — then add other ingredients and stir 
all together thoroughly. Line a three-pint yellow bowl 
with more butter, one-fourth inch thick, then put in 
quenelle and steam three hours. Serve with cream sauce. 
Will serve ten people. 



MACARONI OR HONEYCOMB TIMBALE 

1 package large macaroni, 4 talilespoonful salt. 

Cover with boiling water, cook 25 minutes, then drain 
and cover with cold water to blanch. Cut the macaroni in 
pieces three-fourths of an inch long, line a three-pint yel- 
low bowl with butter one-fourth inch thick, then stick 
pieces of macaroni upright all over the bottom and sides 
of the bowl, beginning at the center of the bottom and 
work around. (A wooden toothpick is the best thing to 
use for handling the macaroni after it is cut.) Proceed 
with the filling as in Chicken Timbale. 

— 35 — 



ENTREES 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

7 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1^ large coffee-cups of 
3^ tablespoonfuls butter, chopped chicken, 

1 teaspoonful each finely I teaspoonful salt, 

chopped onion and -] teaspoonful pepper, 

parsley. 1 quart milk. 

First, put butter in spider, then heat ; partly cook 
onion in butter, then stir in flour thoroughly and cook 
about ten minutes, stirring all the time : lastly add season- 
ing and milk by degrees : cook until smooth — the con- 
sistency of thick cream gravy, then add the chicken. 
Don't stop stirring while putting in tlie milk. Put away 
until cold, then mould in two and one-half inch lengths. 
Dip first in bread crumbs, then in ^gg. then in bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep lard. Good made of veal, beef or 
fish. Served with mushroom or tomato sauce. AVill make 
fourteen croquettes. 

Meat cutlets are made by forming the croquettes in 
your hands in the shape of cutlets, putting a piece of 
large macaroni in the end for the bone and covering with 
a fancy paper frill. Dip in bread crumbs and egg and 
bread crumbs again as in croquettes. 

FRICAXDEAU 

3^ pounds veal, chopped I teaspoonful thyme. 

fine, 4 soda crackers, powdered 
J pound fresh pork. fine. 

chopped fine. 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful salt. ^ teaspoonful chopped 
1 teaspoonful pepper. onion. 

Mix well together with the hand to make it adhere, 
mould in the form of a loaf, rub over with melted butter 
and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake two and one-half 
hours. Serve Avith tomato sauce. Can be served hot or 
cold, 

— 36 — 



ENTREES 



ASPIC JELLY 



Make a rich chicken and veal or beef and veal stock, 
as given in the first chapter, then melt li/. even table- 
spoonfuls of Knox's gelatine in one tablespoonful of cold 
water for ten minutes. If the stock is like jelly, this is 
enough for two quarts. When heated, pour over the gela- 
tine and let it come to a boil. Put some in a mould in a 
pan of chopped ice ; when partly cooled drop in vegetables 
cut in fancy shapes, celery or chicken cut in pieces. To 
be served with celery and lettuce mayonnaise. 



SWEETBREADS AND OYSTERS 

3 dozen select oysters, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 large sweetbreads, 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
4 tablespoonfuls cream, 

Blanch and trim the sweetbreads and cut them in 
dice". Remove the hard muscle from the oysters, strain the 
liquor into a saucepan and season with mace and pepper 
and salt; add the sweetbreads and the flour and butter 
creamed together. When the sweetl)reads are done add 
the oysters and cook until plump, or about Ave minutes ; 
take from the stove and add the cream. Serve very hot in 
a deep dish, or small fancy dishes. A tablespoonful of 
sherry may be added if liked. 

— 37 — 



ENTREES 



SALMI OF DUCK 

2 large cold roast ducks 1 teaspoonful Liebig's Ex- 

or 4 teal, tract of Beef. 

1 quart clear stock, -| teaspoonful salt. 

1 can mushrooms, ^ teaspoonful pepper, 

18 stoned olives, - 1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cut the duck in pieces and cook a few minutes in the 
stock with the mushrooms and olives, thicken with the 
butter and iiour creamed together, add Liebig's Extract, 
pepper and salt. Put in a wine glass of sherry just before 
serving. AYill serve ten people. 



:\IACARONI A LA GARBARIXO 

Cook sufficient macaroni to make a good dish, in 
strong broth, either beef or chicken, making it absorb all 
the broth. Take half a cupful of dried mushrooms, soak 
all day in cold water, then let them stew in same Avater 
about an hour. Season the macaroni with a little salt and 
pepper while cooking unless the broth has been well sea- 
soned before. Put a layer of macaroni in the botton"! of 
a dish or platter, add a few mushrooms and a little of 
their liquor, sprinkle with grated cheese ; and so proceed 
until the dish is full. Put plenty of grated cheese on top. 
The cheese used may be either Parmesan or Edam. Set in 
the oven until the dish is very hot. Serve at once. This 
makes a rich, substantial dish which ^Mr. (larbarino served 
as a principal course in a dinner. 

— 38 — 



— 39 



40 



41 — 



— 42 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 



Several of these recipes given can be nmde on a 
chafing dish by heating the butter first, then putting in 
the flour, slowly stirring until smooth, then add cream and 
eggs beaten together, then wine. This is the same for 
lobster, mushrooms and oysters. Sweetbreads, chicken 
and frogs' legs must be boiled tender before using theivi 
in this way. Any two of these recipes can be combined 
and make a nice dish, except lobster, which is always 
eaten alone. Salmi of duck is also good made in a chafing 
dish. 



SCALLOPS POULETTE 

Cream as you would for oysters, with or without wine. 
Serve on toast. 



CREAM POTATOES 

6 medium sized potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 heaping tablespoonful ^ teaspoonful salt, 
butter, - l.pint of milk or cream. 

Boil potatoes until almost done, peel and mince me- 
diumly fine, make cream sauce of cream or milk with 
butter and flour stirred together, put in while cream is 
hot, boil until thick and smooth, pour over potatoes and 
heat again. 

— 43 — 



— 44 — 



— 45 — 



— 46 



MISCELLANEOUS 



EAST INDIAN CHICKEN (JURRY 

1 good sized chicken, 1 quart can tomatoes, 

1^ pounds fresh pork, 1 teacupful flour, 

1 vegetable dish sliced 3 teaspoonfuls curry powder 

onions, mixed well through flour, 

2 quarts milk. 

Put the onions in a granite kettle with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, cover tight and place on the 
back of the stove, cut the pork in small slices, partly fry 
in butter and add to the onions. Cut the chicken in small 
pieces and fry in the same way and add to the pork and 
onions; the onions should by this time be almost entirely 
melted. Add the tomatoes, a quart of milk and the flour 
and curry powder stirred smooth with a little milk, let 
it simmer seven or eight hours, scrape from the bottom 
and stir frequently to prevent burning. Add more milk 
occasionally as it thickens until the two quarts have been 
used. Serve with border of boiled rice. 



FORMULA FOR CURRY POWDER 

4 ounces tumeric, 4 ounces black pepper, 

1 ounce cummin seed, J ounce cardamon seed, 

4 ounces coriander, 3 ounces fenugreek, 

1 ounce ground rice, J ounce cayenne pepper, 

2 ounces ginger. 

Keep in tightly corked bottle. 

— 47 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



BOILED RICE 

I Indian Fashion) 

Have a large kettle of water boiling fast, throw in a 
handful of rice for each person and boil ten niinntes. salt 
and boil ten or fifteen minutes longer or until soft, keep 
it boiling constantly to prevent the grains from sticking 
together or to the bottom of the kettle. AYhen the rice is 
done drain through a colander in warm place for a few 
minutes, then serve as a vegetable or garnish. 



RAGOUT OF KIDNEY 

1 beef kidney, 1 tablespoonful minced 
1 pint milk, parsley. 

H tablespoonfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 

1 large tablespoonful J teaspoonful salt, 

butter, 1 teaspoonful pepper. 

"Wash the kidney and cover with salt water and let it 
stand for an hour, drain and boil until tender. Heat the 
milk and thicken with the flour and butter stirred to- 
gether to a cream, add salt and pepper, parsley and put in 
vinegar just ttefore serving. Cut the kidney in small 
pieces, pour the sauce over it and serve hot. 

— 48 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

For six green peppers use : 

1 cup uncooked rice, J cup bread crumbs, 

6 ripe tomatoes, Butter size of small egg 

1 cup chicken, veal, or (melted), 
boiled ham chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of finely I teaspoonful pepper, 
chopped onion. 

Make a slit in the side of the peppers, stem end, and 
scoop out the inside, put in salt and water for half an 
hour. Cook onion and tomatoes together before putting 
in the rice. Boil the rice in salted water until soft and 
mix with the other ingredients. Stuff the peppers with 
the mixture and bake twenty-five minutes in a dripping 
pan with a little water. Tomatoes may be done in the 
same way, leaving out the rice. 



CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Cook one head of cauliflower in salted water until 
tender, pick apart and put in a buttered baking dish. 
Pour over it a white sauce and cover the top with bread 
crumbs and small pieces of butter and brown in the oven. 
Grated cheese may also be sprinkled over the top if liked. 

— 49 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SPINACH SOUFFLE 

2 cups spinach (3 pounds), 1 tablespoonful flour, 
4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
I teaspoonful pepper. 

Cook the spinach tender, chop very fine and mash 
through a sieve, add vinegar, butter, pepper and salt. 
Beat the yolks and add the flour to them and mix with 
the spinach, cook until the yolks are set, stirring con- 
stantly, and put aside to cool. AVhen cold add the whites 
of the egg>i beaten to a stiff froth, butter small timbale 
moulds and half fill with the mixture, bake ten or twelve 
minutes in a quick oven. The moulds should be placed in 
a dripping pan with a little wntei' to bake. 



WHITE SAUCE 

1 pint milk, 1^ tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the milk, melt the butter and add the flour and 
salt, stirring luitil smooth, then add it to the hot milk 
and stir until it thickens. 



SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES 

6 sweet potatoes (boiled). 2 cups white coffee, A or 
Butter size of an egg. brown sugar. 

1 cup water. 

Slice the potatoes lengthwise and put in a buttered 
baking dish. Make a syrup of the sugar, water and butter 
and pour it over the potatoes. Sprinkle sugar and small 
pieces of butter over the top and bake in slow oven an 
hour and a half or until the potatoes have absorbed the 
syrup. 

— 50 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

2 cups white beans, 1 tablespoonful molasses, 

1 pound salt pork, sliced 1 teaspoonful salt, 

thin, Baking soda size of a pea. 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning add the 
soda and salt and boil until they are thoroughly done and 
Avill mash readily between the finger and thumb. Add the 
molasses and put in a pan or earthen bean dish with just 
enough of the water they were boiled in to cover. Cut 
the pork in squares and arrange on top of the beans, bake 
until the pork is brown and crisp. 



PRESSED CHICKEN 

1 chicken, 3 pounds, 1 tablespoonful Knox's 

2 sticks celery, gelatine, 

J bunch parsley, 2 hard boiled eggs. 

Salt to taste. 

Cut the chicken in pieces as for a fricassee and boil 
in salted water with celery and parsley. When done re- 
move the meat from the bones and chop medium fine. Boil 
the broth down to a pint, add the gelatine and strain. 
Dip an oblong tin or bread tin in cold Avater, cover the 
bottom with the hard boiled eggs cut in rings. When the 
stock is nearly cold pour a little over the eggs, put in the 
chicken and the rest of the stock. When perfectly cold 
cut in slices or serve the mould entire. 

— 51 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



RICE AND MEAT RAGOUT 

Take any cold meat. Cut in small thin pieces, take 
gravy left from day before, and if yon have none, make 
gravy with water, butter, flour, salt and pepper. Boil 
one cup of rice tender in salt water. Butter a baking 
dish, place in it, first, rice, then meat and gravy alter- 
nately until dish is full and rice on top, sprinkle over a 
few iDread crumbs with pieces of butter around, brown 
in oven. Good for a luncheon dish. 



CALF'S LIVER IN SHELLS 

Calf's liver cooked until tender, chopped fine, sea- 
soned with cayenne pepper, salt, "Worcestershire sauce, 
mushroom catsup, one tablespoonful Madeira or sherry 
wine, thickened with a little butter, malted, and flour 
mixed together. Serve in individual shells. 



CHARPENTIER EGGS 

Poach as many eggs as people, in the French manner, 
not too hard. Take individual shells, dust with bread 
crumbs and cheese, then put in egg carefully, cover with 
a white sauce and sprinkle over Parmesan cheese. Bake 
in a hot oven to brown the cheese. 

— 52 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



OMELET 



h or three people take 3 e^gs, beat separately, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk to the yolks and a little salt. Have 
a saucepan hot, put in butter size of a walnut ; when ready 
to cook stir in whites of eggs and pour into the pan; cook 
quickly, moving the saucepan about and raising the edges 
with a broad knife to prevent burning. Fold the omelet 
over in the middle and slip onto a hot platter before it is 
quite set. Its own heat will cook it enough. Can have 
rum poured over it and lighted if desired. 

Green peppers stuffed with chicken quenelle are ex- 
cellent. Chopped truffles and mushrooms may be added 
to the quenelle. 



GOLDENROD EGGS 

Six eggs boiled half an hour, make a white sauce 
with : 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, Salt to taste. 

Cut the whites of the eggs in small pieces and add to 
the white sauce. Toast six slices of bread, butter them, 
and pour the white sauce over. Put the yolks of the eggs 
through the ricer over the top and serve very hot. 

— 53 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



MANILA SAUCE 



4 quarts canned tomatoes. 
6 green peppers. 

4 large onions. 

5 cloves garlic, 

2 bottles horseradish, 
2 cups tarragon vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful salt, 



^ teaspoonful powdered 

cloves. 
J teaspoonful powdered 

mace. 
2 bay leaves. 
2 pieces mace, 
12 whole cloves. 



^ teaspoonful white pepper, 

Boil tomatoes with salt, pepper and spices until thick, 
strain through a colander. 

Chop peppei^, onions and garlic as fine as possible. 

Mix tomatoes, peppers, onions, garlic and horseradish 
together and cook slowly, not boil, for an hour on back of 
stove. Bottle hot. Serve with oysters and cold meats. 



TOMATO WITH CEAB MEAT 

Peel and take out the center of a tomato. Keep cool 
until ready to serve. Fill with fresh crab meat mixed 
with mayonnaise, with a spoonful of dressing over each 
tomato, with a dash of cayenne pepper over the top. To 
be served as a first course of a luncheon or dinner. 

— 54 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



ROAST BEEF AVITII YOEKSHIRE PUDDING 

Pour off some of the gravy after beef has cooked 
within twenty minutes of being done, and pour around 
the beef. 

1 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 

Pinch of salt, 2 eggs. 

Add one cup of milk gradually to one cup of flour, 
beating continually that it may be smooth ; add two eggs, 
beaten very light, and a pinch of salt ; mix well and pour 
to the depth of one-half inch around the beef. Bake 
twenty minutes in hot oven, basting occasionally with 
the stock or drippings. Cut in squares and serve around 
the meat. 



CHICKEN SUPREME 

Use only the breasts of chicken, smother in oven ; fry 
ham in skillet, remove and make rich milk gravy. Place 
each breast of chicken on a piece of ham and pour gravy 
over both. 



MINCED LAMB 

Chop lamb very fine; pour over cold water, let it 
boil for half an hour; season Avith pepper and salt and 
thicken with butter and flour stirred together ; color with 
kitchen bouquet if too light in color. All cold meats 
made in same Avay. 

— 55 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CHICKEN CASSEROLE 

2 chickens, leave out backs. 2 onions, 

necks, etc., removing 1 turnip, small, 

larger bones, 1 stalk celery and parsley. 

2 carrots, 

Cut up and fry vegetables, except celery and parsley, 
in butter: when partially cooked remove from stove. 
Partially fry chicken in hot pan; remove chicken and 
make a thick gravy of flour and water; season well with 
salt and pepper. Place chicken and vegetables in cas- 
serole with gravy in alternate layers, adding cup of celery 
and parsley to the vegetables ; then put casserole in oven 
in pan of water and cook slowly for four houi^. Add 
water if it gets too solid. 



SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

Boil one-half head of cabbage, cut medium fine, in 
skillet ; when tender and transparent, fill baking dish 
with one layer of the cabbage and one layer of cracker 
crumbs ; butter, pepper and salt in each layer ; cover with 
milk and bake in oven. 



HAM OMELET 

4 eggs. Butter size of walnut, 

Pinch of salt. 1 cup chopped boiled ham. 



Make a smooth paste of one heaping teaspoon of 
flour and a little milk, and gradually add the remainder 
of three-fourths cup of milk and the beaten whites of 
the eggs : beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately : 
pour the mixture in a hot. well-greased skillet, and bake 
in oven ten or fifteen minutes. 

— 56 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



RAREBIT 

(For Twelve People) 

2J pounds cheese (put ^ teaspoonful paprika, 

through grinder), ^ teaspoonful salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 wineglass cream. 
1 teaspoonful flour, 

Warm enough beer to moisten the cheese; first heat 
the chafing dish, put in the butter and melt, then add 
cheese, seasoning and flour. Mix the warmed beer in 
thoroughly and add the cream last. Serve on dry toast. 



CORNED BEEF HASH 

Soak a piece of corned beef over night in cold water. 
Next morning pour off that water and put boiling water 
over it and cook until tender (but not so it falls apart). 
Boil potatoes until they are soft enough to pierce with 
a fork. Peel and chop potatoes and meat separately — 
equal amount. Mix together with pepper. It is generally 
salty enough, but if not, season to your taste. Have iron 
spider hot, then put in a little water and plenty of butter, 
then your meat and potatoes. Cook until well-heated and 
seasoned. 

If you wish to have some of the hash crisp and brown, 
do a little at a time and let it cook with less water. We 
like ours moist, so put more water in when we first put 
it in the spider. 

The brisket is the best cut of corned beef, as there 
are streaks of fat through the meat, which makes the 
hash more juicy. 

Roast beef hash is made in the same way. 

— 57 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CHICKEN A LA KING 

1 cold boiled chicken, 2 tablespooufuls of sherry, 
J green pepper, seeded 1 pint of milk. 

and shredded, Yolks of 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, A little nutmeg, pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. and salt. 

Put the shredded pepper in the milk and cook slowly 
for tAventy minutes. Make roux with the flour and butter. . 
pour the hot milk and pepper over it gradually ; then stir 
until smooth ; add seasoning. Cut the chicken in thin 
strips, one inch long, and stir it into the sauce : add sheiTy 
and serve hot on buttered toast. 



DELICIOUS FRIED APPLES 

Vi pound butter, lo cup sugar, 3 medium sized apples. 
Pare, core, and slice 3 apples ; put butter in hot 
iron skillet; then stir in sugar slowly until melted; 
put apples in one layer, fry until light brown ; watch 
carefully or they will burn; this amount will make 
one skillet full; repeat, if desired. 



NOTES 

To make whites of eggs stiff, add a pinch of salt 
before beating. 

Kitchen Bouquet is used in all my soups and gravies 
for coloriner. 



TO BLANCH ALMONDS 

Shell the nuts and then cover them with boiling 
water; let them stand five minutes, drain, and slip the 
skins off. 

— 58 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



ROAST HAM 

Thoroughly wash and rinse a twelve to fourteen 
pound ham; soak over night in milk and water. Cover 
with clear, cold water, with two teacups of vinegar, six 
bay leaves, three pieces of whole mace, twelve whole cloves ; 
boil until almost tender; cut off the heavy skin, some of 
the fat, and the dark edges ; put in roasting pan ; pour 
over one cup of cooking sherry until all is absorbed; 
stick top or fat part of ham with whole cloves, and 
sprinkle with brown sugar and bread crumbs ; put in the 
oven, with some water and a cup of vinegar. Baste often, 
and bake until a pretty brown. 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Cut a four or five-pound chicken into convenient 
sized pieces; wash and put in a kettle, and cover with 
boiling water, to which one teaspoonful of salt and one 
sliced onion have been added; boil until the chicken is 
tender. When done, remove the chicken and thicken the 
broth with flour and butter, creamed together; put the 
chicken back into the gravy, and just before serving, add 
the well-beaten j^olks of two eggs. Serve with dumplings 
or a border of boiled rice around the platter, if preferred. 



DUMPLINGS FOR CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Mix together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, and one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder; 
stir in sufficient sweet milk to mix to a soft dough ; roll 
out and cut into biscuits. Drop these into the boiling 
gravy, cover closely, and cook without raising the lid for 
fifteen minutes, if small ; twenty, if large. 

— 59 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

4 large sweet potatoes, Pinch of nutmeg, 

2 tablespoonfuls rich Pepper and salt to taste. 

cream, J cup blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Boil, peel and mash the potatoes, add cream, butter 
and seasoning and beat until very smooth. AYhen cold 
add the almonds cut in lengthwise pieces. Form in 
pyramid or croquette shape, roll in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs and fry in deep lard. 



CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR TURKEY 

Peel and blanch one quart of chestnuts ; boil them 
in stock or salted water until tender ; put through 
ricer or pound smooth while still hot. Reserve one-half 
to put in the sauce that goes with the turkey. IMix the 
remainder with the turkey dressing. 



SOUTHERN SAYEET POTATOES WITH APPLES 

6 sweet potatoes (boiled), 1 cup water, 

6 small round apples. Butter the size of an egg. 

2 cups brown sugar. 

Wash and core the apples and cut them in one-fourth 
inch rings. Slice the potatoes across, one-fourth inch 
thick. Butter a pudding dish and put first a layer of 
apples and then of potatoes until the dish is full. Make 
a syrup of the sugar, water and butter and pour it over 
the potatoes and apples. Sprinkle the top with brown 
sugar and dot it with small pieces of butter. Bake in a 
slow oven until the apples are soft and the syrup is 
absorbed. 

— 60 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM SALPICON 

Take the breast of a i teaspoonful salt, 

chicken, J teaspoonful Avhite pepper 
1 can French miushrooms, (scant), 

1 pint rich milk, ^ teaspoonful paprika, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, Yolk of 1 egg. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

First melt butter in iron pan ; then put in flour very 
slowly, so it makes a smooth paste ; then add milk grad- 
ually; don't stop stirring until all the roux is thoroughly 
cooked with the milk; then put in seasoning. 

Cut the cold chicken in pieces one-half inch long, 
mushrooms in halves ; stir all together in the cream sauce ; 
cook until hot ; lastly put in beaten yolk of egg. 

Delicious served on toast, in small patty cases or in 
Vol au Vent cases. 



SANDWICHES 

To Serve with Afternoon Tea or Bridge Parties 



CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES 

1 cup cold boiled chicken 1 cup celery. 

(breast), 

Chop together very fine. Mix with one heaping table- 
spoonful of rich mayonnaise dressing ; season highly with 
paprika ; butter thin slices of bread and spread with the 
salad mixture. Will serve eight people. 

— 61 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SALAD EGG SANDWICH 

1 hard boiled egg, 1 tablespoonful chow-chow 

1^ tablespoonfuls celery, pickle. 

Chop all together very fine, and spread on thin slices 
of bread and butter. "Will serve four people. 



CHEESE AND TOMATO SANDWICH 

Mash one pat of Neufchatel cheese through ricer, 
add a little salt and paprika, a tablespoonful of cream, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of grated onion, mix together until 
smooth enough to spread. Cut slices of bread with a 
round sandwich cutter; the upper piece has a hole in 
center like a doughnut : spread the bread with butter ; 
then cheese mixture, and place on that a slice of red 
tomato; then the upper piece of bread, with the center 
taken out. 



SARDINE SANDWICHES 

1 can sardine paste. Pinch salt. 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice, Dash pepper. 
^ teaspoonful paprika, 

Mash all together to a very smooth paste and spread 
between thin slices of bread and butter; cut in different 
shapes with fancy cutters. 

Thin pieces of bread, three inches long, toasted and 
buttered and sprinkled with a mixture of granulated 
sugar and ground cinnamon, are very tast5^ 

— 62 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



MINCED HAM SANDWICHES 

1 cup cold boiled ham, 4 pieces of chow-chow pickle. 

Put through a meat grinder and season with paprika ; 
spread on thin slices of bread, well buttered. This 
amount will serve four people. 



BROWN AND WHITE BREAD SANDWICHES NO. 1 

Cut Boston brown bread and white sandwich bread 
in rounds, with a biscuit cutter ; butter and put together. 



BROWN AND WHITE BREAD SANDWICHES NO. 2 

Slice brown and white bread one-half inch thick; 
butter and put four slices together, alternately brown 
and white ; then slice down like layer cake, in thin slices. 
Usually served with fish course. 



SANDAVICHES 

One ten-cent loaf of sandwich bread will make forty 
(three-cornered) sandwiches. 

One can forty-cent size Russian ca^'iar Avill make 
twenty-two small sandwiches as above. 

One can twenty-five-cent size of sardine paste will 
make eighteen sandwiches the size above. 

Two slices of bread, after trimming off crusts, cut 
diagonally across, will make number of sandwiches as 
above. 

— 63 — 



— 64 — 



65 — 



66 



67 — 



— G8 — 



SALAD 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

2 hard boiled eggs, 8 medium sized potatoes, 
9 long red radishes, 1 tablespoonfiil chopped 
1^ bunches spring onions, parsley, 

3 small beets, 2 stalks celery. 

Boil beets and potatoes, when cold cut in small pieces 
or fancy shapes if desired; slice onions, radishes and 
celery ; add parsley. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, 
garnish with lettuce and the eggs put through a ricer. 
This amount will serve ten people. Put in beets the last 
thing, as they discolor the salad. 



TOMATO AND SWEETBREADS 

6 tomatoes, 2 pairs sweetbreads. 

Boil sw^eetbreads tender in salted water — try with a 
fork ; blanch in cold water, remove all the skin and tough 
parts, cut in pieces large as a dime. Soak sweetbreads 
two hours in cold water and salt before boiling. Peel 
and scoop out tomatoes, fill with the sweetbreads mixed 
with mayonnaise dressing, put a spoonful mayonnaise on 
each tomato and serve on lettuce. 



SALAD EGGS 

8 hard boiled eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls mayon- 

naise, made quite tart 
with lemon juice. 

Cut eggs lengthwise, take out the yolks and mash 
with a fork very fine, mix with the mayonnaise and fill 
the whites of eggs. Serve on lettuce. 

— 69 — 



SALAD 



CREAM CHICKEN SALAD 

2 large chickens. 1 teaspoonfiil of salt. 

1 box Knox's gelatine. 1 quart cream (whipping), 

3 pieces celery. 

Boil chicken and celery tender ; take chicken stock 
and reduce to half ; dissolve gelatine in a little cold water, 
put in stock; when half cold put in chicken cut in pieces 
(as large as for ordinary chicken salad) ; then whip cream 
stiff and put in the jelly, stirring thoroughly; then put in 
individual timbale moulds on ice; garnish with celery 
salad and lettuce. Half will serve twelve moulds. 



CUCUMBER SALAD 

To serve with fish. Cut cucumber lengthwise in four 
quarters, then slice and mix with mayonnaise. 



POTATO SALAD 

6 large potatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

5 spring onions or 3 tea- parsley, 

spoonfuls chopped onion, 2 hard boiled eggs. 

Boil potatoes, cut in dice; slice onion; mix all to- 
gether with mayonnaise dressing; garnish with radishes 
and hard boiled eggs put through a ricer. Will serve four 
people. 



FRUIT SALAD 

4 grapefruits. 1 cup Maraschino cherries, 

^ cup walnut meats, cut 1 cup pineapple, cut in 
small, small pieces. 

Serve with French dressing on lettuce leaves. AVill 
serve eight people. 

— 70 — 



SALAD 



PINEAPPLE SALAD 



Fresh or canned pineapple sliced and served on let- 
tuce with French dressing. 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

4 grapefruits, seeded, ^ cup pecans, 

1 cup celery, cut in small 1 cup grapes, 
pieces, 

Served with a spoonful of mayonnaise on each plate. 
Will serve eight people. 



RUSSIAN DRESSING 

1 cup rich mayonnaise 1 sweet red pimiento sliced 

dressing, in thin strips. 

I cup of catsup or chili 
sauce, 

Mix all together in the mayonnaise ; cut head lettuce 
in four quarters ; pour over each quarter the above salad 
dressing and serve. 



PEAR SALAD 

Take canned Bartlett pears (they come in halves), 
chill them thoroughly, place one piece of pear on crisp 
lettuce leaves, with strips of pimiento (sweet red pepper) 
placed across the top. Serve with French dressing poured 
over each pear. 



GREEN GAGE SALAD 

Green gages served whole on leaf lettuce, with French 
dressing poured over them. 

— 71 — 



SALAD 



PRUNE SALAD 

Cook twelve large California prunes; remove the 
stones; cream two cakes of Neufchatel cheese and add 
one-half dozen shelled, chopped walnuts; stuff the 
prunes with cheese and nuts ; serve on lettuce leaf, with 
French dressing. AVill serve six people. 

FRUIT SALAD 

4 large oranges, 2 bananas. 

4 slices pineapple, i pint (liberal) mayonnaise 

3 apples (red and fine), dressing, 

] pound red and white | pint whipping cream 

cherries, (whip cream stiff). 

Put mayonnaise dressing in bowl ; then add whipped 
cream, slowly beating it ; then pour over fruit the last 
minute. 

To Prepare 

Peel oranges, divide in sections, then skin each sec- 
tion and cut in two or three pieces, large as a quarter; 
cut pineapple in pieces; stone cherries; cut apples in 
dice, and the bananas the last ten minutes before serving, 
as they turn dark; pour over dressing the last minute, 
otherwise the dressing gets thin. Serve fourteen people. 

ARTICHOKE FONDS SALAD 

1 can artichokes fonds, 1 cup blanched almonds 

8 cups celeiw (cut in small (cut in small pieces), 
pieces), 

, Mix celery and nuts together, with mayonnaise dress- 
ing ; place artichoke fonds on leaf of lettuce and fill with 
the salad mixture. Asparagus tips can be used as filling 
for artichoke fonds. 

— 72 — 



SALAD 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD DRESSING 

1 hard boiled egg, 3 tablespoonfuls Roquefort 

1 tablespoonful tarragon cheese, 

vinegar, Paprika, 

j teaspoonful salt. Pepper, 

8 tablespoonfuls oil. 

First iiiasli hard-boiled eggs and cheese together 
smoothly, in soup dish; add salt, pepper, and paprika; 
then stir in oil slowly until it is smooth ; then add vinegar. 
Put hearts of head lettuce in bowl ; cut white of eggs 
in small pieces ; pour dressing over last minute before 
serving. If onion flavor is desired, add half teaspoonful 
chopped very fine. Sufficient for three heads of Cal- 
ifornia head lettuce. 

PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 

Serve each person a slice of pineapple, with seasoned 
Neufchatel cheese put through a ricer on top ; pour 
French dressing over. 



— 73 — 



— 74 — 



— 75 — 



— 76 — 



77 — 



— 78 — 



SALAD DRESSING 



FRENCH 

•i tablespoonfuls of oil. .1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful oi* viiiogar, j teasi)()oiit'ul pepper, 
1 clove of garlic. 

Mix salt and pepper together in a spooii, then oil, 
stirred in well ; then vinegar; pnt clove of garlic in lettuce 
when mixing. This amount will serve one person gen- 
erously. 



ASPARAGUS 

1 bottle French mustard, i teaspoonful salt, 

1 pint oil, ^ teaspoonful pepper, 

2 teaspoonfuls onion 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
(chopped), 

Take mustard, stir in oil slowly as for mayonnaise, 
then add vinegar, salt, pepper and onion. Set away cov- 
ered for four hours before using. Serve with cold boiled 
asparagus. 



COLD SLAW DRESSING 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, , 1 cup vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful flour. j cup water. 

Put butter and flour in small saucepan over teakettle, 
when melted pour in vinegar, water, seasoning and lastly 
eggs, beaten light; cook until thick and smooth like cream. 
While hot pour over cabbage, or it may be used for 
chicken or potato salad if preferred to mayonnaise. 

— 79 — 



SALAD DRESSING 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

4 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 pint of olive oil, ^ teaspoonful of white pep- 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, or per or ten drops of ta- 

part lemon juice if pre- basco sauce. 

ferred, 

Beat eggs with Dover's egg beater ten minutes, then 
pour in oil very slowly; when partially thick, pour in 
vinegar and oil alternately, beating all the time ; then 
salt and pepper the last thing. Will serve ten people or 
is sufficient for three pints of chicken salad. 



— 80-- 



81 



— 82 — 



— 83 — 



— 84 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

3 eggs, 2 level teaspoonfuLs butter, 

1 cup grated cheese, ^ cup milk, 

^ teaspoonful salt, 1 heaping tablespoonful 

I teaspoonful cayenne pep- flour, 
per, 

Put butter on the stove in a small saucepan; when it 
is melted, add flour; stir the mixture until it is smooth 
and frothy, but do not let it brown ; add milk gradually 
and boil for one minute; then add the seasoning and 
cheese and the yolks of eggs well beaten. Pour into a 
bowl and set away to cool ; when cold add Avhites of eggs 
beaten stiff and light. Turn the mixture into eight indi- 
vidual baking dishes. Place in a shallow pan with a little 
water in it and bake twelve minutes in a moderate oven. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

1 pound fresh cream ^ teaspoonful cayenne pep- 

cheese, per, 

1 teaspoonful mustard, J cup beer, 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Put cheese, cut in thin slices, in chafing dish with 
seasoning; when melted add beer and serve on toast or 
crackers. 



CHEESE BALLS 

1 cup grated cheese, Whites of two eggs beaten 

stiff. 

Mix quickly with spoon; mould with floured hands 
into balls. Fry in deep lard in a basket; drain on a cloth. 
Served with salads. 

— 85 — 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE STRAWS 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls I teaspoonful salt. 

sifted flour. ^ teaspoonful cayenne pep- 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls per. 

Parmesan cheese. A slight grating of nutmeg. 

1 heaping tablespoonful Yolk of one egg. 

butter. 1 tablespoonful of milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, then add milk, then egg and 
butter 'melted). ]\Iix well with a spoon: when smooth 
divide it into two parts and roll these thin. Cut into 
narrow strips three inches long. Bake in slow oven fifteen 
minutes. 



CREAM NEUFCHATEL 

Put one pat of Neufchatel cheese through a ricer. 
add a little salt and cayenne pepper, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of whipped cream and beat until smooth and 
light. Put in fancy dish in mound shape and pour over 
it a glass of Bar-le-Duc jelly. 



FROZEN CHEESE 

1 cup grated cheese (mildV ^ cup aspic jelly (made 
^ cup creamy, whip stiff. partly liquid"). 

Beat until stiff, then stir in cheese, a pinch of salt, 
dash of cayenne, a little dry mustard, mix all well to- 
gether. Put in mould and pack in ice and salt. AYhen 
ready to use cut in slices and serve with salad. Nice 
with watercress witli French dressing and brown bread. 

— 86 — 



CHEESE DISHES 



CREAM OP ROQUEFORT 

2 cups grated or mashed I saltspoonful cayenne pep- 
Roquefort cheese, per. 

-h cup Madeira or sherry 1 tablespoonful whipped 

wine, cream. 

Mix cheese, wine and pepper together, add the 
whipped ercani and stir until smooth. Place in dish and 
sprinkle lightly with paprika. 



CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 eggs, 

5 tablespoonfuls flour. H cups grated cheese (New 

^ cup milk, York). 

Rub together butter and flour, add three-fourths cup 
of milk, stir over the fire until boiling, then stir in the 
yolks of eggs and the grated cheese ; as soon as cheese 
melts, remove from the stove ; season with salt, pepper 
and paprika ; then spread on shallow pan to chill ; then 
form in croquette shape; roll in egg and l)read crumbs: 
fry in deep lard a golden brown. 

— 87 — 



88 — 



89 — 



— 90 — 



— 91 — 



— 02 — 



CAKE 



LAYER OR LOAF CAKE 

5 eggs, 1 teaspoonfnl baking pow- 

2 cups sugar, der, 

'^ cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls any flavor- 

1 cup milk, ing desired. 

^ cup butter, 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add yolks of 
eggs, beaten light ; then milk, flour with baking powder 
sifted in. then whites of eggs, beaten stiff, and flavoring. 
Good for dessert with wine sauce. 



ANGEL FOOD 

12 eggs (whites only), 1 teaspoonful cream of 

1 cup flour (measure before tartar, 

sifting, sift five times), 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

IJ cups sugar (measure be- 
fore sifting, sift five 
times). 

Take the finest granulated sugar ; beat eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add sugar gradually, beating all the time ; put 
in flour lightly with cream of tartar. Bake fifty minutes 
in moderate oven. 



NUT CAKE 

Walnut and hickory nut made like recipe of first 
white cake (page 94), with one and one-half cups of 
chopped nuts rolled in a little flour. 

— 93 — 



CAKE 



WHITE CAKE 

6 eggs (whites), 1 cup milk. 

f cup butter, 1 teaspoonful baking 

3 cups flour (sifted before powder, 

measuring), 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
2 cups sugar. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add milk, flour 
with baking powder, then lastly whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Bake and try with a broomstraw; if it comes out 
clean it is done, if not, bake a few minutes longer. 

Same can be used for hickory nut or walnut cake. 
One and one-half cups nuts are required. 

WHITE CAKE 

1^ cups pulverized sugar. Whites of 8 eggs. 
h cup butter (scant), 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

f cup milk, der. 

2 cups flour (measure, then 1 teaspoonful vanilla or 
sift four times). almond. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream (fifteen minutes), 
then add milk and as soon as possible mix in the eggs and 
flour alternately until it is all in. Bake in a rather sIoav 
oven for forty minutes or one hour. 

WHITE CAKE 

AVhites of 9 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking 

1| cups pulverized sugar, powder, 

2| cups sifted flour 4- cup milk. 

(sifted four times), Flavor with vanilla, 
i cup butter. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add milk, 
flour and baking powder; lastly Avhites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

— 94 — 



CAKE 



FRUIT CAKE 



2 pounds Hour, 

2 pounds brown sugar, 

2 pounds butter, 

.'3 pounds stoned raisins, 



pounds currants, 
pound (*itron, 
pound lemon peel, 
pound fig paste, 
pound almonds (all 
chopped fine). 



2 dozen eggs, 

1 tablespoonful cloves, 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

1 tablespoonful allspice, 

1 tablespoonful mace, 

8 nutmegs (grated), 

14 cups brandy, 

1 cup brown sherry, 

1 teacup molasses, 

1 teacup currant jelly. 



Makes twenty-two pounds of cake. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add brandy 
and almonds, beat until smooth, then well beaten yolks of 
eggs, then jelly (melted), then whites of eggs. Take part 
of the flour and roll the fruit in it, then take remainder 
of the flour and beat in the mixture lightly. Bake three 
hours. 



FRUIT CAKE NO. 2 



1| pounds butter, 

1 pound browned floui', 

1 cup dark molasses, 

2 pounds currants, 

t} dozen black dates, 
h cup Brazil nuts, ground 
fine. 



I pound l)i-()wn sugar. 

II eggs, 

1 pounds seeded raisins. 

.'t pound citi'on, 

:i figs. 

.] glass currant jelly, 

h glass brandy. 



Nine glasses grape juice to darken; grated rind and 
juice of lemon; spices to taste. Made like Fruit Cake 
No. 1. 



— 95 



CAKE 



POUND CAKE 

1 pound eggs (nine or ten 1 pound tiour, 

to a pound). !f pound butter. 

1 pound sugar (fine gran- l pound citron. 

ulated). 1 wine glass of l)raiidy. 

Beat butter to a cream, then add sugar and beat fif- 
teen minutes or until it is perfect cream; beat eggs sep- 
arately, then add yolks, then flour and whites of eggs 
alternately : brandy and citron last. Bake one and one- 
half hours. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cups granulated sugar. 1 teaspoonful cloves. 
^ cup butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
i cup milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

3 cups flour (level); powder. 

5 eggs, beaten together, ^ teaspoonful nutmeg. 

3 squares of Baker's choc- | cup chopped walnuts in 

olate, melted. cake. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 

Bake in two thick layer tins. Put one cup nuts 
chopped in frosting. Half this recipe makes an ordinary 
sized cake. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

L^se twice the recipe for boiled icing. Melt one-half 
cake Baker's chocolate in granite cup over teakettle while 
making the icing, mix together, flavor with teaspoonful 
vanilla, spread between layer cake. 

— 96 — 



CAKE 



PLAIN LAYER CAKE 

1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking 

3 cups flour, powder, 

4 eggs. Flavor to taste. 

Cream half the butter with the sugar, other half with 
yolks of eggs, then mix together, then add milk and flour 
(sifted four times), put baking powder in the last sifting; 
lastly the whites of eggs, beaten light. Can be used for 
chocolate, cocoanut, jelly, cream or lemon layer cake. 



SPICE CAKES 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful ground 

2 cups sugar, brown, cinnamon, 

3 cups flour, sifted, J teaspoonful ground cloves, 
1 cup milk. ^ teaspoonful nutmeg, 

4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
1 cup seeded raisins, powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, put in eggs beaten together, 
milk, spices, put in flour with baking powder, one cup 
raisins rolled in a little flour. Bake in muflin pans. 



SUNSHINE CAKE 

11 eggs, whites. Yolks of six eggs, 

1| glasses sugar, pulverized, 1 teaspoonful cream of 

sift three times, tartar, 

1^ cups flour, sifted three 2 teaspoonfuls lemon or 
times, vanilla. 

Cream yolks and sugar together light, then add 
whites beaten stiff, 'and flour alternately, then flavoring. 
Bake fifty minutes to an hour. 

— 97 — 



CAKE 



LADY CAKE 

1 pound flour, four cups. Whites of 21 eggs, 

1| pounds sugar, three Rind of two lemons, 

cups, Juice of one lemon. 
9 ounces butter, 1^ cups. 

Cream butter and sugar, then put in flour and eggs 
alternately, then flavoring. Bake one and one-half hours 
in moderate oven. 



GINGERBREAD 

1 cup sour milk. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 

2 eggs, in two teaspoonfuls of 
2 teaspoonfuls ginger, water. 

2 cups flour. 



JELLY ROLL 

4 eggs, beaten separately. l teaspoonful baking powder 

1 cup pulverized sugar. if the eggs are not per^ 

2 tablespoonfiils cold fectly fresh, 
water. Juice of one lemon. 

1 cup flour, measure after 
sifting, 

Beat yolks of eggs light, put in sugar, water and flour 
gently; lastly whites of eggs beaten stiff; flavor with the 
lemon juice. Bake in a hot oven quickly and spread witli 
soft jelly, and roll. Bake in an oblong dripping pan. 

— 98 — 



CAKE 



DOUGHNUTS 



2 cups sugar, 

7 tablespoonfuls melted 

lard, 
4 eggs, 

1 pint sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda, 



1 teaspoonful cream of 

tai'tar, 
1 nutmeg. 
Salt, 
Flour enough to roll out 

and cut. 



DOUGHNUTS NO. 2 



1 large spoonful butter, 
3 eggs, 

1 level cup sugar, 

2 cups skim milk, sweet, 
^ nutmeg, 



I teaspoonful soda in water, 
or 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 

Flour enough to roll out well. 

I teaspoonful cinnamon. 



DOUGHNUTS NO. 3 



1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 eggs, 

J teaspoonful salt, 
4 cups flour. 



l nutmeg, grated, 

3 level teaspoonfuls baking 

powder, 
1 small cup milk. 



Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and nutmeg four 
times; then mash in butter; then milk and eggs woll 
beaten together. 



COOKIES 



7 eggs, 

2 cups sugar, 

1 cup butter. 

Flour enoue-h to make a 

dough soft enough to 

roll out. 



Sprinkle with a little sugar, 
1 tablespoonful caraway 
seeds. 



99 



CAKE 



COOKIES 



^ eup butter, 2 eggs, 

1 heaping cup sugar, Flavor to taste, 

1 cup sour milk, Flour enough to roll soft. 



1 



teaspoonful soda, 



COOKIES 



4 eggs, ^ cup sweet milk, 

^ cup butter, ^ } teaspoonful soda, 

J cup of lard, * 2 tablespoonfuls caraway 

2 cups of granulated sugar, seeds. 

Flour enough to roll out, about two cups or a little 
more. Longer these are kept the better they are. 



NUT COOKIES FOR TEA 

One cup of English walnuts chopped, but not too fine ; 
one egg, one cup of brown sugar, butter the size of an 
egg, one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
mix; drop the batter from a teaspoon on buttered tins, 
not too close ; bake in moderate oven. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD 

1 cup of molasses, 1 egg, 

1 cup of butter (scant), 1 teaspoonful ginger, 
i cup of warm Avater, 1^ teaspoonfuls soda, 

2 cups of flour, 2 even tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Put the soda and ginger in the flour and sift it, then 
put together in the following order: Molasses, sugar, 
melted butter, water, egg (beaten) and flour. Do not stir 
ingredients until the flour is put in, then stir all well to- 
gether, but not too long, as it is nicer to get it into the 
oven as quickly as possible. Bake in moderate oven. 

— 100 — 



CAKE 



GINGERBREAD NO. 8 



i cup butter, 

1 cup granulated sugar, 

1 cup N. O. molasses, 

1 cup sour milk, 

J cup flour, 

Pinch salt, 

i teaspoonful ginger. 



teaspoonful mixed spices 
(cinnamon, cloves, mace, 
allspice and a dash of 
pepper), 

egg (yolk and white 
beaten together), 
tablespoonful soda, mixed 
well with molasses and 
sour milk. 



Sift flour, salt and spices together. 



WASHINGTON APPLE CAKE 



IJ teaspoonfuls ground cin- 
namon, 

1 teaspoonful ground nut- 
meg, 

1 teaspoonful ground 
cloves, 

2 even teaspoonfuls soda. 



i cup butter, 

1 cup sugar, 

2| cups flour, sifted twice, 

1 cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped, 

1 cup walnuts or hickory 
nuts chopped, 

1^ cups apple sauce, with- 
out sugar. 

Stir butter and sugar to a cream, then add flour and 
apple sauce (with soda stirred in) alternately; then nuts 
and raisins, rolled in part of the flour; then spices and 
a pinch of salt. Bake sixty minutes in slow oven. 

— 101 — 



CAKE 



MOCHA TART 

1 cup granulated sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

5 eggs (yolks). der, with flour, 

1^ teaspoonfuls Mocha Add 5 beaten whites of 

extract, eggs. 

1 cup sifted flour. 

Bake five to ten minutes in three layers. 

Filling 

One pint of cream whii)ped stiff and sweetened to 
taste. 

Icing 

1 cup confectioners' 1| teaspoonfuls Mocha 

sugar, extract. 

Stir well with sugar and add teaspoonful of coM 
water, one at a time, until thin enough to spread. 



CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Part 1 

1 egg and yolk of another. 1^ cups flour. 

^ cup of sugar. 1 small teaspoonful soda. 

I cup milk. i teaspoonful salt. 

Part 2 

A little more than ^ cake ^ cup sugar. 
Baker's chocolate. ^ cup milk. 

Let this come to a boil and mix with the above ; bake 
in four layers in moderate oven. Put together with 
boiled frosting. Don't add any more flour. 

— 102 — 



CAKE 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 



1 cup brown sugar, 

^ cup butter creamed with 

sugar, 
^ cup sour milk, 

1 scant teaspoonful soda, 

2 squares melted chocolate, 

Bake in loaf or layer. 



tf cup boiling water (or 1 
cup boiling water, ^ tea- 
spoonful soda added to ^ 
teaspoonful baking pow- 
der in flour). 

1 j cups flour, 

1 egg, beaten whole. 



KENTUCKY JAM CAKE 

Cream together 1 cup but- ^ teaspoonful each of cloves 
ter and 1 cup sugar, and allspice, 

5 tablespoonfuls sour cream 3J cups flour, 

in which has been dis- 1 cup blackberry jam. 
solved 1 teaspoonful soda, 



MOCHA NUT CAKE 



^ cup butter, 

i cup sugar, 

^ cup cold coffee, 

1 cup chopped nuts, 



H cups flour, 
Whites of 3 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful baking 
powder. 



Cream butter and sugar; add coffee and flour; add 
nuts and egg whites. Bake slowly. 



— 103 — 



CAKE 



crea:m mocha cake 

4 eggs. Heaping teaspoonful baking 

IJ cups granulated sugar, powder. 

IJ cups flour. In last ^ cup flour. 

j cup strong coffee. 

Filling 

2 cups whipping cream. Add ^ cup very strong cof- 
beaten very stiff, fee. slightly sweetened; 

beat well into cream. 

Boiled Icing 

H cups granulated sugar, f cup strong coffee. 

Boil together until ropy. AVhite of one egg beaten 
light : stirred slowly into syrup. Make in three layers, 
filling between, icing over all. 



ORANGE LAYER CAKE 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 cup sugar. 

2 cups flour. I cup milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking Orange flavoring to taste. 

powder. 

Custard for Cake 

1 egg. ^ cup sugar. 

1 pint sweet milk. A little butter. 

— 104 — 



CAKE 



SPONGE CAKE 



3 eggs, 1 

1 cup flour, 1 

1 saltspoonful of salt, 



coffee cup sugar, 
teaspoonful baking 
powder. 



Beat eggs very light; pour into this mixture one- 
half cup of boiling hot water and beat five minutes. Bake 
in moderate oven half an hour; add one-half teaspoonful 
of vanilla. 



ROCKS 



1 cup butter, 1 
IJ cups sugar, 1 
3 cups flour, 1 

2 cups raisins (chopped), 1 
J cup hot water, 



Drop with a teaspoon. 



teaspoonful soda, 
teaspoonful cinnamon, 
teaspoonful nutmeg, 
pound English walnuts 
(before shelled), chopped. 



CREAM SCONES 



2 cups flour, 

3 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 



2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
^ teaspoonful salt, 
^ cup cream. 



Sift dry materials together; work in the butter with 
the flngers; beat eggs well and add to the cream; stir 
this into the dry materials and butter; roll out three- 
fourths of an inch thick ; cut into diamond shape ; brush 
over with white of egg slightly beaten; sprinkle with 
powered sugar. 

— 105 — 



CAKE 



OAT MEAL COOKIES 



1 cup white sugar, 

2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 



H teaspoonfuls extract 
vanilla, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 large cups rolled oats, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



Cream butter and sugar together, add rolled oats, 
then eggs well beaten ; mix thoroughly. Drop on a well 
greased pan with a teaspoon, quite a distance apart. 
Bake in a quick oven, as they burn very easily. 



BROWNIES— COOKIES 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup melted butter, 

2 squares Baker's choco- 
late. 



cup flour. 

cup broken walnuts. 

eggs, beaten together. 



COFFEE CAKE 



1 cup sugar. 

2 cups flour, 

^ cup cold coffee. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 
I teaspoonful soda, 
I cup butter. 



^ cup molasses, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful ground 

cloves, 
1 cup chopped raisins. 

106 — 



CAKE 



GOOD MOLASSES CAKE 



1 cup New Orleans mo- 2^ cups Hour, 

lasses, 1 egg, 

^ cup cold water, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, even, 

J cup brown sugar, ^ teaspoonful ginger, 

;i cup butter, I teaspoonful cinnamon. 



CHEESE TART 

1 pat Neufcliatel cheese, I teaspoonful salt, 



teaspoonful paprika, 3 teaspoonfuls cream. 



Put cheese through a ricer and mix with the other 
ingredients until smooth and light; put the cheese around 
the edges of oval or square crackers, leaving a space in 
the center for a little Bar le Due, Sunlight strawberry 
or gooseberry, East Indian Chutney pickle. Will serve 
twelve people. 



ICING — BOILED 

1 cup granulated sugar, -| cup water, 

AYhite of 1 egg. 

Boil sugar and water like candy, try in water, when 
hard enough to form a soft ball it is done. Beat white of 
egg until stiff, then add the syrup while hot, beating all 
the time until it gels hard enough to spread and becomes 
pure white. Once the recipe will be enough for loaf cake 
and twice the recipe for laj^er cake. 



COCOANUT FILLING 

Use boiled icing the same as for loaf or layer cake, 
sprinkle each layer liberally with freshly grated or dry 
cocoanut. 

— 107 — 



CAKE 



FIG FILLING 

J pound fresh figs, Juice of ^ lemon or 

i cup sugar, ^ wine glass sherry wine. 

Chop figs fine, soak one night in enough water to 
cover them, boil tender next day, put in sugar, cook until 
smooth enough to spread nicely, then add flavoring. 



NUT FILLING 

Make boiled frosting like former recipe, add one- 
fourth teaspoonful tartaric acid to the syrup as you take 
it from the stove. Beat syrup in whites of eggs, chop one 
pound walnuts fine, reserve enough whole nuts to put on 
top, spread nuts one-fourth inch thick in icing. 



LEMON JELLY FILLING 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two lemons, 
grated rinds and juice, yolks of three eggs, one cup boil- 
ing water, one and one-half tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour, yolks beaten light, 
lemon juice and lastly water, put on the stove and boil 
until thick and smooth enough to spread on layer cake. 

Orange filling is made in the same way, using one 
orange, rind and juice together. 



All cakes and preserves in this book can be made with 
beet sugar as well as cane. 

— 108 — 



— 109 



-U0~- 



Ill 



112 



DESSERTS 



LEMON JELLY 

1 cup cold water poured Juice 2 lemons, rind of 1, 
over ^ box Knox's 2^ cups boiling water, 

gelatine, 2 cups sugar. 

Stir all together, boil gelatine, water, lemon and rind, 
and sugar on stove, strain through jelly bag. Orange 
jelly made in the same way. 



WINE JELLY 

2 pounds white sugar, 4 1^ pints boiling water, 

cups. Juice of 2 lemons, 

1 pint sherry wine, Grated peel of 1, 

1 pint cold water, 2 sticks of cinnamon. 
1 package Knox's gelatine, 

Soak gelatine thirty minutes in the cold water, mix all 
the other ingredients with the gelatine, pour on boiling 
w^ater, then wine, boil ten minutes, then strain through 
jelly bag in jelly moulds previously dipped in cold water 
and set away on ice to get cold. Can be made in the 
morning for dinner at six o'clock, or for next day. 



FRUIT JELLY 

This jelly is delicious with 

12 muscat grapes, 1 mandarin orange divided 

J of a banana, sliced, in pieces, or ^ of a large 

J cup chopped nuts, orange. 

Dropped in wiien jelly is half cold. Serve with 
cream. 

— 113 — 



DESSERTS 



PRUNE JELLY 

1 pound dried prunes, 2 cups sugar, 

^ cup sherry -wine. ^ box Knox's gelatine. 

3 figs chopped fine, IJ quarts cold water, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Wash prunes, boil prunes and figs in water men- 
tioned above until tender enough to mash through a col- 
ander, leaving all the juice in, dissolve gelatine in one- 
fourth cup cold water half an hour. Put all the ingredi- 
ents together, let them come to a boil, put in a mould pre- 
viously dipped in cold water set away to get cold. Served 
with whipped cream around it is delicious. 



COFFEE JELLY 

1 quart clear coffee, 1 cup cold water, 

I box Knox's gelatine, 2 cups sugar. 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water one-half hour, put in 
sugar, then coffee, let all come to a boil, strain through n 
jelly bag. put in a mould dipped in cold water. 

— 114 — 



DESSERTS 



ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1^ pints whipping cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 

^ pint orange juice, 2J teaspoonfuls Knox's 

1 large cup sugar, gelatine. 

h cup cold water, 

Soak gelatine in the cold water twenty minutes. 
Grate rind of two oranges, put the .iuice and sugar in 
bowl and let it stand until needed. This should be done 
first. Then whip the pint of cream stiff. Take the half- 
pint of orange juice, put in a double boiler, beat the yolks 
light, add when the cream is hot, stir until it coats the 
spoon, put in the soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, put 
into a bowl, stir the mixture until it thickens, then add 
the orange juice, grated rind and sugar, stir this all con- 
stantly until it thickens, then add the whipped cream. 
Continue to stir until quite thick, just so it can be poured 
in a mould. 



SPANISH CREAM 

3 pints milk, 6 eggs, 

1 ounce Knox's gelatine, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar. . 

Pour milk over gelatine to soak one hour, let it come 
to a boil, then add eggs and sugar beaten light, when 
almost cold pour mixture over wdiites of eggs which have 
been beaten stiff, flavor with two tablespoonfuls of rum 
or vanilla. Pour in moulds dipped in cold water. 

— 115—- 



DESSERTS 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 quart whipping cream. ^ box Knox's gelatine, 
1 cup granulated sugar, soaked ^ hour in -J 

1 tablespoonful vanilla, cup water. 

Put bowl of cream on pan of ice when you whip it ; 
when whipped stiff sprinkle over the sugar and vanilla. 
Put gelatine in a granite cup to soak, then dissolve over 
teakettle, just warm enough to pour easily. Beat all the 
time while putting in the gelatine, when partiallj^ set pour 
in moulds (dipped in cold water). If you desire you can 
line the moulds with lady fingers. Will serve ten people. 



PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE 

Make a plain charlotte and add a teacupful of grated 
pineapple the last thing. Candied fruits chopped fine are 
nice put in it as a change. 



FLOATING ISLAND 

1 pint milk, ^ cup sugar, 

3 eggs, beaten separately, 1 stick cinnamon. 

Boil milk and cinnamon together, beat whites of eggs 
very stiff and drop in spoonfuls on boiling milk to cook 
one minute on one side, then the other. Beat the yolks 
and sugar together, then take whites and lay aside on a 
plate, make custard of the milk and eggs together, boil 
five minutes, put in a dish with white of egg on top. 

— 116 — 



DESSERTS 



BISQUIT GLACE 

1 pint cream beaten stiff, 4 cup sugar, 

18 macaroons rolled to ^ cup water, 

powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
3 eggs, 

Boil sugar and water very gently half an hour, beat 
the eggs light and add to the syrup, put in a pan of water 
and heat ten minutes, take from the stove and beat until 
cold, then add the whipped cream, fill little paper boxes 
with the cream mixture, dust with the macaroon powder, 
pack the freezer, let it stand while you are making the 
cream, then fill the freezer with the cases, one on top of 
the other, with paper between, and let them stand for 
six hours, when they are ready for serving. This amount 
will fill twelve small boxes. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING 

Make New York ice cream and add one pint boiled 
chestnuts mashed through a sieve, also candied fruits 
chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of rum the last thing. 



TRILBY PUDDING 

1 pint cream, whipped, 1 cup powdered sugar, mix 

1 pound marshmallows, cut wnth cream, 

into small pieces and roll 1 cup chopped (blanched) 

in sugar, almonds, 

IJ cups maraschino cherries. 

Pack in mould in order given in ice and salt. 

— 117 — 



DESSERTS 



SULTANA ROLL 

Line a one-pound baking powder can with pistachio 
ice cream, sprinkle with sultana raisins soaked in brandy 
or sherry Avine one hour; flavor and sweeten to taste and 
fill the center with Avhipped cream ; cover with ice cream, 
pack in ice and salt; let stand two hours. Serve with 
claret sauce made as follows: One cup sugar, one-half 
cup claret, cook ten minutes. 



CAFE PARFAIT AND CAFE PRALINE 

Put the yolks of five eggs into saucepan, beat them 
light; add three tablespoonfuls of sugar sj-rup and four 
tablespoonfuls of strong black coffee. Stir the mixture 
over a slow fire until it is enough thickened to make a 
thick coating on the spoon. Turn it into a bowl and beat 
until it is cold and light. If making cafe praline, add 
three tablespoonfuls praline powder, mix in lightly a pint 
of cream whipped to a stiff froth ; if any liquid has 
drained from the cream do not let it go in. Turn the 
mixtvire into a mould holding three pints, and pack in ice 
and salt for four hours. 



PRALINE POWDER 

Put one and a half cupfuls of sugar and half a cupful 
of water into a saucepan on the fire ; stir until the sugar is 
well dissolved, then add a cupful of shelled almonds and 
a cupful of shelled filberts, without removing the skins. 
Let it cook without touching until it attains a golden 
color, the caramel stage ; turn it on to a slab or oiled dish. 
When it is cold pound in a mortar to a powder. Keep the 
praline powder in an air-tight jar, ready for use. — From 
CentmT Cook Book, 

--118 — 



DESSERTS 



PISTACHIO MOUSSE 

2 quarts whipping cream. 3 tablespoonfuls pistachio 

1 box Knox's gelatine, flavoring, 

20 cts. Avorth pistachio 2 tablespoonfuls spinach 

nuts, coloring. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Dissolve gelatine in one-half cup cold water, then 
pour one pint hot plain cream on it, Avhip stiff the re- 
mainder of the cream, three pints, and pour the gelatine 
cream over it, whipping all the time, then add sugar, nuts, 
chopped fine, then flavoring, stir in well, i3ut in a mould 
dipped in cold water, pack in a freezer or pail with ice and 
salt for six hours, serve with preserves around it. AVill 
serve eighteen people. 

Raspberry, peach or strawberry mousse are made in 
the same way as the preceding recipe, except one-fourth 
cup more of sugar and one and one-half cups of fresh or 
preserved fruit are added, mashed fine through a col- 
ander. In making fruit mousses leave out pistachio nuts 
and flavoring. 



MARRON MOUSSE 

One pint boiled and mashed chestnuts, added to the 
first or plain mousse, leaving out the pistachio nuts and 
flavoring, with a little sherry wine, is delicious. Color 
with tw^o teaspoonfuls of pink vegetable coloring bought 
at the druggist's. 

— 119.7- 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

1 can pineapple (grated) 3 cups sugar, 

or any fruit mashed fine, | cup sherry wine, 

I can water, ^ pound candied cherries, 
1 quart rich cream, chopped fine, 

1 pint milk, 1| teaspoonfuls pink vege- 
3 eggs, table coloring, 

2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. 

Make custard of milk, egg and sugar beaten to- 
gether. Flavor the pineapple Avith the wine, when custard 
is cold put that in next, then the cream, beaten stiff, then 
coloring, cherries, then freeze, and mould if desired. This 
amount will serve eighteen people. 



NEW YORK ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla or 2 

3 eggs beaten together, tablespoonfuls rum and 

1 quart cream (whipping), brandy, 

f cup sugar. 

Make custard of milk and eggs and sugar, boiled to- 
gether, then flavor and whip cream stiff, mix all together, 
freeze. Will serve eight people. This cream is delicious 
with candied fruits all through it. One-half pound, 
chopped fine, or two cups of fresh or preserved fruit 
mashed in it, and moulded in form, with candied fruits 
put all over it as a decoration. Serve in nest of spun 
sugar. 

— 120 — 



DESSERTS 



COFFEE ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk, 1 pint cold strong coffee, 

3 eggs, 1 quart rich cream whipped. 

1 cup sugar, 

Boil milk, beat eggs and sugar together, put them in 
milk for custard, let it come to a boil, cool, whip cream 
stiff, add coff'ee gently, then custard; freeze. Will serve 
twelve people. 

Chocolate ice cream can be made by adding one- 
fourth cake Baker's chocolate with one-half cup more 
sugar, melt over teakettle before using. 



(Frozen Without Churning) 

ANGEL PUDDING 

1 quart whipping cream, [ pound shelled and 
1 teacup pulverized sugar, blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful extract 
vanilla. 

Whip cream stiff*; then add sugar, vanilla, lastly 
almonds (shredded lengthwise, very fine). Add slowly 
to the cream. Fill mould with cold water for a minute, 
then pour out; sprinkle the mould with some of the 
almonds — about one-third of what you have shredded ; 
put rest of the almonds lightly through the cream. This 
will make a three-pint mould. Seal the edges of the 
mould with lard so the ice and salt cannot get in. Pack 
in a freezer with salt and ice for six hours. Will serve 
twelve people. 

— 121 — 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

i can sliced pineapple, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup water, 

i cup sugar syrup. boil until thick, makes the 

Yolks of 4 eggs, syrup, 

IJ cups whipping cream. J cup juice (pineapple), 

^ cup pineapple in pieces. 

Put two pieces of pineapple on each side of mould 
and one at either end. 

Put in double-cooker three-fourths cup of juice and 
syrup and beaten yolks of eggs, cook until thick, remove 
from stove; beat until smooth, then add one-half cup of 
pineapple cut in small pieces, cold. Whip cream until 
thick, mix with above; put into mould: pack in ice and 
salt for three hours. 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

Beat four eggs very light or separately; add grad- 
ually, beating all the time, one cup of warm maple sj^rup ; 
cook in a double-boiler until thick; then add one pint of 
whipped cream, but first let the eggs and syrup get good 
and cold. Pack four hours or more, like the above recipe. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Take about one-fifth of a pound of chocolate with 
one pint of milk, sweeten and let boil. Four yolks of 
eggs, well-beaten with a little cold milk, in a separate 
bowl. When chocolate is boiling put the eggs in and 
heat it up again, but do not let it boil; add a little essence 
of vanilla and serve with vanilla ice cream. 

— 122 — 



DESSERTS 



PECHE MELBA 

(Peach) 

A slice of white cake half inch thick (cut out in 
round pieces). A piece of plain ice cream half an inch 
thick (cut out in round pieces). A medium size brandy 
peach. Plum or currant syrup seasoned with rum. 

First place cake on plate, then ice cream, then brandy 
peach, then pour fruit syrup over all. 



IMPERIAL RICE 

Boil one-half cup rice an hour in plenty of water, 
strain and allow to cool ; then soak one-third of 
a box of Knox gelatine in some preserve syrup (we use 
the Batavia pineapple). When dissolved add to rice with 
two or three tablespoonfuls of the preserve, and sugar 
to taste. Beat well. 

Whip one pint cream, add to rest and stir thoroughly. 
Turn into mould and place on ice. 



ORANGE SOUFFLE 

1 pint orange juice, Yolks of 5 eggs, 

1 pint sugar, ^ box gelatine softened by a 

1 pint rich cream, little water and steamed 

whipped, over teakettle. 

Beat yolks and sugar to a cream, add orange juice 
and gelatine. When mixture begins to thicken (not before), 
mix- in whipped cream thoroughly. Put in melon mould 
for four or five hours. Serve with a border of whipped 
cream. 

— 123 ~ 



DESSERTS 

Sherbets 

FRUIT SHERBET 

1 pint preserved straw- 2 cans or IJ quarts water, 

berries. f pint sherry ^\ine. 

1 pint preserved rasp- ^ pint Jamaica rum. 
berries, 6 oranges and 6 lemons, 

2 cans grated pineapple, squeeze juice out. 

4 cups sugar. 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup. Put all the pre- 
serves through a ricer or sieve, mix all together and 
freeze, color with two tablespoonfuls of pink vegetable 
coloring. AYill make six quarts, may be a little more. 
Fresh fruits can be used when in season. 



LEMON SORBET 

1 pint lemon .juice, 1 quart water in which the 

1 pint sugar, rinds of the lennons have 

stood 3 hours. 

Make S3'rup of sugar and water, put in lemon juice, 
when partly frozen put in whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff. Will serve eight people. 



ORANGE SORBET 

Is made in the same way as above, only adding the 
juice of two lemons. Avith the juice of six oranges, pro- 
ceed as above. Can be made of one pint of any fresh 
fruit put through a ricer. 

— 124 — 



DESSERTS 



MINT SHERBET 

Boil four cups of water and two cups of sugar 
together. Take the leaves from twelve large stalks of 
mint, bruise them, and add to the hot syrup. Let it 
stand three hours, then strain and add the juice of two 
lemons and three tablespoonfuls of creme de menthe 
and one-half teaspoonful of green vegetable coloring. 
Freeze and serve before game course. 



CANTALOUPE SHERBET 

2 large cantaloupes, ^ cup sherry wine, 

I cup of sugar (for 1 pint Juice of half a lemon, 
pulp), i teaspoonful salt. 

Scrape pulp from the rind after removing the seeds 
and pass through a potato ricer. Add the salt, sugar, 
wine and lemon juice and freeze. Remove the dasher 
and let it stand until ready to serve. 



FRUIT PUNCH 

Take equal parts of orange, maraschino cherries, 
strawberries, pineapple and bananas, cut the large fruit 
in small pieces, put all together and put in punch glasses. 
Over each pour a teaspoonful of sugar syrup and a table- 
spoonful of maraschino, or sherry and brandy mixed. 
Shaddocks may be used instead of oranges. To be served 
as the first course of a luncheon. 

— 125 — 



DESSERTS 



CHOCOLATE SURPRISE 

Melt two cakes of sweet chocolate in the upper part 
of the double-boiler ; remove from the fire, add two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, three tablespoonfuls of con- 
fectioner's sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and 
lastly the egg whites stiffly whipped. Place a laj^er of 
split lady fingers in a small bread pan that has been lined 
with waxed paper, and over this pour half of the choco- 
late mixture ; add a layer of nut meats, then arrange an- 
other layer of the lady fingers and add the rest of the 
chocolate. Prepare this dessert the day before you wnsh 
to use it and set it in the refrigerator until serving time. 
Serve with sweetened whipped cream slightly flavored 
with vanilla. 



126 — 



127 



— 128 



— 129 



— 130 



BREAD 



GOOD AVHITB BREAD 

2 Hunter sifters full of 1 tablespoonful butter or 

flour, lard, 

1 medium sized potato, 1 cake Fleischmann's com- 

boiled, pressed yeast dissolved 

1 tablespoonful salt, in one coffee cup full of 

1 tablespoonful svigar, warm water, 
1 quart of boiling w^ater. 

Sift the tlour into the bread pan and take from it a 
large cupful, put in a two-quart dish and add the sugar, 
salt and butter, mix well together, then add the hot boiled 
potato rubbed through sieve or ricer, and stir in the boil- 
ing water very sIoavI}^ ; let it stand until luke-warm and 
then stir in the water with yeast dissolved in it. Make a 
hole in the flour in the bread pan, pour the sponge in and 
let it stand in a warm place until light, or about two hours. 
When light mix twenty minutes, cover and set away over 
night in a cool place. In the morning make into loaves 
and let them rise until they have doubled in size. Glaze 
the tops of the loaves with milk and bake one hour. This 
makes three larore or four small loaves. 



GRANDMA'S BROWN BREAD 

1 large cup bread sponge, 1 large cup N. 0. molasses, 
1 large cup sweet milk, A little salt. 

Mix all together and then stir in enough graham flour 
to make a stiff batter (two cups or a little more). 

Put in buttered two-quart pail and let it rise. When 
light steam three hours, then put in the oven long enough 
to brown. 

— 131 — 



BREAD 



CORN BREAD 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoonful sugar, 

f cup corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup sweet milk, powder, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Stir butter, sugar and eggs together, add the milk, 
then corn meal and flour with the baking powder sifted in 
it. Bake in sliallow tins or dripping jnin. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

3 cups sour milk, 1 cup corn meal, 

1 cup molasses, 1 heaping teaspoonful soda 

3 cups graham flour. in sour milk. 

Steam three hours and bake one hour. 



LIGHT ROLLS 

I cake compressed yeast, 1 cup milk, 
1 cup flour. ^ cup lukeAvarm water. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, then add milk, 
flour and salt, let it rise four hours. When light add 
enough flour to make a stiff dough and knead ten minutes 
and let it rise again, make into rolls, let them stand until 
light and then bake. This can be ''set" either at night 
or in morning. 

— 132 — 



BREAD 



SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT 

1 qiuirt sifted flour, ^ pint milk, 

i coffee cup lard, 1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Eub flour, salt and lard together until there are no 
lumps, then add the milk. Beat twenty minutes, or until 
the dough blisters and pops when pulled apart. Roll out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, cut with small biscuit 
cutter and prick each with a fork. Bake twenty minutes 
in rather hot oven. This quantity makes about thirty bis- 
cuits. 



GRAHAM BISCUITS 

1 quart graham flour, 1 heaping tablespoonful 

1 teaspoonful baking lard and butter mixed, 

powder, 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Add enough milk to make a soft dough, just stiff 
enough to roll out. Cut with medium-sized biscuit cutter 
and bake twenty minutes. 



QUICK BISCUIT 

2 cups flour, sifted 3 times, -]- spoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter and 1 teaspoonful, heaping, 

lard mixed, baking powder. 
1 cup sweet milk, 

Sift flour into large bowl Avith the baking powder, rub 
the butter and lard well through it, stir in the milk. Turn 
on moulding board, roll about three-quarters of an inch 
thick and cut with medium-sized biscuit cutter. Handle 
as little and as quickly as possible and bake in steady oven. 

— 133 — 



BREAD 



MUFFINS WITH RICE 

2 cups flour, Butter size of an egg, small. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup milk, powder, 

2 eggs, ^ spoonful salt. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together, 
and rub butter well through it. Beat the eggs very light, 
add the milk and pour into flour and beat until smooth and 
light, then put in the rice and beat again until well mixed. 
Bake in buttered muffin rings for half an hour in quick 
oven. 



CORN ]\IEAL MUFFINS 

1| cups flour, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 

1 small cup of corn meal, butter, 

^ cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful baking 

1 pint milk, powder, 

2 eggs. 



SALLY LUNN 

1 pint flour. 2 tablespoonfuls baking 

1 scant cup milk. powder, 

^ cup butter, melted, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together, 
beat the yolks of the eggs light and add the milk and 
melted butter, stir quickly into the flour, then put in 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put 
in a shalloAv pan and bake fifteen minutes in a very hot 
oven. 

For graham muffins use above recipe, only taking half 
graham flour. 

— 134 — 



BREAD 



PUFFS 

1 cup liour, J teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup milk, 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light, then add the 
milk, stir in the flour and salt, and lastly the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven without opening the door. 



RICE WAFFLES 

1 cup rice, 1 egg, 

1 pint sour milk, *4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

I teaspoonful soda. 

*For low altitudes two tablespoonfuls flour. 
Stir together like the other waffle recipe. 



WAFFLES 

1 pint sour milk, Flour enough to make a 

3 eggs, - batter as for cakes, 

J teaspoonful soda, scant, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Stir the soda into the milk until it is all foaming, then 
add to the yolks of the eggs beaten light with the salt. Stir 
in the flour and beat until perfectly smooth. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and put in last. Bake in 
waffle irons. 

— 135 — 



BREAD 



CRULLERS 

3 tumblers flour, 1 teaspoonful soda. 
7 tablespoonfuls grauu- 1 teaspoonful salt, 

lated sugar. 4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls melted i teaspoonful nutmeg, 
lard. i tablespoonfuls milk. 

Dissolve soda in the milk. 



CREAM GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 pint cracker or grated 1 teaspoonful soda, 

bread crumbs, 1 even teaspoonful salt, 

1 pint sour cream. 4 eggs, beaten separately, 

-J pint milk, -J cup flour. 



SOUTHERN EGG BREAD 

1 cup corn meal. 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup boiled rice, Milk enough to make batter 

3 eggs, beaten separately, as for cakes, 

Butter size of an egg. 

Cook the corn meal in enough boiling water to make 
mush, add the salt and butter, then the rice and yolks of 
eggs, then whites and milk last. Pour into buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake half an hour. 

— 136 — 



BREAD 



CORN DODGERS 

1 quart white corn meal, J pint boiling water poured 
1 tablespoonful lard, over the corn meal, then 

1 teaspoonful salt, scant. add lard and salt. 

Mix and form with the hands in cone-shaped pieces 
while hot ; dent with a knife three times and fry in deep 
lard. 



OAT MEAL NUT BREAD 

1 tablespoonful salt, 1 cake compressed yeast, 

1 full cup broken pecan dissolved in ^ cup luke- 

meats, warm water. 
8 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

In morning add two cups of boiling water to one cup 
of Quaker Oats, and next morning add another cupful 
of hot water to above ingredients, adding sufficient flour 
to form loaf; knead until it will not stick to board; let 
rise; then form into three loaves; let rise again and bake 
three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Let oven be hot 
when bread is put in, then turn down gas. 



NUT BREAD 

2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 

2 eggs, 1 cup fine chopped walnuts, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, . 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

-} teaspoonful salt, ])()wder. 

First beat eggs well together, then add milk ; sift dry 
materials together, mix vv^ith the liquids ; then, lastly, 
add nuts and beat well. Bake three-quarters of an hoiu* 
in a moderate oven. 

— 137 — 



BREAD 



BRAN GEMS 



2 eggs, 

2 heaping ciipfuls bran, 
J cup white flour, 
1 cup sour milk. 



^ cup molasses, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
Pinch salt. 



MUFFINS— PLAIN 



^ cup melted butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



1^ cups flour, 
2 eggs, beaten together, 
2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 
1 cup milk, 

Measure and then sift flour, salt, sugar and baking 
poAvder together into bowl ; then add milk, then egg, and 
beat well. Bake fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 



COCOA MUFFINS 



1 cup sugar. 
IJ cups flour. 

1 cup milk, 

2 eggs, well beaten, yolks 
and whites separately, 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, 
1 small teaspoonful vanilla, 

3 teaspoonfuls cocoa. 



Stir butter and sugar to a cream and mix with the 
yolks of the egg*s ; add milk, flour and baking powder : 
lastly, the cocoa and the whites of the eggs. Bake in a 
mioderate oven. This makes two and a half dozen, size 
of a dollar. 

— 138 — 



BREAD 



BATTER CAKES NO. 1 

1 egg, 1 cup milk, 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 1 cnp flour, 

der, i teaspoonful sugar, 

J teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls melted 

butter. 

First beat egg in bowl, then add part of milk, then 
flour in which baking powder and salt have been sifted, 
then melted butter; stir all well together. 



BATTER CAKES NO. 2 

2 eggs, beaten separately, 1 small cup flour, 
1 cup milk. Pinch salt. • 

1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 

Put in beaten whites of eggs last. Bake on hot griddle 
which has been greased with lard. 



WAFFLES WITH SWEET MILK 

1 scant cupful milk, ^ teaspoonful baking pow- 
i teaspoonful salt, der, 

2 eggs, beaten separately, 1 tablespoonful melted 
1 heaping cupful flour, butter. 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder, then add 
the beaten yolks of eggs to the milk and butter; lastly 
the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Have waffle iron very 
hot, brush both sides with melted lard, and bake. 

— 139 — 



BREAD 



CORN MEAL SOUFFLE 

i cup corn meal, 1 cup milk, 

3 eggs, Pinch salt and pepper. 

Heat milk to boiling point, add corn meal and cook 
five minutes; cool; add well-beaten yolks and then fold 
in the whites after they have been beaten stiff; put in 
pudding dish. Cook thirty minutes, in a pan of water. 



CRUMBLED TARTS 

1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup chopped pecans, 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar. 
1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 

Mix baking powder with sugar, add dates, eggs and 
pecans. Bake in oven thirty minutes, in large, flat pan; 
when cold, break in small pieces. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream on top. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

1 pint flour, 1 tablespoonful lard, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of J teaspoonful salt, 

Dr. Price's baking Enough milk to moisten the 

powder, flour (about 1 cup). 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, put in 
the lard and work well together with your hands, then 
add the milk and stir two or three minutes or until smooth 
and light. Turn onto a floured board roll out and cut 
with small biscuit cutter. Glaze the tops with milk. 

— 140 — 



BREAD 



BREAD AND ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast, J teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls lard 

1 Hunter sifter flour, (melted). 

1 cup lukewarm milk, 

Stir yeast and sugar together smooth, add salt and 
pour over milk ; put flour in four-quart yellow bowl, make 
a hole in center and put in the above. Mix well and let 
it rise an hour, then mix with a spoon; roll out in thin 
paste on board and beat with rolling pin. Take out 
enough dough for rolls and the remainder Avill make two 
loaA^es of bread. 

CHEESE MUFFINS 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cup grated American 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, cheese, 

I cup milk, 4 eggs, beaten separately. 

Beat in whites last. Bake in popover pans for 30 
minutes, 

CHEESE CRACKERS 

1 pound mild N. Y. cream 1^ tablespoonfuls Worces- 

cheese, tershire sauce, 

1 egg (not beaten). Butter size of a walnut, 

^ cup cream, Pinch salt, 

Pinch mustard. 

Put all in a bowl and stir with a fork until smooth 
and about the consistency of whipped cream. Make 
little pyramids of the mixture, one-half or two inches 
high, on square salted crackers ; place on a shallow tin 
and put under gas broiler, with the blaze turned low. As 
soon as they bubble they are done. They must not brown. 
Serve immediately. Serves sixteen people. 

— 141 — 



— 142 



143 



144 



PIES 



PIE CRUST 

1^^ cups flour, Ice Avater to make a stiff 

\ cup lard, dough. 

.] teaspoonful salt. 

Mix with a knife the flour, salt and lard together and 
add the ice water ; cut in half, roll thin and use for the 
low^er crust. Roll other half and spread lard all over, 
sprinkle with a little flour, fold together with two folds 
and roll for upper crust. Let it stand for five minutes be- 
fore rolling out the last time ; glaze the top crust with 
milk. 

CUSTARD PIE 

1 scant quart of milk, ."> tablespoonfuls sugar 

4 eggs, beaten light, (heaping), 

1 grated nutmeg. 

Add eggs to milk and sugar, then nutmeg. Bake in 
rich pie crust in pan one inch thick (more like layer cake 
pan). Bake twenty minutes in slow oven, slower the 
better; test if done by putting a knife in center — if done 
the knife will come out clean. 

Add one cup of freshly grated cocoanut to above 
recipe for cocoanut pie. 

LEMON PIE 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon (grated), rind 

1 cup boiling water, and juice, 

3 eggs, 1^ heaping tablespoonfuls 

flour. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and add sugar, flour and lemon, 
stir in the boiling water and let it boil up once. Line a pie 
tin with a good puff paste and bake, then fill with the mix- 
ture, cover w^ith a meringue made with the whites of the 
eggs and bake again. 

— 145 — 



PIES 



SQUASH PIE 

1 coffee cup cooked -| teaspoouful untmeg. 

squash (scant). 2 eggs. 

1 coffee cup milk. 1 level teaspoonful ground 

4 heapintr tablespoonfuls ginger. 

sugar. 1 level teaspoonful ground 

1 tablespoonful melted cinnamon, 

butter, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Put the squash through sieve or ricer. add the sugar. 
l)utter. spices and salt and beat thoroughly, then put in 
the eggs (well beaten) and lastly the milk. 

This amount makes medium size pie. If not enough 
of the mixture to fill the dish full, add n little iiiore m'ilk 
or cream. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 quart milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cocoanut. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Whites of four eggs. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Boil the milk and sugar, dissolve the cornstarch in a 
little cold milk and add to the boiling milk, stir in the 
butter and take from the stove, then put in the cocoanut 
Rud lastly the well beaten whites of eggs. 



SOUTHERN SAYEET POTATO PIE 

2 cups of finely mashed H cups sugar. 

sweet potato, 1 pinch salt. 

1 cup sweet milk. 4 eggs, 

^ cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

Cream butter and part of the sugar together, beat 
rest of the sugar with yolks of eggs. Stir in these the 
milk, potato, cinnamon, salt and lastly the M'hites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake with a lower crust. 

— 146 — 



PIES 



MINCE MEAT 



6 pounds lean beef boiled 
and chopped fine, 

Twice as much chopped 
apple as beef, 

2 pounds suet, chopped 
fine, 

4 pounds raisins, 

4 pounds currants, 

1 pound citron. 



3 pounds brown sugar, 

■] quarts cider, 

1 quart N. 0. molasses, 

1 quart brandy, 

1 cup vinegar, 

h cup cinnamon, 

I cup each cloves and 

allspice, 
3 nutmegs. 



Mix all the ingredients together and cook until it is 
well scalded. 



NELLIE'S SQUASH PIE 



1 coffee cup granulated 
sugar, 

3 eggs, 

2 cups cream, 

1 teacup cooked squash. 
^ nutmeg, 



{ teaspoonful ginger, 

:[ teaspoonful ground cloves, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

(level). 
Pinch salt put in squash. 



Beat eggs and sugar together and add spices; mix 
squash and cream and put through a strainer into the 
eggs and sugar and beat thoroughly at least five minutes, 
then pour immediately on to the crust and bake in a 
moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

— 147 — 



148 



— 14» — 



— 150 — 



FRITTERS 



PINEAPPLE 

1 can pineapple (sliced), ^ teaspoonful baking 
1 egg, powder, 

i cup milk, Enough batter for ^ can, 

1 cup fiour, |- teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Beat egg and milk together, put baking powder in 
flour, stir all together. Dip pineapple in batter and fry in 
deep lard. To be eaten with plain pineapple or claret 
pineapple sauce. 

The above batter will be good for any kind of fritters 
— apple, orange or banana. 



151 



- 152 



— 153 — 



154 



PUDDINGS 



LEMON MERINGUE 



1 coffee cup sugar, 
Yolks of three eggs, 
Juice of three lemons. 



1^ pints boiling water, 
2^ tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch. 



Pinch of salt. 

Wet the cornstarch in a little cold water, add boiling 
water and stir until thoroughly mixed ; while it is cooling 
beat the eggs and sugar together, add the lemon juice and 
salt and put with the cornstarch. Pour into cups and bake 
twenty minutes. Serv^e with cream. 



PIG PUDDING 



cup sweet milk, 

eggs (beaten separately) 

teaspoonful baking 

powder, 

teaspoonful ginger. 



i pound chopped figs, 

:| pint bread crumbs. 

1 cup flour, 

1 cup sugar, 

h cup suet (chopped fine), 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, add 
the milk; sift the baking powder with the flour and mix 
the suet with it ; put the bread crumbs with the eggs, sugar 
and milk, then the flour and suet, ginger, figs, and last the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Steam three 
hours. 

— 155 — 



PUDDINGS 



PRUNE SOUFFLE 

1 pound French prunes, 1 cup powdered sugar, 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

Cook the prunes until tender, remove the stones and 
put through ricer or sieve, add the sugar and then the 
whites of the eggs beaten to stiff froth. Bake twenty min- 
utes and serve at once with cream. Rinse the dish with 
cold water before putting the pudding in. 



SPONGE PUDDING 

2 cups sweet milk, Whites of 3 eggs, 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the flour with one cup of milk, add beaten yolks, 
salt and then the other cup of milk; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and put in last. Pour in buttered dish and bake 
in moderate oven. Serve with lemon sauce made as fol- 
lows : 



LEMON SAUCE 

1 cup sugar, Whites of 2 eggs, 

1 cup boiling milk. Juice of 1 lemon. 

Beat the eggs and add the sugar, pour the boiling milk 
over them, stir in the lemon juice just before serving. 

— 156 — 



PUDDINGS 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

1 cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls (scant) 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 4 eggs (beaten separately). 

Boil the milk and add the butter and flour stirred to- 
gether to a cream, cook eight minutes, stirring constantly. 
Beat tlie yolks of the eggs and sugar together and add to 
the cooked mixture and set aside to cool. When cold add 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a 
buttered dish and bake twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 



INDIAN PUDDING 

3 pints milk, 3 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls corn 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

meal, i teaspoonful cloves, 

1 tablespoonful butter. ^ teaspoonful allspice, 

i cup brown sugar, J teaspoonful nutmeg. 
I cup N. 0. molasses, -]- teaspoonful salt. 

Boil one pint of the milk and thicken with the corn 
meal, add salt, butter, spices, sugar, beaten eggs and mo- 
lasses in the order named and mix well together, then 
stir in one quart cold milk. Bake one and one-half hours, 
when half done stir again and then let it brown. Cover 
with meringue, brown and serve with cream. 

— 157 — 



PUDDINGS 



BATTER PUDDING WITH FIGS 



1 can preserved figs. 
J cup sugar, 
i cup flour (measured 
after sifting), 



1 



1 cup milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 teaspoonful baking 

powder, 
egg. 



Beat butter and sugar together, then add the beaten 
yolk of egg, then milk, then flour with the baking powder 
mixed well through it, and lastly the white of egg beaten 
stiff. Butter a deep dish, put the figs in the bottom, pour 
the batter over and steam three-fourths of an hour. Serve 
with cream. Anv canned fruit may be used. 



FIG DESSERT 

One pound figs, open and fill with chopped nuts, cover 
with boiling water, cook until tender. Five minutes be- 
fore removing from the fire add one-third cup of sugar and 
the juice of half a lemon. Serve with sweetened whipped 
cream. 



SAWDUST OR SUET PUDDING 



1 cup chopped suet, 
1 cup molasses. 
3^ cups flour, 



cup currants, 



J teaspoonful cloves. 



1 cup milk, 

1 cup raisins, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 



Mix together like fig pudding. Steam three and one- 
half hours. Serve with sauce. 

— 158 — 



PUDDINGS 



SUET PUDDING 

1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup currants, 

1 cup chopped crackers. 2 eggs, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 cup sweet milk, J teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 cup flour, I teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup raisins, A little nutmeg. 

Steam three or four hours. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint cake crumbs, •"> tablespoonfuls grated 

1 pint milk. Baker's chocolate, 

3 eggs, beaten separately, ^ cup sugar. 

Melt the chocolate and add to the milk and sugar, 
heat to the boiling point and pour the mixture over the 
well beaten yolks, then add the cake crumbs and bake half 
an hour. When done cover with meringue made of the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff with half cup of sugar. Set 
in the oven to brown. 



SNOW PUDDING 

^ box gelatine, dissolved 3 eggs, whites only, 
in 1 pint hot water, Juice of 1 lemon, 

2 cups sugar. 

Add sugar and lemon juice to dissolve gelatine. 
When it is cool and begins to thicken add the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all until thick and like 
snow, put in a mould and set on ice until time to serve. 
Serve with soft custard. 

— 159 — 



PUDDINGS 



PINEAPPLE SNOW 

1^ cups grated pineapple. i cup water. 

j Clip sugar. 

Simmer all together for 15 minutes, then add one- 
quarter box gelatine soaked in one-quarter cup of cold 
water; strain. 

Set in ice water and stir constantly until it begins to 
set. then add the juice of half a lemon and the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; turn into a mould and set 
on ice until time to serve. Serve with sweetened whipped 
cream. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 pint milk, Pinch of salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, A little grated lemon rind. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 
Serve very cold. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

1 pint milk. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
-t eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. 

Boil milk first, put it in the baking dish, stir in yolks 
and sugar beaten light, then vanilla, lastly whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff; stir all well together. Bake twenty minutes 
in moderate oven in pan of water. 

RAISIN PUFFS 

2 cups flour, 1 cup seeded raisins 

1 cup Avater, (chopped fine), 

3 teaspoonfuls baking 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
powder, butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs. 

Steamed one-half hour in buttered cups or moulds. 

— 160 — 



PUDDINGS 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 

J cup sugar, i teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the sugar in a saucepan and melt it without 
water until it is brown, but not burned; add the milk 
and let it come to a boil, then take from the stove and 
add the well-beaten eggs. Pour into a pudding dish, 
grate a little nutmeg over the top and put into the oven 
in a pan of water. Bake thirty minutes. 



MAPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1 quart milk, 3 tablespoonfuls minute 

1 cup maple syrup, tapioca, 

3 tablespoonfuls cornmeal, -| teaspoonful salt. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Put the milk in a double-boiler; when warm, slowly 
add the corn meal and tapioca, stirring all the time to 
avoid lumps, add salt and boil until the tapioca is tender 
and clear. Remove from the fire and add the maple 
syrup ; turn into a buttered pan and allow to stand ten 
minutes. Turn one-half cup of top milk or the contents 
of one small can of evaporated cream over the top. Bake 
slowly one and one-half hours. Serve with cream. Any 
syrup may be substituted for the maple. 

— 161 — 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE BATTER PUDDING 

1 cup milk, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 

^ cup sugar, baking powder, 

Butter size of an egg, 1 egg. 

Sift baking powder in flour. Butter a baking dish 
and fill with six large quartered apples, or smaller jDieces 
if preferred ; sprinkle well Avith sugar and a little salt 
and steam in oven in covered dish ; when cooked, pour 
over the batter while apples are hot ; bake a fine brown. 
Serve with whipped cream, or foamy sauce, without white 
of egg. Flavor with Dr. Price's vanilla. 



DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped dates, i cup English walnuts, 

2 tablespoonfuls bread 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
crumbs, der. 

3 eggs, well beaten, 

Bake thirty to forty minutes, and serve with whipped 
cream. Bake in individual or one larpre mould. 



RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

J teaspoonful salt, well washed rice. 

Fill the dish with milk, add rice ; let it cook in oven 
for half an hour, stirring it two or three times ; take out 
and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a scant teaspoonful 
of vanilla, half cup of stoned raisins, and half teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg; cook slowly two hours; as the milk 
boils down, lift the skim off and add more hot milk. The 
pudding should be creamy, and is made so by slow cook- 
ing and plenty of milk. 

— 162 — 



PUDDINGS 



BROWN BETTY 

^ cup melted butter, 1 quart sliced apples, 

1 pint sifted bread crumbs, -J ^^P cold water, 
^ teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^ cup sugar. 

Stir the butter into the bread crumbs ; into a but- 
tered baking dish put a layer of sliced apples, sprinkle 
with the cinnamon and sugar, and continue until the 
materials are used, having the last layer of crumbs; if 
the apples are juicy use less water. Bake about one hour. 
Serve with cream. 



— 163 — 



164 — 



— 165 



166 



— 167— 



— 168 



PUDDING SAUCES 



HARD SAUCE 

1 even teacup pulverized 1^ tablespoonfuls of butter, 
sugar, |- grated nutmeg. 

Cream butter and sugar very light, put in nutmeg- 
serve. 



CREAMY HARD SAUCE 

1 teacup pulverized sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls milk, 
1 heaping tablespoonful 2 tablespoonfuls rum or 
butter, brandy, 

1 egg, beaten separately. 

Cream butter and sugar together, very light, add 
slowly yolk of egg and milk beaten together; when readj^ 
to serve put in brandy, and lastly whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. 



PLAIN SAUCE 

1 cup sugar, 1 teacup of boiling water, 

J cup butter (creamed), 4 tablespoonfuls brandy, 
3 yolks of eggs (beaten with above). 

Pour over water the last thing before serving. 



FRUIT SYRUP AND RUM SAUCE 

1 pint currant, cherry or f pint sugar, 
raspberry juice boiled f cup of rum. 
with 

Boil the juice and sugar to a syrup, when cold add 
the rum. Serve with plain ice cream or mousse. Can 
be kept in Mason jars for winter use. 

— 169 — 



PUDDING SAUCES 



RUM SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM OR MOUSSE 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 

^ cup Jamaica rum. 

Boil sugar and water to a clear, thick syrup, then 
add rum when cold. 



CLARET AND PINEAPPLE SAUCE 

1 cup sugar, 2 whites of eggs, 

^ cup butter (creamed), 1 cup pineapple juice, 

3 yolks of eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls claret wine. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add yolks of eggs, 
well beaten, then pour over pineapple juice, boiling hot 
with the wine, keep stirring all the time ; put beaten 
whites of eggs on top. 



FOAMY SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 white of egg, 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Beat all together to a cream, add nine tablespoonfuls 
boiling water, boil until thick and clear ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of wine to the above ; lastly white of egg, 
beaten stiff. Serve hot. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

^ cake Baker's chocolate, f cup of sugar. 
^ cup boiling water. 

Melt chocolate in small granite saucepan over the 
teakettle, add sugar, then pour the water in slowly and 
stir until smooth. Serve hot or cold — with ice cream. 

— 170 — 



171 



— 172 — 



173 — 



— 174 



BEVERAGES 



MARYLAND EGG NOG 

1 gallon milk, 15 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

1 dozen eggs, 1 pint Jamaica rum, 

1 pint brandy, 1' grated nutmeg. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar until light, add 
the brandy and rum, stirring constantly, nutmeg, then 
milk (or part cream), and cover the well-beaten whites 
of the eggs. 

HOT SCOTCH 

1 lump sugar, Thin rind or peel of lemon, 
J glass water, ^ glass Scotch whisky, 

Brew 10 minutes on stove. 

RUM PUNCH— HOT 
For one glass. 

2 tablespoonfuls rum, 2 lumps sugar, 2 ozs. for 
1 thick slice lemon, 4 tablespoonfuls water. 

Boil these so as to have the punch hot and rum 
*' mellow," squeeze the lemon, with a spoon to get out 
juice, and remove the slice at once after boiling; if left 
in it will make the punch bitter. 

Same recipe will be correct for Arrac Punch. Avoid 
getting in too much lemon. 

PUNCH— DRY 

1 quart champagne, 1 quart sweet Jamaica rum, 

1 quart claret, 1 claret glass kummel, 

3 quarts Carlsbad Apolli- 1 claret glass kirschwasser, 
naris water, ^ claret glass lemon juice, 

1 pint brandy, 6 lumps sugar. 

Use ice and fruits to decorate. 

— 175 — 



BEVERAGES 



PUNCH— CHAj\IPAGNE 



1 pound sugar or rock 3 wineglasses rum, 

candy, 1 bottle champagne (Calif.) 

1 large cup strong black 2 oranges (juice only), 

tea (liquid), 3 lemons, 1 large lump ice. 

3 wineglasses brandy. 



PUNCH— SWEET 

2 dozen lemons, 1 quart rum. 

Lemonade made sweet and 1 glass sherry, or more if 
strong, desired, 

1 pint brandy or whisky. 

Use ice and fruit to decorate. 
Will serve sixteen people. 

PUNCH— REGENT 

1 quart whisky, 1 quart champagne, 

1 quart rum, 1 quart water, 

1 quart tea, ^ clozen lemons, juice, 

1 pound sugar. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, put in lemon juice, 
then the other ingredients. Put a large lump of ice in 
bowl with bunch of grapes on top. pour over it the punch. 

FISH HOUSE PUNCH 

1 quart Jamaica rum. 1 pint lemon juice, 

1 quart water, 2 pounds sugar, 

1 pint brandy, -t pounds ice. 

Will make about a gallon. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the lemon juice, 
then the other ingredients, and lastly the ice. 

— 176 — 



BEVERAGES 



MULLED WINE 

Put in porcelain lined kettle. One pint boiling water 
with three sticks of cinnamon, simmer fifteen minutes. 

Put in one quart claret and one and one-half cups 
sugar. 

Heat boiling hot, strain and drink hot. 



POUSSE CAFE 

^ sherry glass maraschino, ^ glass chartreuse, 
i sherry glass curagoa, ^ sherry glass cognac. 

Put in glass in order named. 



MINT JULEP 

Put mint in bottom of shaker with a lump of ice. 

Dissolve one lump or one teaspoonful sugar for each 
person in a little water and put with mint and ice, add 
shen-y glass of whisky or brandy and shake the whole 
thoroughly. 

Put fine cracked ice in glass and pour the mixture 
over it, put a sprig of mint in the top of the glass. Drink 
through a straw. 



SAUTERNE CUP 

1 quart sauterne, 1 cocktail glass of brandy. 

Juice of four lemons, ^ cocktail glass of mara- 

1 teaspoonful of bitters, schino. 

Put on ice until ready to serve, then add a syphon 
of soda and some cherries and pineapple. Sweeten to 
taste with white syrup. 

— 177 — 



BEVERAGES 



MOSELLE CUP 



1 quart Braunberger. 1 slice of cucumber peel, 

1 liquor glass of brandy. 1 pint Apollinaris water, 
Juice of one oarnge. Juice of one lemon. 

No susrar unless desired. 



HOW TO MAKE COFFEE 

I Java, i Mocha. 

Browned and ground; 1 tablespoonful coffee for each 
cup of coffee. 1 cupful of boiling water to each person. 
^2 ^Sa beaten together. Stir coffee and egg together 
Avith one cup of cold water, then pour on boiling water 
and boil ten minutes after it begins to boil ; put on back 
of stove five minutes or so. to let it settle. ^lake twenty 
minutes before breakfast is served. 

SIMPLE PUNCH 

Juice of 6 oranges. 1 pint sugar. | pint water. 

Juice of 6 lemons, made into a s^'rup, 

1 doz. sprigs of mint, put 2 quarts domestic cham- 

in syrup while hot and pagne. 

stand for three hours. 1 quart lemon ice. 

Peel of 1 cucumber. 

Put orange and lemon juice, mint, syrup, and cucum- 
ber in a bowl for two hours, then strain ; pour over lemon 
ice and lastly put in champagne before serving. Pour 
all over large piece of ice. Garnish pitcher with slices 
of orange and maraschino cherries and put a bunch of 
mint in mouth of pitcher so punch will pass over each 
time. This Avill make six quarts of punch if oranges and 
lemons are juicy. Will serve seven people to the quart 
in champagne glasses. 

— 178 — 



BEVERAGES 



WHITE WINE CUP 

2| quarts white wine, Sliced fruit all through, 

1 quart sparkling water, ^ cup fresh mint syrup. 
^ pint lemon sherbet, 

Twent3^-one glasses for luncheon. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 

1 ease Red Seal eham- 1 gallon plain water sherbet, 

pagne, or lemon sherbet if desired. 

For '^cup" at dinner, for one hundred people. Two 
tablespoonfuls of rum for each four l)ottles of champagne 
adds to the flavor of the punch. 

CLARET PUNCH 

1 pony brandy, 1 pony lemon juice, 

1 pony curacoa, 8 or 4 lumps sugar, 

to 

1 quart claret, 

1 quart Manitou water, 

SWISS-ESS 

1 jigger white absinthe. White of 1 egg, 
1 'teaspoonful powdered J small glass of cream, 

sugar, Shaker full of fine ice. 

Shake a long time until well mixed and very cold. 

PUNCH— DRY 

Use ice and fruits to decorate like Regent Punch. 

PUNCH 

Put a brick of lemon ice into punch howl and pour 
over it sparkling Moselle. 

— 179 — 



180 



— 181 — 



182 — 



PICKLES 



CUCUMBERS 

Put pickles into strong brine, one large piece alum, 
twenty-four hours. Take out, wash and cover with two- 
thirds vinegar and one-third water, a little sugar (hand- 
ful), peppers, cinnamon and cloves. Put them in a kettle 
on back of stove with another piece of alum, and let 
simmer, not boil, for two or three hours. Pour off that 
vinegar and put on fresh. 

To one gallon of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, 
one-half cup each of celery seed and cloves, two bay 
leaves, twelve small red peppers, four sticks cinnamon. 
Boil all together to a syrup and pour over pickles ; it 
needs enough vinegar to cover them. Put a piece of alum 
in last vinegar, it keeps the pickles brittle, and don't 
be afraid to use it as directed. Three pounds of tiny 
white onions added to 500 pickles are very nice put in 
uncooked. 



OIL CUCUMBER PICKLES 

2 dozen slender cucumbers, 1 cup salt. 

2 cups olive oil, 1 quart small pickling 

:]: cup white mustard seed, onions, 

q: cup celery seed, A little cayenne pepper, 

i cup vinegar, } cup whole black pepper. 



Peel and slice cucumbers and onions thin ; cover with 
salt for four hours. "Wash well with cold water, then 
pour over oil and vinegar with spices stirred in and mix 
thoroughly. Bottle cold with a little clear vinegar on 
top of each bottle. Serve with fish. 



183 — 



PICKLES 



TOMATO SOYE 

10 pounds of green toma- 6 sticks cinnamon, 

toes, I cup cloves. 

5 pounds old onions, small, ^ cup mace, 

4 green peppers. ^ cup little red peppers, 

3 pounds coarse salt, | cup celery seed, 

1 gallon vinegar, ^ cup white mustard seed. 
3 pounds sugar. 

Slice tomatoes very thin, also onions — put in crock — 
for twenty-four hours — first, layer of onions, then layer 
of tomatoes, then salt ; until crock is full — salt on top. 
When ready to fix, wash thoroughly in cold Avater, then 
boil until they look transparent, pour off water — cover 
with the syrup made of the vinegar, sugar and spices 
boiled together — cook one hour in the syrup — put away 
in a crock or Mason jars. It is better to stand for 2 
months before usingf. 



UNCOOKED PICKLES 

1 peck ripe red tomatoes. 1 ounce white mustard 

2 cups chopped celery, seed. 

2 cups chopped onions. 3 pints vinegar. 

4 red peppers, 2 cups brown sugar, 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 2 cups salt. 

Cut the tomatoes in pieces and sprinkle the two cups 
of salt over them, for one night ; in the morning drain 
through a colander and press all the water out of them. 
Mix all the ingredients together Avith three pints good 
vinegar, put in a crock — ready for use in a month. 

GREEN PEEPERS FOR WINTER USE 

Cut an opening in side of each pepper about an inch 
long, put in brine for future use. 

— 184 — 



PICKLES 



TO MAKE BRINE 

Take enough water to cover peppers, pickles, etc., add 
enough salt to make the brine strong enough to hold an 
egg; also a handful of powdered alum to keep the pickles 
crisp. 

PICCALILLI 

Chop fine each of the following: 

2 pounds green tomatoes, 1 pound onions, 
1 head cabbage, 1 quart, 6 stalks celery. 
4 green peppers, 

Two cups salt put through it and left over night, 
wash thoroughly next day. Make syrup — three quarts 
vinegar, two pounds sugar, one-fourth cup celery seed, 
one-fourth cup mustard seed, four sticks of cinnamon, 
whole pepper corns and a little whole allspice. Cook 
vinegar and sugar together with spices for one and one- 
half hours, then pour over the chopped pickle and put 
away for two months in a crock. 

PICKLE PEACHES 

7 pounds of peaches, 1 quart cider vinegar, 

3J pounds granulated 1 ounce w^hole cloves, 

sugar, 4 sticks cinnamon. 

Peel peaches, weigh, the'n put four cloves in each 
peach ; make syrup of sugar and vinegar with cinnamon. 
Boil ten minutes, put in peaches, boil until tender enough 
to stick with a straw. When peaches are all cooked, put in 
Mason jars or a crock. Boil the syrup until quite thick — 
about twenty minutes more — and pour over the peaches. 
Repeat for every seven pounds of fruit. 

White and red cherries and blue plums are delicious 
made in the same way. 

— 185 — 



PICKLES 



WATERMELON PICKLES 

3J pounds watermelon Alum, size of a walnut, 

rind, 1 tablespoonful whole cloves, 

1} pounds granulated -i sticks cinnamon broken in 

beet sugar, small pieces. 

1 pint white Avine vinegar, 

Remove all the green and pink from the melon rinds 
and cut in one inch cubes. Soak twenty-four hours in 
strong brine to which a piece of alum the size of a walnut 
has been added. Drain and boil until tender and brittle in 
fresh water with a little alum in it. pour off and boil 
up once more, quickly, in fresh Avater with a little alum. 
Make a syrup with the vinegar, sugar; add alum, cinna- 
mon and cloves. Drain all the water from the melon 
rinds and boil them slowly in the syrup until very clear 
and rich. 

If liked, a few raisins may be boiled in the syrup with 
the rinds, or omit raisins and put a few maraschino cher- 
ries in each bottle when putting the pickle away. 



CfflLI SAUCE 

12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 

2 ripe or three green pep- 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

pers, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

2 onions, 2 cupfuls cider vinegar. 

Cook slowly three or four hours. If you cannot get 
fresh tomatoes and peppers, you may use two quarts of 
canned tomatoes and one even tablespoonful of ground 
red pepper. 

— 186 — 



187 



188 — 



— 189 



— 190 — 



PRESERVES 

STKAAVBERRY 



To 1 piut of choice straw- 1 piut of sugar, 
berries, ] pint of water. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, when it boils two 
minutes put in the fruit, let it boil ten minutes. Pour 
out on a platter, let it stand in the sun until the syrup 
is like soft jelly. Make only a pint at a time. 



BRANDY PEACHES 

7 pounds peaches, 2 cups water, or enough to 

3^ pounds sugar, melt sugar, 

1 pint French brandy. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, boil ten minutes, 
peel peaches, weigh, cook in syrup until tender, put in 
Mason jars, boil down syrup until very rich, remove from 
fire, and then put in brandy and bottle. If you don't 
take it from the heat the fumes are often set on fire by 
putting brandy in hot syrups. 

Cherries are very fine prepared in the same way. 



NOTES 

All jams are made, pound of sugar for pound of fruit. 

Preserves, one-half of sugar for pound of fruit. 

Jellies are made, pint of sugar for pint of juice, 
except Concord grape jelly, which requires less sugar. 

Spiced fruits are made like the preserves recipe, 
with the addition of ground cinnamon and cloves to 
taste, always half as much cloves as cinnamon. 

— 191 — 



PRESERVES 



STRAAA^ERRIES 

To 1 pint of choice straw- 1 pint of sugar, 
berries, ^ pint of water. 

Make syriip of sugar and water. AVhen it boils two 
minutes put in the fruit. Let it boil ten minutes. Pour out 
on a platter, let it stand in the sun until the syrup is like 
soft jelly. ]\Iake only a pint at a time. Use the same 
formula for currants.. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES— SUNLIGHT 

Select large gooseberries, wash and pick off the stems 
and blossoms. For one quart of gooseberries make a syrup 
of one-half pint of vinegar and one quart of granu- 
lated sugar; add a few Avhole cloves and a stick 
of Ceylon cinnamon and boil five minutes. Drop in the 
gooseberries and boil ten minutes, or until the gooseberries 
puff' out ; pour on a platter and let them stand in the sun 
until the syrup is heavy on a spoon. Make only one quart 
at a time. 



RASPBERRIES 

For one quart of raspberries use one and one-half 
pints of granulated sugar and one-half pint of water. Make 
a syrup of the sugar and water, boil five minutes, add 
the fruit and boil ten minutes longer. Pour on a platter 
and let them stand in the sun until the syrup is like soft 
.jelly. 

— 192 — 



PRESERVES 



BRANDY PEACHES 

7 pounds peaches, 2 cups water, or enough to 

-H pounds sugar, melt sugar, 

1 pint French brandy. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, boil ten minutes, peel 
peaches, Aveigh. cook in syrup until tender, put fruit in 
Kerr Economy jars, boil down syrup until very rich, re- 
move from fire, and then put in brandy, and bottle. If 
you don't take it from the heat the fumes are often set 
on fire by putting brandy in hot syrups. 

Cherries are very fine prepared in the same way. 



MINT JELLY 

Wash, core and quarter thirty green juicy apples. 
Cook until soft in enough water to nearly cover them. 
Strain through jelly bag and add sugar (heated before 
using), pint for pint if the apples are very sour, if not. 
about three-fourths as much sugar as juice. 

Pick the leaves from three dozen stems of fresh mint, 
wash and tie in a cheese-cloth or thin muslin bag, put into 
the apple juice and ])oil until the leaves turn brown ; re- 
move and boil the juice until it drops heavy from spoon. 
Take from fire and add Dr. Price's leaf green coloring 
until it is the desired shade, and pour into the glasses. 
If not strong enough of mint, put in a little Avhite Creme 
de Menthe. Will make about thirteen glasses of jelly. 

— 193 — 



PRESERVES 



PEACH :\IARMALADE 

8 lbs. peaches (weigh after •'• lbs. sugar. 
being peeled and stoned). 1 lemon. 

Slice peaches into small pieces, shred lemon very fine, 
place in porcelain kettle, cover with the sugar and let 
stand over night. The next morning strain through a 
colander, place the juice on the stove and boil until it is 
I'educed about one-third, skimming all the time, mash 
the peaches very fine and add to the juice while boiling 
hot. stirring constantly to keep from burning, using a 
wooden spoon: seal while l)oiling hot in Kerr's Economy 
jars. 



APRICOT :\iar:malade 

8 lbs. very ripe fruit (after 4 lbs. sugar, 
stones have been taken 
out), 

Wash and cut fruit in small pieces (do not peel). 
Phice sugar and emnigh water to melt it (little as 
possible) on stove; when it is Innling hot add well 
mashed fruit, stirring and skimming constantly, cook 
until (ptite heavy: seal while hot in Kerr Economy jars. 

— 194 — 



PRESERVES 



FRUIT ASPIC JELLY 

^ box Knox's gelatine 1 lemon, juice and grated 

soaked in 1 cup cold rind, 

water, ^ cup pineapple juice, 

1 orange, juice and ^ 2 cups sugar. 

grated rind, 2 cups boiling water. 

Boil all together and strain through a cheese-clotli 
bag; add small cubes of pineapple, green grapes peeled 
and cut in half, pecans or blanched almonds, before pour- 
ing the jelly into the mould. Pour in small moulds, pre- 
viously dipped in cold water; serve on a leaf of lettuce 
with a border of cucumbers or celery cut in very small 
pieces, mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Wash fruit, place on stove without any water, stir 
constantly until the juice is well extracted, strain, 
measure, return to stove and boil ten minutes ; add sugar, 
pint for pint, and cook until it jellies. 

PLUM JELLY 

Wash fruit, place on stove with a little water and 
cook until well done, strain, measure, return to stove and 
boil fifteen minutes; add sugar, pint for pint, and cook 
until it jellies. 

PLUM PRESERVES 

6 lbs. plums, 3 lbs. sugar. 

Wash, remove seeds and weigh. Put in a preserving 
kettle with sugar, no water; place on stove and stir 
constantly, using a wooden spoon. Bottle while hot in 
Kerr Economy jars. 

— 195 — 



PRESERVES 

BLACKBERRY JA:M 

6 lbs. berries. 6 lbs. sugar. 

AYasli and weigh the berries, put in a preserving 
kettle with half pint of water, cook until soft enough to 
mash, then add sugar and cook until it drops heav}^ from 
the spoon. Bottle while boiling hot in Kerr Economj^ jars. 



LOGANBERRY JA:\I 
Made in the same manner as blaek})erries. 



LOGANBERRIES FOR PIES 

Use one-half the amount of sugar as for jam; seal 
Avhen boiling hot. 



RASPBERRY JA:\I 

4 lbs. berries, 3 lbs. sugar. 

AYasli and weigh the berries, put in a preserving 
kettle with one-half pint water, cook until they are soft 
enough to mash ; add sugar and cook until they drop 
heavy from the spoon, stirring constantly. Bottle hot in 
Kerr Economy jars. 

— 196 — 



— 197 



— 198 — 



SAUCES 

For Meats, Fish, Etc. 



DRAWN BUTTER 

1 heaping tablespoonfiil 1 tablespoonful flour, 

butter, 1 cup boiling Avater. 

Melt butter over teakettle, put in flour, stir smooth, 
add water slowly until well cooked. Delicious for fish 
with sliced hard boiled egg all through it. 



CAPER SAUCE 

Is made the same as the above recipe with the addi- 
tion of one-half a cup of capers. 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 4 eggs, yolks, well beaten, 
Butter size of an egg, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

^ white pepper. 

Put vinegar in granite bowl over teakettle, heat well, 
add butter, pepper and salt; let it cool a while, then add 
yolks of eggs, beaten light; stir all the time, until it 
becomes thick like cream. Make just before using. 

Bearnaise Sauce is made the same as the above, 
using tarragon vinegar instead of plain vinegar, and add- 
ing a tablespoonful of chopped parsle.y. 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Make a white sauce with white stock or equal parts 
of stock and milk. Fry a slice of onion and a slice of 
carrot in the butter before the flour is added. Strain 
before serving. 

— 199 — 



SAUCES 



DUTCH SAUCE 

i teacupful butter, i teaspoonful salt. 

Juice of half a lemon. ^ cup of boiling white stock. 

Yolks of 2 egg's. A little cayenne pepper. 

Beat the butter to a cream and add the yolks, one 
at a time, the lemon juice, pepper and salt. Place the 
bowl in which these are mixed in a saucepan of boiling 
water, beat with an egg-beater until it begins to thicken, 
then add the boiling water, beating all the time. AYhen 
like soft custard it is done. 



BREAD SAUCE 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 cup fine bread crumbs, J teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonful s chopped J saltspoonful pepper, 
onion, 

Boil the fine bread crumbs and onion in the milk 
fifteen minutes, add the butter, salt and pepper. Fry two- 
thirds of a cupful of coarse bread crumbs in one table- 
spoonful of butter until brown. Pour the sauce around 
roast duck and sprinkle the brown crumbs over all. 



AVHITE CREA:\I SAUCE 

I cup butter, 1 pint cream, 

t large taldesp(H^nful flour. 

Melt butter and stir flour in gradually, then add 
cream slowly, boil until smooth and thick. A yolk of 
egg may be added just before serving. Season to taste. 
Serve with Timbale. 

Plain white sauce is made in the same way. only use 
milk instead of cream. 

— 200 — 



SAUCES 



TOMATO SAUCE 



Place on the stove 10 ripe tomatoes, 1 onion, 3 sprigs 
of parsley, y^ teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful 
salt. Boil all together for two hours, mash through a fine 
sieve, thicken with a little flour if necessary. 



SAUCE TARTAR 

To a rich mayonnaise dressing add some chopped 
pickle, parsley and capers chopped fine. Serve with fried 
fish. 

NOTE 

Mushroom, Lobster and Shrimp Sauces are made like 
White Cream Sauce with the addition of these things 
chopped medium fine. 



''SWEET AND SOUR" SAUCE 

To Be Served with Boiled Tongue or Boiled Leg 

of Mutton 

1^ cups granulated sugar, ^ cup raisins, 

1 rounded tablespoonful 2 or 3 slices lemon, cut in 

flour, small pieces, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 6 cloves and 1 bay leaf. 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

Melt sugar in sauce-pan. without water, being care- 
ful it does not burn. When entirely melted and brown, 
add boiling water, to make the desired cpiantity of sauce 
(probably two cupfuls) ; put in flour, stirred smooth, with 
a little water, vinegar, lemon, cloves, bay leaf, and salt; 
s<-ald the raisins and add them. Let the mixture simmer 
slowly for an hour or more, or until all lumps of caramel 
are dissolved, and the sauce is smooth and slightly thick- 
ened. 

— 201 — 



— 202 



— 203 



— 204 



CANDY 



BUTTER SCOTCH 

3 tablespooufuls molasses, 1 tablespooiiful butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 tablespooufuls water, 

Add a pinch of soda before 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
taking from stove, 

Boil all together. Good with chopped peanuts stirred 
through it. 



CREAM CANDY 

2 cups sugar. Butter size of small egg, 

^ cup of water, 1 teaspoonful of any flavor- 

^ cup of vinegar, ing. 

Boil all together, try in cup of ice water, when 
almost stiff pour out in buttered pans and pull when cool. 



NEAPOLITAN CREAM 

j cake Baker's chocolate, 2 cups milk, 

4 cups C sugar. 

Boil all together. To see if cooked try a little in a 
saucer, when it creams take oft' the stove and stir in the 
kettle until thick. Pour an inch deep on buttered plat- 
ters, cut in squares. 



MOLASSES TAFFY 

] cup molasses, ^ cup vinegar. 

^ cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Butter size of walnut. 

Boil, try in ice water until hard enough to pull. 

— 205 — 



CANDY 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 



1 eii]) sugar. ^ cup melted chocolate, or 

^ cup milk. I cake. 

1 cup molasses. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Boil sugar, iiour and molasses together until crisp 
in water, then add milk and chocolate and hoil. 



CHOCOLATE FUDGES 

3 cups sugar. ^ cake Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup milk. Butter size of an e^g. 

Cook all together until it forms in ice water, then 
stir in the kettle until perfectly smooth, pour out in 
buttered platters one-fourth inch thick, cut in squares 
Avhen almost cold. 



MEXICAN PIXOCHE 

2 cups dark brown sugar. 1 butter ball. 
1| cups pecan nuts. A pinch of salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Boil milk and sugar together first fto prevent curd- 
ling), then add butter and salt, boil until creamy, take off 
the stove and beat until smooth, then put in pecans. 

— 206 — 



CANDY 



PUFFED RICE CANDY 

1 Clip molasses, ^ teaspoonfiil soda, 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 

I cup cold water, i package puffed rice. 

I teaspoouful cream of 
tartar, 

Boil molasses, brown sugar and water together, when 
boiling hard add cream of tartar and butter. "When it 
drops brittle in cold water stir in quickly the puffed rice 
Avhich has first been crisped in the oven. Just before 
adding the rice stir in the soda. 

Spread thin on buttered tins. 



CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL 

Cut grapefruit peel in strips, then make a syrup of 
one cup of sugar to one-half cup of water; boil until 
sugar is dissolved, then drop in peel and cook until ten- 
der; remove and roll in sugar. This may be used as a 
confection ; it also makes a delicious seasoning for cus- 
tards, puddings, etc. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Quarter oranges deep enough to peel; cut (juarters 
lengthwise in narrow strips; can be soaked in water for 
ten days or boiled for fifteen minutes. 

Thick Syrup 

4 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup water. 

Simmer three hours on back of stove ; remove and 
put in colander; let colander drain into bowl. Keep 
syrup. Put granulated sugar in plate. Take pieces, one 
at a time, and roll in sugar while moist; put on dry 
plates. 

— 207 — 



208 



— 209 — 



— 210 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



BLACKBERRY BRANDY 

2 quarts blackberry juice, 1 pound sugar, 

1 tablespoonful grated 1 tciblespooiiful Ceylon cin- 
nutmeg, namon, 

1 tablespoonful ground 1 tablespoonfid ground 
allspice, cloves. 

Boil all together for one hour, when cold add one i)int 
best French brandy, cork well. Dose — One sherry glass 
full. 

COUan SYRUP 

4 ounces gum arabic, 1 pint whisky, 

2 ounces rock candy, 1 pint water, 

2 ounces. glycerine. 

Dissolve rock candy in Avater with the gum arabic on 
back of stove, add glycerine and whisky. 

HAIR TONIC 

J pint rosemary, 1 oz. tincture of cantliarides, 

4 ozs. cologne or bay rum, 1 oz. menthol. 
Apply after shampoo. 

FOR MOSQUITO BITES 

^ alcohol, Ji camphor, 

^ ammonia, lilix all together. 

HEALING SALVE 

^ pound resin, 3 ozs. camphor gum, 

j pound beeswax, yellow, 1 pound tallow or vaseline. 

Heat all together until dissolved, adding camphor 
last, strain through cheese cloth, stir until cold and 
smooth, put away in china .iars; can be kept any length 
of time. 

— 211 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



SALVE— FOR HEMORRHOIDS 

1 dram oxide of zinc, 1 drop attar of rose, 

1 oz. benzoated cerate. 

NERVE REMEDY 

1 ounce soda bromide, -i ounces aqua q. s. 

One teaspoonful in one-half glass of water, two or 
three times daily, when nervous. 

COUGH MEDICINE 

10c worth rock candy. 1^ pints Avater, 

10c worth licorice, | pint best brandy, 

2^c Avorth senna leaves. | pint honey, strained. 

Dissolve rock candy and licorice in the water with 
the senna leaves, over the teakettle ; strain and add the 
other ingredients. 

COUGH CURE 

1 oz. White Pine com- 2 ozs. syrup of tolu ad. 

pound, 

One teaspoonful every two to four hours. 

LINIMENT FOR STIFF NECK 

1 ounce tincture ofir., 1 ounce aqua ammonia, 

1 ounce tincture aconite, 2 ounces alcohol ad., 

1 ounce menthol. 

Local application. Mark "Poison." 

HAIR TONIC 

1 ounce rosemary, 6 ounces bay rum. 

Apply every few days with a brush. 

— 212 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



FOR DYSENTERY 

1 ounce bismuth subnit., 1 ounce syrup acacia, 
20 drops acid carbolic 6 ounces aqua cinnamon 

(Calvert's), i. q. s., 

8 ounces elix. codia sulpli. 

Dose — One to two teaspoonfuls every two to four 
hours. 

FURNITURE POLISH 

4 ounces of alcohol, 4 ounces linseed oil, 

I ounce balsam fir, ^ ounce sulphuric ether. 

Shake well before using and rub until perfectly dry. 
Use the top only for l)ad scratches and stains. Apply with 
canton flannel. 



REMEDY FOR FLATULENCE 

2 tablespoonfuls water, ^ teaspoonful aromatic 

spirits of ammonia. 

Take everv fifteen minutes .for four doses. 



RHEUMATISM NO. 1 

1 pint Holland gin, 5c worth poke root 

(pulverized). 

Dissolve in gin. One tablespoonful, three times a day. 
after meals. 

LINIMENT FOR LAMENESS IN ARMS 

10c worth best lard, 10c worth amtmonia. 

10c worth turpentine, 

Melt lard and mix together; rub on lame part. 

— 213 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



CHOLERA MIXTURE 

I oz. spirits of camphor. J oz. tincture of rhubarb, 
^ oz. spirits of peppermint. -J oz. tincture of capsicum. 
I oz. tincture of opium, 

Dose, one-half teaspoonful in water. 



FOR STIES 

Cold pressed castor oil. rubbed on the lids ; first pour 
in palm to heat a little before using. 

UROTROPIX 
I German Remedy by E. Schering for Bladder Trouble) 

Dose: Three tablets dissolved in half glass of water. 
Take three times, an hour apart ; start first after eating 
and last at bed time, i Four doses will not hurt you.) 

FOR RHEr:\IATISM 
Piperazine. $1.75 a bottle. 

HOW TO CLEAN GLASS BOTTLES AFTER VINEGAR, 
ETC.. HAVE STAINED THE INSIDE 

Take a raw potato, chopped fine ; put in bottle and 
shake well ; all particles will adhere to potato : wash well 
with soap and water. 

CLEANING FLUID 

1 part alcohol. 8 parts ether (Spells Ace). 

2 parts chlorofonn. 

:\IOTH POAVDER 

Equal parts of saltpeter, camphor and sulphur. 

— 214 — 



— 215 



216 — 



— 217 



218 



MENUS 



LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS 

Puree of Peas. 

Lobster Terrapin, (Jucuiiibers. 

Sweetbreads. Mushroom Sauce. 

French Peas. 

Sherbet. 

Quail, Lettuce Salad. 

Charlotte Russe, Cake. 

Nuts, Raisins, etc. 

Coffee. 



Chestnut Puree, Celery. 
Halibut Timbale, Pickles. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Fillet of Beef, Larded. 

Spinach Souffle. 

Sherbet. 

Ducks. Salad. Pickle Peaches. 

Strawberry Mousse, Cake. 

Coffee. 



Consomme Roj^ale. 

Salmon Timbale, Hollandaise Sauce. 

Chicken Cutlets, Cream Sauce. 

Raspberry Sorbet. 

Roast Grouse, Jelly, Sweet Potatoes. 

Cream Chicken Salad. 

Cheese Balls. 

Pineapple Fruit Ice Cream. Cake. 

Coffee. 

— 219 — 



MENUS 



Chicken Okra Soup. 

Fish, au Gratin. 

Mushroom Sweetbread Patties. 

Sherbet. 

Prairie Chicken, Potato Croquettes, Jelly. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Fruit Jell}^ and Whipped Cream, Cake. 

Coffee. Mints. 



Chicken Salad for 42 people, 2 gallons. 
Two gallons of brick ice cream. 
Four gallons of sherbet or sorbet. 
Two pounds almonds, 2 pounds mints for an evening 
supper of 80 people. 



220 



— 221 



222 — 



223 



— 224 



BUFFET LUNCHEON FOR 75 PEOPLE 



For salacl- 



16 quarts bouillon 



15 pounds chicken, 

12 large stalks celery or 3 dozen small ones, 

2 quart bottles olive oil, 

18 eggs, yolks. 

Mayonnaise dressing. 



1 turkey, 13 pounds, 
180 New York Counts, 

2 quarts cream sauce, 
large cake, 
small cake, 
quarts ice cream, 
pound tea. 



^ pound cocoa. 



2 cans mushrooms, 

6-i- dozen patty cases, 

2 pounds fancy cakes, 

2 pounds almonds, 

6 quarts sherbet (fruit), 

2 quarts plain cream, 

3 quarts milk, 

H pounds mints, 
6 lemons. 



225 - 



- 226 



CHAFING DISH SUPPER FOR 40 PEOPLE 



8 quarts bouillon, 

6 dozen frog's' legs, 1 quart cream, 

7 mallard ducks for salmi of duck, 1 pint sherry wine, 

20 stoned olives, 

1 tablespoonful extract of beef for coloring, 

150 New York Counts for frying, 

16 pounds of turkey or 1 baked ham, 

120 biscuits or rolls, 3 pounds butter, 

2 pounds coffee, 

3 pounds loaf sugar, 2 c^uarts coffee cream, 

1% pounds salted almonds, 1 bottle olives or pickles. 



MERINGUE GLACE 

4 dozen meringue shells, 

1 gallon any kind of ice cream to fill shells, 

2 pounds fancy cakes, 

1 larger cake and one loaf nut cake. 

Make the different things as I have described in the 

first of the book. 



SUPPER FOR ONE HUNDRED PEOPLE 

4^ gallons soup (clear, 16 cans peas, or 

velvet or asparagus), 13 gallons fresh peas. 

2 roasted hams (14 pounds 
each), 

— 227 — 



— 228 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



ICE CREAM 

(This may be used for most of the ice cream.) 
One and one-half cans of cream (not Eagle brand, but 
Pioneer, Carnation or Bear), same amount of water, one 
cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs — if it 
is possible to get them. Mix the cream and water and 
put on to boil; beat the eggs, sugar and flour together 
and stir into the cream; let boil for about twenty min- 
utes. Put away and cool, then add more sugar if desired, 
flavor, and freeze. 



COCOANUT ICE CREAM 

Grate two ripe cocoanuts and put half of what is 
grated into a quart of water and let stand for a couple of 
hours ; then squeeze in a vegetable press. Use this juice in 
place of plain water ; the other half of cocoanut add just 
before your cream is quite frozen. 



SALADS 



BANANA SALAD 



Carefully cut one strip off your banana; cut out in 
little cubes the meat ; mix with mayonnaise ; put back 
into the skin, which should resemble a little boat ; sprinkle 
rather thickly with peanuts. 



HEART OF THE COCOANUT TREE— SALAD 

There is no salad so delicious as the heart of the 
cocoanut tree, shredded very fine and served with mayon- 
naise. 

— 229 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



BAMBOO SHOOTS SALAD 

Obtain young bamboo shoots, boil and pour off the 
water four or five times until they are quite tender; put 
away to cool ; slice very thin. Serve with mayonnaise or 
French dressing, with a few celery seeds sprinkled on top. 



CANNED SALMON SALAD 

Drain a can of salmon; mix with mayonnaise, to 
which have been added two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
spinach, one tablespoonful of capers and one-half onion 
chopped very fine. A few anchovies may be added, but 
are not necessary. 



GARNISH FOR SALADS 

A couple of pounds of what are called black-eyed 
peas, put in w^ater to swell peas, and set in a dark place 
until the}^ have sprouted, and have sprouts about an inch 
long; wash very carefully and remove only those which 
may not have sprouted. Use as garnish around any salad. 
It will be found crisp and quite nice to eat. 



MANGOSTINE PRESERVES 

Hull the fruit and use pound for pound of sugar and 
fruit; cook until very thick. The great secret of this 
preserve is do not seed ; when cooked the seeds are like 
the most delicious nuts mixed all through the preserve. 
This fruit Queen Victoria gave a pound sterling for every 
fruit arriving in England in good condition. 

— 230 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 



SPANISH RICE 

Melt two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add two cups of cooked rice, four tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, five tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, a pinch of 
mustard, one teaspoonful chutney, salt to taste and few 
grains of cayenne pepper ; mix and beat thoroughly. Put 
in baking dish, sprinkle surface with browned bread 
crumbs and serve very hot. 



CURPtY, SHRIMPS, AND CONDIMENTS 

Grate one cocoanut, put in a quart of water, let stand 
tw^o hours and squeeze with vegetable press ; put one and 
a half tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add half an 
onion chopped very fine, six or eight Chinese mushrooms, 
which have been well soaked ; cover and fry a few 
minutes until onions are nearly done ; add part of the 
cocoanut water and one tablespoonful of Indian curry 
powder (Cross &Blackwell) ; let cook slowly. As liquid is 
needed, add cocoanut water; it should cook nearly an 
hour; add two cans of shrimps and cook five minutes. 
Serve with boiled rice and many condiments, grated 
cocoanuts, chutney (sw^eet mango is very good), Bombay 
duck, chopped onion, shredded lettuce, very thin omelet 
shredded, small pickled fish, etc; these should be served 
around the curry and rice in small dishes. An excellent 
way is to put the shrimps and curry in a large dish with 
rice border, and all the little dishes of the same size, and 
place all on large tray ; this gives the appearance of an 
English curry service. 



231 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



DRINKS— VERY COOLING 

Make a syrup of one cup of sugar and one pint oi 
water, boil ten minutes ; add one can of grated pineapple 
and the juice of three lemons, cool and strain ; Avhen 
readj^ to serve add one quart of ice water. 



ICE TEA 

I 

When tea is hot add three whole cloves for each cun 
of tea ; add cloves after tea has been poured off the leaves, 
and then put away to cool. 

II 

Pour the boiling water over crushed mint leaves and 
tea, and draw off the liquid and put away to cool. 



232 — 



TIME TABLES 



TIME TABLE FOR BOILING VEGETABLES 

Time 

Potatoes 20-30 min. 

String beans 20-30 inin. 

Lima beans 30-40 min. 

Peas 15-20 min. 

Spinach 15-20 min. 

Asparagus 20-25 min. 

Turnips 30 min. 

Beets 40 min. 

Green corn 20-25 min. 

Cabbage 20 min. 

Cauliflower 20 min. 

Brussels sprouts 10-15 min. 

Parsnips 30-40 min. 

Onions 30-40 min. 

Rice 15-20 min. 

Macaroni 20 min. 



TIME TABLE FOR BOILING MEATS 

Time 
per Pound 

Corned beef 30 min. 

Potted beef 30-35 min. 

Ham 20 min. 

Mutton 15 min. 

Turkey- 15 min. 

Chicken 15 min. 

Fowl 20-30 min. 

Tripe 3-5 hrs. 

— 233 — 



TIME TABLES 



TIME TABLE FOR MISCELLANEOUS BAKING 

Large fish about 1 hour 

Small fish 20-30 miii. 

Bread 1 hr. 

Biscuits 20 min. 

Cake 20-45 min. 

Custards, very slow oven 1 hr. 

TIME TABLE FOR BAKING IMEATS 

I nne 
per Pound 

Beef, rare 8-10 min. 

Beef, well done 12-15 min. 

Beef, boned and rolled 12-15 min. 

Beef, round 12-15 min. 

Mutton, leg, rare 10 min. 

Mutton, leg, well done 15 min. 

]\Iutton, loin, rare 8 min. 

Mutton, shoulder, stufi'ed 15 min. 

Mutton, saddle, rare 9 min. 

Lamb. ^\'ell done 15 min. 

Yeal 18-20 min. 

Pork 20 min. 

Venison, rare 10 min. 

Chicken 15 min. 

Goose 18 min. 

Braised meats 3-4 hrs. 

Fillet, hot oven 30 min. 

Liver, whole 2 hrs. 

Turkey, 8 lbs 1% hrs. 

Turkey, very large 3 hrs. 

Ducks, tame 45 min. 

Ducks, wild, very hot oven 15 min. 

Birds, small, hot oven 15-20 min. 

Partridge 35-40 min. 

Grouse 20-25 min. 

— 234 — 



TIME TABLES 

TIME TABLE FOR BOILING FISH 

Time 
per Pound 

Salmon 10-15 min. 

Codfish 6 min. 

Halibut 15 min. 

Bluefish 10 min. 

Bass 10 min. 

Haddock 6 min. 

Small fish 6 min. 

Lobster 30-40 min. 

TIME TABLE FOR BROILING I\IEATS AND FISH 

Time 

Steak. 1 inch thick 8-10 min. 

Steak, lVi> inches thick 10-15 min. 

Mutton chops, French 8 min. 

Mutton chops, English 10 min. 

Spring- chicken 20 min. 

Qnail 8-10 min. 

Grouse 15 min. 

Squabs 10-15 min. 

Shad, bluefish. and trout 15-25 min. 

Small fish 5-10 min. 

TABLE OF USEFUL MEASURES 

2 gills^l cup (teacup). 

2 cups=l pint. 

2 pints=l quart. 

4 cups flour=^=l pound or 1 quart. 

4 cups liquid=l quart. 

2 cups butter packed solidly^l pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar=l pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, solid and level=l ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar=l ounce. 

2 tahlpsnnnnfnle flmiT*=:1 ruiTipp 



2 tablespoonfuls flour==:l ounce. 



— 235 



236 



Modern Cooking Methods 

BY JOHN M. CONNELLY 

Advertising Manager Denver Gas CBb Electric 
Light Company 



Words fail utterly to describe Avhat gas fuel has 
done for womankind. Speech would be an inadequate 
vehicle to convey to the mind of the average person the 
revolution that has been brought about in the home and 
the emancipation of woman that has been evolved through 
that revolution. 

It has opened up for woman an ideal home with 
perfect service. She has been made acquainted w^th the 
best living, which means the doing of her work with 
ample leisure and opportunity for the hundred and one 
other things which broaden life's outlook. 

In the past the making of a home was synonymous 
with household slavery and drudgery. Today home-mak- 
ing is not even synonymous with housekeeping, the intro- 
duction of the gas range and electricity into the home 
making it possible for a maximum amount of work to be 
done in the minimum time. 

The contrast between the kitchen of today and 
yesterday is so marked that one can hardly believe that 
any one labor-saving agency could be made to so 
materially alter the conditions of womankind. 

The pictures that are called up by the contrast 
are, on the one hand, an overheated and dingy coal or 
wood kitchen, ashes, smoke, coal hods, back-breaking 
lifts and the passing of time, and a sooty, dust-begrimed 
housewife. On the other hand, one sees the new, modern 
gas kitchen with its compact and artistic range, and a 
housewife fresh and dainty-looking in a light frock pre- 
paring in a little while the family victuals which ordinarily 
would require hours of work and back-breaking labor. 

— 237 — 



Think for a moment of the saving in time and labor 
where fuel is always ready to burn at the turn of a valve, 
the striking of a match — no further attention, no waits, 
no preparation. 

Not many years ago the gas range was looked upon 
as a novelty and a luxury to be possessed only by those 
born with silver spoons in their mouths. Today it would 
be almost impossible to speak of the number of gas 
ranges that have been installed in the city without giving 
the number of homes there are in Denver. 

The gas range seemed the one thing to make the 
work of the modern woman progressive and up-to-date. 
And with the introduction of gas ranges they literally 
spread over the entire country ; no woman, regardless of 
her position in life, feeling that she could, in justice to 
herself or her family, do without one. 

The economy of the gas range, the cleanliness of the 
kitchen where one was installed, the saving in time and 
strength for the housewife, spoke for themselves. These 
factors in the bettering of the modern home and the 
advantages so received explain the wide popularity of the 
gas range and the refusal of any woman to be without one. 

The ease with which the gas range may be made to 
work is the first thing that has appealed to women. It 
is so easy that women who had been used to spending 
from ten to thirty minutes in building a coal fire didn't 
think that it was possible. Money wouldn't hire a woman 
who has once used a gas range to go back to a coal range, 
any more than a live business man would be tempted 
to go back to the old methods of doing his work b}^ hand 
instead of by electricity. 

The three words ''Cook AYith Gas" suggest an 
absolutely new plan of kitchen work. It means that the 
drudgery of kitchen work is reduced to less than one- 
half. It means that the tired housewife is given a breath- 
ing spell and a chance to rest and recreate herself. 

Cooking Avith gas means more than those things, hoAV- 
ever ; it means that cooking has been reduced to a domestic 
science and an art. You cook better and quicker on a 
gas range than on any coal or wood stove that can be 
bought. 

— 238 — 



Boiling, frying, stewing, are all done on one range 
top with the right fire under each article to do it in the 
right way. No preparation is necessary, no waits are in 
order, the thing is done in a moment. 

And the strangest thing is that cooking with gas 
with all its advantages costs less than cooking with any 
other fuel. Actual tests show that gas is one-third 
cheaper than coal. And the reason for that is obvious, 
for in cooking with gas, a fire is not kept burning until 
you get it right and as long as you need to keep it right. 
A gas fire is right the instant that it is lit and does not 
have to be kept burning. 

For baking, a gas range is ideal ; it is the quickest 
and best way. With gas, stove worry is out of the ques- 
tion ; the whole time of the housewife can be given to 
the baking. Baking days come and go as a matter of 
course, and do not mean a long day of shutting oneself 
up with a fiery hot range that takes a whole lot of time 
to get it ready, and a great deal more time to keep it 
fired up. A match is struck, a valve is turned, and baking 
is in order. The oven is ready, the fire being neither too 
hot nor too cold, but just right to bake evenly and 
thoroughly light, flaky bread, cakes, or pastry. 

Another feature of the gas range that makes it 
superior to any other is the special oven for broiling. 
Gas does broiling quicker and better than coal or charcoal, 
none of the nutritious elements are lost, the full force 
of the heat being directed against the broil. Then, too, the 
broiler can be used for toasting. 

A gas range is always ready, morning, noon or night. 
From every point of view gas is superior to a coal or 
wood stove. It will do everything that any other fuel 
would do, and do it with less cost, less labor, less time, 
and BETTER RESULTS. 

And to the home that has been fully blessed with 
the benefits and advantages of the gas range have been 
added other labor-saving devices, introducing electricity^ 
as a servant in the home. With the gas range and the 
number of electrical cooking appliances on the market 
today, no woman need be a household drudge. 

— 239 — 



The modern housewife looks upon electricity as a 
hausehold commodity. Electrical cooking appliances 
mean to her personal comfort, household convenience, 
and labor saving. The electrical household conveniences 
that today add to the comfort of every home include the 
coffee percolater. bread toaster, and egg cooker that make 
of breakfast a pleasure for the woman who does her own 
cooking as well as the family for whom she cooks. Hot 
coffee, warm toast, and eggs shirred just right, are the 
breakfast dishes that take but a moment to prepare by 
way of cooking electrically. The chafing dish, the kettle, 
the grill, the samovar, the milk warmer, and the electric 
fireless cooker are the other labor-saving devices intro- 
duced to make the work of the kitchen a household joy 
and not a household drudgery. 

Xot a v\'oman in Denver today avIio has not made of 
"Electricity" a friend ever ready to serve her economi- 
cally and quickly. 



— 240 — 



«•'-:■ 



