■■■ 



LEFT-OVERS 



How to Cook Odds and Ends of 
Food into Appetizing Pishes 



m m ii r iwii i .nwu—w ii w aMiii p ii— «Wfc l u itt u im^l 



ISABEL 
GORDON 

CURTIS 



■Hifli^H 



ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

i. OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 



Left-overs made palatable.How to cook od 




3 1924 003 579 475 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003579475 



Left - Overs 

Made Palatable 

How to Cook Odds and Ends of 
Food Into Appetizing Dishes 



A Manual of Practical 
Economy of Money, Time 
AND Labor in the Prep 

ARATION AND USE OF FoOD 



BASED on actual results by man^ of the best 
cooks and housekeepers, every recipe Kaying 
also been tested at the New England Cooking 
School, by some of the ablest experts, or by the author 

Associate Editor of the Good Housekeeping- Magazine 

Orange JuDD Company 

NEW YORK : NimtxBir Hvmdked a»d FinsBH 



6^ /Ie6\/ 



COFYRXGHTKD I90I 

by 

ORANGE JUDD COMPANY 

All rights reserred 



Printed in I). S. A. 



Contents 





Introduction. 




CHAP 


A Few Rules to Be Observed. 


PAGE 


I. 


Left-Overs of Fat 


I 


II. 


Stale Bread 


8 


III. 


Cold Coffee 


28 


IV. 


Cereal Left-Overs 


34 


V. 


Sour Milk 


46 


VI. 


Cold Potatoes ... . . 


61 


VII. 


Vegetables 


70 


VIII. 


Sauces and Sundry Additions to Rechauffes 


86 


IX. 


Beef 


94 


X. 


Cold Veal 


IIS 


XL 


Cold Lamb ...... 


120 


XII. 


Pork and Ham 


I2S 


XIII. 


Poultry 


132 


XIV. 


Fish 


145 


XV. 


Stale Cake 


153 


XVI. 


Cheese 


157 


XVII. 


Left-Over Fruit 


163 



List of Illustrations 



FIG. 

Class at the New England Cooking School 

1. Brown and White Sandwiches 

2. Rice with Date Sauce 

3. Rice Croquettes .... 

4. Creamed Macaroni on Toast 

5. Brown Bread Steamed in Pound Cans 

6. Doughnuts and Fried Leavings 

7. Pear-Shaped Potato Croquettes 

8. String Bean Salad 

9. Croquettes and Cutlets 
ID. Pressed Meat with Cucumber Garnish 

11. Mound of Lamb with Peas 

12. Cheese Straws and Rings 



PAGE 

Frontispiece 

3 

37 
40 

44 

48 

S3 

67 

77 

91 

109 

121 

158 



Introduction 

WHAT shall I do with the left-overs?" is a problem 
that faces every housekeeper at least once a day. The 
cook books on a kitchen shelf aid her slightly, but 
few suggest anything more than salads, croquettes and hashes. 
There are unclassified recipes that call for sour milk, cold 
potatoes or stale bread, but one finds every day in the 
refrigerator of a careful cook other remains which seem almost 
hopeless because they are small in quantity and varied in 
number. For such perplexed housewives this book has been 
prepared. Before beginning to compile these recipes, I turned 
for suggestions to a number of women who had repute as 
good and economical cooks. I also began a course of training 
at the New England Cooking School of the Good Housekeep- 
ing Institute, giving special attention to the dainty and most 
appetizing methods of serving left-overs. Under the guidance 
of Miss Stella A. Downing, the efficient principal of the school, 
the widest variety possible of rechauffes were prepared. 
Standard recipes were adapted to certain food remains, while 
new recipes were tested and improved, from them the best 
have been culled. These recipes are not merely a compilation, 
they represent beyond recent work the accumulated knowledge 
of years of housekeeping and careful management, also every- 
day aid from good housewives in all parts of America, such as 
one must acquire in a decade of editorial work dealing with 
household problems. 

In writing of how to use left-overs, one must necessarily 
allow for the judgment of the cook. There may be small 
left-overs in your refrigerator which did not happen to be in 
mine at the preparation of a cei tain dish — that does not pro- 
hibit their use if the combination of one food with another i; 
not an outrage on the palate. This is of special application to 
salads and croquettes, where oftentimes the choice of ingre- 
dients is limited only by what is on hand. This book simply 
endeavors to show how to make palatable, both for hot and 
cold weather, the remains from every meal. To its teachings 
add common sense and aid in setting aside the verdict of Ian 
Maclaren that the American housewife is the most wasteful 
cook in the world. 



A Few Rules to be Observed in 

Cooking from Recipes 

in This Book 

\ LL measurements are level. A cup 
is the glass measuring cup marked 
with thirds and quarters. When it 
is full it is leveled off smoothly with a dry 
knife. When flour is to be measured in 
cupfuls, sift it, then lift with a spoon into 
a cup. Do not shake or press it down, 
simply make it full, then run a spatula 
. over the top to level it. A tablespoonful 
of butter is measured in the same way. 
A tablespoonful of melted butter means 
butter melted before measuring. One 
cup of cream, whipped, means> cream 
measured before whipping. Whipped 
cream requires measuring after being 
whipped. 




BT LKVEI. MEASUBBUBBT 



Left- Overs of Fat 

DO NOT throw away scraps of fat. The grease 
that accumulates on top of soup stock, bits 
of suet from roasts and steak, sausage and 
bacon drippings, the fat on top of the gravy from 
a roast, even mutton drippings,- which some cooks 
despise, can be saved and converted into a pail 
of drippings that will do all sorts of excellent 
service. Keep a fat jar as you do a receptacle 
for stock pot materials. See that it is scrupulously 
clean and set it in a cool place. Empty it twice a week 
in summer and once in winter. Take all the scraps, 
put them through ;. meat chopper and set over the fire 
in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. 
Let them cook till the fat is melted and the water almost 
evaporated. Strain and press all the fat from the 
scraps. When this forms into a solid cake, lift it off, 
put with it any fat that requires clarifying and do it 
altogether. Pour over it a pint of boiling \yater, add 
a teaspoon of salt and boil it uncovered for an hour. 
Set the saucepan where it will cool as quickly as pos- 
sible and lift the cake of fat as soon as it hardens. 
Scrape the sediment from the bottom, melt again, let- 
ting all the water cook out of it. Strain through two 
folds of cheesecloth, and the fat will be ready for 
frying. If only a teacup of fat is added to this supply 
once a week, it will save the buying of fat for frying 
purposes, even in a large family. Keep it clean by 
straining carefully every time it is used. 



2 Left-Overs 

Keep in another jar a different supply of fat, the 
fine flavored drippings of pork or beef for frying pota- 
toes and various foods that call for sauted treatment. 
If it is very brown or holds water in it, treat to a 
boiled bath as for frying fat and you will have a dish 
of drippings that excels even the traditionally fine 
quality of salt pork. When fat becomes too dark for 
frying, and pieces accumulate which are not fit to add 
to the frying material, clarify it occasionally and save it 
for soap grease. A ten-cent can of lye and the accu- 
mulation of two months' unavailable fat will make 
sixteen pounds of excellent soap, suitable for laundry, 
cleaning and sink purposes. Half an hour's work will 
accomplish the job and you will have a pan full of a 
fine, firm white jelly ready to be cut into cakes. 



Small Aids for the Thrifty Housewife 

If the end of a beefsteak has been blackened 
during the broiling process, and you wish to convert it 
into a mince or stew, simply wash it by pouring boiling 
water over it. 

If a recipe calls for a cup of left-over gravy, 
and there is not such a thing in the refrigerator, make 
a substitute by stirring into a cup of boiling water a 
teaspoon of beef extract. 

When you want a spoonful of onion juice, cut the 
vegetable in two and press it in a lemon squeezer kept 
specially for this purpose. If you need only a few 
drops, cut a slice from the onion and scrape t. e surface 
three or four times with a sharp knife, holding it over 
the dish you wish to flavor. If you want a teaspoon 
of chopped onion, cut a slice from one end, then hold 
it in your left hand while with a vegetable knife you 
cut into it for a half inch, first one way, then the other. 



Made Palatable 3 

Slice off the onion that has been cut, it will be in very 
fine cubes. 

Grow a box of parsley in the kitchen window all 
winter long and find a corner for it outdoors in the 
summer. A pinch of parsley in the cooking and a few 
sprigs of it as a garnish are the very finish of some 
tasty rechauffes. 

When a dish that has a liberal garnishing of 
parsley is removed from the table, put each green sprig 
in ice water to revive if wilted and lay away wrapped 
in wet muslin, to be used again as a garnish or in 
cooking. 




BROWN AND WHTTT5 SANDWICHES 



When you add dried macaroons, chopped nuts or 
dry brown bread crumbs to ice cream, allow one cup 
of the crumbs to one quart of cream. 

Chop all meat for sandwiches, and if there is too 
little of one sort to be used, combine with any other 
left-over, provided it is of a flavor that makes a good 
combination. Chicken, veal, ham, sweetbreads and 
tender white pork may be used together. Meat used 
in slices, as in old-fashioned sandwiches, cannot be 



4 Left-Overs 

well seasoned. Minced, it can be mixed with mayon- 
naise, softened butter, cream or stock, and the season- 
ing may consist of anything, lemon, chopped pickles, 
celery or olives, a spoonful of fnustard and lemon juice, 
a drop of tabasco or onion extract, grated horse-radish, 
vinegar, catsup, chives, parsley or grated cheese. The 
seasoning is limited only by taste and the ingredients 
on the pantry shelves. Nothing is too humble to be 
transformed into a delicious sandwich. Morsels of 
meat or fish can be chopped and rubbed to a paste, even 
one hard-boiled egg, with several tablespoons of meat, 
will make half a dozen excellent sandwiches. The 
secret lies in fine seasoning and dainty service. 

When buttering pans, Dario molds, cake tins, or 
anything which requires greasing, use a small, flat 
bristle paint brush. It costs ten cents, and if kept 
clean will last for years. 

Cold soda biscuits can be dipped quickly in water 
and heated through, or they may be sliced thinly, 
toasted crisply and served with coffee. Cold muffins 
are good split and toasted. Cold johnnycake, sliced 
thin, makes a sweet crisp toast for breakfast. 

Do not throw away the salt left in the ice cream 
pail after freezing. Pour it into a colander, shake the 
water from it and leave it there till it dries, then return 
to the bag to be used again. You will be surprised to 
find nearly a pint of salt saved after the freezing of a 
couple of quarts of cream. 

If you have no fat at hand in which to fry cro- 
quettes, roll them pyramid shaped, set them on their 
broad base in a baking pan, pour a tablespoon of melted 
butter over each one and bake in a hot oven till crisp 
and brown. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes 
to cook them. 

Keep constantly in the refrigerator a wide- 
mouthed glass jar with mayonnaise or a boiled salad 



Made Palatable 5 

dressing. It can be made with some left-over yolks 
of eggs in an odd quarter of an hour while you wait 
for something to bake or stew, and the convenience of 
it can be realized only when the supply is out. 

Wash eggs before using them, then save the shells 
for clearing coffee or soup. Four eggshells, to which 
something of the albumen clings, are enough to clear 
one pot of coffee. The crushed eggshells are capital 
for cleaning the insides of cruets or any bottle with a 
narrow neck. 

One is often puzzled to think of ways of utilizing 
the whites or yolks of eggs when the other part has 
been used. If making boiled custard, salad dressing 
or anything which calls for only yolks, plan to make 
either a snow or white cake, meringues for puddings 
or pies, frosting, etc. Soft-boiled eggs may be boiled 
again till hard, and the yolks mashed and seasoned and 
used in sandwiches, or served plain in meat and fish 
sauces, salads or soups ; the whites may be put into the 
stock kettle or used as a garnish for all sorts of dishes. 
Dropped eggs, bits of omelet and otner cooked eggs 
may be used in egg sauce, soup, stufifing, or in made- 
over fish or meat dishes. — Mrs. Mary Woodbridge. 

Sometimes yolks of eggs are left over when mak- 
ing a dish which calls for only whites; drop them 
gently in a bowl of cold water if you do not need them 
immediately. They will not spoil if they stand for 
several days. Handle them carefully so they will 
not break. 

A cold fried egg chopped and seasoned makes a 
good sandwich. Children like an oyster sandwich 
made by putting cold stewed oysters between buttered 
crackers. — H. Annette Poole. 

When you serve a baked bean salad, accompany 
it with olive or anchovy sandwiches. 



6 Left-Overs 

Before making a chicken salad, let the pieces 
before being cut stand in some chicken or white stock 
for a few hours. It will make it deliciously moist and 
tender. Roast or boiled chicken, or even a bit of 
canned chicken, can be treated in this way and 
improved. 

A pint of new potatoes, too small to serve in pre- 
sentable fashion, may be boiled, skinned and covered 
with a white sauce or allowed to cool and served whole 
as a potato salad with a few shredded chives sprinkled 
over them. 

If the liquor about olives gets emptied accidentally, 
make a fresh brine of salt and water and replace the 
olives in their bottle. 

A pinch of ground cloves in a warmed-up meat 
dish is often a pleasing addition. Nutmeg is the spice 
to use with poultry. 

In making hash, never stir with a spoon, it makes 
the mixture disagreeably pasty. Toss lightly with 
a fork. 

Save the skins of particularly fine oranges and 
lemons, they may be very easily candied at home and 
save buying an expensive item in cooking. Use the 
skins in two halves as when you cut them to extract 
the juice on a lemon squeezer. When you have a 
dozen or so on hand, drop them in boiling water and 
cook for half an hour, changing the water three times 
before they are done. When ready you can pierce 
them with a straw. i\Iake a sirup of equal parts of 
sugar and water. Cook the skins in it till they grow 
transparent and you have a thick sirup. Drain the 
skins on a plate, then roll in pulverized sugar and set 
in a cool oven to dry. Save the sugar into which the 
sirup changes to flavor and sweeten sauces for pud- 
dings or fritters. Keep the lemon and orange ipeel 
packed in a fruit can with a close lid. When using 



Made Palatable 7 

peel, cut it in fine strips with a scissors. You will find 
it much easier to use than a knife. 

Save the oil from good sardines ; a tablespoonful 
of it gives an agreeable flavor to a brown sauce for 
heating sardines and it economizes on butter. 

A slight flavor of onion is almost a must-have in 
hot dishes prepared from cold meat. 

Rubbing the inside of the salad bowl or fork with 
a cut clove of garlic or onion will give r.U the flavor 
desirable where the least flavor possible is desired. 

If you cannot allow soup stock time enough to 
cool and the fat to harden, remove fat with absorbent 
cotton. Roll it in a tiny pad, dip it deftly across the 
top of the soup and the fat will be absorbed. If there 
is much fat, several bits of cotton may be necessary 
to clear it. 

When you begin to grow tired of a watermelon 
that refuses to be eaten up, chop it coarsely, add a cup 
of sugar and a few tablespoons of sherry and transform 
it into one of the most luscious of sherbets. 

Before you fry cold potatoes, dust them with flour. 
They will taste better and brown better. 

One of the most successful transformations of a 
plain omelet into a delicious dish is the pouring over 
it when cooked a cup of hot white sauce containing a 
cup of green peas. 

A cup or two of blanc mange enriched with 
eggs and well flavored may be made into a delicious 
pudding. Reheat it in the double boiler and press into 
a half-pound buttered baking powder can. When 
required cut in inch thick slices, roll till dry in flour, 
egg, crumb and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with 
a wine sauce. 

Save the blanched, crisp feathery tops of celery. 
They make the most sightly of garnishes. 



Left-Overs 



II 
Stale Bread 



Brown Bread Brewis 
Steamed Bread 
Toasted Sandwiches 
Toast 

Spider Browned Bread 
Sandwiches in Cream Sauce 
White Bread Brewis 
Bread Crumb Buckwheat 

Cakes 
Brown Bread Cream Toast 

with Cheese 
Fried Bread 
Milk Toast 
Brown Bread Saute 
Tomato Toast 
Bread Griddlecakes 
Bread Crumb Omelet 
Bread Roulettes 
Bread Sauce 
Mock Bisque Soup 
English Monkey 
Bread Croquettes 
Dressing for Baked Fish 



Potato and Bread Stuffing 
for Fowl 

Roast Goose Stuffing 

Spanish Dressing 

Giblet Stuffing 

Orange Pudding 

Walnut Pudding 

Lemon Meringue Pud- 
ding 

Prune and Bread Pudding 

Apple Custard Pudding 

Plum Pudding 

Fig Pudding 

Orange Marmalade Pud- 
ding 

Scalloped Apples 

Bread Pudding with Rasp- 
berry Sauce 

Apple Dowdy 

Crusty Apple Pudding 

Chocolate Souffle 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

Cocoanut Pudding 

Plain Cracker Pudding 

Cracker Fritters 



Made Palatable 9 

A CAREFUL housewife plans to keep in stock 
the smallest amoiint possible of stale bread, and 
of that stock not a morsel is consigned to the 
garbage pail. There is economy in adopting the Eng- 
lish fashion of bread cutting, placing the loaf on a 
wooden trencher with a keen knife and cutting at the 
table each slice as it is required. 

Look carefully to the stale bread remains of each 
day. Keep a wire basket, set in a tin pan in the pantry, 
to receive all scraps left on plates, toast crusts or 
morsels from the bread jar. Never put them in a cov- 
ered pail or jar, they will mold. Save all soft inside 
parts of a loaf to be used as soon as possible for crou- 
tons, or croustades, slices or cubes for toast and toast 
points, and soft scraps for meat and fish dressings, 
puddings, omelets, scalloped dishes, griddlecakes, 
souffles, croquettes and the numerous dishes for which 
stale bread may be utilized. 

For stuffing for poultry, fish, spareribs, veal or 
game it is often possible to use the dry "heels" and 
crusts by soaking and adding to them a portion of dry 
crumbs. The scraps which can be used in no other 
way may be saved for crumbing. When the basket 
becomes full, put the bread in a pan and set in a mod- 
erate oven with the door open. Never allow these 
crusts to grow more than a golden brown. The 
browner crumbs are, which are used as a covering for 
croquettes, etc., the less frying they will stand. Before 
a croquette rolled in very brown crumbs is heated to 
the heart, it will appear almost burned. When the 
scraps of bread are thoroughly dry, roll them on a 
board or put through the meat chopper, using the 
finest knife. 

If there are children in the family who like " rusk," 
the old-fashioned New England name for browned 
crumbs sprinkled into cold milk, reserve the coarser 



lo Left-Overs 

crumbs for this purpose. Sift through a fine sieve, 
and the crumbs which fall, no larger than corn meal, 
may be put away to be used for crumbing purposes. 
Save the rusk in the same way, keeping it always 
uncovered. If the air is not allowed free circulation 
into the can, the crumbs will spoil. When rusk is used, 
heat it slightly in the oven. After croquettes h?-"e 
been crumbed, scrape together all the fine crumbs left 
on the board and sift, returning what is dry to the can. 

Bread crumbs are always preferable to cracker 
crumbs in covering anything which has been dipped 
in egg. Cracker crumbs do not brown well. In the 
recipes in this book, stale bread and crumbs are spoken 
of in a distinctive fashion. Dried bread crumbs are 
those which are rolled and sifted, suitable for crumb- 
ing, but not for use in puddings or scallops, for they 
would absorb too much moisture. Stale crumbs are 
made from odds and ends of stale bread, rubbed on a 
grater or crumbled fine. They must be used at once 
or they will mold. 

Stale bread that is broken and unsightly can be 
used for brewis, bread puddings, or in scallops. 
Toast or steam all that can possibly be used in such 
a way. Remove crusts before toasting. It makes a 
dish more sightly, and the crusts can be dried for 
crumbs or worked into a dressing. Slices of bread 
too ragged to be toasted may be trimmed into dia- 
monds, fingers, oblongs, rounds or triangles for 
canapes. Cut smaller pieces in dice, narrow strips or 
squares for croutons. Fry for forty seconds in hot 
fat, or butter lightly and brown in the oven. They 
are an attractive accompaniment for thick soups. 

Toast that will cut into Vandykes or long points 
can be utilized for surrounding dishes of spinach, 
Brussels sprouts, asparagus or green vegetables served 
in a mold. Dishes au gratin will use many of the dry 



Made Palatable II 

bread crumbs. Instead of dotting the crust with mor- 
sels of butter, melt the butter in an omelet pan, two 
tablespoons of butter to one-half cup of crumbs, and 
toss lightly with a fork till every morsel is buttered. 
Brewis, steamed bread and toasts of a large variety are 
some of the changes to ring in the daily menu, and 
they can be made so appetizing that a family has no 
suspicion it is aiding to keep the bread jar in good 
condition. 

BROWN BREAD BREWIS 

2 cups stale brown bread 
i cup stale white bread 
I tablespoon butter 
2|- cups milk 

For this dish use the smallest odds and ends of the 
bread, crumbling the larger portions into inch pieces. 
Put the butter in a spider. Allow it to melt, but not 
brown, and put in the bread. Pour the milk over it 
and simmer, stirring occasionally to keep the bread 
from sticking to the pan. Season with a dash of salt 
and white pepper. Serve hot. 

STEAMED BREAD 

Into the middle of a large steamer with a close 
fitting lid set a cup or bowl inverted and around it 
arrange slices of stale bread you wish to steam. Do 
not allow them to touch the side of steamer or they will 
become water-soaked. Fit the steamer tightly into 
the mouth of a kettle of boiling water. The bread will 
be ready in a few minutes. In taking it out turn the 
lid over instantly to prevent water dripping on the 
bread. Butter each slice and arrange on a hot plate 
with a napkin over them. Stale biscuit or rolls may 



12 Left-Overs 

be steamed in the same fashion or sprinkled with cold 
water and set for a few minutes into a hot oven. 

TOASTED SANDWICHES 

Often after a picnic or entertainment a housewife 
has a number of bread and butter sandwiches left, too 
stale to serve. They may form the basis of a bread 
pudding or they make an attractive dish for breakfast, 
luncheon or supper in the shape of toasted sand . iches. 
Do not take them apart, lay them between the wires 
of a toaster and hold over a clear red fire. The butter 
will melt and the inside be left soft, warm and buttered, 
with the outside a crisp, golden brown. 

TOAST 

Trim the crusts from stale slices you wish to toast 
and move it carefully over a clear red fire for two 
minutes. Then turn it over and let all the moisture be 
drawn out of the bread. Butter and serve immediately. 
Toast may be utilized, especially for breakfast, in all 
sorts of ways. Plain toast is a favorite in most house- 
holds, then there is milk toast, cream toast, dropped 
eggs on toast, water toast, and the excellent dish of 
bread soaked in egg and milk which has all sorts of 
names, French, Spanish, German and Scotch toast, 
but more properly egged toast. At the luncheon and 
dinner table toast appears in all forms, under chicken 
and with such vegetables as asparagus and spinach, 
under minced meats, fricassees and creamed mixtures 
or in the delicate canape. 

SPIDER BROWNED BREAD 

Take several slices of stale bread cut rather thick, 
cut off the crusts and butter them on both sides. Lay 
them in a dry, hot spider over a rather slow fire and 
pover with a tight lid. When one side has browned 



Made Palatable 13 

delicately, turn and brown the other. They will be 
crisp outside, yet soft inside. 

SANDWICHES IN CREAM SAUCE 

Sandwiches left over are not usually very inviting, 
but they may be made so by this method. Warm them 
slightly in the oven, and to every three sandwiches 
made from chicken, veal or tongue, make a white sauce 
with one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, a dash of pepper and one 
cup of milk cooked until thick. Then add the yolk of 
one egg well beaten. Pour this over the sandwiches 
and serve at once. — Miss Ella E. Woodbridge. 

WHITE BREAD BREWIS 

Heat a pint of milk in a double boiler. Stir 
into it enough bits of stale wheat bread to absorb all 
the milk. Season with a little butter and salt. If 
should not be pasty or sloppy, but will be a light dry 
porridge. It is a favorite with children, especially if 
served on a small pretty saucer and dotted with bits 
of bright jelly. Serve hot. — H. Annette Poole. 

BREAD CRUMB BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

^ cup stale bread crumbs 

2 cups milk 

■J teaspoon salt 

i cake compressed yeast 

if cups buckwheat flour 

I tablespoon molasses 

J teaspoon soda 
Scald the milk and soak the crumbs for a half 
hour. Add the salt, yeast and buckwheat flour and let 
it stand over night. In the morning, stir in the molas- 
ses and soda melted in a spoonful of warm water. Beat 
briskly for a few minutes and bake on a hot greased 
griddle. 



14 Left-Overs 

BROWN BREAD CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE. 

2 tablespoons butter 
I tablespoon flour 

I cup milk 

I cup grated cheese 

I cup cheese 
Make a white sauce from the milk, butter and 
flour, when it boils add the grated cheese and well- 
beaten egg. Cook slowly till mixed, then add a cup 
of cheese cut into small cubes. Season with salt and 
cayenne and pour over slices of toasted brown bread. 

FRIED BREAD 

3 slices stale bread 

1 ^gg 

6 tablespoons milk 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

Cut the bread into fingers three inches wide and 
the length of the slice. Beat the egg slightly, add 
the milk. Dip the bread in the mixture. Put the oil 
in a spider and allow it to grow quite hot. Drop the 
bread into it and saute till brown. Drain on soft paper. 
Arrange log cabin fashion and serve it with a sweet 
liquid sauce or maple sirup. 

MILK TOAST 

6 slices stale bread 

2 cups milk 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 

2 tablespoons butter 
Dry the bread thoroughly in the oven, then toast 
over a clear fire to a golden brown. Heat the milk in 
the double boiler, add the butter, and when scalding 
hot, the cornstarch moistened in cold milk. It ought 
to be like a milk sauce. Lay the toast on a hot platter 
and baste each slice with the sauce. Serve very hot. 



Made Palatable 



15 



BROWN BREAD SAUTE 

Cut the crusts off round slices of Boston brown 
bread with a large cooky cutter. Fry bacon in a spider 
and put it on a hot platter when crisp. Then lay the 
bread into the bacon fat and saute on both sides. Serve 
a crisp curled slice of bacon on each brown round. 

TOMATO TOAST 

l^ cups strained tomato 

^ cup scalded milk 

|- teaspoon soda 

3 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

i teaspoon salt 

6 slices toast 
Make a tomato sauce from the butter, flour and 
tomato, add the soda and salt, then the milk. Dip the 
toast in the sauce. Serve hot. 

BREAD GRIDDLECAKES 

i^ cups scalded milk 

i^ cups stale bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 eggs 

■J cup flour 

^ teaspoon salt 

3^- teaspoons baking powder 
Pour the hot milk and the melted butter over the 
crumbs and soak until they are soft. Add the well- 
beaten eggs, flour, salt and baking powder. Cook on 
a griddle like cakes. 

BREAD CRUMB OMELET 

I cup stale bread crumbs 

1 cup milk 

3 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 



i6 Left -Overs 

Soak the bread crumbs for half an hour in the 
milk. Add the yolks of the eggs beaten till thick and 
lemon-colored. Pepper and salt to taste, then put in 
the whites of the eggs whipped to a dry froth. Cook 
in the melted butter and serve like an omelet. 

BREAD ROULETTES 

I cup Stale bread crumbs 

^ cup milk 

I egg 

Dash salt 

I teaspoon parsley 
Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Mix with 
the egg and seasonings. Form into tiny balls, flour, 
egg, crumb and fry in hot fat. 

BREAD SAUCE 

J cup Stale bread crumbs 
ij cups scalded milk 

1 tablespoon butter 
Pepper and salt 

^ cup browned crumbs 

Pour the hot milk over the stale crumbs and cook 
in a double boiler for twenty minutes. Add the butter, 
pepi>er and salt. Put a tablespoon of butter in an 
omelet pan and in it brown one-half cup of dry crumbs. 
Pour the sauce about game, timbales or anything you 
wish to serve with it, and on the top sprinkle browned 
hot crumbs. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

ij cups canned tomatoes 

2 teaspoons sugar 
Half an onion 

6 cloves 

Sprig parsley 

l^ teaspoons soda 



Made Palatable i7 

Quarter bay leaf 

2 cup stale bread crumbs 

4 cups milk 

J teaspoon salt 
I teaspoon pepper 

5 tablespoons butter 

Scald the milk with the bread crumbs, onion, pars- 
ley, cloves and bay leaf, and rub through a sieve. 
Cook the tomatoes with the butter for fifteen minutes, 
add the soda and rub through a sieve. Reheat the 
bread and milk to the boiling point. Add the tomatoes. 
Season with salt, pepper and butter and pour into 
a tureen. 

ENGLISH MONKEY 

I cup Stale bread crumbs 
I cup milk 
I tablespoon butter 
I cup grated cheese 

1 egg 
Paprika 
Salt 

6 slices toast 

Soak the crumbs for twenty minutes in the milk. 
Put a tablespoon of butter in a granite saucepan. Add 
the cheese. When it melts, pour in the bread and 
milk, the egg thoroughly beaten, and seasonings. Stir 
thoroughly. When the mixture is smooth and creamy 
serve on delicately toasted crustless slices of bread. 

BREAD CROQUETTES 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
I cup hot milk 

Grated rind i lemon 
■J cup currants 
•| teaspoon cinnamon 
Yolks 2 eggs 



i8 Left-Overs 

Boil the breaa crumbs lOr two minutes in the hot 
milk. Add the lemon, currants, cinnamon, and re- 
move from the fire. Beat in the yolks of the eggs. 
Cool. Form into croquettes. Crumb and fry in 
hot fat. 

DRESSING FOR BAKED FISH 

1 cup Stale bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon minced parsley 
^ teaspoon minced onion 

i teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

2 tablespoons water 

I teaspoon each capers and olives chopped 

fine 
I teaspoon tomato catsup 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Moisten the bread crumbs with the water and 
melted butter. Add the seasonings. Mix thoroughly. 

POTATO AND BREAD STUFFING FOR FOWL 

2 cups mashed potato 

I cup stale bread crumbs 
5 tablespoons melted butter 
I tablespoon sage 

1 egg 

Mix together the potato, bread crumbs and sea- 
soning. Moisten with the butter and beaten egg. 

ROAST GOOSE STUFFING 

lo apples 

f cup currants 

^ cup raisins 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
I egg 

I teaspoon cinnamon 
Pare and quarter the apples, steam them with the 
raisins and currants. When cooked, beat hard for five 



Made Palatable 19 

minutes, then stir in the crumbs, the beaten egg and 
the cinnamon. 

SPANISH DRESSING 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
I tablespoon butter 
I teaspoon minced onion 
I teaspoon chopped parsley 
■^ teaspoon salt. 

Sage, thyme and summer savory 
Juice and grated peel i lemon 
Pour enough hot water over the bread crumbs to 
moisten them. Add the butter and seasonings. 

GIBLET STUFFING 

Chicken giblets 

I slice salt pork 

I cup stale bread 

6 small oysters 

I teaspoon powdered sage 

I tablespoon butter 

Salt and pepper 
Cook the giblets slowly with the salt pork in a 
pint of water. When tender, put through the meat 
chopper. Soak the bread in the liquor in which the 
giblets were cooked, add the chopped meat, oysters, 
butter and seasonings. 



Puddings 

The variety of puddings into which stale bread 
enters is endless. It begins with the old-fashioned 
economical pan-dowdy and ends with the Queen of 
Puddings, rich in jam and lovely in meringue. For 
puddings use only stale bread or crumbs, rejecting 
crusts. Do not add the oven-dried crumbs, or you 



20 Left-Overs 

will have a pudding as tough as a doormat. Left- 
overs of fruit, fresh berries, peaches, plums, goose- 
berries, apples, prunes, apricots, almost anything can 
help to enrich a bread pudding. A cupful of canned 
or stewed fruit or a few spoons of jam or marmalade 
gives a morsel of delicious flavoring. The good cook 
uses common sense and the material she has at hand. 
If a recipe calls for red raspberries and she has nothing 
but dried apples, she can season them with spices, and 
the dessert will be a success. The base of any bread 
pudding light as a soufifle and large enough for a 
family of four consists of one cup of stale bread 
crumbs, two cups of milk and one egg. This may be 
enriched by almonds, chocolate, nut meats, raisins, 
currants and peel or fruit of any description. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

i^ cups stale bread crumbs 
I cup cold water 
I cup sugar 

1 cup orange juice 
Juice half a lemon 

2 eggs 

1 tablespoon melted butter 
i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
i teaspoon orange extract 

Soak the crumbs in the water for twenty minutes, 
then add the sugar, orange and lemon juice, the yolks 
of the eggs slightly beaten, the butter and salt. Beat 
till thoroughly mixed, pour in a buttered dish and 
bake in a moderate oven till the pudding is firm. 
Allow it to cool slightly and cover with a meringue 
made from the whites of the eggs, the sugar and the 
orange flavoring. Brown delicately and serve hot 
or cold. 



Made Palatable 21 

WALNUT PUDDING 

Meats from 12 English walnuts 

1 cup stale brown bread crumbs 

2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 

3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald the milk in a double boiler and add to it the 
crumbs and chopped walnut meats. Allow the mix- 
ture to simmer gently for five minutes. Take from 
the fire. When cool, stir in the yolks of the eggs 
beaten with the sugar. Add the vanilla and the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour in a buttered 
mold and bake for thirty minutes. Serve hot with a 
wine sauce or hard sauce. — Miss Margaret Bailey. 

LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING 

2 cups Stale bread crumbs 

2 cups cold water 
I lemon 

I cup sugar 

3 eggs 

^ cup chopped suet 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Soak the crumbs in the water for thirty minutes, 
then add the juice and grated rind of the lemon. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs till thick and lemon-colored, add 
the sugar and suet and mix thoroughly. Add the other 
ingredients. Bake for an hour. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a dry froth and make a meringue with 
three tablespoons of powdered sugar. Heap lightly 
on top of the pudding, dust with powdered sugar and 
brown delicately. Serve with a liquid sauce. 



22 Left-Overs 

PRUNE AND BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups prunes 

8 slices buttered bread 

2 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk 

Nutmeg 

Soak the prunes over night, and in the morning 
remove the stones. Cover the bottom of a buttered 
baking dish with a layer of buttered bread cut in wide 
fingers. Cover with the prunes and a dust of nutmeg 
and sugar. Put in another layer of buttered bread, 
then prunes with sugar and nutmeg. Let the crust 
be bread with the buttered side up. Beat the eggs 
well, add the milk and pour over the pudding. Bake 
for an hour, covering the pudding with a plate for a 
half hour, then leaving it uncovered to crust. Serve 
with a hard sauce or lemon sauce. 

APPLE CUSTARD PUDDING 

2 cups pared and quartered apples 

I cup stale bread crumbs 

4 tablespoons sugar 

I tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon butter 

I egg 

^ lemon 

^ cup water 
Put the apples with the water in a granite sauce- 
pan and cook till the fruit mashes easily. Remove 
from the fire, add the sugar, butter, and the grated 
rind and juice of a lemon. Mix the flour with the 
bread crumbs and stir into the mixture. Beat the egg 
till it is light and add it last. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve hot with hard sauce. 



Made Palatable aj 

PLUM PUDDING 

I cup suet 

I cup raisins 

I cup currants 

^ cup citron and candied orange peel 

I cup sugar 

3 cups stale bread crumbs 

4 eggs 

■^ cup milk 

4 tablespoons brandy 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

■J teaspoon each of allspice, cloves and 
nutmeg 

Grated rind i lemon 
Chop the suet very fine. Seed the raisins. Slice 
the citron and orange peel, mix with the currants, 
sugar and bread crumbs, moisten with eggs well 
beaten, milk and brandy, then add the seasonings. 
Pour into a buttered mold. Steam four hours and 
serve with brandy sauce. 

FIG PUDDING 

I cup chopped figs 

J cup finely chopped suet 

1 cup chopped apple 
J cup brown sugar 

^ cup stale bread crumbs 
i cup milk 

2 eggs 

I cup flour 
To the suet add the sugar, apple and figs. Pour 
the milk over the bread crumbs, and add the yolks of 
the eggs well beaten. Combine the mixtures, add the 
flour and the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff. 
Turn into a greased pudding mold and steam 
four hours. 



24 Left- Overs 

ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING 

I cup Stale bread crumbs 
I cup orange marmalade 
^ cup chopped suet ^ 

I teaspoon baking powder 
I cup flour 
^ cup sugar 

1 egg 

i^ cups milk 

Toss the dry ingredients together. Add the suet 
and marmalade, then stir in the milk and egg. "Beat 
for five minutes. Pour into a buttered mold, cover 
tightly and steam for two hours. 

SCALLOPED APPLES 

6 large tart apples 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
2 tablespoons molasses 

^ cup hot water 

Pare the apples and cut in generous slices. Into 
a buttered baking dish put a layer of bread crumbs, 
then a layer of the sliced apples and a top layer of 
crumbs. Add the hot water to the molasses and pour 
it over the pudding. Bake for twenty minutes. 

BREAD PUDDING WITH RASPBERRY SAUCE 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 

2 cups milk 

3 eggs 
Salt 

Soak the crumbs for half an hour in the milk. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs till thick and lemon-colored 
and add to the soaked crumbs with a pinch of salt. 
Cut in the'whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
and bake, setting in a pan of hot water in a moderate 



Made Palatable 25 

oven for forty minutes. Put no sugar in this pudding; 
the sauce suppHes all the necessary sweetness. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar 
1 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup red raspberries 
Juice I lemon 

Cream the sugar and butter together. Mash the 
fruit and beat in with the sugar and butter. Add the 
lemon juice and beat till very light and frothy, 

APPLE DOWDY 

i loaf stale brown bread 
8 large tart apples 
■J teaspoon cinnamon 
i cup dark brown sugar 
^ cup cold water 

2 tablespoons butter 

Cut the bread in thin slices and pare off the crusts. 
Butter each slice. Lay them into a buttered baking 
dish till it is neatly lined. Inside put the apples, pared 
and sliced, the sugar, cinnamon, a dust of salt, and 
pour over all the water. Cover the top with the bread, 
buttered side up. Bake slowly for an hour. Serve 
hot with a liquid or a hard sauce. 

CRUSTY APPLE PUDDING 

8 large tart apples 

^ cup sugar 

i cup seeded raisins 

Citron and lemon peel 

J cup water 

I cup stale bread crumbs 
Pare the apples and core them. Set them in a 
deep granite baking dish. Fill the space from which 
the cores were cut with bits of shredded lemon and 



26 Left- Overs 

citron peel, sugar ana seeaed raisins. Pour over them 
the water, dust hghtly with salt and granulated sugar 
and bake in a moderate oven till nearly tender. Take 
them from the oven and sprinkle over the top a thick 
crust of buttered bread crumbs and another dust of 
sugar. Allow them to bake for ten or fifteen minutes, 
or till the crumbs brown. Serve with wine sauce. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 

2 cups scalded milk 
I square chocolate 
A cup sugar 

1 egg 
Dash salt 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Pour the milk over the crumbs and allow them to 
swell for half an hour. Melt the chocolate in a bowl 
in the mouth of a boiling kettle, add to the sugar and 
scrape it into the soaked bread, beating well. Add the 
salt, vanilla and egg slightly beaten. Turn into a but- 
tered di.sh and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve hot. 

BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM 

2 cups sifted brown bread crumbs 
I quart vanilla ice cream 

Dry the brown bread in the oven and put it 
through the meat chopper, using the finest knife. Sift 
it and use only the finest portion, which is like corn 
meal. Add it to any vanilla cream mixture and freeze. 
The result is something not imlike macaroon cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

3 eggs 

4 cups milk 

I cup broken crackers 



Made Palatable 27 

^ cup sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

i cup grated cocoanut 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and the white of one 
till very light, pour the milk over the crackers and let 
them swell slightly. Add the eggs, sugar, cocoanut 
and vanilla. Pour into a buttered baking dish and set 
in a pan of warm water before putting in the oven. 
Test the pudding as you would a custard, by running 
a silver knife in the center. If the knife comes out 
clean, the pudding is cooked. Watch the pan of 
water and do not allow it to boil ; add cold water when 
it grows too hot. Beat the whites of two eggs to a 
dry froth, add two tablespoons of powdered sugar and 
heap the meringue on the pudding when it comes from 
the oven. Sprinkle with grated cocoanut and set it in 
tlie oven to brown lightly. Drop bits of currant jelly 
here and there over the top just before serving. This 
pudding is as good cold as hot. 

CRACKER FRITTERS 

2 cups broken crackers 
4 eggs 

I cup milk 

Pepper and salt 
Soak the crackers in the milk, add seasoning and 
beaten eggs. Beat thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls in 
boiling fat and fry brown. Serve with lamb chops. 

PLAIN CRACKER PUDDING 

Put broken crackers into a small pudding dish 
till iialf full and pour over them enough hot milk to 
cover. Lay a plate on top to let the crackers swell 
and set them in a warm place for two hours, then they 
will be almost like a jelly. Serve cold, heaped over 
with whipped, sweetened cream flavored with vanilla 
and dotted with morsels of currant jelly. 



28 Left-Overs 

III 

Cold Coffee 

Mocha Cream Frosting Coffee Jelly 

Coffee Cream Sauce Coffee Filling for Cake 

Coffee Sponge Walnut Coffee Cake 

Cafe Parfait Coffee Frosting 

Coffee Mousse Coffee Cake 

Coffee Frappe Coffee Ice Cream 
Frozen Coffee with Cream 

WHEN the coffee pot leaves the dining table, 
pour the coffee through a strainer and a double 
thickness of cheesecloth. If only a few table- 
spoons of the clear, brown liquid remain it is 
enough for flavoring some delicate dessert. If it cannot 
be used at once, keep it in a corked bottle in the 
refrigerator. In hot weather, when iced coffee is one 
of the most refreshing drinks, left-over coffee need 
never go a-begging. The daintiest way to serve it is in 
goblets with a few shavings of ice and a spoonful of 
whipped cream floating on top. When it is to be used 
as a chilled beverage, sweeten it while hot and let it 
cool several hours before using. If well chilled, it will 
require less ice and thus lose less of its strength. 

MOCHA CREAM FROSTING 

I cup butter 

I cup sugar 

\ cup strong coffee 



Made Palatable 29 

Cook the coffee and sugar together till a thick 
sirup is the result. Cool it. Cream the butter till 
very light and white. Beat slowly into the sirup. 
This is used for a fiUing and frosting for layer sponge 
cake. The cream is thick enough to retain its form, 
and is generally forced through a pastry bag when a 
much ornamented cake is desired. 

COFFEE CREAM SAUCE 

Yolks 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 

Dash salt 

I cup strong coffee 



cup thick cream 



Beat the yolks slightly, add four tablespoons sugar 
and the salt. Pour on the coffee and cook in a double 
boiler until you have a thick custard. Pour in the 
cream beaten stiff. Allow it to grow quite cold and 
serve with vanilla ice cream. 

COFFEE SPONGE 

i| cups strong coffee 

I cup sugar 

^ cup milk 

|- cup water 

I tablespoon gelatine 

^ teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 

^ tablespoon vanilla 
Mix the coffee, milk, half of the sugar and the 
gelatine, soaked for half an hour in the water, and heat 
in a double boiler. Add the rest of the sugar, salt and 
the yolks of the eggs slightly beaten. Cook until the 
mixture thickens. Remove from the stove and add 
the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff and dry, then 
the vanilla. Pour into a wet mold, chill on ice. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



30 Left-Overs 

CAFE PAUFAIT 

I cup milk 

i cup strong coffee 

Yolks 3 eggs 

Salt 

I cup sugar 

3 cups thin cream 

Scald the milk and coffee together, and add half 
the sugar. Use this mixture for making a custard 
with the eggs, salt and the rest of the sugar. Add one 
cup of cream and let it stand for half an hour, then 
cool and strain. Add the remainder of the cream 
and freeze. 

COFFEE M0US.se 

4 cups thin cream 

I cup strong cold coffee 

1 cup sugar 

1 1 tablespoons gelatine 

2 tablespoons cold water 

3 tablespoons hot water 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve it in 
boiling water. Add the coffee and sugar. Set in a 
pan of ice water, stir until it begins to thicken, then 
fold in the whip from the cream. Put in a mold, cover, 
pack in ice and salt and let it stand for four hours. 

COFFEE FRAPPE 

4 cups strong coffee 
^ cup sugar 

I cup cream 

Pour the coffee over the sugar and stir till it 
melts. Add the cream. Freeze, stirring it occasion- 
ally. Serve in sorbet glasses. If you wish you may 
make the frappe from the clear, sweetened coffee and 
serve with a spoonful of whipped cream in each glass. 



Made Palatable 31 

eOFFEE JELLY 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatine 
^ cup cold water 
I cup boiling water 
i cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 cups cold coffee 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling 
water, strain and add to the coffee, sugar and lemon 
juice. Turn into a mold and chill. 

COFFEE FILLIXG FOR CAKE 

1 cup hot milk 

i teaspoon butter 

2 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

-| cup very strong coffee 
Beat the yolks until thick and lemon-colored. 
Add the sugar and cornstarch, then the milk and 
butter, and cook until it boils. Add the coffee. Re- 
turn to the double boiler and cook until thick. When 
cool, fill the cake and cover it with a coffee frosting. 

WALNUT COFFEE CAKE 

■^ cup butter 

I cup sugar 

^ cup strong coffee 

if cups flour 

2^ teaspoons baking powder 

Whites 3 eggs 

f cup walnut meats, broken in pieces 
Cream the butter, gradually add the sugar, and 
beat until white and frothy. Pour in the coffee. Sift 
in the flour with the baking powder, add the walnut 
meats, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in a deep pan and ice with coffee frosting. 



3a Left-Overs 

COFFEE FROSTING 

Add to a cup of confectioner's sugar as much 
strong coffee as will give you the consistency of cake 
frosting. Flavor with half a teaspoon of vanilla. Beat 
till very smooth, then spread on the walnut coffee 
cake. Garnish with halves of English walnuts. 

COFFEE CAKE 

■| cup butter 
2 cups sugar 

4 eggs 

2 tablespoons molasses 
I cup strong coffee 
3^ cups flour 

5 teaspoons baking powder 
I teaspoon cinnamon 

J teaspoon mace 
^ teaspoon allspice 
f cup raisins 

1 cup currants 
^ cup citron 

2 tablespoons brandy 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, the milk and coffee, then the 
flour, with all the dry ingredients sifted in, the raisins, 
currants and citron rolled in flour, and the brandy, 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Frost with coffee icing. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

2 cups milk 

ij cups sugar 

2 tablespoons flour 

i teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

2 cups cream 

^ cup cold strong coffee 



Made Palatable 23 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Pour it over 
the flour, salt, sugar and well-beaten eggs, and stir till 
the sugar is dissolved. Return to the double boiler 
and cook till the custard coats the spoon. When cold, 
add the coffee and cream, then freeze. 

FROZEN COFFEE WITH CREAM 

4 cups cold coffee 

i^ cups sugar 

Whites 2 eggs 

2 cups cream 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

I teaspoon vanilla 
Add the beaten whites of the eggs and the sugar 
to the coffee, freeze till stiff. Pack. When ready to 
serve, whip the cream, sweeten slightly and stir in one 
cup of it to the coffee. Reserve the rest to put in a 
frothy mound on top of each sorbet cup. — Mrs. Ashley. 



34 



Left-Overs 



IV 



Cereal Left-Overs 



Rice with Cheese Crust 
Rice with Cheese 
Rice Griddlecakes 
Rice with Date Sauce 
Rice Waffles 
Rice Gems 
Rice Bread 

Rice and Corn Meal Muf- 
fins 
Cream Rice Pudding 
Rice and Apple Pudding 
Rice Croquettes 
Oatmeal Muffins 



Farina Muffins 
Fried Mush and Bacon 
Fried Mush 
Hominy ^luffins 
Hominy in Cream Sauce 
Hominy Griddlecakes 
Macaroni and Celery 
Savory Macaroni 
Creamed Macaroni on 

Toast 
Macaroni and Chicken 
Macaroni a la Italiene 
Macaroni Croquettes 



THE appetizing dishes which may be evolved from 
a small left-over of any cereal are many. By 
cereals I include every description of breakfast 
food, rice, macaroni, hominy or oatmeal. Even a few 
spoonfuls of well-cooked cereal can be utilized in gems 
or griddlecakes or can be fried in butter and eaten hot 
with maple sirup. Set it away carefully, covering 
tightly. 

An excellent plan is to keep three baking powder 
tins, a quarter, half-pound and pound size, for this 
purpose. The variety in size will fit the amount of 
the left-over. Brush the can inside with butter, pack 
in the cereal while hot and cover. When needed, slip it 
out of the can, cut in one-half-inch slices and roll in 



Made Palatable 35 

llour to dry. Dip in egg and crumbs and fry in smell- 
ing hot fat. Eat with maple sirup. Cream of wheat,, 
mush, hominy, wheatena, Quaker oats, iiaked rice, 
farina, Pettijohn, Ralston's food, wheatlet, indeed any 
of the large variety of cooked breakfast foods can be 
made palatable in this way. 

If the left-over only amounts to a cupful, combine 
it with flour as given in oatmeal muffins and you will 
have a most satisfactory hot breakfast bread. Served 
with bacon these second-day preparations of cereals 
form a very nice relish. 

The uses of cold rice cannot be enumerated. There 
are so many methods of transforming it into most 
attractive dishes that many housewives while preparing 
hot rice for the table, cook a double portion and reserve 
it for various uses. A cup of rice is a pleasant addi- 
tion to many hot breakfast breads. It may be made 
into delicious puddings, fritters, pancakes, mixed with 
a cup of cold tomato or even left-over tomato soup, 
well seasoned, sprinkled with cheese and buttered bread 
crumbs and baked till brown, when it appears as a 
palatable entree. It can be utilized for croquettes, drop 
cakes, for a thickening to soups and stews, it may be 
curried, worked into left-over meat dishes, and even 
changed into ice cream. 

Macaroni and spaghetti left-overs make good 
rechaufifes. With the addition of a few spoonfuls of 
milk or water, cold macaroni cooked in white sauce 
or spaghetti which made its first appearance in tomato 
sauce may be reheated in the double boiler, a spoonful 
of each put in a ramekin dish, then covered with grated 
cheese and baked. 

RICE WITH CHEESE CRUST 

2 cups cold boiled rice 
I cup milk 



36 Left-Overs 

2 eggs 

Pepper and salt to taste 
I cup grated cheese 
I tablespoon butter 

Put the rice in a double boiler and cook it in the 
milk till smooth and soft. If there are any lumps in 
the rice, beat with a wire whisk. Add the well-beaten 
eggs and the salt and pepper. Pour into a shallow 
baking pan, sprinkle the cheese lightly over the top, 
dot with morsels of butter and bake till the top is deli- 
cately brown. This makes a nice entree. 

RICE WITH CHEESE 

3 cups cold rice 

I tablespoon butter 
Dash cayenne and salt 
I cup grated cheese 

1 cup milk 

^ cup buttered cracker crumbs 

Reheat the rice in a double boiler. Butter a pud- 
ding dish and cover the bottom of it with the rice. 
Dot it with scraps of butter. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese, cayenne and salt, and repeat until the rice and 
the cheese are used up. Add the milk, cover with the 
buttered cracker crumbs and bake twenty minutes. 

RICE GRIDDLECAKES 

^ cup cold rice 
2^- cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 
^- teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons sugar 
i^ cups milk 

2 tablespoons melted butter 



Made Palatable 



37 



Sift together the dry ingredients. Work in the 
rice with the tips of your fingers. Add the well-beaten 
egg, milk and butter. Beat well. Cook on a griddle. 



RICE WITH DATE SAUCE 



Take cold rice, put it in a double boiler with a 
little milk and let it steam till the milk is absorbed. 
Sweeten to taste and add a dash of nutmeg. Press 
the rice into buttered cups. Turn out and serve hot 




BICE WITH DATE SAUCE 

individually with a lemon sauce in which cut dates have 
been stewed for a few minutes. This makes a nice 
dessert. 

RICE WAFFLES 

if cups of flour 

f cup cold rice 

li cups cold milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

7} teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon melted butter 

I egg 



38 Left-Overs 

Sift the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. 
Work in tlie rice with the tips of the fingers. Add 
the yolk of the egg, well beaten, milk, butter, and last 
of all the white of egg beaten stiff. Cook on hot 
waffle irons. 

RICE GEMS 

I cup milk 

I tablespoon melted butter 

I cup cold rice 

1 cup flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
J teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs till light, add the milk and butter. 
Beat the rice with this until smooth, then sift in the 
salt, flour and baking powder. Bake twenty minutes 
in hot gem pans. 

RICE BREAD 

2 eggs 

I tablespoon melted butter 

I cup cold rice 

I cup white com meal 

^ cup flour 

I teaspoon baking powder 

J teaspoon salt 

i^ cups milk 

To the yolks of the eggs beaten well, add the milk 
and butter, rice, corn meal and flour. Whip thor- 
oughly, add the salt and baking powder and last the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into 
shallow pans, allowing the batter to spread only an 
inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
Cut into squares when baked and serve hot." 



Made Palatable 39 

RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

-J cup white corn meal 
-| cup flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup cold rice 
1 1 cups milk 

2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 
Sift the dry ingredients together, rub the rice in 
lightly with the tips of the fingers till every grain is 
separated. Beat the yolks of eggs till thick, mix with 
the milk, pour over the dry ingredients and beat well. 
Add the melted butter and at last the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a dry froth. Bake in a hot oven. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING 

2 tablespoons cold boiled rice 

3 tablespoons sugar 
Yolk I egg 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 cups milk 

■J teaspoon vanilla 
Put the milk with the cold rice in a double boiler, 
add the sugar and salt. When it boils, add the corn- 
starch wet in a few tablespoons of cold milk. Just 
before it is ready to take from the fire, add the egg and 
flavoring. Eat cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. Robert 
Ashley. 

RICE AND APPLE PUDDING 

8 large tart apples 
-J cup chopped raisins and citron 
2 cups cold rice 
^ cup sugar 
Pare and core the apples, set them closely together 
in a deep baking dish and fill the hollows from which 



4.0 



Left-O vers 



the cores were cut with, chopped raisins and citron. 
Dust with sugar and nutmeg. Fill in all the spaces 
to the top of the dish with the rice and cover with 
a plate. Set it in the oven. In fifteen minutes uncover 
and bake fifteen minutes longer, allowing the rice to 
crust delicately. Serve warm with whipped cream. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

I J cups cold rice 
^ teaspoon salt 
Yolks 2 eggs 
I tablespoon butter 




BICB CROQUETTES 



Put the rice in a double boiler with a little milk and 
let it cook till the rice has absorbed the milk. Remove 
from the fire, add the beaten egg yolks and butter and 
spread on a plate to cool. Shape into balls, roll in 
crumbs, then dent with the finger till the croquette is 



Made Palatable 41 

like a small nest. Dip in egg, then in crumbs again, 
fry in deep fat and drain. Serve hot with a cube of 
jelly in each nest. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

I cup scalded milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 

^ teaspoon salt 

i yeast cake dissolved in 

^ cup warm water 

I cup cold cooked oatmeal 

2|- cups flour 
Scald the milk and add to it the sugar and salt, 
as soon as it grows lukewarm add the yeast. Work 
the flour into the oatmeal with the tips of the fingers 
and add to the milk. Beat thoroughly, cover and 
allow it to rise over night. In the morning pour into 
greased iron gem pans and set in a warm place to rise. 
Bake for half an hour. 

FARINA MUFFINS. 

1 cup cold farina 

2 cups flour 

3 eggs 

^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
f cup milk 

Sift the dry ingredients together and work in the 
farina. Add the butter, milk and yolks of the eggs, 
at the last minute the beaten whites of the eggs. Pour 
into greased gem pans. Bake twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. 

FRIED MUSH AND BACON 

Cook slices of bacon in the spider. Lift them 
out and lay on a hot plate. Cut cold mush in neat 



42 Left-Overs 

slices, dip in flour, egg and crumbs. Fry in hot fat till 
brown and crisp on both sides. Drain on soft paper 
and serve with the bacon. This makes a delicious 
breakfast dish. 

FRIED MUSH 

If there is an}- corn meal mush left from break- 
fast do not scrape it in cold spoonfuls into a bowl; 
reheat and allow it to become smooth, then pour into 
a square cake tin, calculate the amount of mush to the 
size of the tin, so it will make a cake two inches in 
depth. Cover when it cools and set in the refrigerato.. 
When it is needed for breakfast or supper, cut into 
squares about four inches in size and'roll them in flour 
till quite dry. Drop into smoking hot fat and fry brown. 
Drain and serve hot with maple sirup. 

HOMIXV MUFFINS 

I cup cold hominy 
4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup scalded milk 
3 tablespoons sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 

^ yeast cake dissolved in 

|- cup lukewarm water 
Warm the hominy in a double boiler and break 
it into grains in a mixing bowl. Add the butter, milk, 
sugar and salt. When it is lukewarm stir in the yeast 
and enough flour to make a thick batter. Let it stand 
over night. In the morning fill gem pans two-thirds 
full, set to rise in a warm place and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

HOMIXY IN CREAM S.\UCE 

2 cups cream sauce 
2 cups cold hominy 



Made Palatable 43 

Make. a cream sauce and into it stir the hominy. 
Reheat in a double boiler and serve very hot instead 
of potato. 

HOMINY GKIDDLECAKES 

i cup cold hominy 
2 eggs 

2 cups sour milk 
i^ teaspoons soda 
2 cups flour 
-} teaspoon salt 

Warm the hominy and mix with it the well-beaten 
eggs. Sift in the flour and salt, alternating with a 
half cup of milk, till the mixture is ready to beat, at 
last stir in the soda dissolved in a tablespoon of warm 
water. Bake on a hot greased griddle. Eat vith 
maple sirup. 

MACARONI AND CELERY 

I cup cold boiled macaroni 
I cup celery 

1 cup white sauce 

^ cup buttered bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 

■J cup grated cheese 
Cut the celery into inch long pieces and boil for 
teri minutes in salted water. Drain and lay in a dish 
with the macaroni stirred lightly through it. Over it 
pour the white sauce, season with salt and pepper. 
Sprinkle over the top the buttered crumbs and grated 
cheese. Bake till the top is a delicate brown. 

S.WORY MACARONI 

• 2 cups cold macaroni 

2 tablespoons butter 
Pepper 

Salt 
Paprika 



44 



Left-Overs 



Melt the butter in an omelet pan. Put in the maca- 
roni, dust with pepper, salt and paprika. Let it brown 
slightly, tossing it with a fork while it cooks. Serve 
very hot as a side dish, sprinkled with grated cheese. 

CREAMED MACARONI ON TOAST 

I J tablespoons butter 
I tablespoon flour 
I cup milk or cream 
Salt and pepper 
I cup cold macaroni 
^ cup grated cheese 
6 slices toast 




CBEAMED HACABONI ON TOAST 



Make a white sauce in a double boiler from the 
butter, flour and milk. Chop coarsely the macaroni, 
add it to the white sauce and allow it to cook for ten 
minutes. Pour over the buttered toast, dust liberally 
with grated cheese. Set on the top shelf of the oven 
for a few minutes and serve very hot. 



Made Palatable 45 

MACARONI AND CHICKEN 

i^ cups cold chicken 

i^ cups macaroni 

1 1 cups cold tomato sauce 

^ cup buttered crumbs 
Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of macaroni, 
then a layer of cold chicken cut in small strips, then 
a few spoons of tomato sauce. Repeat in the same 
order till the dish is full, making the top layer maca- 
roni. Cover with the crumbs and bake till the top is 
brown and crusty. No seasoning is given in this recipe, 
because usually tomato sauce is well flavored. 

MACARONI A LA ITALIENE 

I cup cold macaroni 

1 cup cold tomato sauce 
^ cup grated cheese 

^ tablespoon buttered crumbs 
Reheat the macaroni in a double boiler. Pour 
over it the tomato sauce. Cover with the cheese and 
buttered crumbs. Bake in a quick oven. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES 

2 tablespoons butter 
4 tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 
Yolk I egg 

2 cups chopped macaroni 
2 tablespoons cheese 
Pepper and salt 

If the macaroni is the remainder of a dish of 
tomato and macaroni or a well-seasoned cheese dish, it 
will be all the more tasty. Make a thick sauce from 
the flour, butter and milk, beat in the egg and cheese. 
Mix thoroughly, spread to cool, flour, egg, crumb and 
fry. Serve very hot with tomato sauce. 



46 



Left-Overs 



Sour Milk 



Woodlawn Brown Bread 

Sunday Morning Loaf 

Steamed Graham Loaf 

Sour Milk Biscuit 

Corn Gems 

Whole Wheat Muffins 

Graham MufiSns 

Corn Muffins 

Spider Corn Cake 

Buckwheat Gems 

Indian Griddlecakes 

Rice or Hominy Griddle- 
cakes or Muffins 

Mother Johnson's Pan- 
cakes 

New Engfand Cooking 
School Doughnuts 

Gingerbread 

Sour Cream 



Soft Molasses Ginger- 
bread 

Whole Wheat Ginger- 
bread 

Ai Gingerbread 

Election Cake 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

Sugar Cakes 

Drop Ginger Cakes 

Indian Pudding 

Brandywine Inn Pudding 

Savory Pudding 

Corn Fritters 

Sour Cream Pie 

Mushrooms in Sour 
Cream 

Cottage Cheese 

Salad Dressing 



T 



HE use of sour milk has been handed down to 
us from our great-grandmothers, who had 
nothing but its lactic acid and the strong soda 
obtained from wood ashes to raise their biscuits, 
cookies and gingerbread. The art — and it was an art, 
as anyone will attest who remembers Dutch oven deli- 
cacies — has been stiperseded by the baking powders of 
to-day. Still, even now a good cook craves sour milk 



Made Palatable 47 

for certain good things. Nothing can take its place in 
Boston brown bread or in cookies and gingerbread. 
A few of the best of these old-fashioned recipes are 
gathered together here. 

Milk or crefam used for baking is best when it 
sours quickly and docs not separate, but remains thick 
and smooth. The usual measurement to use in every 
recipe where lightness is desired is one level teaspoon 
of soda to two cups of sour milk or one cup of molasses. 
Sometimes the milk is sour, but not loppered ; then use 
it in gingerbread or brown bread, where there is 
molasses enough to complete the acidity, or let it stand 
for a few hours in a warm place to lopper. The more 
acid the milk is, the more soda it will require. Never 
use milk which has turned bitter or moldy. 

The only recipe in this volume which is an 
exception to the rule, and where cream of tartar adds to 
the raising quahties of sour milk, is the New England 
Cooking School doughnut. Miss Downing's expia- 
tion for setting aside a time-honored rule is that 
doughnuts have to be so light that the cream of tartar 
is added to make sour milk sourer, then more soda is 
used to neutralize it. The result is the best, although 
the most economical doughnuts, to be found in any 
cook book. If 3^ou are lucky enough to possess sour 
cream, cut down in each recipe two tablespoons of 
butter to one cup of sour milk, else the mixture will 
be too rich. 

WOODLAVVN BROWN BREAD 

2 cups sour milk 

1 egg 

3 cups graham flour 

2 teaspoons soda 
^ cup molasses 

^ teaspoon salt 



48 



Left-Overs 



If the graham flour is very coarse, sift it and throw 
away the bran. Add the salt, pour in the molasses, 
milk, beaten egg and the soda dissolved m a little 
water. If you desire bread that is not very dark or 
sweet, use two tablespoons of molasses and one tea- 
spoon of sugar. Steam for two and one-half hours in 
pound baking powder cans. Give it three hours if 
steamed in a quart pail. — Mrs. Edward C. Smith. 




BBO"\VW BREAD STEAMED IX POt'XD CA2(S 



SUNDAY MORNING LOAF 

2 cups graham flour 
I cup wheat flour 
I cup Indian meal 
I teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 

2 teaspoons soda 
^ cup cold water 

I tablespoon melted lard 
I cup sour milk 
i^ cups sweet milk or water 
Sift the dry materials together, add the molasses, 
lard, soda melted in the water, and milk. Beat thor- 



Made Palatable 49 

oughly. Pour into a buttered mold and steam for 
three hours. This makes two medium-sized loaves. 
In New England these are called Sunday Morning 
loaves, because they are generally made Saturday 
night and put in the oven for half an hour next morn- 
ing to serve with the traditional baked beans. They 
keep for one or two weeks and may be heated for 
use at any time. 

STEAMED GRAHAM LOAF, 

3 cups graham flour 

1 cup wheat flour 

2 teaspoons soda 
I teaspoon salt 

I cup molasses 
2-1- cups sour milk 

Sift the dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, 
beat well and turn into a buttered mold. Steam three 
and a half hours. This mixture, cooked in one-pound 
baking powder cans, will make four loaves, which can 
be reheated when required. Place the cans on a frame 
in a kettle containing boiling water. Steam three 
hours. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT 

4 cups sifted pastry flour 
I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups sour milk 
I tablespoon lard 

I tablespoon butter 

Sift the dry ingredients with the tips of the fingers 
and rub in the shortening. Pour the milk in gradu- 
ally. Toss the dough on a floured board, pat and roll 
out. Cut in small rounds and bake in a hot oven. 



^o Left-Overs 

CORN GEMS 

2 cups yellow cornmeal 
i cup flour 
4 tablespoons sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 

4 tablespoons melted butter 
2 cups sour milk 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Add the milk, 
well beaten eggs and butter, and beat thoroughly. 
Pour into the buttered gem pans and bake in a 
hot oven. 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS 

I cup whole wheat meal 

1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 

5 teaspoon soda 
i^ cups sour milk 

2 tablespoons melted butter 
I egg 
Sift the dry ingredients together, mix with the 
beaten egg, milk and butter. Bake in hot gem pans. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

I cup graham flour 

ij cups flour 

I cup sour milk 

^ cup molasses 

f teaspoon soda 

I teaspoon salt 
Sift the dry materials. Add the milk to the 
molasses and beat well. Bake in hot greased gem 
pans in a hot oven. 



Made Palatable 51 

CORN MUFFINS 

I cup corn meal 

I cup flour 

I tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 
-J teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 

I J cups sour cream 
Sift the dry ingredients, mix with the beaten eggs 
and sour milk. Beat well, pour into buttered muffin 
rings and bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE 

I cup corn meal 
^ cup flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon soda 

■| cup sour milk 
^ cup sweet milk 

2 tablespoons butter 

Sift the dry ingredients together and mix them 
with the well-beaten egg and milk. Beat thoroughly. 
Melt two tablespoons butter in an iron spider and pour 
the mixture into it. Pour half a cup of sweet milk 
over the top of the batter and set it very carefully into 
a hot oven. Bake for twenty mnutes. 

BUCKWHEAT GEMS 

2-J cups sour milk 
I J teaspoons soda 
2 tablespoons butter 
^ teaspoon salt 
I cup wheat flour 
I cup buckwheat flour 



52 Left-Overs 

Sift the flour with the soda and salt. Rub in the 
shortening and mix with the sour milk. Bake in gem 
pans for half an hour. 

INDIAN GRIDDLECAKES 

2 cups yellow corn meal 
2 cups sour milk 

I egg 

I tablespoon whole wheat flour 

I teaspoon soda 
Sift the dry ingredients, beat the egg well, add the 
milk and soda dissolved in a tablespoon of water. Make 
a batter, beat thoroughly and bake immediately on a 
hot griddle. 

RICE OR HOMINY GRIDDLECAKES OR MUFFINS 

I cup sour milk 

1 cup cold rice or fine hominy 

^ teaspoon salt 

f teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon melted butter 
Flour to make a batter 

Heat the rice or hominy over hot water and mois- 
ten gradually with the milk till free from lumps. Add 
salt and soda, stir in the beaten egg yolk, then the 
melted butter, then flour to make a soft batter, lastly 
the white of egg beaten stiff. This is for griddlecakes. 
For muffins, use flour enough to make a stiffer batter, 
drop into hot muffin pans and bake. 

MOTHER Johnson's pancakes 

2 cups sour milk 
2 cups flour 

^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

I teaspoon soda 



Made Palatable 



53 



Make a batter of the flour and milk and allow it 
to stand over night. Next morning add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, salt and soda dissolved in a table- 
spoon of hot water. Last the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake on a hot, well-greased 
griddle. 




DOUGHNUTS AND TEIED LEAVINGS 



NEW ENGLAND COOKING SCHOOL DOUGHNUTS 

2 cups flour 
f teaspoon salt 
I teaspoon cream tartar 
^ teaspoon grated nutmeg 
^ teaspoon cinnamon 
I teaspoon butter 
•^ cup sugar 
^ cup sour milk 
I small egg 
f teaspoon soda 
Sift into a pan the flour, salt, soda, cream tartar 
and spices. Work in the butter with the tips of the 



54 Left-Overs 

fingers. Add the sugar, well-beaten egg and sour milk. 
Beat thoroughly and toss on a board dredged with 
flour. Knead slightly. Pat and roll out to one-fourth 
inch thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter, fry and 
drain. Fry the little balls left by the doughnut cutter 
and the scraps separately. Children like them for the 
droll shapes they take. 

GINGERBREAD 

I cup sour milk 

1 cup molasses 
2j cups flour 

if teaspoons soda 

2 teaspoons ginger 
■J teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix the soda with the sour milk and add to the 
milk. Sift the dry ingredients into it. Add the butter 
and beat hard. Pour into a shallow buttered tin. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

^ cup sour milk 
if teaspoon soda 
■J cup butter 
I cup molasses 

1 egg 

2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons ginger 
i teaspoon salt 

Cook the molasses and butter until they boil. 
Take from the fire, add the soda, and beat hard. Then 
pour in the milk, the egg well beaten and the dry 
ingredients mixed and sifted. Bake fifteen minutes, 
filling the pans two-thirds full. 



MadePalatable 55 

WHOLli WHEAT GINGERBREAD 

I cup sour milk 

I cup molasses 

i teaspoon salt 

i-^ teaspoons soda 

I tablespoon ginger 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

2j cups entire wheat flour 

Sift together the dry ingredients, add the soda to 
the molasses, mix, add the milk and beat till light. 
Stir in the melted butter. Bake half an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

A I GINGERBREAD 

I cup brown sugar 

•J cup butter 

^ cup molasses 

f cup sour milk 

^ tablespoon ginger 

•J tablespoon cinnamon 

Dust nutmeg 

-if teaspoon soda 

3 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Juice and grated rind i lemon 

1 egg 

2 cups pastry flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and beat till very 
light. Whip the egg to a froth and beat into the 
sugar and butter. Stir in the molasses to the beaten 
mixture. Add the flour, soda, cream of tartar and 
spices, last the lemon juice and rind. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for an hour. 

ELECTION CAKE 

1-2 cup butter 
I cup bread dough 
I egg 



56 Left-Overs 

I cup brown sugar 

^ cup sour milk 

I cup raisins 

8 finely chopped figs 

i^ cups flour 

^ teaspoon soda 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

i teaspoon cloves 

^ teaspoon mace 

i teaspoon nutmeg 

I teaspoon salt 

Work the butter into the dough, using your hands. 
Add the egg, well beaten, sugar and milk, fruit rolled 
in flour, and the flour sifted with the dry ingredients. 
Pour into a buttered bread pan, cover and allow it to 
rise. Bake for an hour in a slow oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES 

I cup sour milk 

1 cup molasses 

if teaspoons soda 

^ cup lard and butter mixed 

2 teaspoons ginger 

1 teaspoon salt 
Flour 

Mix the molasses and soda, and beat thoroughly, 
add the milk, ginger, salt, shortening and flour. Let 
it stand several hours in the refrigerator to get thor- 
oughly chilled. Take half of the mixture on a slightly 
floured board and roll to one-fourth of an inch thick- 
ness. Shape with a round cutter. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

SUGAR CAKES 

2 cups sugar 

3 eggs 

I cup butter 



Made Palatable 57 

2 teaspoons mace 

I teaspoon soda 

■J cup sour milk 

^ teaspoon lemon extract 

4 cups flour 
Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, beat in the 
eggs, add the sour milk with the soda dissolved, flavor 
with the lemon, add the flour and roll as thin as for 
wafers. Shape with a cooky cutter, sprinkle with 
sugar and bake crisp. 

DROP GINGER CAKES 

I cup brown sugar 

^ cup butter 

I cup molasses 

I cup sour milk 

I egg well beaten 

I teaspoon ground ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 
3^ cups flour 

Mix in the order given in the recipe, creaming the 
sugar and butter till soft. Beat well. The dough 
ought CO be a little thicker than soft gingerbread. Drop 
a dessertspoon of the dough on a buttered baking sheet 
and bake quickly. If desired, a cup of floured raisins 
may be added just before putting the cakes to bake. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

i| cups sour milk 

2 eggs 

I teaspoon soda 
i^ cups corn meal 

1 cup dried cherries 

2 tablespoons sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs, add the milk and soda. Stir in the 
corn meal, sugar and salt. Beat well. Add the cher- 



58 Left-Overs 

ries. Put into a buttered mold and steam one and 
one-half hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

BRANDYWIXE INN PUDDING 

I cup sour milk 

1 cup molasses 
^ cup butter 

2 cups raisins 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon soda 

i teaspoon nutmeg 
■^- teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour 

Mix the ingredients in the order given and beat 
well. Steam for four hours in a buttered mold. 

SAVORY PUDDING (aN OLD-FASHIONED DISH SERVED 
WITH A BOILED DINNER) 

2 cups Indian meal 

2 cups boiling pot liquor from corned beef 

1 cup sour milk 
5 teaspoon soda 
-J teaspoon salt 

Scald the meal with the pot liquor. Stir well, add 
the sour milk in which the soda and salt have been 
dissolved. Beat well. Steam for three hours in a 
mold. Sers'c with corned beef and cabbage. 

CORN FRITTERS 

i-J cups sour milk 

2 cups flour 
2 eggs 

J teaspoon salt 
I teaspoon soda 

I cup corn scraped from the cob 
Mix the sour milk with the soda. Stir in a little 
flour, then the eggs slightly beaten. Add the remain- 



Made Palatable 59 

der of the flour, last the corn and beat well. Fry in 
hot fat. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

-} cup sugar 

i-| tablespoons flour 

Dash salt 

Grated rind i lemon 

2 eggs 

I cup sour cream 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Line a pie plate with paste, prick it, fill with flour 
to keep the paste in shape and bake in a quick oven. 
When baked, empty the flour, it can be used as browned 
flour, and pour in the following filling: Stir together 
the sugar, flour, lemon rind and salt. Mix with the 
well-beaten eggs, sour cream and lemon juice. Pour 
into the paste shell and bake in a cool oven till the 
custard is firm in the center. Serve thoroughly chilled. 

MUSHROOMS IN SOUR CREAM 

2 cups mushrooms 
4 tablespoons butter 
^ onion 

Salt and pepper 

I cup sour cream 

I teaspoon chopped parsley 
Clean and separate the mushrooms from their 
stems and roll in flour. Put the butter to melt in an 
omelet pan with the chopped onion. Add the mush- 
rooms, sprinkle them with pepper and salt and brown 
them, shaking occasionally. When cooked pour in 
the sour cream, allow them to boil up and serve. 
Sprinkle with the chopped parsley before sending to 
the table. 



6o Left-Overs 

COTTAGE CHEESE, 

4 quarts sour milk 

I teaspoon salt 

Dash white pepper 

4 tablespoons cream 
Put the sour milk in a large pan and into it pour 
four quarts of boiling water. Allow it to stand for 
five minutes, then turn it into a pointed muslin bag like 
a jelly bag. Hang this up at night over a pan and let 
it drain. In the morning it will be dry and ready to 
mix with the cream and seasonings. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING, 

I cup sour cream 

1 teaspoonful salt 
■J lemon 

2 teaspoons vinegar 
Cayenne 

I teaspoon sugar 
Mix the seasonings with the lemrn and vinegar, 
add the sour cream, then beat thoroughly. Tliis dress- 
ing is suitable for cold boiled vegetables and tomatoes. 



Made Palatable 61 



VI 

Cold Potatoes 

Delmonico Potatoes Potato Omelet 

Potato Cakes Potato Croquettes 

Stewed Potatoes Potato Cakes 

Lyonnaise Potatoes Potato and Tomato Salad 

Browned Potato Potato Salad — French 

Creamed Potatoes Style 

Chartreuse Potatoes Potato and Beet Salad 

Potatoes withHard-Boiled Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Eggs Sweet Potatoes — Cuban 

Whipped Potato Style 

Duchesse Potatoes Sweet Potato Salad 

Sweet Potatoes an grafin 

DO not fall into the habit of warming up cold 
potatoes after the same recipe year in and year 
out. I can think of one housewife who has the 
fried potato habit, another has the creamed potato 
predilection, and in a certain kitchen Lyonnaise 
potatoes reign supreme. Each dish is good, but variety 
is better. Study all sorts of methods for making 
warmed-up potatoes good and so different that they will 
not taste alike twice. One day there may be a suspicion 
of onion about the dish, another the rich flavor given by 
a spoonful of beef extract, a dash of chives, parsley, 
cayenne or celery, or they may appear an gratin with 
a delicate cheese flavor. Mashed potato may be 
warmed again or reappear in a dozen different ways. 



62 Left-Overs 

There are a few rules to remember in the keep- 
ing of left-over potatoes. Never put them hot into 
the refrigerator. Do not allow them to stand in an 
uncovered dish. They will acquire a tough, disagree- 
able skin and have to be reduced to nothing by 
paring. Use cold potatoes before they are two days 
old. In hot weather they will not keep more than 
twenty-four hours. The sense of smell will speedily 
reveal to you if they have soured. 

In hot weather use potatoes as often as possible 
in a salad. In this, too, seek variety. There are 
endless recipes for potato salads. I wish I had space 
to give a dozen of them, but I can only hint at com- 
binations. Do not make a salad of old potatoes, the 
newer they are, the more satisfactory the salad. In 
Germany, potatoes for a salad are always boiled in their 
skins, and it is a fact that they taste better than when 
pared before cookin2'. The neatest method for pre- 
paring them is to cut the potatoes into cubes about 
one-half inch square or in tiny balls with a potato 
scoop. Do not cut them too thin or small. They 
break, and nothing looks more uninviting than a 
mushy potato salad. 

Potatoes absorb a great deal of dressing, and 
they ought to stand to marinate at least an hour before 
being served. One of the most acceptable of potato 
salads is a combination of potato and pickled beet 
with Worcestershire sauce and onion juice. Another 
is made with finely sliced young onions as a flavor, 
and a sprinkling of chopped tarragon, parsley and 
chervil. A third has celery and chopped cabbage with 
minced pickle and a hard-boiled egg. Mushrooms 
and minced pickle are a favorite addition to a potato 
salad, while lettuce or celery enters into the make-up 
of others. There are few things among vegetables 
that will not combine well witli potatoes. Cold peas 



Made Palatable 6^ 

are good, so are tomatoes, green peppers, olives, aspar- 
agus, red cabbage, cauliflower, capers, turnips, carrots, 
cucumbers or string beans. Sometimes a relish is 
added to the potato salad by a few slices of salt 
salmon, several anchovies or sardines. 

As to sweet potatoes, a Southern cook will tell 
you they are better warmed up than freshly cooked. 
They may be put through the potato ricer and con- 
verted into croquettes, or a pudding or pie. They 
may be glazed with sugar and butter, warmed in 
cream or make an excellent souffle. Another way is 
to cut them in thick slices, dip in flour, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep fat, or slice them into a regular fritter 
batter and fry. 

DELMONICO •POTATOES 

5 cold potatoes 
I tablespoon butter 
I tablespoon flour 
I cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 
Dust pepper 

•J cup grated cheese 
Cut the potatoes into fine dice, rnake a white sauce 
from the butter, flour, rnilk and seasonings, and toss 
the potatoes lightly into the sauce. Turn into a baking 
dish, sprinkle the top thickly with grated cheese and 
bake till it is light brown. 

POTATO CAKES 

2 cups finely chopped cold potatoes 
2 tablespoons cream 

I egg 

Pepper and salt 

Mix the potatoes thoroughly with the seasonings, 

the egg and cream. Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat in 

a spider. 



64 Left-Overs 

STEWED POTATOES 

Cut cold potatoes in neat small slices. Scald one 
cup of milk, one tablespoon butter and seasoning of salt 
and pepper. Add the potato. Let it boil up and serve 
very hot. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

1 onion 

2 tablespoons butter 
5 cold potatoes 
Pepper and salt 

Chop the onion and fry for five minutes in the 
butter. Into this put five potatoes cut into dice, season 
with pepper and salt. Serve when brown and crisp. 

BROWNED POTATO 

Boil a pint or two of the tiny potatoes left in a 
barrel and let them cool. Skin and saute in two table- 
spoons of clarified butter. Pepper and salt while in 
the spider. When well browned, put in a heated veg- 
etable dish and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

2 cups cold boiled potatoes 
l^ cups white sauce 

• Cut the potatoes into fine slices, and heat in the 
white sauce. 

CHARTREUSE POTATOES 

3 cups cold boiled potatoes 
Pepper and salt 

^ teaspoon onion juice 
^ cup bread flour 
i teaspoon salt 
^ cup milk 
I egg 
Mix the flour, salt and pepper. Add the milk grad- 
ually and the well-beaten egg. Cut the potatoes into 



Made Palatable 65 

one-fourth inch slices. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
the onion juice. Put together in pairs. Dip into the 
batter. Fry in deep fat and drain. 

POTATOES WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS 

8 cold boiled' potatoes 
6 hard-boiled eggs 
Pepper and salt 
2 cups thin white sauce 

1 cup buttered cracker crumbs 

Cut the potatoes and eggs into slices one-fourth 
inch thick. Put a layer of potatoes in a buttered bak- 
ing dish. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Cover with 
a layer of eggs ctit in slices, then a layer of potatoes. 
Pour over it the white sauce. Cover with crumbs and 
bake until brown. 

WHIPPED POTATO 

If you have two cups of cold mashed or riced 
potato, put a tablespoon of butter and four table- 
spoons of milk or cream in the double boiler, then add 
the potato. In ten minutes it will be hot. Beat with 
a silver fork till light and fluffy. Serve as ordinary 
mashed potato or use it as a border for any dish. It 
tastes exactly like newly-cooked potato. 

DUCHESSE POTATOES 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes 

1 egg 

2 tablespoons cream 

Beat the yolk of the egg till very thick and add 
the cream to it, work into the potatoes. Shape in 
small pyramids. Rest each one on the broad end in a 
buttered tin. Beat the white of the egg slightly; add 
to it a teaspoon of milk and brush each cone with the 
mixture. Bake till golden brown. Serve on a hot 
platter, garnished with parsley. 



66 Left-Overs 



POTATO OMELET 

2 cups cold mashed potato 
^ cup cream 

3 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 

Put the potatoes in a double boiler, add the cream, 
the well-beaten eggs and salt and pepper. Stir lightly 
with a fork till hot. Melt the butter in a spider, put in 
the potatoes and let them cook slowly till brown on 
the under side. Cut and fold as if it were an omelet. 
Set it under the flame in a gas stove oven or before 
a hot fire for a few minutes to brown on top, then slip 
on a hot platter. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes 
I tablespoon butter 

^ cup cream 

Whites 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Grating nutmeg 
Warm the potatoes, add the butter, cream, eggs 
well beaten, salt and pepper to taste and a slight 
grating of nutmeg. Let the mixture cool and then 
shape, roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry. — Mrs. 
Frank Stewart. 

POTATO CAKES 

Take cold mashed potatoes, moisten with a little 
cream and work in sufncient flour, in which baking 
powder is mixed, to make a firm dough, adding a 
pinch of salt. Roll out the potato paste, thinly sprinkle 
with dry flour or a beaten egg, cut into rounds, and 
bake on a hot griddle for ten minutes; butter while 
hot and serve. 



Made Palatable 



67 



POTATO AND TOMATO SALAD 

I cup boiled new potatoes 
I cup fresh tomatoes 
I green pepper 

Cut the potatoes in neat cubes, the tomatoes in 
quartered slices. Arrange in layers on a nest of let- 
tuce leaves, sprinkle each layer with chopped green 
pepper, salt, and a mere sprinkle of powdered sugar. 
Pour over it a French dressing. 




PBAE-SHAPED POTATO CROQtTBTTBS 



POTATO SALAD — FRENCH STYLE 

12 cold potatoes 
4 tablespoons vinegar 
6 tablespoons olive oil 
I tablespoon chopped parsley 
Pepper and salt 
■| teaspoon onion juice 
Cut the potatoes in fine slices. Put them in a 
salad bowl and marinate for two hours with a dressing; 



68 Left-Overs 

made of the vinegar, olive oil, pepper, salt and onion 
juice. Sprinkle with the chopped parsley. 

POTATO AND BEET SALAD 

3 cups cold potatoes 

I cup cold pickled beets 

I tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 teaspoon onion juice 

Cut cold boiled potato and pickled beets into neat 
cubes. Make a dressing from one cup of the red 
vinegar in which the beets have been pickled, Wor- 
cestershire sauce and onion juice. Toss the potato 
and beets lightly together and pour over them the 
dressing. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

6 cold sweet potatoes 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 
Pepper and salt 

Pare the potatoes and cut in two lengthwise, dust- 
ing with pepper and salt. Melt the butter and sugar 
together, dip the slices of potatoes in this. Arrange 
in a baking pan and bake till they are a rich brown. 

SWEET POTATOES CUBAN STYLE 

8 cold sweet potatoes 
•| cup water 
I cup brown sugar 
I teaspoon butter 
Dash cinnamon 

Pare cold sweet potatoes that have been boiled or 
baked. Put them in a sirup made from the water, 
sugar, butter and a dust of cinnamon. Bake until 
the potatoes are covered with a fine brown glaze. 



Made Palatable 69 

SWEET POTATO SALAD 

2 cups cold sweet potatoes 
I cup celery 
6 olives 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 

Cut the potatoes into small cubes and the celery 
into inch pieces. Mix and finish with French dress- 
ing. Sprinkle with sliced olives and parsley. 

SWEET POTATOES AU GRATIN 

I -J pints cold sweet potato 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 
Pepper and salt 

^ cup buttered crumbs 
Cut the potatoes into tiny cubes and arrange in 
a loose layer in the bottom of a buttered baking dish. 
Sprinkle with pepper, salt, sugar and morsels of but- 
ter. Repeat with another layer of potato; on the 
top put a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake till well 
brov;ned. 



70 



Left -Overs 



VII 



Vegetables 



Italian Salad 
Chiffonade Salad 
Beet and Cabbage Salad 
Russian Salad 
Russian Aspic Salad 
Red Vegetable Salad 
Cauliflower and Potato 

Salad 
Salad of Asparagus Tips 
Spinach in Molds 
^lay Irwin's Pet Salad 

and Dressing 
Plain Cabbage Salad 
Bavarian Salad 
Macedoine Salad 
String Bean Salad 
Baked Bean Salad 
Pea Salad 



^lock Tomatoes 
Baked Bean Sandwiches 
Corn Soup 
Pea Soup 
Squash Soup 
Cream of Corn Soup 
Baked Bean Soup 
Wilted Lettuce 
Vegetable Hash 
Sauce Robert 
Com Omelet 
Com Fritters 
Corn Oysters 
Curried Vegetables 
Spinach Rechauffe 
Baked Bean Rarebit 
Squash Biscuit 
Onion Souffle 



Scalloped Tomatoes and Onions 



THE possibilities for utilizing cold vegetables are 
greater than for any dish that comes to tlie 
American table. Almost every vegetable in 
common use, from the ragged outside leaves of the 
lettuce to a cup of cold string beans, may reappear 
as a tasty hot dish or a tempting salad. Left-over 
spinach, corn, lettuce, tomato, string beans, peas, 
squash, cauliflower, carrots, onions or beans may be 



Made Palatable 71 

converted into savory soups, and nearly every vege- 
table in the market when cold can reappear as a salad. 

If the left-overs are many and small, the result 
may be a Macedoine salad. This is the name given 
to a salad where cold boiled vegetables are combined. 
Each flavor is kept separate and generally the dish can 
be arranged in such a charming scheme of color that 
it is a pleasure to the eye. The vegetables' are cut in 
the same shape. They may be cubes, strips, triangles, 
tiny balls or in fancy shapes, formed by a vegetable 
cutter. During the summer when young beets, tur- 
nips, carrots and green vegetables are at their best, 
these salads may be had in perfection. If the left- 
overs of vegetables come from the table coated with 
cream sauce or with mayonnaise, put each by itself in 
a colander. Wash it off in coM water, drain thor- 
oughly, chill before using, and it will be as good as if 
freshly cooked. Plenty of a crisp green vegetable, 
lettuce, watercress or parsley, is necessary to make 
a Macedoine salad perfect. 

Here is a typical Macedoine salad: Cut two cups 
each of celery, beets, carrots and potatoes into tiny 
cubes. Marinate each portion separately. Put a cup 
of shredded lettuce as a nest in the bottom of the salad 
bowl. Over this scatter a thin layer of potato cubes, 
reserving one cup of the potato for the top cxf the 
salad. Arrange two cups of green peas and string 
beans in alternate piles in the center ; then fill in the 
other vegetables in four sections, the beets and carrots 
heaped loosely around the peas, the potatoes and 
celery about the string beans. In the center of the 
salad place a stalk of lettuce fringed into delicate 
fronds, and in each pile of peas and beans arrange a 
small gherkin cut in thin slices nearly to the stem end 
and the slices opened out to represent a fan. 



72 Left-Overs 

In a lesser quantity, all vegetables may be prop- 
erly combined in a salad with a simple French dress- 
ing, or the more elaborate mayonnaise. A vegetable 
salad is the only salad suitable to serve during a course 
dinner. Its accompaniments are cheese or cheese 
preparations. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

I cold carrot 

I cold turnip 

I cup cold chicken meat 

12 mushrooms 

■| cup asparagus tips 

^ cup Brussels sprouts 
Cut the carrot, turnip and chicken into inch strips. 
Mix lightly with a fork. Arrange in a nest of lettuce 
leaves on a flat dish. Moisten well with mayonnaise 
and mask the top with a few spoonfuls. Garnish with 
clusters of mushrooms, asparagus tips and Brussels 
sprouts. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD 

I head lettuce 

■J cup cold beets 

^ cup cold carrots 

i cup cold string beans 

I tablespoon chives 
Make a nest of lettuce and cut the vegetables into 
neat cubes. Chop the chives fine, scatter them on 
top. Marinate with a French dressing. 

BEET AND CABBAGE SALAD 

Half a raw cabbage 
6 cold beets 
Pepper 
Salt 
Shred the cabbage very fine. Soak it for half 
an hour in iced water, drain thoroughly. Mix with 



MadePalatable 73 

the beets cut into fine cubes. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and minced onion. Serve with French dressing. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

I cup cold red beets 

1 cup cold potatoes 

2 red onions 
I cup celery 

I head chicory 

I teaspoon capers 

I teaspoon pickled nasturtium seeds 

6 olives 

Cut the beets and potatoes into fine cubes. Slice 
the onions fine. Cut the celery into inch length pieces. 
Tear the chicory into fine strips. Cut the olives into 
thin slices. Toss lightly together, adding the capers 
and nasturtium seeds. Lay in lettuce leaves. Serve 
with a French dressing, or mayonnaise if desired. 
Garnish with white rings of hard-boiled egg and 
sprinkle over the top a tablespoon of yolk of egg put 
through a potato ricer. 

RUSSIAN ASPIC SALAD 

I cup green peas 
J cup cold carrot 
I tablespoon capers 

1 cup aspic jelly 

Cut the carrot into tiny cubes. Ornament the 
bottom of a small mold with the peas, carrot and 
capers and fix them with aspic jelly. When hard fill the 
mold with jelly. Let it grow solid, then scoop out a 
small hollow with a hot spoon and fill with mayon- 
naise. 

RED VEGETABLE SALAD 

2 cups cold beets 

2 cups cold boiled potatoes 



74 Left-Overs 

2 cups raw red cabbage 

1 teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons oil 
Chop the beets and potatoes fine. Pour over 
them the red vinegar in which the beets have been 
pickled. Add the cabbage shredded very fine. Sprinkle 
with salt and the oil. Toss lightly together and stand 
in the refrigerator half an hour before serving. Just 
before setting on the table, add half a cup of French 
dressing flavored with onion juice. 

CAULIFLOWER AXD POTATO SALAD 

2 cups cold potatoes 

^ cup cold cauliflower 
Cut the potato into fine cubes and mince the cauli- 
flower coarsely. Toss lightly and serve with a French 
dressing. Garnish with slices of cucumber. 

SALAD OF ASPARAGUS TIPS 

1 head lettuce 

2 cups asparagus tips 
4 cup cold new potatoes 

Clip the lettuce with scissors into fine shreds. 
Leave the asparagus tips whole, cut the potatoes into 
fine cubes. Toss lightly together, and serve with a 
mayonnaise or French dressing, as desired. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and capers. 

SPIXACII IX MOLDS 

2 cups cold spinach 

Salt 

Pepper 

I tablespoon lemon juice 

I tablespoon melted butter 

Drain the spinach and chop it fine. Season and 
stir in the melted butter. Butter Dario molds and 



Made Palatable 75 

pack ill the mixture. Set on ice until cliilled. Re- 
move from the molds and arrange tlie spinach on thin 
slices of cold boiled tongue, cut in rounds. Garnish 
the base of each with parsley and serve on top a spoon- 
ful of sauce tartarc. 

MAY IRWIN's pet SALAD 

6 tomatoes 
3 cucumbers 

1 onion 

3 green peppers 

2 apples 

Slice the tomatoes, cucumbers and apples and 
chop the onion and peppers fine. 

DRESSING 

I cup oil 

i cup red wine vinegar 

-^ teaspoon mustard 

I teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

I teaspoon brown sugar 

4 teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat the dressing well. Turn the salad into a 
bowl rubbed with a garlic, pour the dressing over it, 
and put it on ice for half an hour. Serve with Roque- 
fort cheese and guava jelly. 

PLAIN CAllU.VGE SALAD 

2 cups shredded cal^bage 
4 tablespoons oil 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons viuLgar 

Shred the cabbage very fine and leave it in ice 
water for an hour. Drain it and marinate with th(j 
dressing. This is a favorite supplement to fried 
oysters. 



76 Left-Overs 

BAVARIAN SALAD 

2 heads lettuce 

2 small onions 

I boiled beet 
Shred the lettuce, chop the onions fine, and cut 
the beet into small cubes. Make a layer of lettuce, 
then mix the beets and onion. Pour on a mayonnaise 
and garnish with cut olives. 

MACEDOINE SALAD 

Any kind of cold vegetables, young carrots, sliced 
lengthwise into straws, a few peas and string beans, 
beets and turnips, cut in fancy shapes, are suitable for a 
Macedoine salad. Cover with a dressing made from 
three tablespoons ef olive oil, one tablespoon of vin- 
egar, half a teaspoon of salt and a little pepper, mix 
all together and let stand for a few minutes, arrange on 
lettuce leaves. The remains of canned vegetables can 
be used. If so, be sure to rinse them well in cold 
water. This salad is nice served with Neufchatel or 
rich cream cheese, and thin water wafers made crisp 
by being put in the oven for a few minutes. — Mrs. 
Ashley. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

I pint cold String beans 

I cucumber 

i teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon vinegar 

4 tablespoons olive oil 

I teaspoon chopped olives 

A drop garlic juice or ^ teaspoon onion juice 
Make the dressing by stirring together the oil and 
vinegar with seasoning, adding the onion or olives at 
the last. Pour over the beans and allow them to mar- 
inate for half an hour. ]\Iake a nest of lettuce leaves. 



Made Palatable 



77 



reserving the fine tender leaves to decorate the top of 
the salad, lay around the edge slices of cucumber. 
Pile the beans lightly in the nest, garnish with tufts 
of lettuce leaves, radishes cut into strips and chopped 
beet. 

BAKED BEAN SALAD 

2 cups cold baked beans 

3 ripe tomatoes 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

6 tablespoons oil 

I teaspoon mustard 

Paprika 

^ teaspoon onion juice 




STRUTS BEAN SALAD 



Arrange the beans in a salad dish. About them 
put a border of sliced tomatoes and a garnish of water- 
cress. Make a French dressing from the vinegar, oil, 
mustard, paprika and onion juice. Add a little salt if 



78 Left-Overs 

the beans are not seasoned enough. Pour it over the 
beans and tomato and allow it to marinate for fifteen 
minutes before serving. If ripe tomatoes are not in 
season, set mock tomatoes about the base of the dish. 

PEA SALAD 

3 cups cold peas 

2 hard-boiled eggs chopped 

4 tablespoons vinegar 
2 tablespoons butter 

2 teaspoons sugar 

I teaspoon made mustard 

1 tablespoon cream 
i teaspoon salt 

Use peas left from dinner and add the eggs, 
chopped fine; mix and make a boiled dressing from 
the vinegar, butter, sugar, mustard and salt. When 
cold add a tablespoon of cream. Lay over the peas 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

MOCK TOMATOES 

i^ cups stewed tomato 

3 whole cloves 

4 peppercorns 
Blade mace 

■J onion cut in cubes 
4 sprigs parsley 

2 stalks chopped celery 
I tablespoon gelatine 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Dash paprika 

^ cup cold water 

Cook together for twenty minutes the first seven 

ingredients. Soak the gelatine in a half cup of cold 

water while the tomato is cooking. Strain the liquor 

through cheesecloth over the strainer and pour while 



Made Palatable 79 

liot over the gelatine. Set in ice water and stir till 
ccol. Pour in tiny cups and set on ice till firm. Turn 
out when cold and decorate with mayonnaise. Each 
cup will look like a red tomato. Set on individual 
lettuce leaves. It .may also be jellied in ring molds 
and inside put a salad of lettuce and celery. 

BAKED BEAN SANDWICHES 

i cup baked beans 

I tablespoon horse-radish 

I teaspoon celery and parsley minced fine 

-1- teaspoon onion juice 

-J teaspoon mustard 

Press the beans through a potato ricer, mix with 
the seasonings and spread between slices of entire 
wheat bread. 

CORN SOUP 

I quart veal stock 

1 cup green corn cut from cob and chopped 

Add the corn to the stock and simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste. 

PEA SOUP 

2 cups cold green peas 
4 cups veal stock 

I slice onion 

1 teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

Add the peas and onion to the stock and simmer 
till they begin to fall to pieces. Rub through a sieve, 
reheat, season and bind with butter and flour rubbed 
together. Peas that are too old to serve as a vege- 
table may be used for soup. 



8o Left-Overs 

SQUASH SOUP 

f cup cold squash 
4 cups milk 

1 teaspoon onion 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pepper and celery salt 

Chop the onion and scald it in the milk. Melt 
the flour and butter, then strain milk over it. Stir 
constantly and add the seasoning and the squash. 
Serve very hot. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

2 cups cold corn 

2 cups boiling water 
2 cups milk 

1 slice onion 
Sprig parsley 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 
Pepper 

Salt 

Put the corn through the meat chopper. Add the 
boiling water and simmer for twenty-five minutes. 
Rub through a sieve. Scald the milk with the onion 
and parsley. Remove the seasonings and pour the 
milk over the corn pulp. INIelt the flour and butter 
together and use for binding. Season with pepper 
and salt. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 

3 cups cold baked beans 
2 cups water 

4 cups stock 

2 slices onion 



Made Palatable &\ 

3 stalks celery 

i^ cups canned tomatoes 

1 tablespoon Oscar sauce 
Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

Put the beans, celery, onion, tomatoes, with the 
stock and water, into a saucepan and simmer for half 
an hour. Rub through a sieve, leaving nothing in the 
sieve except the skins of the beans and the seeds of the 
tomato. Add the seasonings and bind with the butter 
and flour melted together. — Mrs. W. D. Edmister. 

WILTED LETTUCE 

I slice ham 
^ cup vinegar 

I egg 

^ teaspoon mustard 

Pepper and salt 

Outside leaves 2 heads lettuce 

Fry a slice of ham with some fat on. When done, 
remove the ham, leaving the fat gravy in the frying 
pan. Have ready the vinegar, beaten egg, mustard 
and pepper and salt to taste. Add the egg to the vin- 
egar slowly, so it will not curdle. When well mixed, 
pour slowly into the ham gravy, stirring well. Let it 
come to a boil. Put the lettuce in with a fork, toss 
and thoroughly mix with the hot mixture in the frying 
pan for two minutes. Cover the pan for two minutes, 
then turn out in a deep dish. — R. B. Downing. 

VEGETABLE HASH 

From the remains of a boiled dinner there are 
generally enough left-overs to make a vegetable hash. 
Chop coarsely cabbage, turnips, parsnips, potatoes and 
a half carrot. Combine these in equal quantities and 



82 Left-Overs 

to each pint of the vegetables use a tablespoon of 
butter melted in a spider. Pepper and salt to taste and 
add two and one-half tablespoons of brown stock. 
Cook slowly and let it just come to the boil. Serve 
hot with pickled beets. 

SAUCE ROBERT 

8 tablespoons oil mayonnaise 
4 tablespoons French mustard 
4 tablespoons vinegar 

2 cold boiled onions 

Chop the onions fine and mix with the other 
ingredients. This is a most delicious accompaniment 
to pork tenderloin, veal cutlet, lamb chops or a steak. 

CORN OMELET 

I cup cold corn 

3 eggs 

-^ cup milk 

i teaspoon salt 

Dash pepper 

I tablespoon butter 
Chop the corn slightly. Beat the yolks of t!ie 
eggs till thick, mix with the milk, salt and pepper. 
Add the corn and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten 
dry. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, pour in the 
mixture and cook exactly as you would an omelet 

CORN FRITTERS 

I cup cold chopped corn 
I cup milk 

I teaspoon baking powder 
Yolks 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons flour 
^ teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 



Made Palatable 83 

Beat the yolks till thick and lemon-colored, add 
the milk and seasoning, then the com, flour and bak- 
ing powder. Last of all, cut in the whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Drop from a tablespoon into 
hot lard and fry a delicate brown. 

CORN OYSTERS 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups chopped cold corn 

2 eggs 

Salt, pepper and cayenne 

Beat the }olks of the eggs, add the corn, then cut 
in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, the seasonings 
and flour. Saute in hot fat, making each cake the 
size of a fried oyster. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES 

I cup cold potatoes 

1 cup cold carrots 
^ cup cold turnips 
-J cup cold peas 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 slices onion 

2 tablespoons flour 

£■ tablespoon salt 

■^ teaspoon curry powder 

-j- teaspoon pepper 

Dash celery salt 

I cup milk 

I teaspoon chopped parsley 

Cut the potatoes, carrots and turnips into tiny 
cubes. Add the peas. Pour over them the onion 
cooked in the butter for five minutes. Add the flour, 
salt, curry, pepper, celery salt and pour on slowly the 
scalded milk. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 



84 Left-Overs 

SPINACH RECHAUFFE 

2 cups cold spinach 
4 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 
f cup chicken stock 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar 
Salt and pepper 

Grating nutmeg 

Grating lemon rind 
Chop the spinach fine, reheat in a double boiler 
with the butter, in which has been melted the flour 
and chicken stock. Add the seasonings. 

BAKED BEAN RAREBIT 

2 tablespoons butter 
i teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon paprika 

I cup cold baked beans 

J cup milk 

I teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

f cup chopped cheese 
Press the beans through the potato ricer and 
sprinkle the pulp with the seasonings. Put in an 
omelet pan with the butter and when hot add the milk 
the cheese and Worcestershire sauce. Stir till thor- 
oughly blended. Serve on slices of toast laid on very 
hot plates. 

SQUASH BISCUIT 

i cup cold squash 

4 tablespoons sugar 
J teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons butter 
^ cup scalded milk 
I yeast cake dissolved in 
^ cup lukewarm water 
2^ cups flour 



Made Palatable 85 

Add squash, sugarj salt and butter to the hot milk. 
When it cools, add the yeast and flour, beat hard and 
leave it to rise over night. In the morning shape into 
biscuits, let them rise and bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

i cup stale bread crumbs 

I teaspoon chopped parsley 

I cup cold boiled onions 

Yolk I egg 

I tablespoon butter 

I tablespoon flour 

l teaspoon salt 

Paprika 

I cup milk 

Whites 2 eggs 
Chop the onions very fine. Make a white sauce 
from the butter, flour, seasonings and milk. When it 
boils, add to it the bread crumbs, parsley, chopped 
onion and the beaten yolk of the egg. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth and fold them into the onion 
mixture. Pour into a buttered dish and bake fifteen 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with cream sauce. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND ONIONS 

ij cups cold boiled onions 

6 tomatoes 

Pepper and salt 

I cup buttered crumbs 
Cut the tomatoes into thin slices and chop the 
onions fine. Butter a baking pan. Put in a layer 
of sliced tomatoes, season with pepper and salt. 
Cover with a sprinkling of buttered crumbs, cover 
with sliced onions, then a layer of tomatoes. Make 
the last layer onion slices covered liberally with 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. 



86 Left-Overs 



VIII 

Sauces and Sundry Additions 
to Rechaujfes 

Caramel Onion Butter 

Kitchen Bouquet Browned Flour 

\\ liite Sauce Timbales 

Aspic Jelly Croquettes 

CARAMEL 

Into a saucepan put one cup of brown sugar, with 
one tablespoon of water. Stir till it becomes a rich 
brown color, remove when white smoke arises from it. 
Add one cup of boiling water and set the pan back on a 
warm part of the stove, where it will simmer slowly. 
Let the caramel cook to a sirup, .then bottle. A table- 
spoon of caramel will give a rich brown color to a soup 
or stew which looks too pale. 

KITCHEN BOUQUET 

I onion 

I carrot 

I bunch celery 

I sweet potato 

I parsnip 

I pepper 

I shallot 

4 cloves garlii 

6 bay leaves 

6 cloves 

^^ teaspoon mace 



Made Palatable 87 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

]- teaspoon allspice 

3 tablespoons brown sugar 

1 cup cold water 

Pare the vegetables and chop fine. Add the 
seasoning and mix. Put a layer of the mixture into 
a baking dish, cover with a sprinkling of the sugar, 
then the mixtiu-e, and continue till this is used up. 
Bake in a quick oven till it turns dark brown. Pour 
ill the water and stir and cook till you have a thick 
brown sirup. Strain and bottle for use. A teaspoon 
of kitchen bouquet gives a good flavor and color to a 
soup or gravy when the vegetables required are not 
always at hand' 

WHITE SAUCE (tO BE USED FOR CREAMED DISHES, ETC) 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 
Salt and pepper 

I cup milk 
The easiest method of preparing a sauce is to 
cook it in the double boiler. It does not require con- 
stant watching to prevent its burning, and it may cook 
while the rest of the dish is being prepared. Put the 
butter in the pan and allow it to melt. Then add the 
flour and stir it till it thickens. Add half a cup of milk 
and beat vigorously till it is like a thick cream. Add 
the rest of the milk and stir well. Use a wire whisk 
for sauces; it beats the mixture to a creamy consist- 
ency. Do not add the salt and pepper till ready to 
take from the fire, and if the sauce is to be used with 
a well-seasoned left-over of meat or fish, do not put in 
pepper and salt until it is mixed. Then season to 
taste. If you have white stock on hand, use it instead 
of milk ; it will improve the taste of any dish into which 



88 Left-Overs 

fish, meat or chicken enters. When a recipe calls for 
one cup of white sauce, it means one cup of milk made 
into a white sauce. 

ASPIC JELLY 

3 cups white stock 

i cup chopped celery 

White and shell i egg 

I slice onion 

I blade mace 

3 cloves 

Salt and pepper 

I teaspoon chopped lemon rind 

1 sprig parsley 
Small bay leaf 

2 tablespoons gelatine 
8 peppercorns 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Mix the cold stock, egg slightly beaten, broken 
eggshell, the seasonings and gelatine soaked for half 
an hour in a granite pan. Put it on the stove and let 
it heat slowly till it boils and a thick scum forms. 
Pour through a strainer lined with several folds of 
cheesecloth into a granite basin. Set in a pan of 
chopped ice. It is a most useful accompaniment in 
using left-overs of fish, meat, poultry and vegetables, 
especially for hot weather dishes. If set in the refrig- 
erator a jar of aspic jelly will keep well for ten days, 
and may be used to mold or cut in cubes as an accom- 
paniment with a cold entree. If you wish to have it 
brown, add a tablespoon of caramel, or it may be made 
a sparkling lettuce green with a touch of leaf green 
coloring. The quantity you desire to color must be 
melted, of course, before adding the coloring. In the 
same way add more lemon juice if you wish a small 
portion of a very sour aspic, or tarragon vinegar, if 
that flavor is desired. 



Made Palatable 89 

ONION BUTTER 

A small jar of onion butter may be kept for sev- 
eral weeks in a cold place. A spoonful of this is an 
invaluable addition to a rechauffe, which has often to 
be made in a hurry. Chop fine six onions and fry 
them in an iron spider in twelve tablespoons of butter. 
Stir constantly, letting the onion grow brown and 
shriveled, but not black. The smallest symptom of 
burning will ruin the flavor. Press through a fine wire 
strainer into a jelly tumbler and cover tightly when 
the butter has hardened. Use a teaspoonful of onion 
butter when a recipe calls for brown sauce with an 
onion flavoring. 

BROWNED FLOUR 

Browned flour is simply flour which has been 
stirred in a hot spider until quite dry and brown. The 
heat makes it lose its thickening properties, and it can 
be used as caramel is for coloring; so the usual amount 
of flour is needed if a gravy has to be thickened. 

TIMBALES 

J cup flour 

J teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon sugar 

^ cup milk 

I beaten egg 

I tablespoon olive oil 
Sift the dry ingredients together, then mix with 
the milk, egg and olive oil. Beat with a Dover beater 
lill very light. On the stove have a kettle of fat heat- 
ing. When hot enough to brown a bit of bread in 
forty seconds, put a timbale iron in the kettle of fat 
till hot, lift it out and shake off all the superfluous fat. 
Hold in a tin cup in your left hand the batter, in this 
immerse the hot iron to three-fourths its depth. The 
batter will cling to it in half a minute. Lift it out care- 



go Left-Overs 

fully and dip in the hot fat. The mixture will rise to 
the top of the iron and in half a minute be trans- 
formed into a brown, crisp cup. Lift it up and slip it 
off upside down on a sheet of blotting paper. Repeat 
the operation till the batter is used up. This recipe 
will give eighteen timbale cases. These cups when 
reheated can be used exactly in the same fashion as 
puff paste pates and make a very attractive entree, 
filled with creamed chici<en, fish or lobster. 

CROQUETTES 

Nearly every left-over of meat or fish, as well 
as some vegetables and cereals, can be converted 
into croquettes, and one general rule is applied to 
all. The smallest amount of food may be used 
for croquettes, and sometimes when the refrigera- 
tor is rich in scraps that cannot be utilized in 
any other way, they may be combined, to reappear 
as delicious croquettes. If there is so little meat that 
it does not seem possible to make croquettes, add to 
it potato, rice, macaroni or even soft bread crumbs, 
and it would not be possible to guess that the hot, 
creamy, brown cones were eked out with a make- 
believe. The foundation of nearly all croquettes is 
a thick sauce, either white or brown. If you have a 
cup of gravy left over, convert it into a thick brown 
gravy; it will give meat croquettes a richer flavor 
tnan if made of white or brown sauce. The rule for 
the usual basis of croquettes, thick white sauce, is 
made as follows : Put two and one-half tablespoons 
of butter in a small granite pan. Stir it till melted 
and bubbling, then add one-third of a cup of flour, 
one-quarter teaspoon of salt and a few grains of 
pepper, stir till blended. Gradually pour in one cup 
of scalded milk, beat to a thick cream with a wire 
spoon till not a lump is left. To this add the chopped 



Made Palatable 



91 




9^ Left-Overs 

meat and whatever seasoning is needed, and spread 
thin on a platter to cool. The best plan is to make 
this mixture early in the morning or the night before 
it is needed and allow plenty of time for it to 
cool. You will find croquettes much easier to 
shape when very cold than if they are the least bit 
warm. The mixture should be as soft as can be con- 
veniently handled, so the croquettes will be creamy 
inside. There are a few general rules for the season- 
ing of croquettes. For chicken and sweetbread, use 
celery salt, a dash of cayenne, lemon juice, onion juice 
and finely chopped parsley or a grating of nutmeg. 
Sometimes one-third of a cup of mushrooms is added 
to one and a third cups of chicken when an extra deli- 
cious croquette is required. For lobster croquettes 
use cayenne, lemon juice and mustard, and for cutlets, 
cayenne, nutmeg, lemon and parsley. The egging 
and crumbing of croquettes must be very carefully 
done or there will be failures. If a bare spot is left, 
the croquettes will soak fat or crack open. Lift the 
mixture in a tablespoon. It prevents unevenness in 
size and getting the hands sticky. A tablespoon 
slightly rounded makes a good-sized croquette. Cover 
a bread board with finely sifted bread crumbs, in this 
toss the croquette until dry, then lay in a soup plate 
holding a beaten egg to which has been added a table- 
spoon of water. With a spoon pour the egg well over 
the croquette. Lift it on a fork, holding it for a few 
moments until all superfluous egg runs away, then 
roll in the crumbs again and shape. 

Croquettes may take all sorts of forms. They 
may be cylinder-shaped and flat at each end, or like 
small nests, marked on top in three places with the 
knife blade to represent tiny French loaves, pear- 
shaped, like dumpy pyramids, pointed at both ends 
as cecils are rolled, or in cutlets, with a few inches 



Made Palatable 93 

of niacaroiii stuck in at the small end to represent 
a chop bone. When thoroughl)' crumbed lay them 
in a Wire basket and fry till slightly browned in hot 
fat. Drain on brown paper and serve on a hot plate. 
Garnish with parsley. 

There are various "don'ts" to be remembered 
about croquettes. Don't put them in till the fat is 
hot enough; if you do, they will break open. Don't 
fry more than three at a time. Don't make them too 
large. Croquettes are invariably made of food which 
has been once cooked, so they need only heat enough 
to warm the mixture to the heart ; if too large they 
will brown overmuch or have a cold spot inside. Don't 
fry croquettes in a draft ; they will split open ; always 
reheat the fat before frving. 



94 



Left-Overs 



IX 



Beef 



Left-over Soup 

Beef Stew 

Curried Beef 

I\Ieat Minced with 

Poached Eggs 
Grilled Slices with Creole 

Sauce 
Beef in Brown Sauce 
Deviled Beef 
2^Iock Terrapin 
Roast Beef Pillau 
Bubble and Squeak 
Beef Fricassee 
Beef Ragout with Tomato 
Scalloped Beef 
Tomatoed Beef 
Dried Beef in Ramekins 
Creamed Corned Beef au 

Gratin 
Beef Ramekins 
Stuffed Tomatoes 
Fatherland Farm Meat 

Loaf 



Beef Hash 

Review of Reviews 

German Meat Cakes 

Forcemeat Balls for Soup 

Cecils 

Forcemeat Cakes 

Papas Rellenas 

The Remains of a Boiled 

Dinner 
Pressed JMeat 
Beef Loaf 

Corned Beef Sandwiches 
Curr}' Sandwiches 
Tongue Sandv^'iches 
Potted ]\Ieat 
Potted Tongue 
Left-over Salad 
Roast Beef Salad 
Beef Rissoles 
Tomato and Beef Salad 
Corned Beef Salad 
Beefsteak Salad 
Bouilli Salad 



A ROAST of meat goes on the table in some 
households day after day in the same style, 
with the carver doing his best at each meal 
to leave it as sightly as possible. Its last appearance 



Made Palatable 95 

is calculated to take away the appetite of an entire 
family. 

The careful housewife, whose aim is economy 
and a healthful, attractive table, on the second day 
studies the cold roast with a keen eye. It comes from 
the refrigerator on a clean plate, and with it a bowl 
of brown gravy to which had been added every drop 
of the meat juices left in the platter on which the 
roast was served. Probably for luncheon she plans 
cold meat, cut in neat slices from the choicest bits of 
the roast, rare slices and well done, to appeal to 
various tastes. The meat is not cut until almost ready 
to put on the table. It is nicely arranged on a small 
platter with a garnishing of parsley, cress or cubes of 
aspic. She does not reheat the gravy to serve on 
cold plates. \\'orcestershire, tomato or some cold 
homemade sauce makes a more fitting accompaniment. 
Then she carves the roast and plans for future meals. 
The tough outside pieces are laid away to be chopped, 
the fat to be rendered down for drippings, the tender 
bits of the meat to be deviled, used for a pie, ragout, 
or warmed up in the gravy, ivhile the bones and gristle 
go to the soup kettle. Not a morsel of the meat is 
wasted in such a kitchen, and the daintily served, appe- 
tizing meals that follow "the roast at intervals do not 
hint to the uninitiated of rechauffes. 

To make warmed-up meats appetizing, there are 
various commodities which ought to always occupy 
a place in the pantry. Have a small jar of onion 
butter, a bottle of caramel, a glass can filled with 
browned flour, a jar of finely rolled bread crumbs, 
Worcestershire sauce, celery salt, mace, bay leaves, a 
bottle of Oscar sauce, tabasco, cayenne, curry, catsup, 
canned mushrooms, paprika, kitchen bouquet and 
horse-radish. The secret of appetizing food is good 



g6 Left- Overs 

flavoring, and a frequent varying of flavor has more 
to do with a tempting table than a large butcher bill. 

Tbe Soup Pot 

in an average-sized family needs small replenishing 
of fresh meat. The bones, gristle, skin and small left- 
overs of gravy from roasts and stew^s, the carcasses 
of chicken and turkey, the fag-ends of steaks, the 
trimmings from chops and small raw bones from odd 
meats are generally enough to afford plenty of stock 
for soup at least four days of the week. The soups 
of intervening days for the sake of variety ought to 
be fish and vegetable soups, such as do not require 
stock. 

In this way the first course for the dinner can 
really be had at almost no expense, as the bones would 
otherwise be thrown away. I do not approve of a 
soup pot doing a continuous performance on the back 
of the stove from Monday to Saturday. It is too 
handy for all sorts of fag-ends to be thrown in without 
being critically looked over, besides the stock which 
is constantly at the boil, or very near it, does not extract 
the nourishment from meat and bones that cold water 
does. If you would have finely-flavored, good-colored 
soup, save all the scraps and keep in a scrupulously 
clean jar in the refrigerator. Make the soup twice 
a week, three times, if the weather is too hot for the 
meat remains to keep, or if they accumulate very fast. 
Never add a morsel of anything that has the slightest 
taint; it will spoil the whole potful. Break the bones 
thoroughly. If you would extract all the flavor from 
bits of meat, put them through a chopper. With a 
skewer pick the marrow from the bones. Lay the 
bones at the bottom of the pot. 



Made Palatable 97 

If there are any left-overs in the refrigerator of 
vegetables of good flavor, such as onions, celery, toma- 
toes, carrots, parsnips or peas, chop fine and add, but 
do not put in too much of one thing; it will give too 
strong a flavor to the soup. If there are no left-over 
vegetables on hand, chop one-half cup each of carrot, 
turnip and celery and add for flavoring, with one-half 
teaspoon of peppercorns, one bay leaf, sprig of pars- 
ley, six cloves and one chopped onion. Do not add 
salt till the stock is half cooked. 

Cover the bones with cold water and set far back 
on the stove where it will come to the boil very slowly. 
Let it simmer for flve or six hours, then strain through 
a very fine sieve and allow it to cool as quickly as 
possible. Do not remove the cake of fat from the 
top of the soup until you are ready to use it, then run 
a thin knife around the edge to loosen it. Cut into 
quarters and lift each piece carefully. If there are 
any grains of fat left on the top of the jellied stock, 
dampen a bit of cheesecloth and carefully wipe over 
the top. Floating globules of grease will ruin the 
finest-flavored soup. 

For an everyday family soup in which nourish- 
ment is the first consideration, it does not require 
clearing. In the sediment there is considerable nutri- 
ment. If it is to be cleared, set the strained, skimmed 
soup over the fire, mix with the white and crushed 
shell of one egg, a dash of celery seed, the chopped 
rind and juice of half a lemon, and pepper and salt if 
required. Mix thoroughly, heat and boil ten minutes. 
Just before taking from the fire, pour in half a cup 
of cold water. Pour through the finest strainer and 
heat again to the boiling point before using. Clear 
soup with some small addition can be used in fifty 
different ways. 



98 Left-Overs 

LEFT-OVER SOUP 

4 quarts cold water 
Bones and trimmings 
2 onions 

1 turnip 

2 carrots 

I cup grav}- 

I tablespoon celery seed 

1 sprig parsley 

5 cloves 

2 blades mace 

6 peppercorns 

I tablespoon salt 
Put all the remains, — there ought to be about 
four quarts of left-overs for this soup, — into the cold 
water. Chop the vegetables fine, add the herbs, sea- 
soning and any gravy left-overs. Set the kettle over 
a very slow fire and allow the soup to come to the boil. 
Let it simmer slowly for six hours, removing all scum 
that rises. Strain it through a fine sieve and let the 
stock stand over night before using. 

BEEF STEW 

1 carrot 

4 potatoes 

2 cups brown stock 

1 teaspoon onion butter 
ij cups cold beef 

2 cloves 

3 tablespoons cold rice 
Pepper and salt 

Cook in boiling water the carrot, cut in quarters, 
and the potatoes cut in slices one inch thick. Strain 
the water from them when parboiled. In a saucepan 
put the stock, onion butter, the beef cut in slices, 
cloves, the carrot and potatoes, cold rice and pepper 



Made Palatable 99 

and salt. Allow it to siminer very slowly until the 
potato and carrot are tender. This makes a very 
savory stew. 

CURRIED BEEF 

I tablespoon butter 

I tablespoon minced onion 

1 teaspoon curry powder 

2 cups brown stock 
V teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold roast beef 

Into an iron spider put the butter and onion. Let 
it brown, then add the curry powder. Cook slowly 
for a few minutes, pour in the stock and half a teaspoon 
of salt. Let it simmer until reduced to a cup of liquor. 
Add the roast beef cut in inch cubes. Serve in a deep 
platter with a border of boiled rice. 

MEAT MIXCED WITH POACHED EGGS 

2 cups cold meat 

I cup gravy or stock 

Pepper 

Salt 

I teaspoon onion butter 
Chop a pint of meat coarsely, season it well, heat 
in a cup of left-over gravy or stock. Do not allow it 
to boil, merely to come to a simmer. Serve on dia- 
monds of toast with a poached egg on top of each 
slice. 

GRILLED SLICES WITH CREOLE SAUCE 

I 

Cut from roast beef six slices of the rarest meat, 
broil for five minutes over a clear fire, put on a hot 
plate and serve with a sauce made as follows : In a 
saucepan put two tablespoons of butter, two table- 
spoons of chopped onion and one tablespoon of 
chopped green pepper. Fry to a light brown, stirring 



lOO Left-Overs 

constantly. Add two tablespoons of flour and stir to 
a paste; then put in a pint of brown stock, two tea- 
spoons of Worcestershire sauce, a teaspoon of dry 
mustard and two teaspoons of vinegar. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook over a slow fire, beating 
the sauce with a whisk till smooth. Add at the last 
a teaspoon of chopped parsley and a quarter of a can 
of mushrooms cut in halves. Let the sauce come to 
a boil, then pour over the grilled meat. Serve with 
French fried potatoes. 

BEEF IN BROWN SAUCE 

Prepare a cup of brown sauce as follows: Cook 
one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of scraped 
onion and one tablespoon of flour until brown. Add 
one cup of brown stock and beat it smooth with a 
whisk. Season with pepper and salt. Add one cup 
of cold roast beef and one cup of cold potatoes cut in 
inch dice. Let it come to a boil and serve surrounded 
by toast points. 

DEVILED BEEF 

Take slices of rare roast beef and spread with 
butter on each side, as if you were buttering bread. 
Spread over this a mustard made by mixing a table- 
spoon of vinegar with three tablespoons of mustard 
and a dash of salt and pepper. Lay on a smoking hot 
iron spider and fry till the slices begin to curl over. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

6 hard-boiled eggs 
2 cups brown stock 

4 cups cold beef 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

5 cup sherry or cider 

Put the butter and flour in a small saucepan 
and when well blended pour in the soup, beat till quite 



Made Palatable loi 

smooth. Let it just come to the boil, then add the 
meat cut in inch pieces and draw to a cooler place 
on the stove where it can simmer for half an hour. 
If you cannot watch it, pour it into a double boiler, 
for the success of this dish depends on the steeping 
of the meat at just below boiling point for a half 
hour. Season with salt, pepper and the sherry when 
the dish is ready to take from the fire. Boil six 
eggs till quite hard and lay in cold water to make the 
shells come off easily. Pour the mock terrapin on a 
large platter, garnish with slices of eggs, split gherkins 
and points of lemon. 

ROAST BEEF PILLAU 

Cook for five minutes in a saucepan one table- 
spoon of butter and a small onion chopped fine. 
Before it begins to brown, add two cups of cold beef 
cut into fine dice, seasoned with half a teaspoon of salt 
and a quarter of a teaspoon of pepper. Allow it to 
cook very slowly for ten minutes. While it is cook- 
ing, cover half a cup of washed rice with cold water 
and set it over the fire to boil. When it has cooked 
for five minutes, drain it out into a fine strainer and 
let cold water run through it till every grain separates. 
Add the rice to the beef, pour over it a cup and a half 
of canned tomatoes. ■ Pour in a cup of boiling water 
and cook slowly till the rice is perfectly soft. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK 

4 cups cold corned beef or beef left from 

a pot roast 
3 tablespoons butter 
2 cups cold boiled cabbage 
Salt and pepper 
Cut the cold meat into small strips and saute 
them in a tablespoon of butter. Chop the cabbage and 



I02 Left-Overs 

two tablespoons of butter in an omelet pan. Pep- 
per and salt it and stir over the fire till it begins 
to brown. Arrange it on a hot platter as a border and 
into the middle put the hot meat. Serve witli 
boiled potatoes. 

BEEF FRICASSEE 

3 cups cold beef cut in thin slices 

2 cups brow n stock 

3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 
^ teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon onion butter 

I teaspoon salt 
Season the meat with pepper and salt. Melt the 
butter in a spider, add the flour and stir to a brown 
paste. Pour in the stock and beat smooth with a wire 
whisk. Season with the pepper, salt and onion butter 
and allow it to cook for ten minutes. Add the cold 
meat, simmer for a few minutes and serve on a deep 
platter with a border of rice, mashed potatoes or points 
of toast. 

BEEF RAGOUT WITH TOMATO 

3 cups cold roast beef 

i^ cups steamed tomato pulp 
I tablespoon butter 
I teaspoon onion juice 
Salt and pepper 

Cut the cold beef into half-inch cubes, cook the 
tomato half an hour and push through a sieve. Reheat 
the tomato, adding the butter and seasonings, at the 
last the beef. Let it simply heat, not boil, then serve. 

SCALLOPED BEEF 

Cut the meat from a roast into small thin pieces, 
remove the skin and fat. Pepper and salt the pieces. 



Made Palatable 103 

Butter a shallow dish, put in a layer of -stale bread 
crumbs, then a layer of meat, next a layer of cold 
macaroni, then a cup of cold tomato or white sauce, 
next meat, next tomato, and last of all a layer of but- 
tered dried crumbs. Bake till the top is rich brown. 

TOMATOliD BEEF 

Sprinkle small pieces of beef cut from the remains 
of a roast, with salt, pepper and flour. Put a layer 
of the meat in a baking dish, over it put a layer of 
canned tomatoes or sliced fresh tomatoes. Scatter 
bits of butter over it. Cover with a layer of beef, 
then tomato. Make the top layer of buttered crumbs. 
Bake slowly for one hour. 

DRIED BEEF IN RAMEKINS 

i^ cups cold creamed dried beef 

1 cup cold mashed potato 

■| cup buttered bread crumbs 

Put a tablespoon of the creamed dried beef in 
ramekin dishes and cover with a spoonful of mashed 
potato. Cover lightly with buttered crumbs. Bake 
till the top is a delicate brown. 

CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU GRATIN 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 
I cup milk 
I sliced onion 

1 stalk chopped celery 
Pepper 

2 cups cold corned beef 

^ cup buttered cracker crumbs 

Put the celery cut into inch lengths and the onion 
in the milk and scald in a double boiler. Strain when 
boiling and convert the milk into a white sauce with 



X04 Left- Overs 

the butter and flour. When thick, add the corned 
beef cut into small neat cubes and a dash of pepper. 
Pour into a shallow dish, cover with buttered cracker 
crumbs and brown. Garnish with the blanched leaves 
of celery. 

BEEF RAMEKINS 

2 cups chopped beef 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 

Pepper and salt 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

^ cup milk 
Moisten the meat and crumbs with the butter and 
milk. Stir the mixture perfectly smooth, cook in a 
double boiler and line ramekin dishes with the mixture 
about an inch thick. Drop into each an egg, dust 
with pepper and salt. Put a morsel of butter on top 
of each and bake until the egg is firm. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

I cup chopped raw meat 

J tablespoon onion 

^ tablespoon chopped parsley 

6 finely chopped almonds 

■J teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

8 large tomatoes 
The tough end of a sirloin steak is frequently a 
problem. Put it through the meat chopper; a small 
sirloin will generally yield about a cup of this raw 
meat. Add to it the onion, seasonings, nuts and 
parsley and moisten it with a tablespoon of melted 
butter. From eight large solid tomatoes cut a thin 
slice from the stem end. With a teaspoon scoop out 
a little of the pulpy portion and fill in each with the 
meat mixture. Set the tomatoes not too closely 
together in a baking pan and baste with half a cup of 



Made Palatable 105 

boiling water and a tablespoon of butter. When you 
take the tomatoes h-oni the oven, set on a hot platter, 
garnish with bits of water cress and sprinkle with a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

l-'ATHEULAND FARM MEAT LOAF 

Butter a long narrow cake tin and line it with 
cold mashed potatoes, smoothing it with a spatula into 
a layer about an inch thick. Inside this put a filling 
of roast beef, chopped rather coarsely, seasoned with 
pepper, salt and a few drops of onion juice, and mois- 
tened with gravy. Smooth this filling till within one 
inch of the top of the tin, and cover with mashed 
potato. Bake in a hot oven for half an hour and turn 
out on a long platter. It will look like a finely crusted 
loaf, and may be cut in neat slices. This makes a 
delicious luncheon or tea dish. 

BEEF HASH 

Use for beef hash the tough skirt part of the 
roast thoroughly freed from fat and gristle. Chop 
and mix one cup of meat with two cups of chopped 
potatoes. In an iron spider put two tablespoons of 
butter and half a cup of stock, or a spoonful of gravy 
added to enough hot water to half fill the cup. Let it 
boil up, then add the meat and potato well seasoned 
with pepper and salt. Stir occasionally with a fork. 
Let the water evaporate from the hash, leaving it dry 
but not pasty. 

REVIEW OF REVIEWS 

If you should happen to have some hash left, do 
not throw it away. It makes an excellent dish 
re-served for breakfast. Flour your hands slightly 
and mold the hash into fiat round cakes about as large 
as a biscuit cutter would make. Fry, in hot butter till 



io6 Left-Overs 

both sides are crisp and brown, then serve with a 
poached egg on top of each cake and a garnishing of 
toast points. 

GERMAN MEAT CAKES 

2 cups chopped meat 
I chopped oniou 

1 egg 
Salt 
Pepper 
jMustard 

2 tablespoons butter 

Mix the chopped meat, a small onion chopped 
fine, the egg slightly beaten, salt, pepper and mustard 
to taste and mold into little flat cakes. Fr}' in butter 
in an iron spider till light brown on each side. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR SOUP 

I cup cold chopped meat 

^ teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon powdered thyme 

i teaspoon paprika 

I teaspoon chopped parsley 

I teaspoon lemon juice 

J teaspoon onion juice 

Add the seasonings to the chopped meat and 

moisten with a tablespoon of beaten egg. Roll into 

balls the size of a hickory nut and brown in hot butter 

in a spider, shaking them about till crisp on every side. 

CECILS 

j\lelt one tablespoon of butter in a granite sauce- 
pan and add to it two tablespoons of soft bread crumbs. 
Take it from the fire, mix with it one cup of chopped 
rare roast beef seasoned with salt, pepper, a teaspoon 
of onion butter, a dash of Worcestershire sauce and a 
teaspoon of chopped parsley. Mix with the yolk of 
an egg slightly beaten and shape in very small cro- 



Made Palatable 107 

quettes. Flour, egg and crumb and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with tomato sauce, to which has been added a 
few drops of tabasco. 

FORCEMEAT CAKES 

2 cups finely chopped meat 
I cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

1 egg 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
I cup dried bread crumbs 

Put the milk and stale bread in a double boiler 
and cook for ten minutes. Then remove from the fire 
and mash very fine with the back, of a spoon. Add 
the butter, meat and seasoning. Shape the mixture 
into sm.all flat cakes. Beat an egg, add to it two table- 
spoons of cold water and in this egg the forcemeat 
cakes. Then dip into dried bread crumbs. Put the 
cakes in a frying basket and fry brown in deep lard. 
Serve hot. 

PAPAS RELLENAS 

A Favorite Cuban Dish 
5 large potatoes 
I cup cold roast beef 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons cooked tomato 

2 eggs 

I tablespoon flour 

3 olives 

Pepper, salt, cayenne 
Boil the potatoes, pare and cut in halves length- 
wise. Scoop out the inside with a spoon, leaving the 
fKatato shell about one-half an inch thick. Make a 
"piccadillo" to stufif them with. Chop very fine the 



ic8 Left-Overs 

beef, put it in a spider with the butter and tomato. 
Cook till the mixture begins to look dry, add one well- 
beaten egg, a dust of cayenne, salt and pepper enough 
for seasoning and three olives finely chopped StufT 
the potato halves with this mixture. Beat one egg 
Hght, add one tablespoon of flour and in this batter 
dip the half potatoes. Fry in boiling lard as you 
would croquettes. 

THE REMAINS OF A BOILED DINNER 

Winter squash can be served in a pie, sifting and 
seasoning it as if boiled for the purpose. Cold cab- 
bage may be put into hot spiced vinegar, served 
cold with vinegar, or heated with a little butter and 
pepper, salt if needed, and just a suspicion of vinegar. 
Cut it fine, heat thoroughly and serve very hot. 
Beets make good pickles. Turnips, carrots and pars- 
nips can all be warmed up. A favorite dish with many 
people is "red flannel hash," plain hash containing a 
little chopped beet. Look over the meat, cutting out al) 
the gristle and soft fat. Chop it fine with some of 
the hard fat. Mince potatoes which have been boiled 
in the pot liquor. Use three times as much potato as 
meat. Chop with the potato a small quantity of the 
cabbage and some of the beets. For two quarts of 
potato use half a pint of cabbage and one large beet. 
Mingle thoroughly with the meat. Pour some milk 
into a frying pan and turn in the hash, using enough 
to moisten thoroughly. Add two tablespoons of 
butter and season with pepper and salt if necessary. 
Be sure it is heated through. Serve with brown bread 
and pickles. — H. Annette Poole. 

PRESSED MEAT 

2 cups cold roast beef 
^ teaspoon allspice 



Made Palatable 



loy 



^ teaspoon cinnamon 

^ teaspoon ground cloves 

^ teaspoon salt 

Mace 

Pepper 

2 teaspoons gelatine 

3 tablespoons cold water 
■^ cup boiling stock 

Cut the beef in a meat chopper with the largest 
knife. Season with allspice, cinnamon, cloves, salt, 




PEESSED MEAT WITH CUOtTMEEK OAEIflSH 



a dust of mace and black pepper. Dissolve the gela- 
tine in boiling brown stock. Mix the meat with the 
liquid and press it into a pint mold. Cover and set 
in a cold place for several hours to jelly. Serve on 
a platter, garnish with slices of cucumber or parsley 
and cut in neat slices. 



no Left- Overs 

BEEF LOAF 

2 cups chopped cold beef 

2 tablespoons chopped ham 

I cup stale bread crumbs 

Pepper 

Salt 

I teaspoon minced parsley 

I tablespoon onion juice 

I egg 

^ cup milk 

Take the finely chopped cold roast beef, chopped 
ham and stale bread crumbs, season highly with salt 
and pepper, chopped parsley and onion juice. Mix 
a beaten egg with half a cup of milk and moisten the 
dry ingredients. It may require more milk ; the quan- 
tity depends somewhat on the dryness of the bread. 
Alake the mixture so it will stick together well. Take 
a square of stout white paper and butter it thoroughly. 
Put the beef into it, shaping it in a square as if the 
paper held a small cream loaf. Fold the paper neatly 
over at each end so that the weight of the meat will 
keep it in place without tying. Put the parcel in a 
baking pan and set it in a hot oven for half an hour. 
Carefully remove the paper when baked and set the 
brown crusty loaf on a hot platter. Pour a tomato 
sauce over it, or serve with horse-radish cream sauce. 

CORNED BEEF SANDWICHES 

f cup chopped corned meat 

J cup fat meat 

I tablespoon butter 

Salt, pepper and mustard 

Chop corned beef very fine. To the meat add 

the fat chopped, a tablespoon of softened butter, and 

season to taste with salt, pepper and mustard. Mix 

it to a paste and spread between folds of brown or 



Made Palatable ili 

white bread. Minced roast beef may be used instead 
of corned beef. 

CURRV SANDWICHES 

1 tablespoon curry powder 

2 tablespoons butter 

Mix the curry with the butter till it is like a 
cream. Spread it on' slices of bread and between lay 
thin slices of roast beef. If the beef you wish to 
utiUze is in such small scraps it cannot be used for 
sandwiches, chop it fine and spread between the 
butter folds. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES 

I cup finely chopped tongue 
I teaspoon made mustard 
I tablespoon soft butter 

1 teaspoon paprika 
Yolk I hard-boiled egg 
Juice i lemon 

Dash nutmeg 
Chop the tongue very fine, mix thoroughly with 
the other ingredients. Spread between thin slices of 
bread. 

POTTED MEAT 

2 cups cold beefsteak 
2 anchovies 

Salt and pepper 

Cloves and allspice 

^ teacup water 

I tablespoon butter 

I cup stock 
Cut the meat fine and put it in a jar with one- 
half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon of pepper, 
the same of allspice, and a pinch of ground cloves; 
remove the bones from the anchovies and add them; 



iiv. Left-Overs 

put a cover on the jar and set it in the oven for one 
and a half hours. Take it out and pound the whole 
in the mortar and press it into jars. Clarify the butter, 
run it over the top of the meat and put aside to get 
cold. Potted tongue and potted meat make excellent 
sandwich fillings. 

POTTED TONGUE 

Root of a tongue 

4 tablespoons butter 

Cayenne and nutmeg 

i cup cold roast beef 

Pepper and salt 
The root of a tongue can be utilized in this way — 
remove the hard outside, also the under side and 
gristly parts ; chop it fine ; to the tongue add the roast 
beef, chop and pound both, adding the butter, cayenne, 
and a pinch of nutmeg; add salt if necessary. Press 
into pots, run some clarified butter over it ; it will keep 
any length of time. — Miss Margaret Bailey. 

LEFT-OVER SALAD 

Take cold roast beef, veal or lamb, almost any 
cold meat, cut in small pieces, mix with shredded let- 
tuce and a little finely minced onion. Mix with 
enough salad dressing to moisten thoroughly. Heap 
on a platter and surround with the prettiest lettuce 
leaves you have. Put a tuft of the blanched leaves in 
the center. Lay sliced hard-boiled eggs around the 
base, between the meat and the lettuce. Serve with 
white bread and butter. — H. Annette Poole. 

ROAST BEEF SALAD 

2 cups roast beef 

Paprika 

Salt 

I tablespoon tomato catsup 

I tablespoon onion juice 



Made Palatable 113 

Cold roast beef makes an excellent salad. Choose 
for this dish the well-done parts of the meat and cut 
into inch dice. Over the meat sprinkle a dash of 
paprika, tomato catsup and onion juice. Let it stand 
for two hours in a cool place. Mix lightly with a 
mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish the 
platter with slices of tomatoes. 

BEEF RISSOLES 

Roll pie crust as thin as you can make it and cut 
into rounds with a large biscuit cutter. Mince cold 
beef or steak, season with pepper, salt and paprika and 
moisten with stock or gravy to make the meat stick 
together. Put a spoonful of this mixture into each 
round of paste, brush the edges with beaten egg and 
lay on another round of paste, pinching the edges 
together carefully that not a particle of the meat may 
escape. Brush egg over the outside and fry like 
doughnuts in deep lard. They will take about eight 
minutes to brown enough. Drain on thick paper and 
serve hot in a folded napkin. 

TOMATO AND BEEF SALAD 

ij cups cold boiled beef 

1 cup vinegar 
Salt and pepper 

2 cups tomatoes 
I teaspoon chives 

Cut into inch pieces cold lean beef left from a pot 
roast. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and pour the 
vinegar over it to marinate for half an hour. When 
ready to serve, arrange in a salad bowl a layer of sliced 
ripe tomatoes, cover with a layer of beef, sprinkling 
with chopped chives. Cover with the tomato and 
pour over it a French dressing. 



114 Left-Overs 

CORNED BEEF SALAD 

2 cups cold corned beef 

1 cup cold boiled potato 
^ cup cold beets 

^ cup chopped cress 

2 teaspoons horse-radish 

Cut the beef into strips an inch long, and the 
potato and beet into neat half-inch cubes. Shred the 
cress very fine. Toss lightly together. Sprinkle with 
the grated horse-radish. Cover with French dress- 
ing. Garnish the edge of the salad bowl with 
water cress. 

BEEFSTEAK SALAD 

2 cups cold beefsteak 

2 cups water cress 

^ teaspoonful onion juice 

4 cup green peas 
Cut the steak into half-inch cubes. Toss with 
the shredded water cress and peas. Season with the 
onion juice and cover with a French dressing. 

BOUILLI SALAD 

I cup cold soup meat 

I cup cold boiled potatoes 

I tablespoon chopped parsley 

Dash onion juice 
Cut the meat and potatoes into neat pieces. Mix 
with the 'parsley and a dash of onion juice. Pour over 
it French dressing. Any cold boiled vegetables may 
be used for garnishing. 



Made PaJatable 115 

X 
Cold Veal 

Kentucky Croquettes Veal in Omelet 

Nut Balls Veal in Tomato Sauce 

Windermere Croquettes Veal Casserole 

Calves' Liver Terrapin, Veal Sandwiches 

with Mushrooms Veal and Lettuce Salad 

VEAL is the flesh of an immature creature and it 
should be remembered that it will not keep 
fresh as long as that of an older animal. A 
left-over of beef may be left for a day or two before 
serving again. It is better to see to the condition of 
veal twenty-four hours after cooking, especially in hot 
weather, and serve it as soon as convenient. Veal is 
a meat of but little flavor, and requires considerable 
seasoning, besides the richness of fat pork or butter 
added in the cooking. Brown sauce is the general 
accompaniment to veal at the first cooking. Save 
every spoonful of the sauce to use with it when warm- 
ing over. If there is no brown sauce, white sauce 
may take its place. 

Veal makes an excellent ragout, seasoned with 
onion juice and cayenne, minced and poured on toast 
for breakfast; in a salad or croquettes, it tastes very 
much like chicken. Add to it a few mushrooms and 
two or three spoonfuls of left-over sweetbreads, and 
you have most delicious rissoles. It is excellent 
combined with oysters in a scallop. When preparing 
it for a salad, be careful to reject all morsels of gristle 



Ii6 Left-Overs 

as well as brown or hard meat. One-half measure 
each of cold veal and finely chopped white cabbage is 
delicious with a horse-radish dressing. Marinate for 
two hours, else you will find the salad a tasteless one. 

KENTUCKY CROQUETTES 
• ~ 

2 cups cold chopped veal 
I cup calf's brains 
I cup mashed potatoes 
^ teaspoon onion juice 

I teaspoon salt 
Pepper 
Celery seed 
Paprika 

Chop the veal, skin and boil the brains ten min- 
utes, mix with the potatoes, dust in the seasoning and 
moisten with one well-beaten egg. If too dry, add a 
few tablespoons of stock or milk. Cool, shape into 
croquettes, flour, egg, crumb and fry in deep fat. 

XUT DALLS 

I cup cold chopped veal 

12 chopped blanched almonds 

^ teaspoon salt 

I egg 

Pepper 

Paprika 

I cup tomato sauce 

Mix the meat, almonds and seasoning and moisten 
with the well-beaten egg. Roll into balls the size of 
a walnut and set them in a baking pan. Pour over 
them a cup of hot tomato sauce. Cook in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes. Serve in a small deep platter 
garnished with water cress. 



Made Palatable 117 

WINDERMERE CROQUETTES 

i^ cups milk 

1 2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 
Dash cayenne 

2 cups cold chopped lamb 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
-^- cup cold rice 

Yolks 3 hard-boiled eggs ^ 

Make a white sauce from the milk, flour, butter 
and seasonings. To one cup of the sauce add the 
chopped meat and parsley. Spread on a plate to cool. 
Into the half cup of sauce beat the rice and the yolks 
of the eggs pushed through a potato ricer. Spread on 
a plate to cool. Take a heaping tablespoon of the 
meat mixture and flatten into a cake. Inside this put 
£. teaspoon of the rice mixture rolled into a tiny ball. 
Wrap the meat around it till covered. Roll in flour, 
egg, crumbs and dry in deep fat. Pile cannon-ball 
fashion on a platter. Garnish with parsley. — Miss 
Mary Kendall. 

CAL\-ES' LIVER TERRAPIN ^^•IT1I MUSHROOMS 

2 cups cold liver 

1 cup stock 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 eggs 

;] teaspoon salt 

-j- teaspoon paprika 

;}- teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

i teaspoon mustard 

2 drops tabasco sauce 

1 cup mushrooms 

2 truffles 

3 tablespoons Madeira 



ii8 Left-Overs 

Boil the eggs hard. Rub the yolks smooth with 
the butter, salt, paprika, kitchen bouquet, mustard 
and tabasco sauce. Add the liver cut in small pieces 
and the stock. Let it cook five minutes, add the 
mushrooms and truffles, Madeira, and serve garnished 
with the whites of eggs cut into rings. 

VEAL IX OMELET 

If you have a cup of cold roast veal left over, 
chop it fine, season with pepper, salt and a dash of 
paprika and tuck it between the folds of an omelet. 
Pour over it before sending to the table a cup of hot, 
well-seasoned tomato sauce. 

VEAL IN TOMATO SAUCE 

Put into a spider two tablespoons of butter, two 
tablespoons of flour and cook to a paste. Add three 
tablespoons of pompodoro (Italian tomato paste) and 
a pint of veal stock, with salt, cayenne and pepper to 
taste. Beat with a whisk till creamy, then add cold 
roast veal cut into finger lengths. 

VEAL CASSEROLE 

2 cups cold rice 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons cream 
I J cups chopped veal 

Put the rice in a double boiler and as it heats add 
the butter and cream and a little salt, if it is not already 
seasoned. When hot and soft, line a casserole with 
it, making a wall an inch thick. Inside put the chopped 
veal well seasoned with salt, paprika and celery salt. 
Cover with an inch thick layer of rice, stand in a pan 
of boiling water. Set in the oven and cook for half 
an hour. Serve with tomato or cream sauce. 



Made Palatable 119 

VEAL SANDWICHES 

Take remnants of cold veal and put it through 
a meat cutter, using the finest knife. Mix with a 
mayonnaise dressing, season highly with pepper, salt 
and mustard and spread Hke a paste between slices 
of bread from which the crust has been trimmed. 

VEAL AND LETTUCE SALAD 

2 cups cold chopped veal 

1 head lettuce 

2 hard-boiled eggs 
Salt and pepper 

Season the veal with pepper and salt. Shred the 
lettuce fine with scissors and chop the eggs. Toss 
together. Serve in a nest of lettuce leaves and pour 
the mayonnaise over it. Garnish with olives cut in 
small pieces. This salad may be made in the same 
way by using instead of lettuce, finely chopped cold 
potatoes. Garnish with slices of cold boiled egg. 



i20 Left-Overs 

XI 

Cold Lamb 

Potatoes with Lamb Lamb Rissoles 

Stuffing Lamb and Rice Cro- 

Mound of Lamb with quettes 
Peas Lamb Cutlets 

Lamb in Savory Sauce Lamb and Lettuce Salad 
Lamb Salad 

LAMB can be used in nearly every recipe given 
for beef. It is especially good for croquettes 
and makes a savory stew. Save every drop of 
gravy or liquid from the platter when setting a roast of 
lamb away. It requires all the enriching it can have 
and always plenty of seasoning. 

POTATOES WITH LAMB STUFFING 

8 large baked potatoes 

1 cup cold chopped lamb 

4 tablespoons chopped ham 
\ cup thin white sauce 

2 tablespoons cream 
White I egg 

Salt and pepper 
Bake eight large, perfect potatoes. While they 
are cooking, chop the lamb and ham, mix lightly 
together, add the seasonings and moisten with the 
white sauce. When the potatoes are soft, cut a thin 
slice from the end of each and scoop out the inside. 
Put it at once through a potato ricer and set away to 



Made Palatable 



I2.I 



keep warm. Fill the potato skins almost to the top 
with the meat mixture. Add to a cup of the mashed 
potato the cream and beaten white of the egg. Pepper 
and salt, and on the top of each potato put a spoonful, 
leaving it in a small, rocky mound. Bake till the top 
is a delicate brown. Serve the potatoes piled on their 
ends in a shallow dish, with a plentiful garnish 
of parsley. 




MOITND OF LAMB WITH PEAS 



MOUND OF LAMB WITH PEAS 

2 cups cold chopped lamb 
I small onion 

I cup cold- potatoes 
Pepper and salt 

3 tablespoons stock 

f cup buttered crumbs 
I cup green peas 
Mix lightly with a fork the chopped meat, potato, 
onion ^nd seasonings. Heap it in a mound in the mid- 



122 Left-Overs 

die of a shallow baking dish. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake till brown. When ready to serve 
pour around it a cup of green peas well drained and 
seasoned. 

LAMB IN SAVORY SAUCE 

i^ cups cold lamb 
4 tablespoons butter 
I tablespoon flour 
^ onion 

1 cup gravy or brown stock 

2 cucumber pickles 
Pepper, salt, cayenne 

Into a granite saucepan put the butter, onion and 
flour and rub to a paste. When it grows light brown, 
add the gravy or stock, salt and pepper it and allow it 
to simmer for ten minutes. Cut the pickles in small 
pieces, add these to the sauce and the lamb cut in neat 
slices. Let it heat through, then serve in a deep 
platter surrounded by a ring of hot boiled rice or 
mashed potato. 

LAMB RISSOLES 

I cup cold chopped lamb 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 
^ teacup cold mashed potato 

2 tablespoons butter 
I cold onion 

4 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

I tablespoon catsup 

I cup brown stock 

Pepper, salt, paprika 

Mix lightly with a fork the meat, potato, parsley, 
chopped onion, pepper and salt. Make a thick sauce 
from the butter, flour and stock, seasoning it with the 



Made Palatable 123 

catsup and Worcestershire sauce. When it is cooked 
stir in the meat mixture and the well-beaten egg. 
Turn it on a plate to cool. Roll into balls the size 
of a small egg. Flour, egg, crumb and fry in deep fat. 
Serve in a deep platter with a border of mashed 
potato. Pour a cup of brown sauce over the rissoles 
and sprinkle the top with cut parsley. 

LAMB AND RICE CROQUETTES 

2 cups chopped lamb 

I cup cold rice 

I tablespoon lemon juice 

I tablespoon chopped parsley 

Pepper and salt 

I cup white sauce 
Mix the lamb and rice with the seasonings and 
stir into a hot, thick white sauce. Set to cool. Roll 
into cone-shaped croquettes. Flour, egg and crumb. 
Fry in deep fat. Garnish with parsley. 

LAMB CUTLETS 

Cut the remains from cold loin or neck of lamb 
into small cutlets, trim off all the fat, season with 
pepper and salt, flour, egg, crumb and fry in hot fat 
till very delicately browned. Arrange them neatly on 
a hot platter and pour over them hot tomato sauce. 

LAMB AND LETTUCE SALAD 

I large head lettuce 

I cup cold lamb cut in cubes 

6 large capers chopped 

I teaspoon chopped mint 

4 tablespoons French dressing 
For the French dressing take three tablespoons 
of olive oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon of pepper and one- 
fourth teaspoon of onion juice. Shred the lettuce, 



124 Left-Overs 

leaving enough whole to make a nest for the salad. 
Mix the lettuce, lamb, capers and mint and marinate 
with the dressing for an hour or two. 

LAMB SALAD 

2 cups cold roast lamb 

1 cup cold boiled potatoes 

2 cups beets 

2 cucumber pickles 
Cut the lamb and potato into neat cubes, the beets 
into small morsels. Arrange in a nest of lettuce. Mix 
the meat and potato and sprinkle with the chopped 
beets. Dress with mayonnaise in which onion juice 
takes the place of mustard. Garnish the mayonnaise 
with finely chopped pickle. 



Made Palatable 



125 



XII 



Pork and Ham 



Minced Ham on Toast Pork Cutlets 



Ham Griddlecakes 

Ham Balls 

Ham Toast 

Shredded Ham 

Ham Canapes 

Royal Scallop 

Ham and Potato Pie 

Block Island Croquettes Pork Salad 



Scotch Eggs 
Ham and Potato 

quettes 
Ham Cecils 
Ham Sandwiches 
Ham Salad 
Sausage Salad 



Cro- 



EVERY cook book has at least a few recipes tell- 
ing what to do with cold beef, lamb, veal and 
poultry. Pork left-overs are left to the imag- 
ination of the perplexed cook, and the result is gener- 
ally cold pork till the end of the chapter. There are 
all sorts of agreeable methods for using this meat. 

Cold pork is, in the esteem of some persons, 
better than when hot. Serve it in neatly cut slices for 
tea or luncheon at the second meal, then take stock 
of the remains and look to the future. Roast pork 
bones make an excellent brown stock, almost as rich 
as that from roast beef. Trim the scraps from the 
bones and consign them to the soup kettle. Cut with 
a keen knife all the fat from meat that is not to be 
served cold. This fat rendered down makes an excel- 
lent dripping to saute potatoes. Chop it, set in a 
covered jar in the oven and allow it to melt. Strain 
and set away in the refrigerator. 



126 Left-Overs 

The tender white meat of pork makes a salad 
which tastes very much Hke chicken. Sometimes if 
one has a few bits of chicken left over they may be 
combined with the pork, cut in neat cubes, and the 
fraud can scarcely be detected. Pork makes excellent 
croquettes or is good sliced and reheated in a cup of 
its brown gravy. It may be minced, enriched by a 
few spoons of gravy and poured on toast for a break- 
fast dish. Cold ham has a multitude of uses. A few 
scraps may be converted into a delicious sandwich or 
give an excellent flavor to a salad or egg dish. Even 
cold sausage has its uses, while a slice or two of cold 
broiled bacon put through a meat chopper and added 
to croquette mixtures provides an agreeable seasoning. 

MINCED HAM ON TOAST 

Toast several slices of stale bread. Butter and 
spread lightly with mustard, then over that put a thin 
layer of minced ham seasoned with a dash of cayenne. 
On top put a delicate grating of cheese. Set in a hot 
oven and let the cheese dissolve. Serve hot for 
luncheon or tea. 

HAM GRIDDLECAKES 

1 cup minced ham 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 
2 eggs 

Pepper 

I cup scalded milk 
Mix the ham and crumbs with the milk and well- 
beaten eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot buttered 
griddle. 

HAM BALLS 

Mince remains of lean ham, mix with an equal 
quantity of mashed potatoes. Mold into small flat 
cakes, roll in flour and brown in a spider with slices of 
salt pork tried out. 



Made Palatable 127 

HAM TOAST 

2 cups cold ham 

2 eggs 

^ cup cream 

I teaspoon mustard 

Pepper 

Chop very fine the cold ham, add the well-beaten 
eggs, cream, a little pepper and mustard. Heat this 
mixture till almost at the boiling point and spread on 
slices of buttered toast. 

SHREDDED HAM 

J tablespoon butter 

5 tablespoons currant jelly 
Dash cayenne 

4 tablespoons sherry 
I cup cold ham 

Cut the ham into narrow strips. Put the butter 
and currant jelly in a saucepan. As soon as they are 
melted, add the cayenne, wine and ham and simmer 
five minutes. 

HAM CANAPES 

1 cup finely-chopped ham 

2 tablespoons cream 
Dust paprika 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

6 slices bread 

Cut the bread in one-half-inch slices, fry in melted 
butter and set in the oven to keep warm while you 
prepare the ham. Add the ham and seasoning to the 
cream, put a heaping spoonful on each slice of toast, 
sprinkle with grated cheese and set in a hot oven to 
brown. 



128 Left-Overs 

ROYAL SCALLOP 

^ cup cold ham 
i cup cold chicken 
i cup smoked tongue 
8 hard-boiled eggs 
3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups niilk 

Chop the meat and eggs fine. Make a white 
sauce from the flour, butter, milk and seasonings. 
Butter a number of ramekin dishes and into each one 
put a spoonful of the sauce, then a spoonful of the 
chopped ingredients. Cover with a spoonful of sauce 
and scatter with buttered bread crumbs. Bake till the 
crumbs are brown. 

HAM AND POTATO PIE 

1 cup cream sauce 

2 cups cold potato 

ij cups cold chopped ham 

•J cup dried bread crumbs 
Chop the ham coarsely and cut the potatoes into 
dice. Butter a vegetable dish, put in a layer of cold 
potato, then a layer of ham and pour over it half a 
cup of cream sauce. Cover with another layer of 
potato and ham. Pour in the remainder of the sauce 
and cover with the buttered crumbs. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

BLOCK ISLAND CROQUETTES 

1 cup minced ham 

• I cup stale bread crumbs 

2 cups chopped cold potatoes 
I tablespoon butter 

I egg 



Made Palatable 129 

Mix the ham, crumbs and potatoes with the butter 
aiid egg, make into small balls, flour, egg, crumb and 
fry in hot fat. 

PORK CUTLETS 

2 cups chopped cold pork 

2 eggs 

^ cup cracker crumbs 

I teaspoon chopped parsley 

I teaspoon minced onion 

I tablespoon cream 

Pepper and salt 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, mix with the cream, 
stir in the chopped pork, cracker crumbs, onion, pars- 
ley and seasoning. Form into cutlet shaped cro- 
quettes, roll in flour, egg and crumbs. At the small 
end of the croquette stick in a few inches of macaroni. 
Fry in deep fat and serve with tomato sauce. 

SCOTCH EGGS 

I cup chopped ham 

7 eggs 

^ cup stale bread crumbs 

•J cup milk 

•^ teaspoon mustard 

Paprika and salt 

Boil six eggs hard, cook the bread crumbs in the 
milk till it forms a paste. Stir in the ham, seasonings 
and one well-beaten egg. Mix well. Remove the 
hard-boiled eggs from the shells, wipe them dry and 
wrap each in the ham and crumb mixture. Roll in 
beaten egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat like cro- 
quettes. Cut each one in half lengthwise and serve 
hot on a nest of parsley. 



ijo Left-Overs 

HAM AND POTATO CROQUETTES 

J beaten egg 

I cup mashed potato 

i cup chopped ham 
Warm the cold mashed potato in a double boiler 
and mix it with egg, take a tablespoonful in your 
hand and pat it out till it is the size and thickness of 
a large cooky. In the center put a teaspoonful of 
chopped ham. Fold it into the heart of the potato 
and roll it in a ball. Dip in flour, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat. 

HAM CECILS 

I cup chopped ham 

1 teaspoon flour 
Dash pepper 

Chop boiled ham very fine, add one beaten egg, 
stir in the flour and pepper. Beat all together. Make 
into small balls, egg, roll in bread crumbs, then fry in 
hot fat. — Mrs. Frank Stewart. 

HAM SANDWICHES 

2 cups finely chopped ham 

1 cucumber pickle 

2 teaspoons made mustard 
2 tablespoons butter 

i teaspoon pepper 

Put the ham through a meat chopper, using the 
finest knife. Mix perfectly smooth with the butter 
and seasonings and spread between slices of bread 
from which the crusts have been cut. 

HAM SALAD 

Cut cold ham into half-inch dice. Take an equal 
quantity of shredded lettuce or sliced celery, both if 



Made Palatable 131 

you desire. Serve with a boiled dressing or a simple 
French dressing. Garnish with rings of egg. 

SAUSAGE SALAD 

I head celery 

^ can peas 

^ can small French beans 

3 cold sausages 
Slice the celery very fine. Skin the sausages and 
cut into half-inch pieces. Toss lightly together with 
the beans. Rub a salad bowl with a raw onion, put 
in the salad. Cover with mayonnaise. 

PORK SALAD 

For pork salad you require left-over lean meat 
from a tender young pig. The meat can scarcely be 
distinguished from veal or the white tneat of chicken. 
If the pork has been slightly corned, the flavor will be 
all the finer. Reject every morsel of browned meat, 
fat 'or gristle and cut into tiny pieces. Mix with an 
equal quantity of chopped celery and serve with may- 
onnaise dressing, exactly as if you were making 
chicken salad. You can impart a pleasant and unique 
flavor to the salad by using equal quantities of celery 
and crisp acid apples. Slices of beet cut into diamonds 
or hearts make a pretty garnish for this salad. 
Before you add a mayonnaise, marinate with a French 
dressing for several hours, setting it in the refrigerator 
till it is required for serving. 



13 a 



Left -Overs 



XIII 



Poultry 



Chicken Soup 
Chicken Puree 
Turkey Soup 
Scalloped Turkey 
Chicken and Ham Mold 
Chicken Omelet 
Chicken Gallosch 
Ramekins of Chickens 
Chicken and Macaroni 
Creamed Chicken and 

Sweetbreads 
Chicken a la Terrapin 
Chicken Pate 
Chicken Timbales 



Chicken Souffle 
Chicken Dumplings 
Chicken Cutlets 
Easter Croquettes 
Chicken Croquettes 
Salad of Dark Turkey 

Meat 
Swiss Chicken Salad 
Turkey Salad 
Hot Chicken Salad 
Potted Turkey 
Glace Chicken with Let- 
tuce Salad 



CHICKEX even at twenty cents a pound is not 
more extravagant than roast beef when one 
considers that every morsel of it can be used, 
even to the bleaching of the bones in a soup. The 
carcasses of two good chickens or one turkey will 
generally make a quart or two of excellent stock. This 
means, of course, that every bone, the giblets and 
every morsel of skin shall be saved. A careful house- 
wife gathers all these remains into a clean bowl and 
they stand in the refrigerator until ready to be used. 
Cover them with cold water, add the seasonings suit- 
able to chicken soup and set far back on the stove, 



Made Palatable 133 

where it will take at least an hour to begin to simmer. 
In four hours it will be ready to strain. 

Never add salt to a soup till after it has cooked. 
Cool the stock as quickly as possible, but never by 
putting it steaming hot into the refrigerator. I have 
seen that plan followed in more than one household 
and then I have heard the cook exclaim in wonder 
over spoiled stock and other foods ruined. Still, the 
sooner stock will cool the longer it will keep. Do not 
break the cake of fat on top until ready to use; it 
excludes the air and helps to keep the soup sweet. 

There is no meat so suitable for rechauffes as 
chicken. It makes excellent croquettes and timbales. 
Creamed, it loses none of its delicate flavor. It is 
excellent in pates or on toast. It is good scalloped, 
deviled, curried, in fritters, or as a souffle, while in hot 
summer days it appeals to the appetite as a salad, in 
aspic jelly, in a mousse, or potted. The meat of tur- 
key, game, duck and goose may be treated in many 
instances as chicken. The flavor of a turkey salad is 
not as delicate as a chicken salad, still it is a dish not 
to be despised. The same rule ought to apply to the 
warming over of poultry as to other meats. Do not 
cook it a second time; all it requires is reheating. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

2 chicken carcasses 
2 quarts cold water 
2 onions 

I cup stewed tomato 
I chopped carrot 
18 artichokes 
I tablespoon butter 
I tablespoon flour 
Put the remains of the chicken in a soup kettle 
with the cold water. When this boils, add the onions 



134 Left-Overs 

chopped fine, the tomato and carrot. If artichokes are 
in season, add eight of them pared and chopped. Cook 
for three hours. Half an hour before serving the 
soup, strain it through the colander, return to the pot 
with a dozen small artichokes and allow them to cook 
for twenty minutes. If artichokes cannot be obtained, 
let egg balls or tiny squares of toast take their place. 
Bind the soup with a spoonful of butter and flour 
cooked together, if it is not thick enough. 

CHICKEN PUREE 

i^ cups cold chicken 
■J cup cold rice 

1 chicken carcass 

2 quarts cold water 

1 onion 
Sprig parsley 

2 teaspoons sweet herbs 
I small carrot 

6 peppercorns 

Salt and pepper 

■J cup cream 
Put the carcass and the skin of a roast chicken 
into cold water with the sliced onion, chopped carrot, 
parsley, sweet herbs and peppercorns. Allow it to 
simmer gently for an hour. Pound the chicken meat 
to a paste, put it with the rice through a potato ricer. 
Strain the stock through a fine sieve and add the paste 
of rice and chicken. Let it heat and not come to a 
boil, season with salt and pepper and add just before 
serving the cream scalding hot. 

TURKEY SOUP 

I turkey carcass 

1 onion 

2 bay leaves 

4 sprigs parsley 



Made Palatable 135 

I carrot 

1 parsnip 

8 peppercorns 
6 cloves 

2 quarts cold water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Break the turkey bones into as small pieces as 
possible, and add all the morsels of dressing and meat 
not presentable enough to be served. Chop the car-- 
rot, parsnip and onion, add with the seasonings and 
the water. Allow it to simmer four hours, when the 
stock will be reduced to a quart. Pour through a 
puree strainer and set away over night to cool. Take 
the fat off and reheat. Add to it a pint of cream, 
bind with two tablespoons of flour and butter and serve 
with croutons. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY 

Into small ramekin dishes sprinkle dried bread 
crumbs browned in butter. Over this put a layer one 
and one-half inches deep of chopped cold turkey 
moistened by a spoonful of giblet gravy. Cover with 
browned crumbs and bake till chestnut brown. 

CHICKEN AND HAM MOLD 

2 cups cold chopped chicken 
I cup chopped ham 

1 cup cold boiled macaroni 

2 eggs 

I tablespoon butter 
I cup gravy 
Pepper and salt 

Mix the chicken, ham and macaroni, moisten with 
the eggs, melted butter and gravy, season highly. 
Butter a mold, pour the mixture in, put on the cover 
tightly and boil two hours. Dip the mold into cold 



136 Left-Overs 

water for a minute and turn out on a hot dish. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

CHICKEN OMELET 

2 tablespoons milk 

4 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

1 teacup chopped cold chicken 

Beat the eggs very lightly, add milk and seasoning. 
Just before pouring into the pan add the chicken to 
the egg mixture. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, 
cook and fold exactly like an omelet. 

CHICKEN GALLOSCH 

2 potatoes (raw) 

I tablespoon butter 
^ teaspoon paprika 
I cup brown stock 
i teaspoon salt 
^ clove garlic 
I cup cold chicken 

Pare three small potatoes and cut into dice, add 
them to the melted butter in the spider to fry. Toss 
about in the butter till they begin to brown, then add 
the seasoning, the stock, and last the chicken. Sim- 
mer slowly. Serve as soon as the potatoes are soft. 

RAMEKINS OF CHICKENS 

Butter ramekins and cover the bottom of each 
dish with cooked rice. Into each put a layer of cold 
roast chicken cut in half-inch pieces and mixed with 
small pieces of the dressing. Moisten with a spoonful 
of gravy, season with pepper and salt. Cover with a 
thin layer of rice, then with a scattering of buttered 
bread crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are browned. 



Made Palatable 137 

CHICKEN AND MACARONI 

1 cup cold macaroni 

2 cups cold chicken 
6 mushrooms 

^ cup cream 

^ cup chicken stock 

•| cup dried bread crumbs 

Pepper and salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Into a buttered baking dish put a layer of mac- 
aroni, then a layer of chicken cut in small strips. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt and the mushrooms cut 
in quarters. Cover with a layer of macaroni, another 
of chicken and pour over it, wetting as evenly as possi- 
ble, the stock and cream. Sprinkle buttered bread 
crumbs over the top and bake brown. If it browns 
too quickly, cover with a plate and pour a little more 
stock in if it seems to be growing too dry. 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND SWEETBREADS 

2 cups cold chicken 
I sweetbread 

^ can mushrooms 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons flour 
i cup milk 

^ cup cream 

I teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon white pepper 

■J teaspoon mace 

Paprika 

J cup buttered crumbs 

Blanch the sweetbread for ten minutes in boiling 

water, pare and stew till tender. Cut into small dice 

and with scissors clip the chicken into tiny strips. 

Cut the mushrooms in quarters. Make a white sauce 



138 Left-Overs 

from the butter, flour and milk and add the season- 
ings. Take from the fire and stir into this the chicken, 
sweetbreads and mushrooms. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish, cover with crumbs, dust with pepper and 
salt and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

CHICKEN A LA TERRAPIN 

3 cups cold boiled chicken 
I hard-boiled egg 

i^ tablespoons brown flour 
i cup chicken stock 

1 cup milk 

^ teaspoon salt 
Cayenne and mace 

4 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons j^.Iadeira wine 

Chop the chicken and press the eggs through a 
potato ricer. The flour, butter, stock and milk should 
be cooked to a smooth sauce. Add the salt, a dust of 
cayenne and mace and cook in a double boiler for 
twenty minutes. Stir in the riced egg, chicken and 
wine just before taking from the fire. Serve on dia- 
monds of toast, garnished with water cress. 

CHICKEN PATE 

I J cups cold chopped chicken 

I egg 

I teaspoon minced parsley 

Pepper and salt 

^ cup butter 

3 tablespoons flour 
i^ cups hot water 

Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings and 
gradually pour on the hot water. Boil five minutes, 
add the chicken, parsley and egg chopped fine. Let 
it come to a boil and while hot put a spoonful into 



Made Palatable i29 

hot pate shells. Serve on a platter and garnish with 
parsley or blanched celery tops. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

2 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons stale bread crumbs 

f cup milk 

1 cup chopped chicken 

^ teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 eggs 
Pepper and salt 

Melt the butter, add the crumbs and milk, and 
cook five minutes. Add the chicken, parsley and eggs 
slightly beaten. Season with pepper and salt. Turn 
into buttered molds. Set in a pan of hot water. Cover 
with buttered paper and bake twenty minutes. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

g teaspoon pepper 

2 cups scalded milk 

■J cup stale bread crumbs 

2 cups cold chicken 

I tablespoon chopped parsley 

3 eggs 

Make a white sauce from the butter, flour, salt, 
pepper and milk. Add the crumbs and cook until 
quite thick. Take from the fire and beat in the chicken, 
parsley and the yolks of the eggs beaten till thick and 
lemon-colored. Whip the whites until stiff and dry 
and fold in. Pour in a buttered dish and set in a pan 
of hot water and bake in a hot oven thirty-five minutes. 



140 Left-Overs 

CHICKEX DUMPLINGS 

2 cups fine chopped chicken 
I cup chicken gravy 
Yolks 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons flour 
Pepper and salt 

Wake a thick sauce from the flour and gravy or 
stock, put in the meat, then the beaten eggs. Stir 
over the fire till it thickens. Allow it to cool. Flour 
the hands and roll a tablespoonful into small balls. 
Egg, crumb and fry. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS 

I J cups cold chicken 
I cup thick white sauce 

4 eggs 

J cup fine bread crumbs 
Pepper and salt 

Put the white sauce hot in a granite saucepan, 
. stir in the meat, add the beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, 
beating constantly for three minutes, then pour into a 
shallow dish to cool. When stiff, lift a tablespoon of 
the mixture, drop into flour and roll lightly into 
pyramid shape, as like the leg of a chicken as possible. 
Dip in a beaten egg, to which two tablespoons of water 
have been mixed. Then roll in sifted dried bread 
crumbs. Into the small end of each croquette put a 
piece of macaroni about five inches long to represent 
the bone of a chicken. Fry in deep lard and serve 
standing up in a platter with a garnishing of parsley. 

EASTER CROQUETTES 

4 tablespoons butter 
8 tablespoons flour 
I cup chicken stock 
4 tablespoons cream 



Made Palatable 141 

12 hard-boiled eggs 

1 cup cold chicken 

Make a thick white sauce from the butter, flour, 
stock and cream. Chop the eggs fine and stir into the 
sauce, mixing carefully so that it will not be beaten to 
a paste. Spread on a plate to cool. Into the center 
of each croquette fold an oyster, a cube of white 
chicken meat or a mushroom. Wrap the egg mixture 
deftly about it and roll into the shape of an egg. Roll 
in ilour, egg and crumbs and fry to a light brown in 
deep fat. Serve in a nest of parsley or water cress. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

i^ cups chopped chicken 
f cup chopped ham 
6 chopped mushrooms 
4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 
I cup chicken stock 
I tablespoon cream 
Pepper and salt 
Nutmeg 

I teaspoon lemon juice 

Put in a saucepan the flour and butter. Mix till 
the butter absorbs the flour, then add stock made from 
boiling up the bones of the chicken and stir till it 
becomes a thick paste. Add the cream, pepper and 
salt enough to season, a little nutmeg and lemon 
juice. Stir in the chopped chicken and mushrooms. 
Mix well and turn on a plate to cool. When quite 
cold, roll a tablespoon of the mixture in oblong shape, 
dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. — 
Miss Margaret Bailey. 



142 Left-Overs 

SALAD OF DARK TURKEY MEAT 

24 large chestnuts 

4 sour apples 

3 cups dark turkey meat 

I small lettuce 

3 cucumber pickles 
Cut into small cubes remains of dark turkey meat 
and dust with salt and pepper. Cut into quarters two 
dozen large chestnuts and slice fine four tart apples. 
Dress with mayonnaise or a French dressing. Serve 
on a nest of lettuce leaves and garnish with chopped 
sour pickled cucumbers. 

SWISS CHICKEN SALAD 

3 cups chicken 
I cucumber 

1 cup English walnuts 

2 heads celery 

I can French peas 
Cut separately the chicken, cucumber and celery 
into small cubes, break the walnuts, add the peas and 
toss together, mix with a liberal quantity of mild 
mayonnaise. Garnish with stoned olives. 

TURKEY SALAD 

I cup white turkey meat 

f cup cut celery 

Pepper and salt 
Chop the meat coarsely, mix the celery and toss 
tlie two lightly together. Heap in a nest of lettuce 
leaves, pour over a thick mayonnaise and garnish with 
the whites of eggs cut in rings. 

HOT CHICKEN SALAD 

I cup cold chicken 
I tablespoon olive oil 



Made Palatable 143 

^ teaspoon onion juice 

i teaspoon salt 

Paprika 

Celery salt 

^ tablespoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

I cup milk or chicken stock 
Cut the chicken into tiny cubes and marinate with 
a dressing made from the oil, lemon juice and season- 
ings. While the salad stands, make a white sauce 
from the butter, flour and milk or stock. As soon as 
it boils add the chicken. Serve hot on slices of toast 
and sprinkle over it finely chopped celery. 

POTTED TURKEY 

I cup chopped cold turkey 

4 tablespoons chopped ham 

I cup butter 

I teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

^ teaspoon paprika 

•| teaspoon mustard 
Put the turkey and ham through the chopper, using 
the finest knife. Pound in a mortar to a smooth paste, 
add the seasoning and softened butter. Press into pots 
and cover with clarified butter. This will keep for a 
long time. It is excellent for making sandwiches. 
Chicken may be used instead of turkey. 

GLACE CHICKEN WITH LETTUCE SALAD 

I cup cream 

^ cup liquid chicken aspic 

I cup chicken meat 

I head lettuce 

Bunch water cress 

^ cup French dressing 



144 Left-Overs 

Beat the cream stiff and fold into it the aspic and 
a cup of cold chicken, the white meat cut into tiny neat 
cubes. Season with pepper, celery salt and salt. Pour 
into a plain tin mold and set in ice and salt to chill 
thoroughly. Three hours will be long enough to make 
it hard. Into a salad bowl put a lettuce salad made 
from one shredded lettuce, a bunch of water cress and 
French dressing. Cut the chicken into long finger 
pieces and arrange neatly about the salad. 



Made Palatable 



Hi 



XIV 



Fish 



Fish Bisque 
Salmon Loaf 
Halibut Boudins 
Kedgeree 
Halibut Ramekins 
Fish Friandises 
Curried Salmon 

Spiced 



Salmon Croquettes 
Lobster Croquettes 
Fish Puff Balls 
Bluefish Salad 
Clam Salad 
Halibut Salad 
Salmon Salad Molds 
Fish 



COLD fish makes excellent rechauffes. To this 
food, when reheated, quite as much as meat, 
the rule must be applied of never allowing it to 
come to a boil. Steam, as given by preparation in a 
double boiler, is one of the best methods to employ, 
although many dishes require the heat of the oven. 

For fish rechauffes it is absolutely necessary to 
have a thorough knowledge of sauces. Stews and 
fricassees are foods that have been cooked in a sauce 
and they are excellent methods for reheating fish. 
When fish left-overs come from the table, pick them 
over carefully. Reject every bone, layers of fat or 
dark meat and flake the eatable portions neatly. Put 
in a bowl, cover closely and set in the refrigerator till 
required. Generally a fish rechauffe with a sauce calls 
for a small amount of fish stock. To obtain this put 
the bones and poor pieces of fish, not the skin or fat, 
into a small saucepan. Cover with cold water, allow 
it to simmer slowly for a few minutes, then strain and 



146 Left-Overs 

cool. Never add salt to any fish dish without tasting, 
as it very easy to overseason it. 

Croquettes are an excellent method for using up 
scraps of fish, especially salmon or any white-fleshed 
fish. When heated in a sauce it can be daintily served 
in ramekins or large scallop shells which are sold by 
the dozen in crockery stores. With a fine crust of 
brown crumbs these individual dishes are very attrac- 
tive. Delicious <:urries, soups and deviled dishes may 
be prepared from cold fish. It can be combined with 
mashed potato and crumbs in a pie ; it makes a tempt- 
ing souffle, excellent timbales, and may be used with 
cold potatoes for a relishing hash. Save even a few 
spoonfuls of any sauce accompanying fish. A half 
cup of egg, tomato, shrimp, oyster or plain white 
sauce adds much to the flavor of a fresh sauce used 
for reheating the dish. If the amount of fish is scant 
add two or three hard-boiled eggs, using them as a 
garnish or cutting the white in rings and squeezing 
the yolk through a potato ricer and sifting it over 
the top of the dish. 

Sometimes there are small left-overs of cooked 
oysters or clams. If the oysters are in a milk stew, 
strain off the liquor and save it. It may be enriched 
by a spoonful of butter or half a cup of cream. Season 
well and heat in the double boiler and add the oysters, 
but only just long enough to heat them. More than 
a minute will overcook them. Oysters or clams 
which have been broiled or lightly cooked in any way 
may be deviled, curried or used in rissoles or chops. 
Chop coarsely a cup of cold scalloped oysters with a 
well-beaten egg and shape into croquettes. Flour, 
egg, crumb and fry. Lobster meat can be utilized in 
almost any recipe that calls for that excellent shell- 
fish or converted into delicate lobster soup. The 
smallest amount of fish or shellfish can be utilized for 



Made Palatable 147 

a sauce to accompany baked fish, lobster,, oyster and 
shrimp being most suitable. 

FISH BISQUE 

2 cups cold fish 

I tablespoon butter 

I teaspoon parsley 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

I quart white or chicken stock 

I tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

2 cups hot milk 

2 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

J teaspoon salt 

Dash cayenne 
Mince the fish fine, add to it the butter, chopped 
parsley, Worcestershire sauce and stock. Bind with 
the butter and flour cooked together. Add the milk, 
cracker crumbs and seasoning. 

SALMON LOAF 

2 cups salmon 

I cup stale bread crumbs 
I teaspoon onion juice 
Salt and pepper 
I teaspoon chopped parsley 

3 eggs 

Flake the salmon fine, mix with the bread 
crumbs and seasonings and moisten with the well- 
beaten eggs. Pack into a buttered mold and steam 
for two hours. Serve hot. Any left-over of this dish 
may be broken into small pieces, and served with may- 
onnaise it makes a palatable salad. 

HALIBUT BOUDINS 

I cup cold halibut 

^ cup cold mashed potato 



148 Left-Overs 

^ cup soft bread crumbs 

^ teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon salt 

I egg 

^ teaspoon onion juice 

Mash the halibut, mix well with the other ingre- 
dients and press through a potato ricer. Moisten 
with the beaten egg. Butter Dario molds and dust 
them with fine bread crumbs. Fill each mold with 
ihe fish mixture, set them in a pan of hot water and 
bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
on a hot platter, pour a white sauce over them and 
garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 

KEDGEREE 

I cup cold rice 

I cup cold flaked fish 

I tablespoon butter 

1 egg 

Salt and pepper 

Into a double boiler put the rice and fish and let 
them grow quite hot, stirring lightly that the fish may 
not break and the mixture grow pasty. When hot 
add the butter, the egg unbeaten and salt and pepper. 
Stir till well blended and serve. 

HALIBUT RAMEKINS 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 
^ cup cream 

^ cup fish stock 

2 cups cold flaked halibut 

Yolk I egg 

Make a white sauce from the butter, flour, cream 
and fish stock. Pepper and salt to taste. Add the 
flaked fish and egg beaten thick. Pour into ramekins 



Made Palatable 149 

and cover the top with buttered crumbs. On top lay 
a ring of hard-boiled white of egg and inside each a 
sprig of water cress. 

FISH FRIANDISES 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup scalded milk 

2 cups cold fish 

i^ cups buttered crumbs 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour and milk. 
When it thickens, add the well-beaten egg. Take the 
remains of a cold baked or boiled white-fleshed fish 
and separate it into flakes. Put a thin layer of but- 
tered crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish, cover 
with the flaked fish, sprinkle with salt, paprika and 
nutmeg. Pour in a layer of sauce, then fish. Alter- 
nate in this fashion till the dish is filled and cover with 
buttered crumbs. Bake for twenty minutes. 

CURRIED SALMON 

^ onion 

I tablespoon butter 

I teaspoon curry powder 

I cup hot water 

i tablespoon flour 

-J tablespoon tomato catsup 

Salt and pepper to taste 

I cup cold salmon 

Fry the onion brown in the butter, sift in the 
curry and flour, pour the water in slowly and stir till 
smooth. Add the seasoning, and last the salmon. 
Serve hot with toast. 



ISO 



Left-Overs 



SALMON CROQUETTES 

3 cups cold salmon 

1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons butter 
I tablespoon flour 

I egg 

Pepper and salt 
Chop the salmon well, make a white sauce from 
the butter, flour and cream. Cook and beat till smooth 
and creamy, then add the salmon and seasonings. Just 
before taking from the fire, add one well-beaten egg 
and spread on a buttered plate. When quite cool, roll 
into small croquettes with flattened ends, flour, egg, 
crumb and fry in deep boiling lard. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

I cup chopped lobster 

i teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon mustard 

Dust cayenne or paprika 

^ cup cream sauce 
Stir the lobster and seasonings into the hot cream 
sauce and spread on a plate to cool. Shape into tiny 
pyramids. Into the small end of each croquette stick 
a few inches of macaroni or a tiny lobster claw. Fry 
in deep fat. Garnish with parsley or water cress. 

FISH PUFF BALLS 

I cup cold flaked fish 
I tablespoon butter 
f cup flour 

1 cup boiling milk 

2 eggs 
Pepper and salt 

Make a white sauce with the milk, flour and 
butter. Season with pepper and salt. When it has 



Made Palatable 151 

thickened, lightly stir in the fish, then the well-beaten 
eggs. Fry a tablespoon at a time in smoking hot fat. 
fritter fashion. 

BLUEFISH SALAD 

3 cups cold flaked bluefish 
^ teaspoon salt 
i teaspoon white pepper 
^ cup olive oil 

1 tablespoon vinegar 

Flake the bluefish neatly and marinate for an 
hour with a French dressing made from the oil, vine- 
gar and seasonings. Arrange on a nest of lettuce and 
serve with a mayonnaise garnished with chopped 
olives. 

CLAM SALAD 

2 cups cold clams 

1 cup shredded lettuce 

Use for this salad cold clams from a Rhode Island 
bake. Take off the black heads and remove the skin. 
Serve in a nest of shredded lettuce. Marinate for ten 
minutes with French dressing, then serve. 

HALIBUT SALAD 

2 cups cold halibut 

I cup shredded lettuce 



cup cold boiled potatoes 



Flake the halibut into small pieces. Shred the 
lettuce with scissors. Cut the potato into half-inch 
cubes. Mix the fish and potato lightly. Lay in a 
nest of lettuce and pour over it French dressing. 



SALMON SALAD MOLDS 



I cup cold salmon 

^ tablespoon lemon juice 

^ teaspoon parsley 



152 Left-Overs 

I drop tabasco sauce 
I tablespoon gelatine 

Mix the salmon, lemon, parsley, tabasco and the 
gelatine, dissolved in a little water, with enough salad 
dressing to moisten. Wet half a dozen Dario molds. 
Fill with salmon and level the top of each one, place 
on ice and turn out in lettuce leaves. Serve with a 
mayonnaise. 

SPICED FISH 

Cold salmon, halibut or shad makes tasty dishes 
when flaked and covered with hot spiced vinegar and 
left a day before serving. Cold fried fish is excellent 
served very cold. Spanish mackerel is nice in this 
way. Any kind of catsup or salad dressing may be 
served with it, but it is quite palatable with bread and 
butter and makes a change from cold meat. — H. 
Annette Poole. 



Made Palatable 153 



XV 

Stale Cake 

Sponge Cake a la Chan- Marmalade Sponge Cake 

telly 

Cocoanut Sponge Pud- Pineapple Pudding 

ding Cabinet Pudding 

STALE cake, especially sponge cake or ladyfingers, 
may be converted into delicious puddings. 
Where the pudding is to be steamed or baked, 
cut the cake in fingers or break it into crumbs. If 
the pudding is to be soaked with wine, have a custard, 
fruit juice or cream poured over it, cut it in slices. 
Reject icing when preparing a pudding; it generally 
makes a pudding sweeter than is desirable. A good 
plain pudding is made by putting slices of the stale 
cake in a steamer and when moist serving with a 
spoonful of strawberry or marmalade sauce. It may 
be covered when cold with hot stewed berries and 
served with cream. Stale sponge cake serves for a 
foundation for charlotte russe and cabinet pudding, 
or if steamed may be covered with strawberries and 
whipped cream, when it makes an excellent imitation 
of strawberry shortcake. 

SPONGE CAKE A LA CHANTELLY 



1 stale sponge cake 

2 cups fresh or canned fruit 

1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
^ teaspoon vanilla 



154 Left-Overs 

From the top of a stale sponge cake cut a thin 
slice. Remove the inside, leaving a wall one and one- 
half inches thick. Into this put any fresh fruit 
sprinkled with sugar, or canned fruit from which the 
bulk of the juice has been drained. Beat the cream 
till thick. Add the sugar and vanilla and pour over 
the cake just before serving. Save the inside of the 
loaf; it may be utilized in various ways. 

COCOANUT SPONGE PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 

ij teacups sponge cake crumbs 

I cup grated cocoanut 

I cup sugar 

Grating nutmeg 

I tablespoon rosewater 

3 eggs 

Pour the hot milk over the sponge cake crumbs, 
sugar, beaten yolks of eggs, cocoanut. Allow it to 
stand for one-half hour. Add the nutmeg, rosewater 
and the whites of the eggs beaten to a dry froth. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour in a buttered mold. Serve 
with wine sauce. — Miss Margaret Bailey. 

MARMALADE SPONGE CAKE 

I Stale sponge cake 

4 dry ladyfingers 

I cup powdered sugar 

J cup butter 

f cup orange marmalade 

Cut a stale sponge cake in two, in layer cake style, 
and set it in a steamer for ten minutes. Make a 
hard sauce by creaming the butter gradually, adding 
the sugar and beating it till smooth and white. Add 
the marmalade at the last. Dry the ladyfingers in 
a moderate oven till light brown, then roll into crumbs 



Made Palatable 155 

with a rolling pin. Spread the hard sauce on a 
layer of the cake, cover with the other half of the 
cake, spread with the remainder of the sauce and 
scatter thickly with sifted ladyfinger crumbs. Serve 
immediatel}'. Almost any kind of jam can be used 
instead of orange marmalade. If it is a very rich, 
sweet preserve, use a quarter of a cup less of sugar. 
The sauce is also excellent if made with a quarter of 
a cup of orange juice beaten into the hard sauce, 
one tablespoon of lemon juice and half a teaspoon 
of orange extract. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Slices of stale cake 

I pineapple 

^ cup sugar 

I cup cold water 
Line a buttered pudding dish with slices of stale 
cake. Pare and slice the pineapple thinly. Cover 
each layer of cake with the fruit, sprinkling it with 
sugar; cover with cake, then pineapple. Make the top 
layer cake and over all pour the water. Cover and 
bake slowly for two hours. Eat hot with hard sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

3 cups cake 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 
Salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 

5 cup raisins, nut meats and citron 

Butter a quart melon mold and scatter over it a 
few currants, raisins, nut meats or tiny bits of citron. 
Fill the mold almost to the top with broken bits of 
cake and sprinkle a little fruit through it if the pieces 



156 Left-Overs 

are of plain cake. Beat two eggs, stir in two tablespoons 
of sugar, a dash of salt and the milk. Pour this cus- 
tard over the cake in the mold, turning in a little at a 
time to allow the cake to absorb the liquid, until all the 
custard is used. Put on the cover and place the filled 
mold m a kettle of boiling water, not allowing the 
water to come quite to the top of the mold. Place a 
lid on the kettle and let it boil one hour. Serve the 
pudding hot, with a wine or fruit sauce. — [Mrs. G. C. 
Gardner. 



Made Palatable 15; 

XVI 

Cheese 

Cheese Straws Fried Cheese Sandwich 

Cheese Omelet Graham Bread Cheese 

Rice with a Cheese Crust Toast 

„ , , „ ■ 1 ^i Mock Crab Sandwiches 

Baked Eggs with Cheese 

Cheese Rings ^^^^^^ ^^"^ ^'^^ ^^^^^^^^ 

Cheese a la Italien Lettuce 

Savory Omelet Toasted Cheese with 

Hot Cheese Crackers Eggs 

NEVER throw away scraps of cheese, no mattei 
how hard or dry they are. Grate them and 
put it away in a bottle for seasoning or 
dishes au gratin. A few spoonfuls of cheese is a tasty 
addition to an endless variety of recipes. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

After making a pie, gather all the scraps of crust 
together and roll again. Cut it into straws a fourth oi 
an inch wide. Lay upon a baking sheet, leaving a 
space between each straw wide enough to run a lead 
pencil. Grate cheese fine, season with salt and paprikg 
and scatter quite thickly over the straws. Put into 
the oven where the greatest heat will be at the top and 
bake until the crust is a fine, delicate brown. Allow 
the straws to cool, cut between each one and pile them 
on a plate, log cabin style. Serve with a salad. 



iS8 



Left -Overs 



CHEESE OMELET 

Make an omelet after any ordinary recipe. 
Scatter it thickly when first put in the pan and after 
being folded with finely grated cheese. 

RICE WITH A CHEESE CRUST 

2 cups cold boiled rice 

1 cup milk 

2 well-beaten eggs 
Pepper and salt to taste 
I cup grated cheese 

I tablespoon butter 




CHEESK STRAWS AMI RIKGS 



Put the rice in a double boiler and "-eheat it in the 
milk till smooth. If there are any lumps, beat them 
out with a whisk. Add the eggs and pepper and salt. 
Pour into a shallow baking pan, sprinkle the cheese 
lightly over the top, dot with morsels of butter, and 



Made Palatable 159 

bake till the top is delicately brown This makes a 
nice entree. 

CHEESE TOAST 

Cut slices of stale bread and trim off the crusts. 
Toast them delicately brown and soften by dipping into 
hot salted water. Lay them neatly on a platter. Over 
them pour a cup of cream sauce, tomato sauce, brown 
sauce or gravy left from dinner, and sprinkle the top 
of each slice with grated cheese seasoned with pepper 
and salt. Dot it liberally with butter. Set the platter 
tmder the flame of a gas stove for five minutes The 
cheese will brown delicately and form a delicious crust. 
This makes a nice luncheon dish. 

BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

Butter small sauce dishes or shells with a brush 
and pour in each a teaspoon of cream. Drop in an 
egg carefully and sprinkle pepper, salt and a grating 
of cheese over it, with a morsel of butter on top of 
each. Let them bake in a moderate oven, where they 
will cook to a pearly film instead of growing hard. 

CHEESE RINGS 

I tablespoon butter 

I cup flour 

7^ cup grated cheese 

I teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon baking powder 

^- cup water 

Cayenne 

Chop the butter into the flour. When it is as fine 
as meal, add the cheese, salt, baking powder, a dust 
of cayenne, and mix with water. Roll out very thin 
and cut with a doughnut cutter into rings. Bake till 
delicate brown in a moderate oven. 



i6o Left-Overs 

CHEESE A LA ITALIEN 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 tablespoons flour 
I pint milk 

3 egg yolks 

4 tablespoons butter 
J cup grated cheese 

Wet the flour and cornstarch with milk and set 
the pint of milk over the fire in a double boiler. Pour 
in the flour and cornstarch, cook for fifteen minutes, 
add the butter, the well-beaten yolks of the eggs and 
the cheese. Stir till the eggs are cooked, then pour 
into a buttered tin. Cut into rounds with a sharp 
cooky cutter, sprinkle liberally the top of each with 
grated cheese, seasoned with salt and cayenne. Set in 
a hot oven, let them reheat, and allow the cheese to 
brown. Serve hot. 

SAVORY OMELET 

Half a grated horse-radish 

I cup grated cheese 

6 eggs 

3 tablespoons olive oil 

Salt and pepper 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the olive oil and 
seasonings, fold in lightly the cheese and horse-radish 
and pour into an omelet pan in which a tablespoon 
of butter has been melted. Cook like an ordinary 
omelet. 

HOT CHEESE CRACKERS 

Split common oyster crackers, butter them and 
fill thickly with grated cheese. Lay them together, 
place in a baking pan and sprinkle with a few drops 
of sherry. Bake in a hot oven till golden brown, and 
serve at once. This makes a nice dish for the Simday 
evening supper. 



Made Palatable i6i 

FRIED CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cut Stale bread into thin slices and spread lightly 
with French mustard. Cover with a thick layer of 
grated cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprika. Press 
the slices of bread together and trim off the crusts. 
Heat a tablespoon of butter and lard together in a 
spider. Fry the sandwiches on both sides till light 
brown. Serve very hot. If yot have a morsel of 
cold ham on hand, chop it fine and sprinkle over the 
cheese with a few bits of shredded parsley. 

GRAHAM BREAD CHEESE TOAST 

f cups chopped ham 
I cup grated cheese 
I teaspoon parsley 

1 tablespoon cream 
Yolk I egg 

6 slices graham bread 
Cut stale graham bread into rather thick slices 
and toast them lightly. Cut into fancy shapes. To 
three-fourths cup of chopped ham or tongue add two 
tablespoons of grated cheese, one teaspoon parsley, 
one tablespoon cream and the beaten yolk of an egg. 
Spread lightly on the toast, and over them sprinkle 
a thick coat of grated cheese. Put the bread in a 
baking pan, set in a hot oven and brown well. 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES 

2 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons grated cheese 
•J teaspoon salt, paprika and mustard 
I teaspoon vinegar and anchovy paste 
I teaspoon chopped olives 

Cream the butter, add to the other ingredients 
and mix thoroughly. Spread between thin bread and 
butter folds. The anchovy makes a deliciously piquant 



i6a Left-Overs 

flavor for this sandwich and makes the mixture a fine 
coral tint that suggests crab in color as well as in taste. 

CHEESE BALLS WITH DRESSED LETTUCE 

I J cups grated cheese 

1 tablespoon flour 
i teaspoon salt 
Dash cayenne 
Yolks 3 eggs 

Mix the cheese, flour, salt artd cayenne thoroughly 
and moisten with the eggs beaten stiff. Shape into 
small balls and roll in dry cracker dust. Fry in deep 
fat and drain. Serve with dressed lettuce. 

TOASTED CHEESE WITH EGGS 

3 tablespoons stale bread crumbs 

2 eggs 

2 teaspoons made mustard 

Salt and pepper 

ij cups grated cheese 
Soak the bread crumbs in milk with two eggs, 
then add the made mustard, salt and pepper to taste, 
and the grated cheese. Beat all together, spread 
evenly on slices of toast, and place in the oven to 
brown quickly. Before serving, strew a little dry 
grated cheese over it. 



Made Palatable 163 

XVII 

Left-Over Fruit 

Plum Ice Cream Bread and Jam Pudding- 

Steamed Berry Pudding Whipped Apples 

USE bits of jelly to enrich pudding. Small quan- 
tities of berries serve the same purpose. A 
cup of ripe currants or any sort of berries can 
be mashed into a cup of sugar and added with a beaten 
tgg to make a pie. Even half a cup of berries or jam 
adds a delicious flavor to a quart of ice cream. Save 
the left-overs or sirup from cans of fruit for gelatine 
desserts, sherbets, creams, puddings, sauces, charlottes, 
fruit cottage puddings, with stale bread or cake, or 
to pour over French pancakes. 

PLUM ICE CREAl" 

Rind I lemon 

I cup plum preserve 

Yolk I egg 

I piece cinnamon stick 

\ cup sugar 

I -J cups milk 

I cup cream 
Put the cream and milk with the cinnamon stick 
and lemon rind and scald in a double boiler. Beat the 
egg and sugar together and pour into the hot cream. 
Cook for a minute, steam and allow to cool. Freeze. 
Before taking from the can, pour in the plum preserve, 
turn the dasher for five minutes till the fruit is well 



164 Left-Overs 

mixed with the preserve. Serve with a canned plum 
in each sherbet cup. Preserved fruit of almost any 
description can be used in this cream. If the fruit 
is very rich and sweet, three-quarters of a cup will be 
sufficient. 

STEAMED BERRY PUDDING 

I cup milk 

ij cups flour 

i-| cups blackberries, blueberries or 

huckleberries 
^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Mix the salt, sugar and baking powder with the 
flour and sift. Add the milk, the well-beaten egg, and 
last of all the berries. Pour the batter into a greased 
mold or small basin and steam for two hours. Serve 
with a sweet liquid sauce or hard sauce. 

BREAD AND JAM PUDDING 

3 tablespoons butter 
i^ cups boiling milk 

f cup stale bread crumbs 
I tablespoon sugar 
3 eggs 
f cup jam or marmalade 

Dissolve the butter in the milk and pour it on the 
crumbs, cover it and leave it to soak for half an hour ; 
then beat it well with a silver fork, working in as you 
beat a tablespoon of sugar and the eggs. Spread an 
inch thick layer of jam or marmalade at the bottom 
of an unbuttered pie dish, pour the softened crumbs 
over this, then pile on it rockily the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth with a little powdered sugar 



Made Palatable 165 

and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and bake half 
an hour in a gentle oven. — Mrs. Taylor L. Arms. 

WHIPPED APPLES 

2 cups apple pulp 

1 cup powdered sugar 
Whites 3 eggs 
Yolks 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
2 cups milk 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Put cold baked apples in a potato ricer and press 
out the pulp. To one pint add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a froth, and the powdered sugar. Beat until 
perfectly stiff. Heap in a mold on a plate and set in 
a moderate oven till it crusts delicately like a meringue. 
Make a custard from the milk, yolks of eggs, sugar 
and vanilla. Serve well chilled, pouring the custard 
about the mound of apple just before taking to the 
table. 




Alphabetical Index 



PAGE 

Apple dowdy 25 

Apples, scalloped 24 

whipped 165 

Aspic jelly 88 

Baked bean rarebit 84 

beef fricassee 102 

in brown sauce . . t 1 00 

loaf no 

ragout with tomato 102 

ramekins 104 

rissoles 113 

scalloped 102 

tomatoed 103 

Bread crumb buckwheat cakes. . . 13 

crumb omelet 15 

fried 14 

griddlec:akes 15 

roulettes 16 

steamed ^ 11 

Brown bread brewis 11 

bread cream toast with cheese. 14 

bread ice cream 26 

bread saute 15 

Browned flour 89 

Bubble and squeak loi 

Buckwheat gems 51 

Cake, coffee -^2 

election 55 

walnut coffee 31 

Cakes, drop ginger 57 

sugar 56 

Calves' liver terrapin with mush- 
rooms 117 

Caramel 86 

Cecils I q6 

Cheese a la Italien 160 

balls with dressed lettuce 162 

crackers, hot 160 

omelet 150 

rings 159 

straws 157 

toast 1 59 

toasted with eggs 162 

Chicken a la terrapin 138 

and ham molds 135 

and macaroni 13^7 

creamed with sweetbreads. ... 137 

cutlets 1 40 

dumplings 140 

gallosch 136 

glace with lettuce salad 143 



I PACE 

Chicken omelet 136 

pate 138 

puree 1 34 

ramekins of 136 

soufRe 139 

timbales 139 

Chocolate souffle 26 

Coffee filling for cake 31 

frappe 30 

frosting 32 

ice cream z^ 

jelly 31 

mousse 30 

souffle — , 29 

Cookies, soft molasses 56 

Corn fritters 83 

gems 50 

muffins 51 

omelet 83 

oysters 83 

Corned beef sandwiches no 

Cottage cheese 60 

Cracker fritters 27 

Creamed corned beef au gratin..io3 

macaroni on toast 44 

Croquettes 45, 90, 140 

Block Island 128 

bread 17 

chicken 141 

ham and potato 130 

Kentucky ii6 

lamb and rice 123 

lobster 150 

potato (td 

rice 40 

salmon i go 

Windermere 117 

Curried beef 99 

vegetables 83 

Curry sandwiches in 

Deviled beef too 

Doughnuts. New England Cook- 
ing School 53 

Dressing 75 

for baked fish 18 

Dried beef in ramekins 103 

Eggs baked with cheese 159 

English monkey 17 

Farina muffins 41 

Fatherland farm i.-.eat loaf 105 



Alphabetical Index 



167 



PAGE 

Fish bisque 147 

friandises 149 

puff balls 150 

spiced 152 

Forcemeat balls for soup 106 

cakes 107 

Frozen coffee with cream 33 

German meat cakes 106 

Giblet stuffing 19 

Gingerbread 54 

Ai 55 

soft molasses 54 

whole wheat 55 

Graham bread cheese toast 161 

muffins 50 

Grilled slices of beef with Creole 
sauce 99 

Halibut boudins 147 

ramekins . . , 148 

Ham and potato pie 128 

balls 126 

canapes 127 

cecils 130 

griddlecakes 126 

minced on toast 126 

shredded 127 

toast 127 

Hash, beef 1 05 

vegetable 81 

Hominy griddlecakes 43 

in cream sauce 42 

muffins 42 

Ice cream, plum 163 

Indian griddlecakes 52 

Kedgeree 148 

Kitchen bouquet 86 

Lamb cutlets 123 

mound with peas 121 

rissoles 122 

with savory sauce 122 

Lettuce, wilted 81 

Macaroni a la Italien 45 

and celery 43 

and chicken 45 

savory 43 

Meat minced with poached eggs. . 99 

Milk toast 14 

Mocha cream frosting 28 

Mock terrapin 100 

Mother Johnson's pancakes .... 52 

Mush and bacon, fried 41 

fried 42 

Mushrooms in sour cream 59 

Nut balls 116 

Oatmeal muffins 41 

Pmelet, savory 160 



PAGE 

Onion butter 89 

souffle 85 

Papas Relennas 107 

Parf ait, cafe 30 

Pie, sour cream 59 

Pork cutlets 129 

Potato and bread stuffing for 

fowl 18 

browned 64 

cakes 66 

cakes, fried 63 

omelet 60 

whipped 65 

Potatoes, Chartreuse 64 

creamed 64 

Delmonico 63 

Duchesse 65 

Lyonnaise 64 

stewed 64 

with hard-boiled eggs 65 

with lamb stuffing 120 

Potted meat 1 1 1 

tongue 112 

Pressed meat loS 

Pudding, apple custard 22 

Brandywine Inn 58 

bread and jam 164 

bread, with raspberry sauce. . . 24 

cabinet 15s 

cocoanut 26 

cocoanut sponge 154 

cream rice 39 

crusty apple 25 

fig 23 

Indian 57 

lemon meringue 21 

orange 20 

orange marmalade 24 

pineapple 155 

plain cracker 27 

plum 23 

prune and bread 22 

rice and apple 39 

rice, with a cheese crust 158 

savory 58 

steamed berry 1 64 

walnut 21 

Kemains of a boiled dinner 108 

Review of reviews 105 

Rice and corn meal muffins 30 

bread 38 

gems 38 

griddlecakes 36 

or hominy griddlecakes or 

muffins 52 

waffles 37 

with cheese 36 

with cheese crust 35 

with date sauce 37 

Roast beef pillau loi 



i68 



Alphabetical Index 



PAGE 

Salad, baked bean 17 

Ijavarian 76 

beefsteak 114 

beet and cabbage 72 

bluefish 15 

bouillie 114 

cauliflower and potato 74 

chitfonade 7^ 

clam 151 

corned beef 114 

halibut 151 

ham 130 

hot chicken 142 

Italian 72 

lamb 1 24 

lamb and lettuce 123 

left-over 112 

macedoine 76 

May Irwin's pet 75 

of asparagus tips 74 

of dark turkey meat 142 

pea 78 

plain cabbage 75 

pork 131 

potato 67 

potato and beet 68 

potato and tomato ^"j 

red vegetable 73 

roast beef 112 

Russian 73 

Russian aspic yz 

sausage 131 

string bean 76 

sweet potato 69 

Swiss chicken 142 

tomato and beef 113 

turkey 142 

veal and lettuce 119 

Salmon, curried T49 

loaf 147 

salad molds 151 

Sandwiches, baked bean 79 

fried cheese 161 

ham , 130 

in cream sauce 13 

mock crab 161 

tongue Ill 

veal 119 



PAGE 

Sauce, bread 16 

coffee cream 29 

raspberry 25 

Robert %z 

white 98 

Scotch eggs 129 

Soup, baked bean 80 

chicken 133 

corn 79 

cream of corn 80 

left-over 98 

mock bisque 16 

pea 79 

squash 80 

turkey 134 

Sour cream salad dressing 60 

milk biscuit 49 

milk corn fritters 58 

Spanish dressing 19 

Spider corncake 51 

Spinach in molds 74 

rechauffe 84 

Sponge cake a la Chantelly 153 

cake marmalade 1 54 

Squash biscuit 87 

Steamed graham loaf 49 

Stew, beef 112 

Stuffing, roast goose 18 

Sunday morning loaf 48 

Sweet potatoes au gratin 69 

potatoes, Cuban style 68 

potatoes, glazed 68 

Timbales 89 

Toast 12 

tomato IS 

Tomatoes and onions, scalloped.. 85 

mock 78 

stuffed 1 04 

Turkey, potted 143 

scalloped 135 

Veal casserole 118 

in omelet 118 

in tomato sauce 118 

White bread brewis 13 

Whole wheat muffins 50 

Woodlawn brown bread 47 



NOTES 



NOTES 



NOTES 



NOTE^S 



NOTES 



NOTES 



NOTES 



NOTES 



STANDARD BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

ORANGE JUDD COMPANY 

NEW YORK CHICAGO 

Ashland Building People's Gas Building 

315-321 Fourth Avenue 150 Michigan Avenue 



Any of these books will be sent by mail, postpaid, to 
any part of thi world, on receipt of catalog price. We are 
always happy to correspond with our patrons, and cordially 
invite them to address us on any matter pertaining to rural 
books. Send for our large illustrated catalog, free on appli- 
cation. 

First Principles of Soil Fertility 

By Alfred Vivian. There is no subject of more vital 
importance to the farmer than that of the best method 
of maintaining the fertility of the soil. The very evident 
decrease in the fertility of those soils which have been 
under cultivation for a number of years, combined with 
the increased competition and the advanced price of labor, 
have convinced the intelligent farmer that the agriculture 
of the future must be based upon more rational practices 
than those which have been followed in the past. We 
have felt for some time that there was a place for a 
brief, and at the same tiine comprehensive, treatise on 
this important subject of Soil Fertility. Professor Vivian's 
experience as a teacher in the short winter courses has 
admirably fitted him to present this matter in a popular 
style. In this little book he has given the gist of the 
subject in plain language, practically devoid of technical 
and scientific terms. It is pre-eminently a "First Book," 
and will be found especially valuable to those who desire 
an introduction to the subject, and who intend to do subse- 
quent reading. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 265- pages. Cloth. 

Net, $i.aj 

The Study of Corn 

By Prof. V. M. Shoesmith. A most helpful book to all 
farmers and students interested in the selection and im- 
provement of corn. It is profusely illustrated from photo- 
graphs, all of which carry their own story aui.' contribute 
their part in making pictures and text mattei a clear, con- 
cise and interesting study of corn. Illustrated, .qx/ inches. 

100 pages. Cloth Net, $o..';o 

(1) 



Profitable Stock Raising 

By Clarence A. Shamel. This b jok covers fully the 
principles of breeding and feeding for both fat stock and 
dairying type. It tells of sheep and mutton raising, hot 
house lambs, the swine industry and the horse market. 
Finally, he tells of the preparation of stock for the market 
and how to prepare it so that it will bring a high market 
price. Live stock is the most important feature of farm 
life, and statistics show a production far short of the 
actual requirements. There are many problems to be 
faced in the profitable production of stock, and these are 
fully and comprehensively covered in Mr. Shamel's new 
book. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 288 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $1.50 

The Business of Dairying 

By C. B. Lane. The author of this practical little book 
is to be congratulated on the successful manner in which 
he has treated so important a subject. It has been pre- 
pared for the use of dairy students, producers and handlers 
of milk, and all who make dairying a business. Its pur- 
pose is to present in a clear and concise manner various 
business methods and systems which will help the dairy- 
man to reap greater profits. This book meets the needs 
of the average dairy farmer, and if carefully followed will 
lead to successful dairying. It may also be used as an 
elementary textbook for colleges, and especially in short- 
course classes. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 300 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $1.25 

Questions and Answers on Buttermaking 

By Chas a. Publovv. This book is entirely different 
from the usual type of dairy books, and is undoubtedly in 
a class by Uself. The entire subject of butter-making in 
all its branches has been most thoroughly treated, and 
many new and important features have been added. The 
tests for moisture, salt and acid have received special 
attention, as have also the questions on cream separa- 
tion, pasteurization, commercial starters, cream ripening, 
cream overrun, marketing of butter, and creamery man- 
agement. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 100 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $0.50 

Questions and Answers on Milk and Milk Testing 

By Chas. A. Publow, and Hugh C. Troy. A book that 
no student in the dairy industry can afford to be without. 
No other treatise of its kind is available, and no book of 
its size gives so much practical and useful information in 
the study of milk and milk products. Illustrated. 5x7 
inches. 100 pages. Cloth Net, $0.50 

(3) 



Soils 

By Charles William Burkett, Director Kansas Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station. The most complete and 
popular work of the kind ever published. As a rule, a 
book of this sort is dry and uninteresting, but in this case 
it reads like a novel. The author has put into it his in- 
dividuality. The story of the properties of the soils, their 
improvement and management, as well as a discussion of 
the problems of crop growing and crop feeding, make this 
book equally valuable to the farmer, student and teacher. 
Illustrated. 303 pages. 5^x8 inches. Cloth. . Net, $1.25 

Weeds of the Farm Garden 

By L. H. Pammel. The enormous losses, amounting 
to several hundred million dollars annually in the United 
States, caused by weeds stimulate us to adopt a better 
system of agriculture. The weed question is, therefore, 
a most important and vital one for American farmers. 
This treatise will enable the farmer to treat his field to 
remove weeds. The book is profusely illustrated by photo- 
graphs and drawings made expressly for this work, and 
will prove invaluable to every farmer, land owner, gar- 
dener and park superintendent. 5x7 inches. 300 pages. 
Cloth. Net, $1.50 

Farm Machinery and Farm Motors 

By J. B. Davidson and L. W. Chase. Farm Machinery 
and Farm Motors is the first American book published 
on the subject of Farm Machinery since that written by 
J. J. Thomas in 1867. This was before the development 
of many of the more important farm machines, and the 
general application of power to the work of the farm. 
Modern farm machinery is indispensable in present-day 
farming operations, and a practical book like Farm Ma- 
chinery and Farm Motors will fill a much-felt need. The 
book has been written from lectures used by the authors 
before their classes for several years, and which were pre- 
pared from practical experience and a thorough review of 
the literature pertaining to the subject. Although written 
primarily as a text-book, it is equally useful for the prac- 
tical farmer. Profusely illustrated. 5^x8 inches. 520 
pages. Cloth Net, $2.00 

The Book of Wheat 

By P. T. DoNDLiNGER. This book comprises a complete 
study of everything pertaining to wheat. It is the work 
of a student of economic as well as agricultural condi- 
tions, well fitted by the broad experience in both practical 
and theoretical lines to tell the whole story in a condensed 
form. It is designed for the farmer, the teacher, and the 
student as well. Illustrated. 5^x8 inches. 370 pages. 

Cloth Net, $2.00 

(4) 



Bean Culture 

By Glenn C. Sevey, U.S. A practical treatise on the pro- 
duction and marketing of beans. It includes the manner of 
growth, soils and fertilizers adapted, best varieties, seed selec- 
tion and breeding, planting, harvesting, insects and fungous 
pests, composition and feeding value; with a special chapter 
on markets by Albert W. Fulton. A practical book for the 
grower and student alike. Illustrated. 144 pages. 5x7 
inches. Cloth $0-50 

Celery Culture 

By W. R. Beattie. A practical guide for beginners and a 
standard reference of great interest to persons already en- 
gaged in celery growing. It contains many illustrations giving 
a clear conception of the practical side of celery culture. The 
work is complete in every detail, from sowing a few seeds in 
a window-box in the house for early plants, to the handling 
and marketing of celery in carload lots. Fully illustrated. 
150 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

Tomato Culture 

By Will W. Tracy. The author has rounded up in this 
book the most complete account of tomato culture in all its 
phases that has ever been gotten together. It is no second- 
hand work of reference, but a complete story of the practical 
experiences of the best-posted expert on tomatoes in the 
world. No gardener or farmer can afford to be without the 
book. Whether grown for home use or commercial purposes, 
the reader has here suggestions and information nowhere else 
available. Illustrated. 150 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. $0.50 

The Potato 

By Samuel Fraser. This book is destined to rank as a 
standard work upon Potato Culture. While the practical side 
has been emphasized, the scientific part has not been neglected, 
and the information given is of value, both to thfe growej and 
to the student. Taken all in all, it is the most complete, reliable 
and authoritative book on the potato ever published in Amer- 
ica. Illustrated. 200 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . . $0.75 

Dwarf Fruit Trees 

By F. A. Waugh. This interesting book describes in detail 
the several varieties of dwarf fruit trees, their propagation, 
planting, pruning, care and general management. Where 
there is a limited amount of ground to be devoted to orchard 
purposes, and where quick results are desired, this book will 
meet with a warm welcome. Illustrated. 112 pages. 5x7 
inches. Cloth. ... . . $0.50 

(C) 



Cabbage, Cauliflower and Allied Vegetables 

By C. L. Allen. A practical treatise on the various 
types and varieties of cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels 
sprouts, kale, collards and kohl-rabi. An explanation is given 
of the requirements, conditions, cultivation ahd general man- 
agement pertaining to the entire cabbage group. After this 
each class is treated separately and in detail. The chapter 
on seed raising is probably the most authoritative treatise on 
this subject ever published. Insects and fungi attacking this 
class of vegetables are given due attention. Illustrated. 126 
pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . . $0.50 



Asparagus 

By F. M. Hexamer. This is the first book published in 
America which is exclusively devoted to the raising of aspara- 
gus for home use as well as for market. It is a practical 
and reliable treatise on the saving of the seed, raising of the 
plants, selection and preparation of the soil, planting, cultiva- 
tion, manuring, cutting, bunching, packing, marketing, canning 
and drying, insect enemies, fungous diseases and every re- 
quirement to successful asparagus culture, special emphasis be- 
ing given to the importance of asparagus as a farm and money 
crop. Illustrated. 174 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . $0.50 



The New Onion Culture 

By T. Greiner. Rewritten, greatly enlarged and brought 
up to date. A new method of growing onions of largest size 
and yield, on less land, than can be raised by the old plan. 
Thousands of farmers and gardeners and many experiment 
stations have given it practical trials which have proved a 
success. A complete guide in growing onions with the great- 
est profit, explaining the whys and wherefores. Illustrated. 
5x7 inches. 140 pages. Cloth $o..=;o 



The New Rhubarb Culture 

A complete guide to dark forcing and field culture. Part 
I — By J. E. Morse, the well-known Michigan trucker and 
originator of the now famous and extremely profitable new 
methods of dark forcing and field culture. Part II — Com- 
piled by G. B. Fiske. Other methods practiced by the most 
experienced market gardeners, greenhouse men and experi- 
menters in all parts of America. Illustrated. 130 pages. 
5x7 inches. Cloth. . . , . . $0.50 

(7) 



Alfalfa 

By F. D. CoBURN. Its growth, uses, and feeding value. 
The fact that alfalfa thrives in almost any soil ; that without 
reseeding, it goes on yielding two, three, four, and sometimes 
five cuttings annually for five, ten, or perhaps loo years; and 
that either green or cured it is one of the most nutritious 
borage plants known, makes reliable information upon its pro- 
duction ,and uses of unusual interest. Such information is 
given in this volume for every part of America, by the highest 
authority. Illustrated. 164 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. $0.50 

Ginseng, Its Cultivation, Harvesting, Marketing 
and Market Value 

By Maurice G. Kains, with a short account of its history 
and botany. It discusses in a practical way how to begin with 
either seeds or roots, soil, climate and location, preparation 
planting and maintenance of the beds, artificial propagation, 
manures, enemies, selection for market and for improvement, 
preparation for sale, and the profits that may be expected. 
This booklet is concisely written, well and profusely illus- 
trated, and should be in the hands of all who expect to grow 
this drug to supply the export trade, and to add a new and 
profitable industry to their farms and gardens, without inter- 
fering with the regular work. New edition. Revised and en- 
larged. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

Landscape Gardening 

By F. A. Waugh, professor of horticulture, university of 
Vermont. A treatise on the general principles governing 
outdoor art; with sundry suggestions for their application 
in the commoner problems of gardening. Every paragraph fs 
short, terse and to the point, giving perfect clearness to the 
discussions at all points. In spite of the natural difficulty 
of presenting abstract principles the whole matter is made 
entirely plain even to the inexperienced reader. Illustrated. 
152 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . . . . Net, $0.75 

Hedges, Windbreaks, Shelters and Live Fences 

By E. P. Powell. A treatise on the planting, growth 
and management of hedge plants for country and suburban 
homes. It gives accurate directions concerning hedges; how 
to plant and how to treat them ; and especially concerning 
windbreaks and shelters. It includes the whole art of making 
a delightful home, giving directions for nooks and balconies, 
for bird culture and for human comfort. Illustrated. 140 

pages. S -x 7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

(S) 



CONSERVATION -. 



