t 



n 



► 



■M^^a 



•Wi 



WM 







^i ^i ^i. -^ 



VF Xj 



-■■-."•■ 



. 



PROGRAMME 

WESTFIEID DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE SCHOOL 

AND 

HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE 
EXPOSITION 



Ipm 



■nwiiiif — ii"i m ■ « 



■^■1 'IlllMIl TI^HMI— «— — ^| 



** 



The Beech-Nut Ideal 

THIS business was founded on an ideal: a be- 
lief in quality and a belief in people. 

Over twenty years ago we established our 
three articles of faith: 

First — Produce something that is actually 
finer to the taste and better to eat than any 
similar thing and you will find a sure and 
loyal public. 

Second — The price of flavor is an amount 
of care, patience, and delicacy of treatment 
almost beyond belief. 

Third — The concern that builds on flavor 
and keeps up its standard does not seek the 
immediate dollar. But it is more certain to 
hold its trade. 

We have had a unique success and every year has 
found us more firmly committed to these principles. 

Beech-Nut Packing Company 

Canajoharie, N. Y. 

Manufacturer* of 

Beech-Nut Bacon Beech-Nut Beans Beech-Nut Oscar's Sauce 

Beech-Nut Beef Beech-Nut Olive Oil Beech-Nut Peanut Butter 

Beech-Nut Mustard Beech-Nut Tomato Catsup Beech-Nut Vinegar 

BEECH-NUT FRESH FRUIT PRESERVES BEECH-NUT FRESH FRUIT JELLIES 

Pineapple Red Currant Quince Crabapple 

Black Currant Grape Apple 

BEECH-NUT FRESH FRUIT MARMALADES Fig8 (in Syrup) 

Orange Grape Fruit Rhubarb 

BEECH-NUT FRESH FRUIT JAMS 
BEECH-NUT Strawberry Red Raspberry Spiced Plum 

Chewing Gum Mints Blackberry Concord Grape Fig 



EN TOUR 

The Westfield Domestic Science School 
and Household Appliance Exposition 

Season 1915-1916 

THE McCLURE PUBLICATIONS, Managing Directors 

Featuring the 
WESTFIELD PURE FOOD MOVEMENT 

Lectures and Cooking Demonstrations by 
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood P. Snyder :: :: :: 

EXECUTIVE STAFF 

General Press Representative Charles B. Marshall 

Transportation Howard G. Winne 

Master of Properties Thomas O'Connor 

Chief Electrician Arthur Bergen 

Moving Pictures W. C. Peters 

ITINERARY OF CITIES 

One full week in each city 

Worcester, Mass. Erie, Pa. 

Springfield, Mass. Harrisburg, Pa. 

Portland, Me. Trenton, N. J. 

Providence, R. I. Cleveland, O. 

New Haven, Conn. Columbus, O. 

Hartford, Conn. Dayton, O. 

Albany, N. Y. Toledo, O. 

Schenectady, N. Y. Detroit, Mich. 

Utica, N. Y. Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Binghamton, N. Y. Milwaukee, Wis. 

Syracuse, N. Y. Indianapolis, Ind. 

Rochester, N. Y. Minneapolis, Minn. 

Buffalo, N. Y. St. Paul, Minn. 

Copyright, 1915, by McClure Publications, Inc. 



^ 



3^ 



M^ 




PROF. LEWIS B. ALLYN 
The man who made Westfidd famous as the Pure Food Town 



/ 

©CU415720 



NOV 30 1915 

/ 



/ , 



West field— A Pure Food Town 



By MARGARET WAGNER 

From Collier's Weekly of August 26th, 1911. 



£Tr This article was ordered by a magazine espe- 
II cially interested in pure foods. It involved con- 
il siderable expense, as the writer went to West- 
field and personally investigated the town condi- 
tions. The article was accepted and scheduled for 
publication. Several months before it was scheduled 
to appear the magazine published a general article 
on pure food. Immediately following the publication 
of this article the advertising department of the 
magazine reported the cancelation of a number of 
advertisements of foods. The number increased daily 



until tiventy thousand dollars of advertising had 
been canceled. Much of this advertising was by well- 
known, reliable firms, whose only explanation was 
that pure-food articles were prejudicial to the buy- 
ing of all kinds of prepared foods, whether honest 
or fraudulent. The business management of the 
magazine, alarmed, placed a ban upon pure-food ar- 
ticles. Collier's believes in constructive zvork in pro- 
tection of the consumer, and will publish soon a list 
of certain products which have been shown by strict 
analysis to be absolutely free from anything that 
could possibly be considered harmful. 



YOU don't know Westfield? Westfield is in 
Massachusetts, forty minutes out from Spring- 
field. Now to be "forty minutes out from" 
anywhere usually amounts to a town convic- 
tion. "Forty minutes out from" indicates that 
the town is a mere hanger-on, an unallied suburb 
glad to connect its meager individuality with the 
city forty minutes away. Not so Westfield. West- 
field stands sturdily upon its own record, insists 
upon its separate entity, and even regards its con- 
nection "forty minutes in" as sadly deficient in the 
real matters that pertain to cities — such as caring 
for their citizens. And Westfield is conscious that 
it merits unique honors. For its citizens can buy 
and will buy only food and drugs that are pure — 
Westfield has made it almost impossible for them 
to buy anything else. More than that, it has edu- 
cated its citizens to a point where they are unusual- 
iy intelligent as to food values, so that Westfield 
housekeepers not only buy pure food and pure drugs, 
but the food and drugs that give best value for the 
money. 

Varnished Peanuts 

ON THE main street in Westfield is a grocery 
shop. It is a nice, clean-looking store with 
boxes and cans neatly arranged, and white-sleeved, 



white-aproned clerks. And the proprietor is a pure- 
food expert. 

He might grant that there is no direct harm in 
certain preservatives, and yet he prefers to be on 
the safe side. 

"There's too much of a demand in this town for 
pure goods to carry any that have doubtful pre- 
servatives. 

"No, ma'am," as he turns to a customer, "we 
can't sell you any of those peanuts. Yes, I know 
they look nice. But the Board of Health found that 
they're coated with shellac and I'm going to send 
them right back. It'd be worth my reputation to 
sell them." 

"Goodness !" exclaims the housekeeper in horror. 
"Thank you so much. Send me the candles in- 
stead." Then she turns to her companion : "I'm 
going to order some ice-cream." 

"Well," returns her friend, "order it at Blank's. 
I went to the school yesterday and their ice-cream 
has ten per cent more fat and solids than any ice- 
cream in town." 

And now we have stumbled upon the secret that 
makes Westfield an entity, a town of record, and a 
town of pure food. The secret is the school. The 
school is a State Normal School, and happens to be 
stationed at Westfield. It has been at Westfield 
since 1839 with marked effect upon the community. 




A TYPICAL NEW ENGLAND CITY^QF B£OAD. STREETS AND TALL ELMS. 



The present principal, Mr. C. A. Brodeur, began 
to worry a little over the futility of teaching the 
girls chemistry. Still, chemistry had to be taught. 
Moreover, chemistry is a useful science. Mr. 
Brodeur wondered if it could not be made some- 
how into a practical science that would touch and 
enter the lives of the girls. The chemistry depart- 
ment needed a new head, so he sent for Mr. Lewis 
B. Allyn, then a teacher in Boston, to try to work 
out a plan which would present chemistry in a 
practical and interesting way. Mr. Allyn proved 
equal to the emergency. The first chemistry lesson 
of the new term taught how to take a stain out of 
a white dress. Interest in the department revived 
at once. Everybody wanted to know how to take 
out stains, and stains were experimented upon until 
the wardrobes of the students of the State Normal 
School at Westfield were spotless. Then Mr. Allyn 
taught the girls how to make flavoring extracts. 

They made their own vanilla and almond and 
lemon flavors and sent them to the kitchen and then 
criticized the pies and cakes in which they were 



"Vanilla" contained wood alcohol, which is not a 
particularly nutritious beverage. 

"Pure whisky" contained burnt sugar, prunes, and 
tannic acid. The flavor of this delectable com- 
pound was strengthened by oil of sweet almonds, 
sulphuric acid, and ammonia. 

"Strawberry jam" proved to be apple stock and 
coal-tar dye. The pupil who analyzed this com- 
pound found some apparently genuine seeds in this 
mixture. A bit curious, she planted and tended 
them carefully, and the class shared her delight 
when the tiny green shoots developed into hardy 
clover ! 

But perhaps the unkindest cut came in the testing 
of sweets. Nearly all the candy tested revealed 
coal-tar dyes. The laboratory became gay with cloths 
dyed green, yellow, blue, and pink from the delect- 
able, toothsome bits of which the girls were so 
fond. And then there were serious discoveries con- 
cerning drugs. One pupil, whose mother had died 
suddenly and inexplicably, brought to the labora- 
tory some headache tablets which had proved sooth- 




"GROCERS, CONFECTIONERS AND DRUGGISTS WERE PERPLEXED" 



used. Then they began to dye cloth, and their 
wardrobes blossomed forth in many colors. By this 
time chemistry had become a popular subject, and 
when the dyeing lessons were followed by analyses 
of foods it became difficult to keep the pupils out 
of the laboratories. Professor Allyn invited the 
pupils to bring foods for experiments. Every ar- 
ticle served in the school was tested, and the girls 
began to purchase special articles from grocery, 
drug, and candy shops. The results were fascinat- 
ing — and startling. One girl who brought a jar of 
her favorite brand of raspberry jam for analysis 
found it to contain inferior apples, colored with 
coal-tar dye, and flavored with ether ! A delightful 
concoction known as a tart proved to be puff-paste 
made with alum, with a jelly center dyed with coal- 
tar ! 

Some of the Fakes 

HPHERE were other discoveries. 
•■■ "Cream" proved to be ordinary milk evapo- 
rated to one-half its bulk. 



ing to her mother on various occasions and which 
she had taken on the day of her death. An analy- 
sis revealed acetanilid in quantities large enough to 
have caused death. This discovery made a pro- 
found impression upon the girls. One by one they 
brought their favorite powders, pills, and tonics to 
the laboratory. Almost all of these showed traces 
of poisons that are sure to have a permanently in- 
jurious effect. The girls at Westfield banished 
drugs. 

The Effects of Analysis 

THIS was practical chemistry, but it was the kind 
of chemistry that could not be confined to the 
classroom. The students of the school who resided 
in the town warned their mothers of impure prod- 
ucts as soon as they discovered them. Grocers, con- 
fectioners, and druggists were perplexed at the sud- 
den falling off of a demand for one kind of goods 
and the sudden increase in the demand for another. 
Moreover, the girls themselves went shopping and, 
proud of their new-found knowledge, expressed 
themselves publicly. 



"Look at that woman buying the jam we analyzed 
in the laboratory," remarked one girl to another in 
a perfectly audible tone, in one of the best grocery 
shops in town. "I'll bet if she knew that it was 
old apples and coal-tar dye she'd think before she'd 
buy it." Of course this spoiled the sale and the 
grocer waxed indignant. Indignation also grew 
among druggists, bakers, confectioners, and milk 
dealers. The people of Westfield were beginning to 
ask questions that the dealers could not answer, and. 
naturally, resentment against the normal school 
grew. Finally a number of merchants refused to 
supply Professor Allyn with goods. The Professor 
overcame this by sending the girls to make pur- 
chases for analysis, but soon even the girls found 
it difficult to purchase. Threatening letters began to 
arrive at the normal school. Drummers who came 
to town and failed to sell goods went back to the 
manufacturers declaring the school a meddlesome 
busybody. Then the manufacturers sent special 
representatives to visit and warn Mr. Allyn that he 
must desist. 

Ending the Craze for Lolly pops 

JUST at this time the lollypop craze struck West- 
field. The bright-colored balls proved irresistible 
even to dignified normal students ar.d lollypops were 
devoured by thousands. Then Mr. Allyn brought 
lollypops into the laboratory. He chose the brightest 
and most attractive, and the horror-stricken girls ex- 
tracted enough poisonous dyes to make the school 
one of total abstinence as far as lollypops were con- 
cerned. Mr. Allyn made his results public, and 
lollypop buying in Westfield suddenly ceased, while 
the manufacturers sent more threatening letters. 

But the hostile feeling in the town actually ham- 
pered the school work. Goods for experiment had to 
be obtained surreptitiously, which was inconvenient. 
So a number of grocers were invited to the school to 
inspect the work. Eight grocers came. They looked 
curiously at the banners of gorgeous colors dyed 
with coal-tar from food products, and inspected with 
a good deal of interest the food museum. The mu- 
seum occupies a corridor near the laboratory. It 
consists of tall glass cases in which the foods, pure 
and impure, are placed. On one side appears, first, 
a bottle of Heinz catsup, labeled "Pure," and direct- 
ly opposite, an equally attractive bottle of "catsup" 
is labeled : "Stewed pumpkin colored with coal-tar 
and preserved with benzoic acid." Then come va- 
rious brands of canned goods — peas, beans, etc. On 
the one side the well-known pure brands — Francis 
Leggett, White Rose, and the American Dehydrated 
Company's products are prominent. On the other 
are various brands of "French peas, beans, and 
spinach," labeled : "Colored with copper sulphate." 
Pure olive oil faces a decoction of cottonseed oil, 
peanut oil, poppy seed, corn, and sesame oils, also 
labeled by the manufacturer "pure olive." Pure 
coffee looks across at a package labeled "20 per 
cent chicory." Pure tea confronts tea that is faced 
with graphite. 

The grocers returned to their shops interested but 
puzzled. Then one enterprising man tried an ex- 
periment. He rearranged his stock, putting all 
the approved foods to the front. When his custom- 
ers appeared he recommended the brands. 

"I've just been up at the normal school, madam," 
he asserted, "and these brands are there in the 
museum labeled 'pure.' You can see for yourself." 
In twenty-four hours he found his sales increased 
so that he was confident that fighting the normal 
school had been a mistake. The other grocers were 
quick to follozv his example. Then one man went a 
step farther. He assured his customers that he would 
not sell any goods unless they first had been approved 
by the school. He instructed the drummers who 
asked for his trade that if they would send samples 
to the normal school and those samples were ap- 
proved he would buy. The drummers sent samples 



promptly and the normal school laboratory began 
to be a very busy place. The girls were trained to 
be exceedingly careful. Every experiment was re- 
ported and signed by the student making it, and, 
realizing how far-reaching an error might be, the 
girls patiently went over results again and again to be 
sure. They found adulterations were divided into 
two kinds. The first is the fraudulent adulteration, 
which lowers the value of the article but which does 
not affect the health of the consumer. Coffee adul- 
terated with chicory is a good example of this kind. 
Chicory is harmless — indeed many coffee drinkers 
prefer it to coffee — but no housekeeper wants to 
pay the price of coffee for chicory, as chicory is 
very much cheaper. Injurious adulteration means not 
only the lowering of the value of the article but 
actual injury to the consumer. 

Deadly Creme De Menthe 

EVEN where experts disagree about the amount of 
preservatives necessary to cause direct injury, 
they are in general agreement that the use of such 
preservatives permits the use of goods which are, in 
plain language, rotten. Of the groceries tested in the 
laboratory, one of the most frequently adulterated is 
baking-powder. So little baking-powder is used in 
some homes that this product would seem compara- 
tively unimportant. But a great deal of baking- 
powder is used in the bought cake and biscuits, and 
a great deal of this is adulterated. The adultera- 
tion may be by ammonia, which is fraudulent but 
not injurious, or by alum, which is decidedly injuri- 
ous, as it hardens the tissues of the mucous mem- 
branes. Jams, jellies, catsups, confections, gelatin, 
dessert powders, flavoring extracts are often colored 
with coal-tar dyes. These dyes are sometimes harm- 
less, but very frequently injurious, depending on the 
particular combination. There is one bottle of creme 
de menthe at the normal school which contains a 
coal-tar dye sufficiently poisonous to have killed two 
people. The bottle is almost full, but the small 
amount used caused the death of a man and his wife, 
and then the product was sent for analysis. Extracts 
are also adulterated with wood alcohol, and with 
turmeric, a fraudulent adulterant. 

Adulterating Dairy Products 

EGGS and butter were found to be frequently adul- 
terated. Eggs in the shell suffered no more than 
indefinite detention in cold storage, but eggs sold by 
the barrel to bakers are not in the shell. These are 
often bad eggs to which formaldehyde has been applied 
to kill the taste and odor. This horrible mess of 
putrefaction and poison comes forth as delicious 
cakes. And creamery or dairy butter is renovated 
and kept sweet by the same means. When the grocer 
has held butter until it is too rank to be sold, he ships 




"THE MUSEUM OCCUPIED A CORRIDOR 
NEAR THE LABORATORY" 



it back to a manufacturer. It is steamed ; new milk 
is added, and then it is rechurned, colored, well 
seasoned with some preservative, and returned to the 
grocer to be labeled "Fresh Dairy Butter." Cooking 
butter is frequently renovated. 

Jellies, jams, catsups, and all the products which 
are adulterated with coal-tar dyes are subject to fur- 
ther adulteration through preservatives. 

Canned meats and sausage, etc., were quite fre- 
quently found to contain preservatives. In every case 
the exact preservative used was discussed and an 
opinion expressed on the question of harmfulness. 
Whatever was discovered was faithfully reported back 
to the grocers, and the grocers rose to the occasion. 
They held a meeting and signed an agreement to 
stand by the work of the normal school, to make a 
fight for pure food, and to ask the Board of Health 
of Westfield to help them. The people of Westfield 
responded to that request by making Mr. Allyn a 
member of the Board of Health. Thereafter he was 
no longer a meddler, but an official. This made the 
work at the school far more important. The normal 
school became the town laboratory. There was no 
difficulty about the interest in chemistry. Students 
came before and after hours to experiment. Mr. 
Allyn's appointment to the Board of Health made it 
possible for him to print the results of school ex- 
periments in the daily papers. When the papers 
declined to print them as news the Board paid for 
them as advertisements. 

Groceries became a small part of the work. One 
family which had moved into a recently renovated 
house suddenly became ill. The attendant physician 
thought the symptoms those of poisoning, but could 
find no evidence. So the Board of Health called 
upon the normal school. The students got to work 
and analyzed every particle of food which the family 
consumed, but without result. Finally they started 
on the wall-papers. In a gilt paper which decorated 
the dining-room they found arsenic, one and one- 
half grains to the square yard, an appalling quantity 
The landlord took off the offending wall-paper and 
the family recovered. But the people of Westfield 
had become suspicious of wall-papers. One dealer 
complained that one of his prettiest patterns would 
not sell because the folks were afraid of arsenic. 
The paper was green and gilt, as the condemned 
paper had been, and Westfield refused to buy. Finally 
the dealer sent the paper to the normal school. The 
school found it harmless ; the Board of Health pub- 
lished the fact, and the dealer has sent all his 
samples to the school to be tested ever since. 

Merchants were not long in discovering that the 
normal school experiments did them more good than 
harm. One woman who was a confirmed user of 
some anti-pain pills was warned by her physician to 
discontinue their use. Believing that the physician 
wanted to secure her continued visits and make the 
profit upon her illness himself, she continued the pills, 
but sent some to the normal school for analysis. She 
was seriously ill before the analysis was made, and 
when it came with an imperative warning, she at 
once stopped the pills. The normal school could 
have no possible object in deceiving her, and she 
trusted its verdict more than that of her physician. 

A young woman who is a resident of Springfield, 
"forty minutes in," became partially paralyzed shortly 
after she had taken a dose of salts prepared for her 
by a local druggist. 

She insisted that she had been poisoned, and her 
physician sent the salts to the normal school. They 
proved absolutely harmless, and the Springfield drug 
clerk evidenced his appreciation of an honest analysis 
by sending quantities of samples to be analyzed at 
Westfield. 

Adulterated Liquors 

VALO ON -KEEPERS and liquor dealers also began 
& to send their products to the school. This aroused 
some slight protest among the temperance folk, but 



as the town permits the sale of liquors it was deemed 
the town's duty to see that those liquors are pure. 
Certainly if pure rye whisky is bad for man, what 
can be said for whisky that is composed of beading 
oil, ammonia, and sulphuric acid? New England rum 
was found to be a mixture of ether, essence of smoke, 
and sulphuric acid, without a trace of molasses. 
Samples of beer proved to contain salicylic acid. 
Ginger brandy was guiltless of ginger or brandy. It 
contained 28.59 per cent of alcohol and was colored 
with coal-tar dye. The extent of adulteration in 
strong liquors can be estimated when in a single year 
out of one hundred and eight samples of whisky sub- 
mitted just two pure brands were found. Wood 
alcohol was frequently an adulterant. It is stated 
that in two years of medical investigation four hun- 
dred cases of blindness were traced to wood alcohol, 
and still laboratory analysis revealed an extensive 
use of wood alcohol in bay rum, witch-hazel, Jamaica 
ginger, paregoric, and soothing syrups. These revela- 
tions had a decided effect upon the drug stores of 
Westfield. But the druggists were soon converted to 
the school methods. 

"Bless you," remarked one of the most successful 
druggists, "the school and the Professor don't hurt 
trade any. For my part, I'm glad they hit the trade, 
for they are putting an end to dope fiends. I used 
to sell the poor things powders and pills that I was 
suspicious of, but didn't actually know had dope in 
them, and now I've sent them all to the Professor, 
and there isn't a bit of cocaine in this shop." 

This druggist has a window exhibit every year in 
which he places approved and condemned drugs. He 
boldly labels a brand of paregoric with a card bearing 
the words : "Wood alcohol in this — not good for 
baby !" and enjoys the sensation it produces. 

Then the normal school began to experiment upon 
the milk served to the people of Westfield. They 
found a good many things the matter with Westfield 
milk. Sometimes it was watered, sometimes 
it was colored with annatto. Annatto is a 
vegetable dye that is harmless. It makes 
skim milk have the rich yellow color supposed to be 
peculiar to milk that is rich in cream. Sometimes 
coal-tar dyes were used to color the milk. And, 
worst of all, milk was found preserved with formalde- 
hyde and boric acid. Professor Allyn kept a speci- 
men of milk preserved by formaldehyde for eight 
years and it is still sweet. Yet its use in any quantity 
has the most serious effects. The milk dealers fell 
into line with the grocers and druggists and started 
a campaign for better things. 

Then the butchers began to yearn for the seal of 
approval. It is rare to find any preservative in 
fresh meats, but there was danger of diseased meat, 
so the Westfield butchers made a practise of sending 
the glands of animals to the school. These were 
tested for tuberculosis and other diseases, and 
promptly reported. The butchers warned the stock- 
men of the tests to come and Westfield began to get 
clean meat. 

A Fighting Baker 

THE last of the tradesmen to yield were the bakers. 
Professor Allyn found wood alcohol in one baker's 
products, particularly in his ice-cream. He warned 
the baker, but the baker persisted. Then he wrote 
a newspaper article condemning the'baker's products. 
The baker sued Mr. Allyn, claiming that he had 
damaged his business. A Springfield jury, "forty 
minutes in," awarded the user of wood alcohol 
$1,000. The town of Westfield promptly made Mr. 
Allyn town chemist, with a salary sufficient to more 
than pay the fine, and the baker, boycotted by public 
sentiment, went into bankruptcy. The fine helped 
him to recover, but, although he still makes a pre- 
tense at business, his trade is ruined. 

But the education of the people of Westfield did 
not stop with adulterants. Daily the students of 
the normal school work out tables as to relative 



values of food. For instance, not long ago they 
purchased samples of all the ice-cream sold in the 
town. 

Analysis revealed fat contents varying from eight 
to twenty-six per cent. The table was placed on the 
blackboard of the school and read by visiting house- 
keepers. The eight per cent man was forced out of 
business as a result, while the dealer supplying the 
rich twenty-six per cent cream is chuckling to-day 
over his increase in business. Westfield housekeepers 
can compute whether a can of Van Houten's cocoa 
is more expensive at forty cents than a pound of the 
"Purity" cocoa which costs twenty cents. Laboratory 
analysis shows that Van Houten's has just two and 
one-half times as much real cocoa as the Purity, 
and that therefore the pound of the former at forty 
cents is actually cheaper. And the Westfield house- 
keeper's will patronize only those firms which are 
helping in the pure-food fight. 



only for condemned goods, and eager housekeepers 
search its shelves for information as to doubtful 
products. More than that, the Board of Health will 
send to the school any brand which any housekeeper 
wants analyzed and satisfy her as to its purity. 

The work has not stopped with Westfield. The 
girls who have graduated from the normal school 
have carried the work into the graded schools 
throughout the State. Even little children can 
appreciate some of the simpler experiments, and 
seventh and eighth grade boys and girls are quite 
capable of testing many of the foods in their own 
homes. Samples of goods sent in from neighboring 
towns — from Springfield, Hartford, Holyoke, 
Chicopee, and Northampton — are never refused, but 
carefully analyzed and reported upon. Goods have 
even arrived from far-away States, and in these 
cases the normal school has assumed a double duty. 
If the goods are found defective, a report is at 




'JUST AT THIS TIME THE LOLLYPOP CRAZE STRUCK WESTFIELD" 



"Why, they're returning goods that in themselves 
are O.K.," grumbled one grocer, "just because 
they're packed by a firm that uses preservative in 
its catsup. The other goods are free from preserva- 
tive, and the catsup has an honest label, but the 
women declare that the firm is not fighting for pure 
food and they won't use any of the stuff. It's good 
stuff, too, but I guess I can't order any more." 

The Chamber of Horrors 

TO assist housekeepers who may not find it con- 
venient to go to the normal school, the Board 
of Health has established a museum of its own 
right in the center of town. This museum has room 



once sent to the sender, and also to the State food 
inspector. Mr. Allyn has also maintained a close 
connection with the Federal inspector in Washing- 
ton, and frequently sends him reports upon goods 
which are sold throughout the country. 

During nine years of experiment Westfield has 
analyzed twenty thousand samples of foods and 
drugs. Mr. Allyn has kept careful records of all the 
work, and the normal school to-day is a vast store- 
house of useful knowledge which has been acquired 
by making chemistry practical and interesting. And 
Westfield, "forty minutes out," has used that knowl- 
edge to demonstrate that where public sentiment 
wills there can be a Pure-Food Town. 



EDITOR'S NOTE — The preceding article printed from "Collier's Weekly" of 
August 26th, 1911, was the first indication that the country had, of the work 
that was being carefully and thoroughly carried on in Westfield, Mass. — the 
work which has given Westfield its title of "The Pure Food Town." 

In the story printed herefrom "Collier's" you have learned of the initial 
work carried on in the State Normal School under Prof. Allyn's guidance as 
head of the Chemistry Department. 

Shortly after the article by Mrs. Wagner had appeared in "Collier's," this 
same magazine published a short list of the foods that had been analyzed by 
Prof. Allyn at Westfield and found to be clean, pure and wholesome. Never 
before had an independent publication mentioned the names of honest bidders 
for public custom. Magazines and newspapers had been ready enough to con- 
demn by name without mercy when the facts warranted it. Destructive criticism 
had become so common that it was tiresome. Here for the first time readers 
and manufacturers had a sample of the opposite policy and the response was 
startling. Manufacturers whose names did not appear felt the power of silence 
as they had never felt the sting of speech, for the public had plainly shown its 
desire for something definite as to the foods that were pure and fit to eat, and 
an instant readiness to respond to this constructive effort in their behalf. 

While manufacturers and the public were making this discovery, the West- 
field Board of Health was flooded with letters asking for copies of its list of 
approved foods, letters criticizing and condemning, showing that a big part of 
the country was confident that Westfield was on the right track. 



The Westfield Board of Health 
Enters the Food Crusade 



T17 ESTFIELD has solved its own food problem 
and in doing so has solved a great part — not 
all — of the problem in other communities. It has 
protected itself against impurity from within as 
well as from without and it has furnished the whole 
nation with a handy guide by which anyone can 
pass judgment on foods which are sold in trade- 
marked packages. 

In the Westfield Book of Pure Foods compiled 
by the Board of Health for its own citizens, you 
will find no condemnation — not even by inference. 
It does not claim to list every worthy brand, but 
it includes nearly all brands having national and 
district distribution. It is a handy, compact index 
of foods which have survived the test (over 25,000 
have been made) and have definitely established 
their merit and purity. 

When Prof. Allyn and his chemistry classes had 
shown the people of Westfield some of the ingred- 
ients that the foods they were eating contained, 
the merchants whose products were publicly exposed 
were indignant at first and you can hardly blame 
f hem for in most instances, the foods were sold 
;o them as pure and they had no way by which 
to know the adulterations they contained, such as 
alum, benzoate of soda, coal tar dyes and other 
like harmful chemicals. 

When the girls of his chemistry classes went to 
buy samples for analysis the grocers refused to 
sell them. They even sent letters of protest to the 
Normal School and unscrupulous manufacturers 
and even jobbers and salesmen joined with them. 



Conditions reached a crisis when a baker in 
whose products wood alcohol was detected, sued 
Prof. Allyn and was awarded $1,500 damages by 
a Jury in Springfield, the County Seat. The assess- 
ment of the fine was heralded as a victory by some 
of the disgruntled tradesmen of the town, but the 
people of Westfield were too thoroughly aroused 
and they demanded that Prof. Allyn keep up the 
fight as a town official rather than as an individual. 
They elected him a member of the Board of Health 
and established a Municipal Chemical Laboratory 
placing him in charge and in that way giving him 
full power over the town's food supply. Hitherto 
Prof. Allyn could only analyze foods in the State 
Normal Laboratories and proclaim the results but 
now as a Town Official he had power to act. 

The Board of Health backed by the citizens now 
took charge of the food campaign and as the 
people of Westfield learned more of the dyed and 
drugged foods they had been eating, the deeper 
their interest became. 

The Board of Health continued to make analyses 
in its chemical laboratories, resulting in many 
startling discoveries. They established a museum 
of approved foods in the heart of the retail dis- 
trict solely for the edification of the marketing 
housewives. The public had seen and heard so 
much about the ghastly array of dyed and doped 
foods exhibited at the State Normal Museum, that 
they rejoiced at being shown collections of only 
products that were pure, wholesome, clean and 
honestly labelled. 




'A MUNICIPAL CHEMICAL LABORATORY WAS ESTABLISHED" 



Westfield longed for information about pure foods. 
Visitors, housewives of the town, domestic science 
instructors, and club women from other parts of 
the country, inspected the exhibits carefully. They 
brought with them pencil and paper and noted the 
brands of products that were pure and had been 
approved. 

The enthusiasm of the town had switched com- 
pletely around, and interest now centered in the 
pure foods to a greater degree than it had ever 
been in the adulterated. 



It was impossible to make the Food Museum so 
efficient that it would give a correct list of all the 
pure, wholesome and honest foods that were be- 
ing brought to public light. It was equally impos- 
sible for everybody in the country to visit West- 
field and inspect this Museum so there was but 
one remedy that suggested itself and that was to 
tabulate all foods and beverages found worthy of 
the Westfield Standard and these were carefully 
classified and printed in booklet form which is 
to-day, The Westfield Book of Pure Foods. 




"THE BOARD OF HEALTH ESTABLISHED A MUSEUM OF APPROVED FOODS' 



Patronize Westfield Pure Food Grocers 



WITH the consuming public on one side and 
the producing manufacturer on the other, each 
. with different complaints, the retailer's posi- 
tion is not an enviable one. This is especially true 
of the retail grocer. Many people who have no 
knowledge whatever of the problems he has to con- 
tend with insist on telling him how to conduct his 
business, while manufacturers with axes to grind 
try to "force" him to sell this product or that. 

It is the privilege, duty and necessity of the retail 
grocer to guide the customer in choosing between 
different products claiming to offer the same purity 
and quality. He is the natural adviser of the food 
buyer. 

The business of the grocer is a complicated one. 
He has to carry a large variety of goods many of 
which are subject to deterioration. His overhead 
expenses are unusually high because of the necessity 
for frequent deliveries of small 
purchases. His margins of profit 
are small. 

When to these complications 
are added the necessity of carry- 
ing various brands of each class 
of food products, many of them 
forced on him by intensified 
sales methods ; when he is ac- 
cused of fraud if he tries to sell 
what he has instead of what he 
hasn't, it is small wonder that 
he loses interest in everything 
except keeping his head above 
water. 

But this is not all. The hon- 
est grocer is constantly subject- 
ed to the unfair competition of 
the dishonest cut-price store with 
questionable bargains in low- 
grade goods, which apparently 
sell as readily to indiscriminate 
buyers as the products of solid 
merit carried by the honest 
dealer. 

In order that he may be able 
to meet this competition it is not 
surprising that some of these in- 
ferior products should find their 
way into the stock and stores of 
many grocers who would not 
touch them unless forced to it 
by this unfair competition. This 
is a condition of affairs that is 
plainly evil, yet through no fault 
of the grocer. 

It is therefore unjust to de- 
mand that the grocer alone and 
single handed reform this condi- 
tion for which he is in no way 
responsible, and against which he 
has fought — and fought hard. 

The Westfield movement instead of condemning 
the grocer seeks to aid him. Instead of censuring 
him for what he cannot help it endeavors to provide 
him and his customers with a convenient easy way 
of meeting the problem by furnishing them both 
with a handy guide of foods which are pure and of 
high grade. The reputation of conducting a "West- 
field Pure Food Store" never fails to attract trade 
and increase sales, at the same time minimizing the 
number of products carried. Instead of having the 
shelves laden with an endless quantity of products of 
every conceivable grade, now the stock can be lim- 
ited to those products that are "Westfield Pure." 

A list of foods approved by the Westfield Board 
of Health is published in The Westfield Book of 
Pure Foods, and armed with this little book the 
grocer is freed of all doubt. Its guarantees of 




PATRONIZE A WESTFIELD 
PURE FOOD STORE" 



purity and food values is sufficient to meet the re- 
quirements of the most exacting and no housewife 
familiar with pure food conditions will ask for 
more. 

Now the grocer's position is not so complicated 
as formerly. So long as he was without means of 
making sure of his stock for himself, and still less 
able to prove its purity to his patrons, his duty was 
atjeast a matter of doubt. 

But the Westfield Book of Pure Foods, by making 
it easy for him to know what he sells, makes it 
plainly his duty to safeguard his trade. 

"Let the buyer beware" was the former trade 
maxim, and it was easy enough for the grocer to 
quote this in his defense. But that ancient legal 
villainy does not now apply. 

It is unjust to blame the grocer for what has hap- 
pened, till more unfair it is to criticise him for 
doing his best under adverse con- 
ditions. No one is less disposed 
to commit this blunder than the 
men behind this movement for 
better food conditions who know 
the grocer's problems, appreciate 
his difficulties and have reason 
to respect his character. In pro- 
viding him with a means by 
which he can judge between good 
food and bad, they are trying to 
help him — not hinder. And 
grocers who have made an ex- 
periment with The Westfield 
Book of Pure Foods as a guide 
have been quick to feel the bene- 
fits in both their buying and sell- 
ing. 

Take your copy of The West- 
field Book of Pure Foods to your 
grocer. 

Help him to make his store "A 
Westfield Pure Food Store." 



Over 15,000 progressive retail 
grocers throughout the United 
States during the past year have 
displayed the Westfield Pure 
Food Sign in their store door 
and windows. 

When you see one of these 
signs you may be sure that the 
store displaying it is making a 
fight to furnish foods and bev- 
erages that are free from chem- 
ical preservatives, color or 
bleaches. 

Trade with these stores for 
they are receiving each month 
the McClure Publication's special 
magazine for pure food grocers 
— known as The Westfield Grocer. You may be sure 
that they are in close touch with the many develop- 
ments of The Westfield Pure Food Movement. 



A special membership plan is being worked out 
with this type of progressive grocer — and many of 
them are being enrolled as members to the newly 
organized Westfield Grocer League. 

Over two thousand grocers have to date joined 
this new pure food club for grocers who care 
what they sell you — the customer. 

If your grocer wishes it — The McClure Publica- 
tion will enroll him as a member of The Westfield 
Grocers League — and send him The Westfield 
Grocer each month without charge. 




MR. AND MRS. SHERWOOD P. SNYDER 

IN planning for the Westfield Domestic Science Course Series The 
McClure Publications after months of searching and investigation 
have secured the services of Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood P. Snyder, who 
they consider are unusually adapted to the lecture work to be carried on 
in connection with the Westfield Pure Food Movement. 

Helping improve mankind is the greatest object to which human 
effort can be directed. 

Mr. Synder believes that poor, low grade foods, careless cooking 
and eating are the primary causes of intemperance, immorality and 
disease, and so deep is his interest in these matters that he is devoting his 
entire time to the work. 

He began his lecture work five years ago. His idea was to reach the 
mothers of children and to what extent his aim has been accomplished is 
attested by the fact that he has come in direct contact with hundreds of 
thousands of women from the lecture platform. 

Mrs. Snyder is a trained domestic science instructor. She is peculiar- 
ly fitted for this work having had more than two years in medical work. 
She formerly intended following the profession of medicine, but through a 
serious illness her efforts were directed to dietetics. 



MONDAY'S PROGRAM 

Lecture — "Facts About Foods and Cooking" 



DEMONSTRATIONS 



Coddled Steak 

Take the amount of round steak 
desired — steak should be cut about 
one-half inch in thickness — roll in 
flour, lay on meat board and pound. 
Put two tablespoonfuls or more of 
fat into the frying pan, bring to the 
frying point, and put meat in. Fry 
brown quickly on one side, turn and 
brown quickly on the other side. 
Season with salt and add a liberal 
quantity of boiling water; then 
cover with a tight fitting lid, turn 
down fire and simmer until tender. 
Time required, from one-half to one 
hour according to the quantity and 
quality of steak. A few slices of 
onion cooked with the steak will im- 
prove it for some people. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Thoroughly wash large, smooth 
potatoes, and with an apple corer 
cut a round hole through the center 
of each. Fill the cavities to within 
one-half inch of the end with 
ground meat, seasoned to taste, or 
insert a little pig sausage in each 
cavity. Close the ends of the potato 
with a portion that has been re- 
moved in making the hole. Bake 
in oven same as plain baked pota- 
toes. 

Emergency Salad 

Use two parts cabbage and one 
part tart apple. Run them through 
the food chopper, using the coarsest 
vegetable knife. Season with salt, 
vinegar and pepper to suit taste. 
Minced green pepper, celery or to- 
mato may be added to this salad if 
desired. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 




Why 
This? 



When you 
can get This 



The picture tells the story. The old way to get fresh, 
moist cocoanut is to buy a cocoanut and laboriously 
grate it. The new way is to buy Dromedary Cocoa- 
nut — break the 'Ever-Sealed" package — out comes 
already shredded cocoanut as delicious, moist and 
fresh as ever was kitchen-grated cocoanut. 

Dromedary Cocoanut is a new food product every 
housewife will welcome. A new process makes it 
unlike any shredded cocoanut you have ever used be- 
fore. The new Ever-Sealed" package insures origi- 
nal freshness and flavor until the last shred is used. 
We not only guarantee Dromedary Cocoanut but we 
would consider it a favor to have any package found 
not to be in perfect condition returned to us for ex- 
change at our expense. 

Dromedary Cocoanut received Gold Medals, highest awards, at both 
San Diego and San Francisco Expositions. 

10c Cookie-Cutter FREE 

Send us your name and address and the name of your grocer and 
5c (stamps or coin) partially to pay postage and packing and we 
will send you a "One-Cake" size package of Dromedary Cocoa- 
nut, a Dromedary Cookie-Cutter and a Cocoanut Recipe Book. 



THE HILLS BROS. CO., 



Washington St., New York 



/ 



MONDAY'S PROGRAM 

CONTINUED 



Southern Biscuit 

2 cupfuls sifted flour. 
Y\ cupful shortening. 

i cupful sour milk. 
1/3 teaspoonful soda. 
2 rounding teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 
Yz teaspoonful salt. 

Work baking powder, salt and 
shortening through flour. Add soda 
to milk and dissolve; then add the 
milk to the flour, mix into a dough, 
turn out on well floured mixing 
board and knead lightly until the 
dough is smooth. Roll to one- 
fourth inch in thickness, cut, and 
bake in hot oven. 



Date Jelly 

1 envelope granulated sparkling 
gelatine. 

1 cupful cold water. 

2 cupfuls boiling water. 
24 cupful sugar. 

Yo cupful lemon juice. 
1 package dates. 

Soak gelatine in cold water ten 
minutes. Dissolve with the hot 
water, add the sugar and lemon 
juice. Allow to chill until it begins 
to congeal; then add the dates, hav- 
ing previously pitted them. Turn 
into mold, first dipped in cold water, 
and chill. Serve plain or with 
whipped cream. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



Is. 7:15— Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know how to refuse the evil and choose the good. 

Nature's Loveliest Sweet 

The sources of Airline Honey are meadow flowers. Bees make it. Man 
acts only as distributor. From flower to bee, to you— and human hands never 
touch this exquisite product. Airline Comb Honey in airtight cartons comes to 
you just as it left the hive. Airline Extracted Honey is thrown from the combs 
by a simple and clean process and is bottled to preserve all the purity and 
fragrance of the wilderness. 

Foods cooked with 



AiriinE 

f(onet/ 



retain the brilliant honey flavor. Besides, the presence of the honey keeps cakes, 
bread, and cookies fresh indefinitely. 



HONEY. HERMITS 

1 cup butter 5 cups sifted flour 

1 Yz cups Airline Honey 1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

3 eggs 2 Y\ cups raisins, chopped 

2% cups chopped nut meats 
Dissolve soda in the honey, warmed, and' then add 
butter; cream together. Beat the eggs well and 
add, then the flour sifted in with salt and cinnamon, 
and lastly the raisins and nuts. Stir stiff with sifted 
flour and drop from teaspoon on buttered sheet. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 egg 1 J^2 cups cornmeal 

1 cup buttermilk or sour Y cup flour 

milk 1 cup seedless raisins 

Yz cup Airline Honey 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cook the seedless raisins in a very little water, al- 
lowing them to simmer until the water is absorbed. 
Stir together the egg, buttermilk, and honey. Into 
this sift the cornmeal, flour, soda, and salt. Flour 
the cooked raisins lightly and add. Pour into two 
one-pound baking powder cans and steam uncovered 
for 2 hours. Do not slice until cold. 

GINGER CAKE 

2/3 cup Airline Honey 1 teaspoon soda 

Y cup sugar Y2 cup butter 

1 egg 2^4 cups flour 

Yi cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon ginger 

Y2 teaspoon cinnamon 
Cream together the butter and sugar, add the egg, 
and beat well. Add the honey, then the buttermilk, 
the flour, the spices and soda and beat well again. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



AIRLINE TAFFY 

1 cup Airline Honey 1/3 cup water 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil the honey, sugar, and water together until the 
mixture makes a hard ball (270° F) in cold water. 
Add vanilla or other flavor if desired. Put in a but- 
tered dish to cool and pull until white. 

NECTAR ROLLS 

Bread sponge for 18 rolls Salt 
1 tablespoon shortening Airline Honey 
Milk 

Mix a generous tablespoon of butter or lard or 
half of each. Add a little salt; mix as for rolls and 
let it rise. Then roll each one flat, putting a large 
tablespoon of filling in the center of each. Fold 
sides and ends. Pinch well to keep the filling in; 
let it get light; brush with milk and Airline Honey; 
and bake. Make the filling as follows: 
1 tablespoon butter 1 cup Airline Honey 

Y2 cup chopped nut meats 

Whip the butter and honey and add the nut 
meats last. 

MEDINA BAKED BEANS 

1 pint small white beans 1 tablespoon butter 
Baking soda, size of bean 2 tablespoons Airline 

2 cups milk Honey 

Pinch cayenne pepper 

Soak the beans over night. Bring to a boil, adding 
the soda, and allow to simmer one-half hour. Drain 
and cook till tender in salted water, but not long 
enough to break the skins. Drain and rinse the 
beans and put them in an earthen bean pot. Pour 
over them the milk, adding the butter, honey and 
pepper. Cover closely and bake in a slow oven until 
the milk is absorbed. 



A SAMPLE FOR 10c. 

Either an individual jar of the extracted honey or a small comb of Airline Honey in 
an airtight package. Our "Airline Honey Book," full of delicious recipes like the above, at 
the Airline booth. 

Ask your grocer for Airline Honey 

THE A. I. ROOT COMPANY 

MEDINA, OHIO 



TUESDAY'S PROGRAM 

Lecture — "The Science of Baking" 



DEMONSTRATIONS 



Tuna Fish Salad 

i cupful tuna fish, shredded. 

24 cupful boiled salad dressing. 

y 2 envelope granulated gelatine. 

j4 cupful cold water. 

Yz cupful chopped celery. 

i green pepper, chopped. 

y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

Y^ teaspoonful paprika. 

Soak gelatine in cold water five 
minutes; then add it and all the 
other ingredients to the hot salad 
dressing. Turn into individual 
molds, first dipped into cold water, 
and chill. Turn out on crisp lettuce 
leaves, and garnish. 



Silver Loaf Cake 

2^4 cupfuls sifted pastry flour. 

i% cupfuls granulated sugar. 

2/3 cupful water. 

y 2 cupful butter. 

7 egg whites. 

3 even teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 

1 teaspoonful extract. 

y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the whites of the eggs, and whip 
until the mixture is light; then add 
the other ingredients and stir the 
batter until smooth and light. Put 
into loaf cake pan, place in cold 
oven, light gas, and bake at mod- 
erate temperature for about one 
hour. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



TUESDAY'S PROGRAM 

CONTINUED 



Waffles 

2 cupfuls of sifted flour. 

2 yolks or one whole egg. 

2 cupfuls of sour milk. 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. 
y 2 even teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of melted shorten- 
ing. 

i even teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the milk in the mixing bowl, 

careful not to break the yolks. Add add soda and dissolve; then add the 

salt to the whites and beat until flour t0 w hi cn the baking powder 

stiff enough to stand. Turn into a and sa i t has been added. Stir until 
well buttered shallow baking dish, 
make small impressions for the 
yolks and carefully drop them in. 

Bake in a medium oven until the through. Brush waffle iron with 

whites are a delicate brown. Gar- grease before pouring batter on. 

nish with crisp, fried bacon. Serve with strained honey. 



Spanish Bean Soup 

Press two cupfuls left over or 
canned beans through the puree 
sieve. To the bean pulp add two 
cupfuls of strained tomatoes, or 
two cupfuls of boiling water and 
enough good catsup to suit taste. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

Eggs in Baskets with Bacon 

Separate the whites from yolks 
of as many eggs as desired, being 



the batter is smooth, add the beaten 
eggs and shortening, and stir 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 




Add no 
milk 



7 — t-t 
>e4vater and get 




'% 



' 



Tasty, Economical, Wholesome 



Malted Buttermilk in powder form is added to 
Teco flour at the mill.; It takes the place of; 
milk, and is an exclusive feature that gives Teco 
Pancakes their decidedly distinctive flavor. 
Not a drop of milk is added to make the. deli- 



cious Teco Pancakes. Don't spend a, entior, 
milk — and yet have unusually good pancakes. 
You just add water to Teco buttermilk griddle 
cake flours — then bake." Have" 6 pancakes for a 
cent — 60 from a package./ 



TECO 

Self -Rising *££££ Flours 

Meets the Government's, Dr.- Wiley's, 
and the Westfield Pure Food Standards 



Some folks say they are "crazy " about pancakes, 
but often have trouble in getting good cnqs.) ,- 
But, once they try the Teco kind — how; they 
like 'era!. Teco cakes • are so delicious,' and: 
tender, and enticingly brown! ^.They fairly melt 
away — they're bringing back the popularity pan- 
cakes had in grandma's day.' 
When she churned, the buttermilk was saved and 
added to her flour, to make pancakes. ; Those, 
were the kind! — nobody ever got enough. % And 
those are the kind you can make today ^with 
Teco buttermilk griddle cake flours. 
Just get a plateful before you — put some lumps' 
of butter on each hot, brown cake — then smother 
the pile with good rich syrup. - No wonder the 
10c per kiddies are happy, and father smiles 
package contentedly, when mother gives them 
Teco pancakes! Send for a package 



today— see how your family likes these 
cakes! 



It's not ordinary milk in 
Teco Flours — but good, 
rich buttermilk. Leading 
authorities recognize the 
healthful qualities of 
buttermilk "• and •; recom- 
mend its use. Its addi- 
tion to Teco flour ; adds 
'to the wholesomeness of 
these; light, dainty 
cakes," as well as to their, 
flavor. 

The children^ and "the 
grown-ups -■ too, can 
enjoy Teco cakes , freely. 




Teco pancakes and buck wheats 
are the only ones demonstrated 
at the Westfield Cooking School 



THE EKENBERG COMPANY 

120 Lackawanna Are. , Cortland. N.Y. 





TEAR OFF HERE! 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 




Pure 




THE LARGEST SELLING BRAND 
IN THE UNITED STATES 

They will give your Cakes and Desserts that De- 
licious and Lasting Flavor. Try our Pure Fruit 
Flavors, such as Raspberry, Strawberry, 
Cherry, etc. There is none better for 

PURITY, STRENGTH and FINE FLAVOR 

THE HIGHEST AND ONLY GRAND PRIX 

A WAR D E D 

SAUER'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

For 




VANILLA 



[p|l»"WMl\ 



PURITY, STRENGTH, FINE FLAVOR 

at the 
PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION 

Besides Fifteen Other First and 
Highest Awards and Gold 
Medals at Former Expositions. 

SOLD BY ALL LEADING GROCERS 
10c. — 2 5c. — 35c. per bottle 

The C. F. Sauer Co., Richmond, Va. 




WEDNESDAY'S PROGRAM 

Lecture — "The Westfield Standard" 



DEMONSTRATIONS 



Chicken Pie 

Dress and cut up one chicken as for 
frying, put into kettle or steamer and 
cook until tender. Season with salt when 
about half done. Lay the pieces in a 
baking dish ; add enough water to the 
stock to make one pint, thicken with one 
rounding tablespoonful of flour stirred 
smooth with cold water, and pour over 
the chicken. Make biscuit dough over 
recipe for Southern Biscuit, roll out to 
one inch in thickness, and cover the 
chicken. Bake in a medium hot oven. 

White Bread 

Stir smooth in a little cold water one 
rounding tablespoonful of flour, add one 
cupful of hot water, and boil for one min- 
ute. Add to this one cupful of cold water, 
one-half cupful of mashed potatoes, and 



one rounding tablespoonful of sugar. 
Allow this mixture to cool to about nine- 
ty degrees, then add one-half cake of 
compressed yeast. This should be set 
just before retiring, and allowed to rise 
until morning. In the morning add one 
pint of lukewarm water, one rounding 
teaspoonful of salt, and one even table- 
spoonful of shortening. Strain, and then 
mix stiff using three or four quarts of 
flour, according to the absorbing proper- 
ties of the flour. Knead until the dough 
is smooth. Allow to rise in a warm, even 
temperature until the dough is twice the 
original size ; then knead it down and 
allow to rise a second time. Mold into 
loaves, put into pans, and allow to rise 
in the pans until a little more than twice 
the original size. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven. One of the principal secrets 
in making good bread is in keeping the 
dough in a warm, even temperature. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



WEDNESDAY'S PROGRAM 

CONTINUED 



Vegetable Salad 

Yi cupful shredded cabbage. 

1 cupful celery, cut in small pieces. 

2 pimentos, cut in small pieces. 
1 red apple, cut in cubes. 

Yz envelope granulated gelatine. 
1 cupful boiling water. 

Ya cupful cold water. 

Ya cupful vinegar. 

Ya cupful sugar. 

Yz teaspoonful salt. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water five 
minutes. Add boiling water, vinegar, 
sugar, and salt. Allow to chill until it 
begins to congeal, then add remaining 
ingredients. Turn into mold, first dipped 
in cold water, and chill. Remove from 
mold to bed of lettuce or endive, and 
serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

2 yolks. 

1 cupful oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
Yz teaspoonful salt. 

Add the salt to the vinegar. Beat the 
yolks well; then add the oil gradually, 
beating rapidly all the time. As it be- 
comes stiff, thin with a few drops of the 
vinegar at frequent intervals. 

Cream Fondant 

5 cupfuls granulated sugar. 
\Yz cupfuls water. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



Put the sugar and water into the kettle 
and place over a hot fire. Stir with a 
spoon or paddle until the sugar is dis- 
solved ; then wipe down the sides of the 
kettle with a damp cloth, and see that 
every granule of sugar is removed from 
the sides of the kettle. When the sugar 
begins to boil, add the vinegar and put 
the thermometer in, having previously 
warmed it. The kettle must not be 
moved while the syrup is boiling, and the 
syrup must not be stirred after it begins 
to boil. The bulb of the thermometer 
must be entirely covered ; hence the ne- 
cessity of selecting a kettle in which the 
syrup will be sufficiently deep. If a dark 
scum forms on the surface, wait until it 
collects in one spot and then remove it 
with a spoon, being careful not to dis- 
turb the syrup. When the thermometer 
registers 240 degrees, or when the syrup 
will spin a long thread, lift the kettle 
from the fire and pour the syrup on a 
marble slab, heavy platter, or oiled pan 
placed in water containing ice. Allow to 
cool until it feels only slightly warm to 
the back of the hand ; then begin to work 
with a stiff knife or scraper, and keep 
working until it becomes smooth and 
creamy and a little later turns into a solid 
lump of sugar. But when this is worked 
it will become soft and smooth. This 
fondant can be kept in a closed jar and 
used as the base for many candies and 
icings. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 




In This Range the Meals 
Cook Themselves 



The Sentinel Automatic Cook 
Stove frees you from the kitchen 
and makes it easy for you to have 
your ' 'afternoons off. ' ' 

The Sentinel is a regular gas 
range and a fireless cooker com- 
bined in one stove. By means 
of the automatic oven and timing 
device, you can cook a complete 
meal without watching it or giving 
it any attention whatever. 

Centinel 

^\ ^Automatic 

<J Cook Stove 

The Only Range Used by Prof. Snider In the 
Westfield Domestic Science Lectures 

The Sentinel is simplicity itself. You place the food in the oven, set the timer, 
light the gas and leave the kitchen. At the proper moment the timer automatically 
shuts off the gas and the cooking is completed by indirect heat. You can go shop- 
ping or visiting— or you can read, rest, sew or do anything you like while the meal 
is cooking. 

You can do all your cooking on the Sentinel. It saves gas and soon pays itself. 

Get this helpful Book 
at the Sentinel Booth 

Mrs. Christine Frederick, one of the best known domestic 
science experts in the country, has written a book in which she 
describes interestingly her experience with the Sentinel Automa- 
tic Cook Stove. She shows the many ways that the Sentinel saves 
the housewife time and work. She also tells you how to plan your 
kitchen to save steps and gives many other helpful hints. 

Meals That Cook Themselves contains 72 pages and is sub- 
stantially bound in cloth. You can obtain a copy at the Sentinel 
Booth for 10 cents. It is well worth getting. 

THE SENTINEL MANUFACTURING CO. 

Dept. 9, New Haven, Conn. 





It is besl'Jo use an earthenware or china tea 

pot. 

Thoroughly warm the tea pot by rinsing with 

hot water. 

Put in enough" tea to suit — two teaspoonfuls 

of Lipton's is ample for 4 cups. It is best 

to use a lea ball or lift out receptacle 



Always use freshly draivn water — have same 

boiling briskly when poured onto lea. 

Allow tea to stand not over 5 minutes — then 

lift out the lea ball and the tea is ready 

to serve. Never boil tea. 

Add cream and sugar to taste. Liplon's is 

delicious clear, or with lemon. 



Note: Never make a second pot of lea from leaves that have been once used — always use fresh tea. 



To know the real tea taste — make it this 

way and use 

UPTON'S TEA 

It's the only way to get the real delicacy of flavor and the benefits tea affords both 
mind and body. 

Our English cousins use about seven pounds of tea apiece every year — here we con- 
sume but a pound each. Why? Because, first we 



drink so much bulk tea, tea that has lost its deli- 
cate flavor, its refreshing properties, its strength; 
and secondly, because only about one out of every 
ten cups is properly made. 

Make your tea as shown here, and make it with 
Lipton's Tea, the finest that the world's largest 
producer can grow! Then tea drinking will take 
on a new meaning. 

Many medical authorities agree that the prop- 
erly made cup of tea is a material benefit. It 
helps supply the body with the necessary amount 
of water — water that has been partially softened 
by boiling and that is free from bacteria. The 
hot cup of tea aids digestion, soothes the body 
and enlivens the mind. For most people it is the 
one beverage that can be consumed year in and 
year out with only beneficial effects. 

For health, pleasure and economy, drink Lip- 
ton's Tea. It is many times less expensive than 
any other beverage, for in every pound tin there 
are from 200 to 300 cups. 



Every Tea Taste is Suited in LIPTON'S 



Ceylon and India — Black Tea.. 




. . 70c lb. 




Red Label.. 


..60c lb. 




Pink Label. . 


..50c lb. 






..70c lb. 




Gray Label. . 


..60c lb. 






..70c lb. 




Blue Label. . 


. .60c lb. 






. . 70c lb. 




Cream Label. . 


..60c lb. 






..70c lb. 



ORDER by the COLOR of the LABEL 



tea 

that's only half 
a word — the 
other half is 

UPTON'S 



At your grocers, }/% lb. airtight pack- 
ages, 25c, 30c, 35c. Also in 1 lb., l . i lb. 
1 and 10c trial sizes 



None 



genuine without the signature of 
Sir Thomas J. Lipton, thus 




TEA and COFFEE 1/ PLANTER. CEYLON 




THURSDAY'S PROGRAM 

Lecture — "The Nutrient Salts in Foods" 



DEMONSTRATIONS 



Jellied Chicken 

Bring to the boiling point two 
cupfuls of chicken stock from 
which the fat has been removed, 
add to it one tablespoonful of gela- 
tine which has been soaked in four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water for ten 
minutes. Press into a mold four 
cupfuls of cold stewed chicken, hav- 
ing first seasoned it with salt. Pour 
over it the stock, put under weight, 
and chill until it becomes firm. Any 
other meat may be used in this 
recipe. 



Devil's Food Cake 

2y 2 cupfuls pastry flour. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 

y 2 cupful butter. 

y 2 cupful milk. 

2 pcrcrc 

3 even teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 
1/3 cupful cocoa, with hot water 

added to make cup half full. 

1 

Cream butter and sugar, add 
eggs and beat until mixture is 
light; then add all the other ingre- 
dients and stir until the batter is 
smooth and light. Bake in loaf or 
layers. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



THURSDAY'S PROGRAM 

CONTINUED 



Cabbage Imperial 

Take a firm head of cabbage, trim 
and fold back three or four of the 
outside leaves. With a sharp knife 
remove the center of the head, leav- 
ing only a wall of the outside leaves. 
Take one cupful of cold meat, one 
cupful of sliced potatoes, one cup- 
ful of sliced carrots, and enough of 
the cabbage to refill the head. Add 
salt to suit taste, and a few table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Refill 
the head, pressing the mixture in 
very firmly. Tie in a piece of 
cheese cloth and steam or cook in 
a small amount of water. 

Rice Bean Loaf 

Cook until tender, enough rice to 
line an individual bread pan or bak- 
ing dish to the depth of one-half inch 
on the bottom and sides. Fill the 
center with bean pulp, prepared by 
pressing cooked beans through the 



puree sieve and adding to each pint 
of the pulp one rounding table- 
spoonful of flour, a little butter, and 
salt to taste. Cover with rice and 
bake in oven for one hour. Slice 
down and serve as meat loaf. The 
rice should be seasoned with salt 
and butter. 

Fig Icing 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
]/ 2 cupful water. 
]/ 2 cupful figs, ground. 

Put the sugar and water over the 
fire and cook to 236 degrees, or un- 
til it forms a very soft ball when 
tested in cold water. Then add the 
figs and let it boil up, immediately 
remove from the fire and beat until 
it becomes creamy, when it is ready 
to spread on the cake. If it becomes 
too thick to spread, add a little 
water to thin it. Do not stir the 
syrup until after the figs are added. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



The Practical Hygienic 
Preparation of Foods 

..By.. 

Sherwood P. Snyder 

^T^HE book contains over five hundred recipes and 
•*- treats exhaustively upon the following subjects: 

The Preservation of Health a Sacred Duty 
— The Dining Room — Classification of 
Foods — Read the Labels — Baby's Food and 
Care of Children — Kitchen Equipment — 
TheValue of Steam Cooking — Mastication — 
Curing Disease by Diet — Cereals — Breads 
— Soups — Meats — Meats Versus Vegetari- 
anism — Meat Imitations and Meat Substi- 
tutes — Sauces — Eggs — Fats and Oils — 
Vegetables — Legumes — Rice and Macaroni 
— Salads — Nuts, Nut Preparations, Nut 
Butters — Pies — Scientific Cake Baking — 
Desserts — Ice Creams and Ices — Beverages 
— Menus — Canning Fruits — Exercising — 
Composition of Foods. 

It will help you reduce your grocery bills. 

It makes cooking easier. 

The recipes are economical. 

It is a book that every wife and mother should have. 

Price $1.00 





The Sunlit Home of KNOX SPARKLING GELATINE, Johnstown, N.Y. 

SPARKLING 
GELATINE 

( GRANULATED ) 

This product has set and established the world's highest 
standards for gelatine. It is made under perfect condi- 
tions. Every detail in its manufacture is scrupulously ob- 
served. Hands do not touch it until you open the package. 

It has received the endorsement of leading pure food authorities 
including Prof. Allyn, Dr. Wiley, A. W. McCann, Dr. Goudiss and 
the National Housewives League. 

New 1916 Recipe Book FREE 

containing numerous recipes for Desserts, Salads, Puddings, Sherbets, Jellies, Ice Creams, 
and Candies, and many helpful suggestions for table setting and serving. 

It is FREE for your grocer's name. We will send you a pint sample of Knox Celatine for a 
2c stamp and grocer's name.. 



CHAS. B. KNOX CO., Inc. 



Dept. W. 



Johnstown, N. Y„ 



Yellow Package 




SP A JttMNG 

GeT^ik£ 







Blue Package 



KNOX GELATINE is most economical — a package makes 
two full quarts of jelly — Four Times the quantity made by 
'Flavored packages." The contents of both packages are 
alike, except that the Acidulated (Blue) package contains 
an envelope of Lemon Flavoring, saving the cost of lemons. 
Each package contains a pink vegetable coloring tablet, 
for making fancy desserts, salads, etc. 




FRIDAY'S PROGRAM 

Lecture — "Kitchen Equipment" 



DEMONSTRATIONS 



An Oven Dinner 

Buy a four pound roast. When 
delivered remove from the paper 
and wipe thoroughly with a damp 
cloth. Heat the oven to the sear- 
ing point, put the roast in, allowing 
the roaster to remain uncovered. 
When the meat is seared, season it 
with salt, add a little water and the 
number of carrots and turnips de- 
sired. Cover the roaster, turn down 
the fire slightly and roast for one 
hour, when the meat will be me- 
dium done. For well done and very 
tender meat, roast for two hours or 
longer, in which case the vegetables 
should be placed in the roaster 
about one hour before the meat is 
done. Cabbage, parsnips, onions, 
sweet potatoes, and other vege- 
tables similar in character may be 
cooked in this wav. 



Cocoanut Sponge 

Yz envelope granulated gelatine. 
Y^ cupful cold water. 

2 cupfuls milk. 
1/3 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful shredded cocoanut. 

Few grains salt. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in cold water five 
minutes. Make custard of milk, 
eggs and sugar; remove from stove 
and add soaked gelatine. When 
mixture begins to set, add cocoa- 
nut, whites of eggs beaten stiff, salt 
and flavoring. Line a mold with 
sections of orange, pour in mixture 
and chill. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



FRIDAY'S PROGRAM 

CONTINUED 



Raisin Pie 

Filling: Stew for thirty minutes 
one-half package of raisins in suf- 
ficient water to cover them. The 
raisins should be prepared before- 
hand. 

Pie Paste: 

2 cupfuls pastry flour. 
y 2 cupful shortening. 
]/ 2 teaspoonful salt. 

6 tablespoonfuls water. 

Work the shortening through 
the flour, add water, and mix light- 
ly. This is sufficient for an upper 
and lower crust for an eight or nine 
inch pie tin. 

Roll out lower crust and line 
pie tin; fill with the cooked raisins, 
add at least one-half cupful of the 
liquid, sweeten with one-half cupful 
of sugar, and sprinkle on top one 
rounding tablespoonful of flour. 
Moisten the lower crust with 
cream, lay top crust on, and press 
the edges together. 



Glace Nuts and Fruits 

5 cupfuls sugar. 
2 cupfuls water. 
}4 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Nuts. 
Fruits. 

Boil the sugar, water and cream 
of tartar to 300 degrees. Take from 
the fire. To glace nuts singly drop 
them in, and immediately lift them 
out and lay on waxed paper or the 
marble slab. Brazil, filbert, pecan, 
or English walnut meats may be 
used and dipped singly or in clus- 
ters. 

Figs, pitted dates, raisins, can- 
died cherries, sections of seedless 
oranges, strawberries, and other 
similar fruits may be dipped, but 
when juicy fruits are used, care 
must be exercised not to break the 
skin. 

One of the most desirable ways 
of preparing candied nuts is to 
nearly fill a well buttered shallow 
pan with nut meats and pour the 
hot syrup over. When cold break 
into pieces. 



COOKING SCHOOL NOTES 



Jt r Qm/if/pfodud 

in bakingf powder 

You will find absolute purity, uniform 
strength, economy and efficiency in 



iim/a 




THE WHOLESOME 

BAKING POWDER 

It raises your cake, biscuit or muffin just right 
makes all home baking of that even texture and appe- 
tizing appearance sought for by all good cooks. 

It is healthful, because it restores the nutritious 
properties of which fine wheat flour has been deprived 
It is economical, because it does not cause 
waste of good material, and because of its 
reasonable cost. 



ANALYSIS BY WESTFIELD BOARD OF HEALTH. 

" Rumford Baking Powder keeps well and we believe 
it to be Safe, Efficient and Economical. 

L. B. ALLYN, Analyst. 



MAILED FREE, a copy of "Rumford Dainties and 
Household Helps." In their daily work housekeepers 
will find this a most useful and helpful book. 




IAK1NG 
POWD0 

i?W ni "' ne Phosphate r°»* d r i,t^I 
H 'HELICAL WORKS. 



RUMFORD CHEfllCAL WORKS, 



Providence, R. I. 



Saturday Baking Contest 

Every JVoman Invited to Enter 



fl 



The Westfield Domestic Science School will be concluded on 
Saturday with a baking contest in which every woman is 
invited to enter. 

Of Many handsome and valuable household appliances will be 
■^ awarded as prizes, which will be announced in the local 
papers during the week. 

There are three divisions — 

Loaf Cake 
Bread 
Layer Cake 

Of Each woman may enter one or more articles in each of the 

■" three divisions. The, cakes and bread are to be baked at home 

and delivered at the Hall between 10 and 12 Saturday morning. 

Of Every article will be entered by number. A coupon will be 
-" placed on each entry corresponding in number to the coupon 
the contestant receives. 

Jff The judging will be done between 12 and 2 P. M. All who 
-" desire are invited to come to the Hall to watch the judging. 

Of Every article will be cut and the general outside appearance, 
-" the texture, the grain and the taste will be the points con- 
sidered. 

Of After the judging has been completed, the prizes will be 
-" awarded and thereafter the articles entered will be sold by a 
committee appointed for the purpose and the entire proceeds 
will be donated to some local Charitable Organization. 

Enter the Contest 

and try for one of the beautiful prizes. 

Of If you fail to win a prize, you will have the satisfaction of 
-" lending your support to one of your most worthy Charitable 
Institutions. 



What cocoa for children— 
who've tired of plain milk ? 




Surely not an unknown 
"paper bag" or cheapened 
canned cocoa — which may be 
way below par in nutritive 
butter fats. Such cocoas — 
robbed of their nutritive ele- 
ments — are common on the 
market. Surely not a cocoa 
which is too "rich" for children 
to digest — though grown-ups 
may like it. Rather a balanced 
cocoa like Lowney's in which 
a Good Housekeeping analysis 
found 25.92% nutritive butter 



fats — a percentage proved to 
be neither too rich nor too 
"lean" for children. 

Each nourishing cup of 
Lowney's Cocoa you serve is 
made with milk, so your chil- 
dren get their milk after all, 
made tempting by the delici- 
ous Lowney true-cocoa flavor. 

We need hardly add that 
Lowney's Cocoa meets the 
Government standard, Dr. 
Wiley's and the Westfield 
standards of purity in foods. 




At 

Grocers 







In flavor-tight tins 
10c to 50c sizes 



iLEE™ 0F CONGRESS 



mm> 






tte* 



c.* 1 



^K)* 



TJJ 



*>»»* 



5 o» 



■ft. 



,^- 



rji 



m 



014 232 715 6 



mr$*s*n 



te 



m^ 



P^Vft 



; f w«-sj 



^CEW75 



Afcr 



#» 



A/ 



LV 



NttS 



w. 



.-5|<^ y 



•M* 



The Ladies' World an</ McClure's 

Their influence for pure foods and 
clean advertising, in two million homes 

THE two strong McClure Publications — The Ladies' World and 
McClure's Magazine — are the back-bone of the present Westfield 
Movement and are responsible for the big Westfield Pure Food Cam- 
paigns that are now being run in the newspapers throughout the country. 

Nothing means more to the intelligent housewife or mother, than to 
feed her husband, her children and herself, foods that are pure, clean and 
wholesome. 

A publication can give no greater service to its readers than to help 
them in such matters. 

With an authority like Prof. Lewis B. Allyn, who is Food Editor of 
both of these magazines, they have aroused a remarkable interest, which 
is shown by the large daily mail received from readers in all parts of 
the country, asking every conceivable question about the foods and bev- 
erages they are buying. 

Any food product, beverage or toilet preparation if advertised in 
either The Ladies' World or McClure's Magazine, you may know has 
been "passed" by Prof. Allyn as "Westfield Pure." 

No advertising would be accepted by these magazines unless the 
product advertised conformed in every way to The Westfield Standard. 

No magazine or magazines give you this degree of protection. 



