The 

Court of Honor 

Cook Book 



For sale exclusively by members of the 

Court of Honor for the benefit 

of the Sanatorium and 

Homes Fund. 



Complied by 

MRS. ELLA HENRY BORST 

Supervisor of Domestic Science in the Public 
Schools of Denver. 



J. D. D1LLENBACK, Publisher 

1830 Curtis Street 

DENVER. :-: COLORADO 



Copyright 

BY J. D. DILLENBACK 

1915 



3CU401000 



MAY 13 1915 



XT? 



INTRODUCTION 



COOK BOOKS have two reasons for existing: first, that those whose 
duty it is to prepare foods may know what dishes to serve; second, 
that they may know by what method to prepare these dishes, if they 
have not learned by means of special training or by observation. It is 
hoped that this book may perform these two functions. 

The recipes which are offered here have been made to fall under the 
classifications recommended by authorities on subjects of home eco- 
nomics. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PAGE. 

RELISHES 7 

SOUPS 9 

FISH 16 

MEATS 22 

POULTRY AND GAME 36 

EGGS 41 

CHEESE 45 

ENTREES 47 

VEGETABLES 51 

UNSWEETENED SAUCES AND GRAVIES 62 

SALADS 63 

SALAD DRESSINGS 70 

CEREALS 71 

BREADS 72 

SANDWICHES AND SANDWICH FILLINGS 77 

FRUITS 80 

CANNING, PRESERVING. JELLY MAKING AND PICKLING 82 

BEVERAGES 87 

HOT DESSERTS 89 

COLD DESSERTS 94 

FROZEN DISHES 98 

SWEET OR PUDDING SAUCES 102 

CAKE 103 

GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS 108 

PASTRY 112 

FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 117 

CONFECTIONS 119 

MEXICAN, SPANISH AND OTHER DISHES 121 

CHAFING DISH COOKERY 124 

INVALID COOKERY 125 



The Court of Honor Cook 

Book 



RELISHES, OR HORS D'OEUVRES 

COCKTAIL OF APPLE BALLS— I. 
Peel large apples; with a potato scoop cut out small balls, dropping 
them into water with a little vinegar added to keep them white. Prepare 
a mixture of grapefruit pulp, pineapple and banana and put into glasses: 
add a few of the apple balls; pour over all the juice left from the fruit 
which has been boiled down with sugar; cool and serve at once. 

COCKTAIL OF APPLE BALLS— II. 
Cut balls with a vegetable cutter from firm, nice apples, drop them 
in water and vinegar to keep from discoloring and mix with pineapple 
and other fruit. Put in cups and pour over it rich lemonade or lemon 
sirup. Serve as a cocktail. 

APPLE BALLS SERVED IN SIRUP. 
Prepare the apple balls; prepare a rich sugar sirup: color with a little 
pink color paste and drop in the balls; cook slowly until the balls are 
softened, pile in glasses and add a little sirup to each glass. Serve cold. 

"HAPPY ELIZA." 
Chop one dozen figs, six apples sliced but not peeled and add one 
pound granulated sugar. Add two quarts of water and boil rapidly for 
fifteen minutes. Strain and cool. Serve over crushed ice with a slice of 
orange on top. 

PRUNE COCKTAIL. 

Soak over night, stew and strain the largest prunes. Sweeten slight- 
ly, then cool thoroughly on ice and chop small. Add to the prune juice 
•orange and lemon juice to flavor, stir in chopped fruit and serve in 
glasses banked with crushed ice. 

QUINCE BALLS. 
Here is something really worth while. When preparing quince 
preserves, cut them with a potato cutter into balls and preserve them 
whole. They are very pretty if cooked long and slowly and may be used 
for a garnish for ice cream, or if candied, will add greatly to the confec- 
tionery collection. 

FRUIT SWEETMEAT. 

Take one pound of dates, one pound of raisins, one pound of fresh 
preserved figs, half a pound of pinon nuts, a quarter of a pound of 
blanched almonds, half a pound of pecans and half a pound of Brazil 
nuts. Put all through food chopper, mix together well and pack in jam 
pots. Nice for sweet sandwiches, or sliced and eaten with cream or in 
tiny cubes and served with ice cream. Or it may be rolled in balls and 
dipped in fondant or chocolate icing and served as sweetmeats. 

RAISIN SWEETMEAT. 
Peel and core five large tart apples and cook tender with a wine- 
glass of Madeira wine and half a pound of loaf sugar. When soft, add 
;two and one-half pounds of raisins, split open and seeded, and water 



8 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

enough to keep from burning. Cook slowly until it can be pressed 
through a sieve. Place in small pots or jars and seal like jelly. Serve 
cu* in slices with sweetened cream, plain or whipped. If cut in wafer- 
likfl slices it makes nice sweet sandwich filling, first spreading the bread 
or biscuit thinly with cream cheese or nut butter. 

STUFFED CELERY— I. 

Wash tender celery hearts and put them into cold water to become 
crisp. Mash fresh cream cheese, then add chopped nuts and chopped 
olives to taste. Stuff the celery just before serving and serve with 
toasted crackers. 

STUFFED CELERY— II. 

Thoroughly clean perfect stalks of celery and cover with ice until 
crisp. Mix to a cream one-quarter pound of roquefort cheese, one-half 
pound of cream cheese, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire dressing, one-eighth teaspoonful of paprika and one tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped olives. Stuff celery with this mixture and 
serve ice cold on lettuce leaves. After the celery is stuffed cut it into 
two-inch lengths. 

CRAB CANAPES. 

Cut bread in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, three inches 
long and an inch and a half wide. Spread with butter and brown in the 
oven. Mix a cup of crab meat with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, two 
drops of tabasco sauce, half a teaspoonful of salt, a few drops of onion 
juice and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Mark the bread diagonally 
in four sections and spread alternately with cheese and the crab mixture. 
Separate the sections with finely chopped pimentoes. Serve as the first 
course at a dinner or at supper. 

SARDINE CANAPES. 
Cut brown bread in circles, spread with butter and heat in the oven. 
Pound sardines to a paste, add an equal amount of finely chopped hard- 
cooked eggs, season with lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Spread 
on the circles. Garnish each with the center circle of hard-cooked egg, 
filled with a teaspoonful of the yolk put through a sieve or ricer. 

TONGUE CANAPE. 

Canapes are usually eaten with the fingers and served at the begin- 
ning of the dinner. Some elaborate kinds must be eaten with a fork. 
Toast triangles of graham bread, spread with butter. Cut slices of 
cooked tongue in small pieces, mix with creamed butter, add two table- 
spoonfuls of capers to each half cupful of tongue. Spread on the bread. 
Sprinkle with salt and cayenne and garnish with chopped watercress. 

TOMATO JELLY TO SERVE WITH COLD TURKEY. 

One quart of tomatoes, one teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of ginger, the juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch. Strain the tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with the 
ginger, sugar, lemon juice and salt. Moisten the corn starch in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, add it to the tomato, boil a moment and 
turn into a mold to cool. Serve cold with the turkey. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Wash and dry tart apples. Remove the core. Cut in rings one-half 
inch thick. Fry in pork drippings or butter. When done remove to a 
hot platter and sprinkle with pulverized sugar. 

BEET RELISH. 

To one quart of cooked chopped beets add one quart of chopped 
cabbage, one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
pepper, a half teaspoonful of cayenne, one cupful of grated, fresh horse- 



Soups 9 

radish and vinegar of the consistency to use as a sauce. Can cold. This 
will keep all winter and is very good. 

PEPPER RELISH— I. 
A good pepper relish is prepared by using chopped cucumber, onion 
and green tomato with equal parts of chopped red pepper, salted and 
covered with boiling vinegar. If liked quite hot add grated horseradish. 

PEPPER RELISH— II. 
Twelve green peppers, twelve red peppers, twelve onions. Remove 
the seeds from peppers. Chop, cover with boiling water for five min- 
utes and drain. Heat three pints vinegar, two cupfuls sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls salt and pour over above. Cook slowly one hour, then bottle. 

UNCOOKED TOMATO RELISH. 
Chop fine one peck of ripe, firm tomatoes. Drain through a cloth 
over night. Then peel two large Spanish onions, chop fine with three 
green peppers and two cupfuls of sugar and one quart of vinegar. Stir 
and seal without cooking. 

A SIMPLE RELISH FOR MEATS. 
Boil and mash fine a few beets, season with salt and pepper with a 
generous amount of butter, then add grated horseradish to suit the 
palate, with a little lemon juice or vinegar to give it piquancy. 



SOUPS 



BESIDES being very nutritious food, soups are an economical one, 
since many once-cooked dishes may be well used in their prepara- 
tion. Soups are here divided into three groups: First, clear soups, 
which, although stimulating, have little food value and, therefore, should 
not be served as the substantial dish of any meal. Second, the thick- 
ened soups, the foundation of which is vegetable, meat or fish puree, and 
milk, cream or stock. These soups are very nutritious and may be used 
as the substantial dish at luncheon or at supper. And third, chowders, 
most often composed of diced vegetables and fish cooked in their own 
liquor, and served, like all thickened soups. 

CLAM BROTH EN BELLEVUE. 
Take a dozen large cherry-stone clams. Wash them well and place 
them in a deep pan, covering them with a pint of water. Let them boil 
for ten minutes; the hot water will open the clams. Remove the clams 
and strain the broth through a cloth. Cut up the clams in tiny bits and 
put them in the soup. A little chicken broth may be added to the clam 
broth and a touch of whipped cream on the top of the individual cups. 

CREAM CLAM SOUP. 
Drain a quart of clams and chop fine; return to their own liquor and 
bring slowly to the boiling point. Then let the mixture simmer for 
twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve and thicken the liquor with 
one-third of a cupful each of butter and flour and season with salt and 
pepper. Scald four cupfuls of milk, to which has been added a slice of 
onion and two blades of mace. Strain and add the milk to the clams. 
Just before serving add the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten. 

OYSTER SOUP WITH FISH STOCK. 
Reserve the water in which fish has been cooked, or make fresh 
stock from the bones and trimmings of fish. If from the latter, strain 
carefully before using. Chop fine two leeks or two onions, a tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, two carrots, three potatoes and a bay leaf, and add to a 
quart of fish stock with seasoning of salt and pepper. Ten minutes 



10 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

before serving add a half dozen oysters with their liquor. Sprinkle 
parsley over the soup just before serving. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Drop the oysters into boiling water and cook them a minute alter 
the edges curl, Mien remove them to the tureen: add butter and salt to 
them and rich milk to the boiling water; when scalding hot pour over 
the oysters. A cupful of water may be used with a pint of rich milk. 

JAPANESE SOUP. 
Procure a head of salmon or bass and place in a saucepan with a 
sliced carrot, a sliced onion, two branches of celery, two branches of 
parsley, one hay leaf, a sprig of thyme and a clove. Moisten with three 
quarts of water. Season with two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one teaspoonful of curry powder and gently boil one and 
a half hours. Strain the soup through a cheescloth into another sauce- 
pan, add six tablespoonfuls of raw rice and gently boil fifteen minutes. 
Finely chop one branch of parsley and one small onion. Add to the 
soup, mix lightly and boil five minutes longer. Remove the skin and 
bone from a pound of fresh halibut, then cut in half-inch square pieces, 
add to soup and simmer fifteen minutes. Dilute an egg yolk in half a 
cupful of cream and the juice of half a sound lemon. Add to soup, 
carefully mix with wooden spoon. Do not allow the mixture to boil. 

SALMON SOUP. 

Grate an onion and cook in a quart of rich milk ten minutes. Cook 
two tablespoonfuls of flour with one of butter, season well, add half a 
canful of salmon chopped. Cook ten minutes all together, then put 
through a strainer and serve at once. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

If you have boiled a fowl for salad or fricassee, take out three cup- 
fuls of the water in which it was cooked. Put this in a porcelain pot. 
and add to it three slices of carrots cut in cubes or dice, one stalk of 
celery cut in small pieces, half of an onion chopped fine, six pepper- 
corns, a bay leaf, if desiied. and lastly, two tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped, lean boiled ham. Let it all come to a boil gradually, simmer 
ami then strain through a colander and add three tablespoonfuls of 
boiled rice. If this proves too rich, add a little water. 

CONSOMME HUNTINGTON. 

Cut two pounds of meat from the tough portion of the round. Cut 
in very small pieces, put into a soup kettle with three-pound shin of 
beef, the skin, bones and bits left from a boiled fowl. Add a small car- 
rot, cut fine, one onion, a clove of garlic, one stalk of celery, one sprig 
of parsley, ten peppercorns, five allspice berries, two cloves, one-half a 
bayleaf. one-fourth of a teaspoonful of thyme and a quart of cold water. 
Cover and place on the back of the stove to stand one hour. Bring 
gradually to the boiling point and let simmer for two hours. Season 
with salt, pepper and strain through a double cheese cloth. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Let two pounds of mutton from the neck stand for an hour in two 
quarts of water. Heat slowly to the boiling point and skim, then allow 
to simmer for an hour. Add to it half a cupful each of chopped onion, 
of chopped carrot, of chopped turnips and of celery, which have been 
fried for five minutes in clean drippings, and half a cup of barley. Then 
let the soup simmer for three hours. Season highly, thicken with a 
little flour, and serve with a garnishing of chopped parsley. 



Soups 11 

VEAL AND SAGO SOUP. 
Cover two and a half pounds of finely chopped veal with three 
-quarts of water, bring slowly to the boiling point and simmer two hours. 
Soak for a half hour a half cupful of sago in cold water to cover, then 
add to the hot stock and cook thirty minutes; add two cupfuls of rich 
milk and pour the soup over the well-beaten yolks of three eggs Season 
to taste. 

PHILADELPHIA HOT POT. 
Put a tablespoonful of drippings into a saucepan with a couple of 
pounds of beef ribs, two onions chopped fine, half a dozen little green 
peppers, a tablespoonful of minced chives, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a 
handful of raisins, eight olives, half a cup of tomatoes, a bit of thyme and 
pepper. Cover the saucepan and cook slowly until the meat is in rags 
and drops from the bones. At the last thicken with a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of butter rolled in flour and turn into a tureen over slices of 
hot toast. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE SOUP. 

Cut up a peeled onion, one potato and a pint of artichokes, put into 
a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter and fry for eight minutes 
taking care not to brown. Then add a quart of white stock, pepper, 
salt and a piece of bay leaf, a sprig of parsley and piece of mace. Allow 
to simmer for one and a half hours, then rub through a sieve, using the 
back of a wooden spoon. Put back into the saucepan, add a cupful of 
rich milk and a tablespoonful of butter and flour cooked together 
Serve with toasted bread cut in small cubes. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

Put in a saucepan three cupfuls cold baked beans, three pints of 
water, two slices of onion and two stalks of celery; bring this to the 
boiling point and simmer for thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add 
one and a half cupfuls of stewed and strained tomatoes, a tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire or other sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper 
and bind with two tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter oooked 
together. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 
Remove the outer leaves from two small cabbages and cut into 
shreds with half a head of celery. Soak in boiling water for ten minutes 
drain and cool in fresh boiling water for ten minutes. Once more drain 
and place in a pan with two pints of stock or water, one ounce of finely 
minced sweet herbs and pepper and salt to taste. Then bring to a boil 
and simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve with grated cheese. 

CARROT SOUP. 

One quart of thinly sliced carrots, one head of celery boiled in three 
quarts of water for two and one-half hours. Add one-half cupful of rice 
and boil for an hour longer; season with salt and pepper and add a small 
cupful of cream five minutes before serving. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP. 

Boil enough carrots to make a pint after being run through colander 
tut | one and one-half pints of milk with the carrots on stove When 
boi i ing add three tablespoonfuls of flour moistened with a little cold 
milk. Stir constantly as it boils and at last add a little pepper butter 
and saltspoonful of salt ' 

CELERY SOUP. 

One-half cup of rice, one bunch celery, two eggs, one quart milk, 
boil the rice and celery separately, strain and put together and boil in 
the milk. Season with butter, salt and pepper. Before serving, add two 
well-beaten eggs. 



V2 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

CHEESE AND PEPPER SOUP. 

Roast three large, green peppers, then throw them in cold water. 

and re u Shred Um n and by in a spoonful of butter. Add 

two cupfals oi hot water and a little salt Just before serving, add a few 
i a cupful oi grated cheese. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP— I. 

To two cups of . rn add two cuptuls of water and a slice 

simmer twenty minutes and put through a puree strainer 

sane* oft - s< : our and butter and 

a pin: - Seas c i I serre with po) 
01 or the I 

CREAM OF CORN" SOUP— II. 

Two cupfu'.s oi canned con or six ears . green corn grated or put 

inmates in a '.:tt'.e i 

id a small lump of butter 
i serve very hot 
A little celer- c 
don :: the - :up. 

CRE - 3UP. 

A (M 

: . - . afa dot ad a enpfa 

tomato pot through a s 

a] ;f boiling water. 
two 1 ifu's - .:'. of small 

Reheat ind serve, 

MINESTRONE 

seasoned al of cal bage 

. - • . . - " 

- - I ... ; ids -. : " c Stock 

Serve :'::•.> « '-" 

□5 - ... >:up. 

tatoes ter until 

l cc : : but- 
th small cubes of toast. 

If OF ONION SOUP— I. 

She 

■ 
- g r..-:ess 

spoor. ul of milk, and 

■ . - - ■ das 

- . . 

v SOUP— IL 

Peel ar. three g ood-sired : ok them 

e d pan until tender, then rr. 

;: 
been c 

• • 

-.-.-:■ 
• . - 

- 



Soups 13 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 
Shell one-half peck of green peas, wash the pods and boil in a kettle 
with plenty of cold water until tender. Strain water from pods upon 
peas and boil until done. Keep out one cup of peas, mash the other 
peas, put in kettle with three pints of milk and the cup of whole peas 
and bring to a boil. Season with salt, pepper and parsley. Thicken with 
butter and flour. Let come to a boiling point. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP— I. 

Take a sOup bone and one pint of split peas, put on back of stove 
in cold water and let it come slowly to a boil. Let it cook slowly all day: 
about two hours before it is needed season to taste. Onions may be 
added if desired. This makes a very nice supper dish, is easily prepared 
and needs very little attention. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP— II. 

Wash and soak overnight one pint of split peas. Next morning put 
them into a pot with two quarts of water. Meantime fry until brown 
two sliced onions and a stalk of celery in two ounces of clarified drip- 
ping. Put them in with the peas with two slices of bread cut diagonally, 
a teaspoonful of salt and half that amount of pepper. Bring to the 
boiling point, simmer for one and a half hours, rub through a sieve, add 
one pound of mashed potatoes, return it all to the pot and bring once 
more to the boiling point. Strain if desired. If the soup is not thick 
enough add a tablespoonful each of flour and butter rubbed together and 
let the soup heat for five minutes longer. This soup is very nutritious 
and would take the place of meat. 

POTATO SOUP. 
Cut three medium-sized potatoes into thin slices, add one small slice 
onion and two tablespoonfuls of rice. Boil in water sufficient to cover. 
Parsley heightens the flavor, but it should be lifted out when well 
cooked. When the potatoes are done blend a piece of butter the size of 
an egg with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour and stir it into the 
soup. This gives a rich color and appetizing flavor. Milk may be added, 
but it should be used sparingly. Carrots, beans, peas and other left- 
over vegetables may be added to such soup. Drop dumplings are nice 
to serve with this soup. Take one egg, one-half eggshell of water, a 
pinch of salt and one teaspoonful of baking powder. Add enough flour 
to make a dough that will drop easily from a teaspoon. Remove when 
they rise to the top of the soup. 

POTATO AND ONION SOUP. 
Cook four large potatoes and four onions together in enough boil- 
ing water to cover. When quite tender put through a sieve. Reserve 
the water in which they were cooked and add it to the vegetables while 
pressing through the sieve, as it hastens the process. Blend together 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and flour, add a pint of milk, stir until 
boiling, then add the potato and onion pulp. Season well with salt and 
pepper and serve sprinkled with chopped parsley. This is a most accept- 
able soup for a cold winter night. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP. 
Press one cupful of cooked spinach through a sieve, add one pint of 
hot white sauce, two cupfuls of broth and seasoning. Pour over the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, which have been beaten, with a cupful of 
cream 

SWISS POTATO SOUP. 
Wash, pare and cut in halves four small potatoes. Wash, pare and 
cut in slices one large white turnip. Parboil together ten minutes, 



14 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

drain, add half an onion cut in slices, and three cupfuls of boiling water. 
Cook until vegetables are soft; drain, reserving the water to add to the 
tables after rubbing them through a sieve. Add one quart of 
scalded milk, reheat, and bind with shortening and flour cooked to- 
gether, using four tablespoonfuls shortening and half a cupful of flour. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

TOMATO SOUP WITH STOCK. 
One quart of brown soup stock, one can of tomatoes, one-half tea- 
spoon of peppercorns, one bay leaf, three cloves, four tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one-half cup flour, one-quarter cup each of diced onion, carrot, 
celery and raw ham. Salt to taste. Cook the vegetables and ham. in 
butter, for rive minutes, then add other ingredients and cook slowly for 
one hour. When done rub through a coarse strainer and serve hot. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP— I. 
Cook a half can of tomatoes with four cloves, a slice of onion and 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped green pepper, which have been cooked 
five minutes in a tablespoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Season with salt and red pepper. Strain after cooking fifteen minutes 
and add a fourth of a teaspoonful of soda, then pour over a quart of rich 
milk, which has been thickened with four tablespoonfuls each of flour 
and butter, cooked together. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP— IE 

Boil together one pint of canned tomatoes and one quart of boiling 

n; there should be four cupfuls oi the puree. Add to this 

one tablespoonful of soda: when it foams adds one pint of sweet milk. 

- ned with - or and butter. Bring to the boiling point. At 

this time cracker crumbs may be added to thicken the soup: or. the milk 

may be thickened with one-half cupful of flour, then seasoned and added 

. tomato Serve the soup at once. 

VEGETABLE SOUP— I. 
Wash and scrape a small carrot, cut it in quarters lengthwise and 
then in thin slices. Wash and pare and cut a turnip in the same-sized 
pieces. Prepare a cupful and a half of diced potatoes and a half cupful 
ery. Peel and slice one-half onion. Mix all the vegetables except 
the p in four tablespoonfuls of hot fat. stirring con- 

stantly Add the potatoes; cover and cook two minutes, then add one 
quart of fresh '. g :er and simmer an hour. Beat with a spoon to 

make smooth, season, and serve with parsley butter on top oi 

each soup dish. 

VEGETABLE SOUP— II. 
Cool ig veg - rive minutes: A half cupful 

ns. three-- nxl - 
I A turnips -poon- 

ful of salt, and • - butter ad - 

Cover to cook with a qv -. . I lat the evaporation of the 

water > s . d with fresh so that a quart of water > serve with 

the vegetables. 

VEGETABLE PUREE SOUP. 

Melt one ounce -pping in in it 

till tender, but with e ices oi 

and a bunch n in five minutes lav in one pound of 

turnips rish 1 peeled and cut 

an and lei twelve to fifteen minutes 

gain 1 getables burn- 

■ - and seasoning. 



Soups 15, 

and let it all simmer till tender (for about one and a half hours) then 
rub it through the sieve, reheat, add a mixture of flour and milk and use 
I<or the mixture rub a little flour, say a dessertspoonful, smooth with 
some cold milk, water or stock, then add this to the soup and let it all 
cook for five minutes longer. 

BEAN CHOWDER. 
Wash two cupfuls of red Mexican beans; soak over night in two 
quarts of water. In the morning add a medium-sized onion and cook 
until the beans are tender, adding water so that they keep the two quarts 
When the beans are tender add two medium-sized potatoes cut in dice- 
one pint of strained tomatoes and a cup of cooked macaroni Boil for 
an hour. Season with salt, pepper and add diced, fried bacon, with two 
tablespoonfuls of the bacon fat. This dish is good reheated Half of 
this quantity will be sufficient for a family of six. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 
Fifty clams, one-half pound of fat salt pork, the contents of a quart 
can of tomatoes, eight medium-sized onions, seven large potatoes one- 
half cup of flour, dissolved in a cup of cold water; seasoning to 'taste 
Grind or chop the pork and fry, but do not brown it; add the chopped 
onions, then the tomatoes and put in six quarts of water. Boil slowly 
for three or four hours, add the potatoes, cut into dice, and cook a half 
hour longer. A half hour before removing from the fire stir in the flour 
and water, and ten minutes before taking from the fire put in the clams 
with their liquor. 

CANNED CORN CHOWDER. 
Cut in small bits and try out a piece of pork one and a half inches 
square; add one sliced onion and cook for five minutes, stirring often 
that the onion may not burn. Strain the fat into a stewpan. Parboil for 
five minutes in enough boiling water to cover, four cupfuls of potatoes 
cut in quarter-inch slices; drain, and add two cupfuls of boiling water 
Cook until the potatoes are soft, then add one can of corn and four cup- 
fuls of scalded milk, and heat to the boiling point. Season with salt and 
pepper, add three tablespoonfuls butter and eight common crackers 
soaked in enough milk to soften them. Remove crackers, turn chowder 
into a tureen, and put the crackers on top. 

CORN CHOWDER. 
To make the chowder, cold cooked ears of corn may be utilized 
Grate or cut from the cob enough to make a quart of corn. Cut into 
small pieces one-half pound bacon or fat salt pork and cook in a frying 
pan until brown. Just before it reaches this stage add a medium-sized 
onion minced fine to brown. Put into a stewpan a layer of diced pota- 
toes, sprinkle over some of the browned onion and bacon, then a layer 
of cut corn, with salt and pepper to season. Next add another layer of 
potatoes, more bacon, onion and corn, and so on until the material has 
been used, having corn at the top. It will require four or five potatoes 
depending upon the size. Add a cupful and three-quarters of boiling 
water, cover the pot and cook gently for thirty minutes. Make a cream 
sauce using two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour and two cup- 
tuls of hot milk. When cooked smooth and thick add to the kettle of 
chowder a few crackers broken and stirred in at the last and a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley. Serve hot 



16 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

FISH 

CONVENIENCES of transportation have made it possible for those 
who dwell inland, away from the Great Lakes or the sea, to find in 
season almost all kinds of fresh fish in any market. Fish is so 
valuable a meat that we must know how to cook it to tempt the most 
delicate appetite. Fish should replace meat in at least one dinner each 
week, and in one form or another it should occasionally enter the break- 
fast, luncheon or supper menu. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Have the oysters very cold and free from bits of shell. Put four or 
five in a cocktail glass and just before sending to the table, cover with 
the following dressing: One tablespoonful of lemon juice, five drops of 
tabasco sauce, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup, one tablespoonful of 
grated horse radish, half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and salt 
to taste. Serve with celery and thin bread and butter sandwiches. 

OYSTERS IN PEPPERS. 

Cut the top from as many peppers as there are guests to serve. Re- 
move the white membrane and fill each pepper with six fine oysters: 
cover with sauce made of one tablespoonful of tomato catsup, one tea- 
spoon each of horse-radish and made mustard, six drops of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one drop of tabasco sauce and a dash of paprika. Set each 
pepper in a wreath of shredded cabbage, well chilled and marinated with 
French dressing. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Carefully handle each oyster to remove all shells. Use only one-half 
cupful water to each pint of oysters. Make a rich white sauce of three 
tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter, cooked together until the butter 
is bubbling hot. then add one and a half cupfuls of rich milk, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a few dashes of celery salt and red pepper. Cook a 
pint of oysters in a double boiler until plump and the edges curl, drain, 
pour into the white sauce and serve hot with buttered toast or in timbale 
cases or patty shells. 

DRESDEN OYSTERS. 
Chop two dozen large oysters with a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
an unbeaten egg, one-third the bulk of bread crumbs (or sufficient bread 
crumbs to make dry enough to form into balls') a tablespoonful of 
parsley, and a little onion juice if liked. Season with salt and paprika. 
form into balls, and bake ten or fifteen minutes in a hot oven, until the 
outside is well browned. Serve with a parsley garnish. 

CURRIED OYSTERS. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter and two of finely chopped onion in 
a saucepan. Shake over the heat until the onion is lightly browned: add 
a teaspoonful of curry powder: a teaspoonful of flour and one cupful of 
stock, with i few drops of lemon juice. Put some oysters, a few at a 
time, on a hot griddle and brown on both sides. Drop them into the' 
sattce, bring to the boiling point and serve at once. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 
Wash, drain and cut oysters in two: into a saucepan put four table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of made mustard, a dash of 
cayenne, a pinch of sugar and salt, with two tablespoonfuls of butter: 
simmer together; add about a pint of oysters and cook until well curled. 
Place on a hot dish and garnish with pieces of lemon. 



Pish 17 

OYSTER AND VEAL CROQUETTES. 
Take a half pound of veal, one pint of oysters, the yolks of two eggs, 
a quarter of a cupful of cracker crumbs and a small piece of suet. Pass 
the veal, oysters and suet through the meat grinder, mix with the 
crumbs, that have been soaked with the oyster liquor and add the eggs. 
Season highly with salt, pepper and celery salt and a pinch of mace. 
Mix well together, shape in croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs and fry 
in deep fat Serve on a mound of mashed potatoes. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Cut the end off a stale loaf of bread, scoop out the inside, crumble 
this very fine. Take one quart of oysters, drain off the juice. Mix bread 
crumbs with oysters, season with salt, pepper, butter and a dash of 
paprika. Moisten with the juice of the oysters. Place this in the loaf, 
put on end and bake about twenty minutes. 

OYSTERS AND CORN BREAD. 

Fry oysters in hot fat after rolling them in corn meal, well seasoned. 
Serve with a sauce made of half a cupful of catsup and the juice of half 
a lemon, seasoned with sugar, salt and pepper. Serve hot corn bread 
with the oysters. 

BAKED OYSTERS AND MACARONI. 

Break three-fourths of a cupful of macaroni in inch pieces and cook 
in boiling salted water until tender, drain and pour over the macaroni 
a quart of cold water to keep the pieces from adhering. Wash and pick 
over a pint of oysters. Put a layer of one-half the macaroni in a buttered 
baking dish, cover with one-half the oysters, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour and dot with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cover with macaroni and another layer of oysters, then buttered crumbs. 
Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Wash and drain a quart of oysters; make a rich baking powder bis- 
cuit crust, roll out an inch in thickness, line a shallow dish and fill with 
the oysters, seasoning well with salt, pepper and a dash of mace. Put 
an inverted cup in the center of the dish and cover with another crust. 
Prick deeply with a fork and bake in a moderate oven. 
OYSTERS ROASTED IN SHELL. 

Wash and wipe the shells of large oysters and place directly over 
the blaze with the deep half shell underneath to catch the juice after the 
oysters open from the heat. Serve hot after carefully removing the top 
shell, leaving the oyster in its juice in the deeper shell. At each place 
have a tiny cup of sauce made of melted butter, lemon juice and a dash 
of Worcestershire sauce, in which the oysters are dipped before eating. 
CLAM COCKTAIL. 

When the clams are in the glass sprinkle them with minced green or 
red pepper. If they are little-neck clams add one teaspoonful of very 
fine minced cabbage, and pour over the same amount of cocktail sauce 
as for oysters, and made in the same way. 

CREAMED SHRIMP AND PEAS. 

One-half pint milk, piece of butter size of an egg. Heat in frying 
pan, add salt to taste and thicken with corn starch. Remove from the 
fire, add one can shrimp and one-half can peas. This is a suitable dish 
for supper. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 

One of the simplest ways of serving these delicacies is to dip them 
in sweet milk, roll in seasoned flour and then fry slowly until crisp in 



18 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

sweet butter or drippings. Serve on a bed of water cress garnished with 
lemon quarters. 

CODFISH BALLS— I. 

Boil together one quart of sliced raw potatoes and one pint of flaked 
fish. Mash when the potatoes are tender and add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a piece oi butter the size of an egg and one egg well 
beaten. Beat together with a spoon, drop by rounded spoonfuls into 
deep jar and fry like doughnuts or pancakes. Do not be fearful that 
the mixture is not thick enough. It should be quite moist. 

CODFISH BALLS— II. 
Take a quart bowl of codfish picked very fine, two bowls of whole, 
raw peeled potatoes sliced thick, put in plenty of cold water and boil till 
well cooked. Remove from fire and drain off water; mash with potato 
masher, add a piece of butter size of an egg, one well-beaten egg and 
three spoonfuls of cream or milk. Flour your hand, form into balls or 
cakes; put an ounce of butter or lard into frying pan when hot; put in 
balls and fry a nice brown. Do not freshen the fish before boiling with 
the potatoes. Many cooks put them in deep fat similar to doughnuts. 

FRESH FISH BALLS. 
With a silver fork pick some remnants of cooked fish and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Pass through a vegetable ricer a few hot boiled 
potatoes: to these add a little fish stock or sauce or cream, also salt, 
pepper and beat as for mashed potatoes. To the fish add just enough 
oi the hot potato to hold the fish together. Shape into balls, roll in 
crumbs and egg, then in fine crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

COD EX CASSEROLE. 
Prepare inch-thick slices of fresh cod fish, wipe dry with a soft cloth. 
Dot the bottom of the :as^erole with butter and lay in the slices of fish. 
Dust lightly with flour, salt and pepper, dot with butter and repeat as 
before. When all the fish is used pour over it half a cupful of water or 
fish stock, a third of a cupful lemon juice and a bit of the rind. Add 
finely chopped parsley and a little onion. Put on the cover and bake 
until tender. 

CODFISH OMELET. 

Allow one egg for each person. Separate yolks and whites, beating 
the latter until stiff. Heat one level tablespoonful of butter in a fryer. 
Whip the yolks with two tablespoonfuls of milk for each four eggs used, 
then mix in the whites carefully, adding a dash of pepper. Have a cupful 
of cooked flaked salt codfish. Pour the egg into the hot fryer, and as 
the bottom of the egg sets spread the fish over: then begin with a broad- 
bladed knife and turn the omelet gently from the bottom, tipping the pan 
to allow the uncooked egg to drain out and cook. 

COTTAGE PIE OF CODFISH. 
Take the leftovers of fresh codfish with the bones carefully removed, 
put in a pie dish and season with salt, pepper and paprika. Pour over 
some melted butter and cover with oysters: a pint is sufficient. Over 
these place mashed seasoned potato and bake for half an hour. 

HADDOCK A.U GRATIX. WITH SAUCE MORXAY. 

an and wash a haddock weighing about three pounds: 
do not remove the head or tail. Cook the fish in a pint of boiling water 
to which you have added a small onion, sliced: -s'.ey. 

J whole cloves, a small bay leaf, a quarter of a : vinegar. 

half a teaspoonful of salt and a few peppercorns. When the fish is done 
remove and let it cool, then Rake: strain the broth. Measure the flakes 



Fish 19 

of fish. For a pint and a half, scant measure, a pint of sauce will be 
sufficient. Prepare as follows: To a pint of fish broth allow three table- 
spoonfuls of butter and a quarter of a cupful of flour; stir the flour into 
the melted butter; add two cupfuls of the broth and season to taste with 
salt and pepper. When the sauce boils add two ounces of Parmesan 
cheese and stir rapidly until the cheese melts. Take from the fire and mix 
in three tablespoonfuls of butter chopped in bits. Have ready a quart of 
Duchess potatoes (plain mashed will do), pipe an oblong au gratin dish 
or earthen baking dish with a potato border two inches high; put in a 
layer of sauce; on this spread some fish, then sauce, and fill the dish 
up in this way, having the top layer of the sauce. The potato border of 
piping must be high enough to keep the sauce from running out. Cover 
the top with a layer of two tablespoonfuls of soft butter, grated cheese 
and a large tablespoonful of bread crumbs, and place in oven to brown. 

BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. 

Wash, scale and wipe a large fresh haddock, and remove the eyes. 
Prepare a stuffing with two ounces chopped suet, one ounce of bread 
crumbs, one teaspoonful herbs and parsley, and season with salt and 
pepper. Mix the stuffing with half an egg. Stuff the body of the fish 
with this, and sew up the opening. Pass a trussing needle, threaded with 
string, through the tail of the fish, center of body and the eyes, draw the 
fish up into the shape of a letter S, brush it over with beaten egg and 
sprinkle some bread crumbs over it and a few pieces of dripping. Bake 
in a brisk oven for about half an hour or longer, basting frequently. 
Serve with brown sauce or gravy. 

NORWEGIAN FISH PUDDING. 

Take uncooked haddock, bone, flake, put into a bowl or wooden 
mortar and pound or chop until the fiber is fine and broken; add salt and 
white pepper, a little finely grated onion and a dash of mace. Then add 
butter, fish stock and thin cream until of the consistency of thin batter. 
Steam two and a half hours in a well-buttered mold. Serve with drawn 
butter sauce. 

HADDOCK WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

One pound of flaked haddock, one tablespoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one slice of onion and one cupful of cooked and strained tomato. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings and the tomato. Add the 
haddock and cook in the sauce. 

HADDOCK WITH TOMATOES. 

Wipe the haddock and put it in a pie dish with a little milk and 
water, and cook it in the oven till tender. Skin three tomatoes, and cut 
them into slices; peel and chop finely half an onion. Cook four ounces 
of rice in salted water till tender, and drain. Skin and bone the haddock, 
and flake it. Melt an ounce of butter or dripping in a saucepan, add all 
the above ingredients, season with salt and pepper, and beat up thor- 
oughly. Serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. 

BAKED HALIBUT STEAKS WITH DRESSING. 
Take two slices of halibut, sprinkle both with salt; put one slice in 
a buttered pan and make dressing as for turkey. Spread dressing quite 
thickly on one slice of the halibut already in pan and put the other slice 
on top; cover with dots of butter and rolled cracker crumbs. Bake with 
little milk in the pan. It is better if cooked in double roaster. Bake 
as usual. 

BROILED HALIBUT. 

Slice the fish, season with salt and pepper and brush with melted 
butter and let stand for an hour. Roll in flour and broil over a clear 



20 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

fire or in a well-oiled skillet for twelve or fifteen minutes. Place on a 
dish with a garnish of parsley and quarters of lemon. 

OMELET WITH HERRING. 
Cut off the head and the tail of a nice fat smoked herring. Split 
in two through the back, remove spinal bone and skin and final/ 
into small square pieces. Place on a plate with enough milk to cover. 
After allowing -it to stand for an hour remove from the milk and drain 
pieces on a cloth. Heat one and a half teaspoonfuls of butter in a frying 
pan. add fish and fry for five minutes, tossing once in a while. Break 
eight fresh eggs into a bowl, add two tablespoonfuls of milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, three saltspoonfuls of pepper, and sharply beat with a 
fork for two minutes. Drop the eggs into pan containing the fish, mix 
with a fork for two minutes and allow to stand for half a minute. Fold 
opposite sides to meet in the center, allow to rest for a minute and 
hot. 

BAKED MACKEREL. 

Wipe two mackerels with a damp cloth, and cut off the heads and 
tails. Remove the backbones and place them backs down. Season well 
?epper and salt, cover, place in a slow oven and steam in their 
uice for half to one hour, according to the oven. Serve a 
same dish. 

BREADED SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak one salt mackerel over night in lukewarm water, or better, 
milk and water. In the morning drain, wipe dry and brush both sides 
melted butter. Roll in dried bread crumbs, slightly salted and pep- 
pered. Have ready one beaten egg or egg yolk, and dip the mackerel in 
this, then roll it again in crumbs. Pan-broil in a little hot dripping or 
lard and lay it on strips c: battered toast ".: is nice :; serve quartered 
tart applies with it. either fried or baked. 

BAKED PICKEREL EN CASSEROLE. 
Remove skin and bone from pickerel. Cut in pieces and size de- 
sired for serving. Place in a casserole. Cover with boiling water and 
vinegar — a half cupful of vinegar to one and one-half cupful of water. 
Add three slice? of onion, a ': three peppercorn- Hie teaspoonful 

seed, three slices of lemon, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of 
salt. Cover and baV e fish is tender. Remove the fish, thicken 

the broth with flour and butter cooked together and serve with lemon 

SCALLOPED FLAKED SALMON. 
Take one ?~-.all can of salmon and one cup of bread crumbs. Mix 
one egg. one cup of rr.'.h. batter salt, pepper and a little parsley. 
: ottom of bak:- _ rumbs, put the salmon in 

and pour mixture over it S crinkle top with bread crumbs. 

BAKED STUFFED SALMON 
Clean a four-pound salmon and fill • - dressing: Half 

a cupful of finely chopped apple, a capful of bread crumbs, a little 
chopped pars salt and pepper and a beaten egg. Wrap in 

paper oft 
Serve lemon and par - 

SALMON CI 
Chop finely a can of salmon, add a half cupful of bread crumbs, two 
-roonfuls of meltei tablespoonful of lemon juic; 

epper and half a cupful of rich nv.ll-:. ilix well 
and pack in oil; s, set in a pan of water and bake until firm, 

out and serve on hot individu *-ith a white sauce 



Fish . 21 

SALMON LOAF. 
One can of salmon, two eggs, one cup of cracker or bread crumbs, 
one-half cup milk. Season to taste and one tablespoonful butter. Mix 
all together and bake one-half hour, or till brown. 

SALMON HASH. 
One can salmon, flaked, one cupful rolled cracker crumbs, one cup- 
ful milk. Have two tablespoonfuls butter melted in a hot frying pan put 
in the cracker crumbs, stir; then add the flaked salmon; stir these to- 
gether, season well with pepper, salt and a dash of cayenne and then mix 
one-quarter teaspoonful of dry mustard with the oil that was on the 
salmon, and stir into the mixture. When the whole is thoroughly heated 
through and thick it is ready to serve. This makes an excellent dish to 
prepare on short notice. 

CREAMED SHRIMPS. 
Stir in a sauce pan one heaping tablespoonful of flour with enough 
milk or cream to make a paste; add one and one-half cupfuls of milk, 
the yolk of one egg well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste and one cupful chopped shrimps the last thing. Serve hot on 
toast or salted wafers. 

BROOK TROUT A LA CASCADE. 
Get good-sized trout, freshly caught, if possible. Remove the fins 
and have the fish drawn at the gills. Wash well in cold water. Cut in 
each fish several slanting gashes through the skin. Put into a baking 
pan of agate or porcelain a little bacon dripping or butter. Then lay 
in the fish and over them spread a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter whipped to a cream with a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, two or three dashes of pepper and salt to taste. 
Then mix a quarter of a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper with two 
kitchen tablespoonfuls of white wine and pour over the fish. Cover with 
heavy, buttered paraffin paper and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty-five minutes. Baste two or three times, or as often as necessary. 
Carefully remove the dish to a heated platter, strain the sauce in the 
pan into a half pint of sauce Hollandaise, beat thoroughly and pour over 
the fish, and serve. 

BROOK TROUT BAKED IN CREAM. 

Butter a baking dish, lay in the well-dressed trout and cover with a 
rich, sweet cream. Put into the oven to heat slowly, then to brown. 
Serve in the dish in which it is baked. Season late in the cooking, so 
that the cream will not curdle. 

TUNA IN PEPPERS. 

Cut six peppers in halves lengthwise, remove the seeds and soak in 
cold water. Beat four eggs until light, add a cupful of sweet milk, two 
cupfuls of tuna, a cupful of bread crumbs and seasonings. Pack into the 
peppers and sprinkle the tops with well-buttered crumbs. Bake in a hot 
oven and eat hot. 

Note. — The peppers should be soaked in cold water and parboiled 
ten minutes before they are stuffed. 

CHOP SUEY WITH FISH. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a deep frying pan and fry in it a 
pound of fresh pork and a cupful of diced celery and chopped onions. 
Cut the pork into bits, cover with a cupful of water and a can of mush- 
rooms with the liquor from them. Cook slowly for an hour, then add a 
cupful of finely chopped peanuts and a cupful of flaked tuna, season 
highly and simmer for another half hour. This is such an unusual com- 



22 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

bination that it will be enjoyed by those who are looking for a new 
gastronomic sensation. 

WHITE FISH EN CASSEROLE. 
Pound half a pound of white fish until smooth, add a slice of bread 
which has been soaked in milk. Beat together, put through a meat 
chopper, then through a sieve, add two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped meat, one tablespoonful of melted butter, salt, pepper and 
paprika to taste. Mix well. Decorate a fish mold or a casserole with 
slices of tomatoes, pour in the mixture and press it down, cover with 
buttered paper, set in a pan of boiling water and bake twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve with Dutch sauce. 

(See Sauces.) 

FISH STUFFED WITH RICE. 
One cupful of boiled rice, one cupful of bread crumbs, one cupful 
cold chopped meat. Mix and season with salt, chopped mango, onion 
and celery, one teaspoonful each. Clean a whitefish, fill with this prep- 
aration and bake as usual. Serve with tomato sauce. 

BOILED FISH. 
Drop the cleaned fish into boiling salted water with a tablespoonful 
of vinegar, a few whole black peppers and cover the kettle tightly. Do 
not cook until the fish falls from the bones, but until the end of the tail 
cracks easily when broken. Serve with drawn butter sauce. 

SAUTED FISH STEAKS. 
Cut the slices about three-quarters of an inch thick, wipe them dry 
with a cloth, sift a little flour over each slice, dust with pepper and salt 
and fry in plenty of butter until a delicate brown. Serve with brown 
drawn butter sauce. Horse-radish, whipped cream, salt and vinegar 
makes a good sauce to serve with fish. 

FISH HASH. 
Take equal parts of cold flaked fish and cold boiled potatoes, 
chopped fine. Season with salt and pepper. Put butter in a saucepan, 
and when melted add the fish and potatoes, stir until well warmed, then 
let brown underneath. Turn as an omelet. 

PICKLED FISH. 
Cut the fish up into convenient pieces, rub them well with salt, and 
let them lie for a few hours. Then put in a pan with water to cover 
them and bring to the boiling point. When boiling move the kettle 
back where they will boil slowly from three to five minutes, but not 
longer, or the bits will fall to pieces. Lift the pieces out carefully and 
pack them in a crock, putting a thin layer of sliced onions between each 
layer of fish, and while still hot pour cold spiced vinegar over to cover 
them. 



MEATS 



BEEF LOAF— I. 

Chop finely two pounds of round stcik, add the grated rind of half 
a lemon, one slightly beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a 
level teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a little chopped parsley, if liked. 
Place in the baking pan on a piece of thick buttered paper, and baste 
frequently with a cupful of hot water in which two tablespoonfuls of 
butter have been melted. Bake thirty minutes or more. This may be 
served with brown gravy or tomato sauce. 

Note. — One-half to one cupful of coarse bread crumbs may be added 



Meats 23 

to the beef, and one or more cupfuls of milk, if a larger, less expensive 
loaf is desired. 

BEEF LOAF— II. 
Take one pound of fat pork, one pound of lean beef, two eggs, one 
cup of bread crumbs, six Irish potatoes, one small teaspoonful salt and 
pepper, season with sage. Run the potatoes and meat through a col- 
ander and mould in a loaf. Spread butter on top and bake one hour. 

SWEET PEPPERS IN MEAT LOAF. 
Prepare the favorite loaf with the usual seasonings, then add washed, 
well-chopped, seeded peppers, allowing seven to an ordinary meat loaf. 
If the peppers are green the color and flavor makes a most attractive 
dish. 

ORIENTAL BEEF. 
One and one-half pounds of round beef, one-half pound fresh pork 
one onion, two green peppers, one cupful crumbs. Salt to taste. Put 
all through meat chopper. Mix thoroughly, form into loaf, place in pan, 
lay three slices of bacon on top, pour over it one can tomatoes. Bake 
in steady oven one and one-half hours. Thicken gravy and strain. 

HAMBURGER CAKES. 
Force through the meat chopper two or three pounds of raw beef 
cut from the lower part of the round, add thin slices of bacon finely 
chopped, and season with salt, pepper, and if desired, a little chopped 
onion. Shape in small flat cakes, using as little pressure as possible 
Put in a hot greased frying pan, and brown on both sides, or shape iri 
one flat steak and fry. 

HAMBURG STEAK EN CASSEROLE. 

Prepare and. season the steak with a dash of cloves and onion juice, 
with salt and pepper. Make in small cakes and brown on both sides! 
Place in a casserole with button onions, carrots and potatoes cut in 
balls; cover with stock and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. 
In broiling over coals or under gas or in pan broiling, the steak should 
be quickly seared on both sides to keep in all the juice; then the cooking 
may be prolonged until sufficiently well done to suit the taste. 
HAMBURG SPAGHETTI. 

Take a pound of chopped steak, one egg, one-quarter cupful of 
bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of grated onion, salt and paprika to taste. 
Take a can of tomatoes for the sauce, add one onion sliced, one sweet 
green pepper chopped, two sprigs of parsley chopped, one pint of water, 
one teaspoonful of salt and paprika. Cook together the butter and floury 
add to the tomatoes and seasoning and cook half an hour, put through 
a sieve into a casserole. Mix the meat with the seasonings and roll into 
balls. Brown them in a little hot butter and put them into the casserole. 
Cover and cook slowly for an hour. Cook spaghetti in salted water, 
drain and sprinkle with cheese and add to the casserole. Serve hot 
from the dish. 

BEEF AND TOMATO. 

Brown the meat in suet in a pot with one onion chopped fine; pour 
on it enough water to keep it from burning. Cook until tender. Add 
twelve tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, and simmer for an hour. This 
is an excellent way to use the less tender, less shapely cuts of beef. 
BEEF RIBBED STEAKS. 

Cut out a thick steak from between the bones, soak it in vinegar and 
oil and season with salt and pepper. Broil on each side for five minutes. 
Prepare some maitre d'hotel butter on a hot dish, lay the steaks upon 
it and glaze over the top. 



24 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

MEDFORD STEAK. 

Pound round steak with a wooden potato masher until the meat is 
thin. Cut in uniform pieces, lay on a small bit of uncooked bacon, a 
little chopped onion, season well, roll; tie and cook in a baking pan with 
a little butter for an hour. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Take a large round steak about two inches thick and pound it on 
both sides. Take five thick slices of bread, five cold boiled potatoes, one 
stalk of celery, one small onion and a little parsley. Chop all very fine. 
Add one egg and one large spoonful of butter, and season with pepper 
and salt, spread the stuffing over the steak, roll and tie; put in a roasting 
pan, add a little water, and place in a moderate oven. Baste often and 
bake until tender. Remove meat to a platter and thicken the gravy. 

PEPPER STEAK. 
Pound a round steak until well broken, cut in strips, sprinkle with 
chopped green pepper and lay on a piece of bacon, roll up and tie, and 
cook these rolls in the oven, basting with water and butter. Season 
when half cooked. Onion may be used in place of the pepper if so 
desired. Pour over a thin cream sauce and serve hot. 

SMOTHERED STEAK. 

Brown a piece of round steak in a hot pan, add a chopped onion 
and water to simmer gently for an hour on the back of the stove. 
Season well and dredge with flour when half done. A sauce may be 
made to serve with the steak by melting two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
add two of flour, and when cooked add the liquor from the steak. Pour 
around it and serve hot. 

STEAK WITH CLAMS OR OYSTERS. 

Broil a sirloin for five minutes, searing well on both sides, remove 
to a platter, butter well and cover with clams from which the tough 
muscle has been removed, or with fresh oysters. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and dot with bits of butter. Place on the top grate of a hot oven 
and cook until the shell-fish are done. 

STEAK AND OLIVES. 

Take about two pounds of rump steak, brown well in frying pan 
with a little butter, then put in a casserole with a little water and bake 
slowly three hours. Then put in enough water to make a sufficient 
gravy and add one pint of carrots cut in cubes. About half an hour 
before serving put in a small bottle of stuffed olives cut in halves. Serve 
in the casserole. The meat will not need much salt, because the olives 
are salty. 

STUFFED FLANK STEAK EN CASSEROLE. 

Lay the steak upon a board, spread over it a thin layer of bread 
dressing, roll very compactly: fasten the side and ends to inclose the 
dressing. Cut a slice of fat salt pork or bacon in bits and let cook until 
the fat is drawn out. Dredge the roll of meat with flour and rub it in 
thoroughly; then brown it in the fat, turning the roll as it browns until 
the whole surface is nicely colored. Set the meat in a casserole or an 
agate dish that can be tightly closed; put in also an onion, sliced very 
thin, half a carrot cut in thin slices and a cupful of tomato puree. Rinse 
the frying pan with a cupful of boiling water, turn this into the dish, 
cover and let cook three hours or longer, in the oven. Let the heat be 
very moderate. Have ready two tablespoonfuls flour, half a teaspoonful 
salt and one-fourth teaspoonful pepper, mixed to a smooth paste with 
cold water. Stir this into the liquid in the casserole. Let the sauce boil 



Meats 25 

two or three minutes, then strain it over the meat. Place boiled onions 
around the dish. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a round steak and spread it an inch thick with chopped bread 
and butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, sage and a little onion if liked. 
Roll the steak, tie, lay in a baking pan with thin slices of salt pork on top. 
Pour a little water around it, cover closely and bake in a moderate oven. 

SPICED ROAST BEEF. 

Take a roast from the round three inches thick, and with a sharp 
knife make incisions in the form of a Cross through the meat. Into 
this insert a slice of bacon, rub well with salt and pepper and sprinkle 
with flour. Put the roast into the pan, pour over a dressing made as 
follows: Half a cupful of vinegar into which is stirred a tablespoonful of 
sugar, a fourth of a teaspoonful of mustard, a few grains of allspice. 
Add a little water for basting, and cook slowly. This is good cold. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF. 

Put a small piece of suet into an iron pot, and when it is hot lay the 
meat in this, season with salt and pepper, and turn until browned on all 
sides. Pour over the meat a cup of hot water, cover closely and cook 
very slowly for three or four hours. When done remove the meat to a 
heated platter, add water to the pot, thicken the gravy and pour over 
the meat. 

GERMAN POT ROAST. 

Boil slowly in salted water enough to cover it, a piece of lean beef 
weighing about three pounds. In the water with the beef boil a small 
carrot, one onion, two slices of turnip and a leaf or two of cabbage until 
they are tender. Remove the vegetables and let the meat simmer until 
all the water has cooked away, allowing the meat to brown well, turning 
it frequently. Then chop half a cupful of fat salt pork finely and add to 
it a cupful of flour and milk to make a batter as for pancakes. Roll the 
roast around in the batter and return it to the kettle. Pour a little water 
in the bottom of the kettle and place in a hot oven to brown the crust 
well. Serve with a gravy made from the liquid remaining in the kettle 
when the roast is done. 

BEEF, MADRAS STYLE. 

Slice two small onions and an apple chopped in a half tablespoonful 
of curry powder, one teaspoonful of flour and the juice of half a lemon. 
Toss well together after the apple and onion are fried in a little butter. 
Add one cupful of cold roast beef gravy and one and a half pounds of 
sliced roast beef. Simmer twenty minutes and serve with rice and apple 
and pepper sauce. 

VINAIGRETTE OF BEEF. 

Cut in thin slices some left-over boiled beef and let it lie an hour in 
a marinating mixture made as follows: Thin one scant teaspoonful of 
mustard with enough oil and vinegar to soak the meat in. Use half and 
half oil and vinegar, or three times as much oil as vinegar, according to 
taste. Add salt and pepper and chopped fine herbs to taste. A little 
chopped onion may be used and the dish in which the meat is marinated 
may be rubbed with a clove of garlic. 

BEEF RAGOUT. 
Heat a tablespoonful each of drippings and butter in a hot pan, add 
a half of an onion chopped, and when yellow turn in a cup of tomatoes; 
when simmering turn in slices of cold beef, cook slowly, seasoning with 
salt and pepper. 



26 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

BEEF STEW. 
Buy a five-pound cut from the neck. After cleansing it with a damp 
cloth, cut it up in two-inch cubes, season with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Try out some of the fat in a hot frying pan and 
brown a third of the meat until the entire surface is seared. Put into the 
kettle with the rest of the meat and rinse the frying pan with boiling 
water, which is added to the stew. Add the bone, well broken, and 
cover with boiling water. Set on the back part of the range and simmer 
for three hours. The last hour, add a half cupful each of carrots and 
turnips, cut in small pieces; one-half onion, and salt and pepper to season. 
Cook four cupfuls of potatoes, cut in pieces in boiling water for five 
minutes; drain and add to the stew. Remove bone and large pieces of 
fat and skin. Add a thickening of a half cupful of flour mixed smooth 
with the broth. Steam the dumplings, if dropped with a teaspoon into 
the kettle, for ten minutes; if larger, cook fifteen minutes. 

BRAZILIAN STEW. 
Cut up a few onions, tomatoes and carrots; have ready two pounds 
of the shin of beef, cut into pieces about two inches long, and dip each 
piece into vinegar. Put the vegetables and meat, with some pepper and 
salt, into a saucepan without any water (or in a casserole in the oven), 
and let all simmer for four hours. There will be plenty of gravy and the 
meat will be very tender. Shin of beef is inexpensive. 

GOULASH. 
This is a famous dish, inexpensive and most appetizing. Cut two 
pounds of flank in small cubes and put into a flat-bottomed saucepan or 
kettle. Season well with salt and pepper and cover with a layer of sliced 
onion and potatoes until enough is used for the family, alternating the 
meat and vegetables. Cover with sufficient cold water; when it comes 
to the simmering point cover with a pint of tomatoes, cover and set back 
and simmer without stirring for two hours. 

FRIZZLED CHIPPED BEEF. 
Make a sauce of milk, butter, salt and enough flour to thicken. 
Brown in frying pan a piece of butter the size of a walnut, turn into it 
one can of chipped beef, toss over fire for two minutes; pour sauce over 
it and boil three or four minutes. 

STEAMED DRIED BEEF. 
Prepare a spiced vinegar as for fruit pickles, only less highly sea- 
soned. Cut very, very thin slices of dried beef in narrow strips, diamond 
or any fancy shape, and cut with scissors. Steam the beef in the vinegar 
for one hour. Serve hot with toasted wafers. 

BRAISED LAMB WITH BARLEY. 
Two pounds of lamb from shoulder, two cupfuls of pearl barley, one 
small Spanish onion, one cupful of tomatoes (canned), salt and pepper 
to taste. Have the butcher cut the meat into suitable pieces to serve, 
removing any unsightly edges or fat. Place a piece of suet in a deep 
skillet and as soon as hot put in the meat and let it sear quickly on all 
sides. As soon as all meat juice has been absorbed pour on enough 
water to cover, then simmer slowly for half an hour. Now stir the 
barley into the liquid, cut the onion into slices and lay on top of the 
meat, then pour the tomato over. Cover and let simmer for about two 
hours. See from time to time that the barley does not settle or the 
liquid boil off. Toward the last, season to taste. Try not to mash the 
meat and barley. When the meat is tender the barley will he soft and 
puffed. Serve on a platter with the meat in the center, surrounded by the 
barley, and pour the tomatoes and onions over with just enough of the 



Meats 27 

liquor to moisten, or if gravy is liked, the liquor may be thickened with 
a little dissolved flour. If need be a little more hot water may be added 
during the cooking. 

CREAMED LAMB WITH PEAS. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a spider. Cook two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and one-fourth of a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper in 
butter, then stir in slowly one-half cupful of cream and one-half cupful 
of water. Stir till the sauce thickens, then add one and one-half cupfuls 
of cooked lamb cut in small pieces and one cupful of green peas. Serve 
on rounds of toast, season with butter, pepper and salt on top of each 
portion. 

CURRIED LAMB— I. 

Remove the bones from two pounds of lamb from the neck, cut in 
inch squares and fry brown in butter. Take out the meat and fry two 
chopped onions, one chopped apple and a half tablespoonful of curry 
powder, three tablespoonfuls of chopped cocoanut, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, half cupful of milk and half a cupful of good stock and the pieces 
of lamb. Cook slowly for fifteen minutes, remove the fat, add salt and 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve with the sauce and boiled rice as 
a border. 

CURRIED LAMB— II. 

Put two pounds of lamb in a stewpan with sufficient water to cook it, 
having previously washed it. Let it stew slowly till the meat comes 
easily from the bones. When cool, cut it into small pieces. Fry a 
small onion in two ounces of butter to a light brown, add a tablespoonful 
of curry powder and half a spoonful of curry paste; mix all together 
with half a pint of good gravy or stock, put in the meat and let it stew 
gently half an hour. Serve boiled rice separately. 

FOREQUARTER OF LAMB. 
This is the most economical of roasts of lamb. Have the butcher 
take out the shoulder blade and stuff this pocket with bread crumbs, 
which have been browned with a little onion and butter in a frying pan. 
Roast and serve with brown gravy and currant jelly. 

LAMB LOAF. 
Put two cupfuls of left-over lamb that has been freed of skin, bones 
and bristle, through the food machine, with three green onions, two 
sprigs of parsley and half a small cucumber that has been peeled, quar- 
tered lengthwise and the seeds removed. Put in a mixing bowl, with 
two cupfuls of fine white bread crumbs, two eggs well beaten with a cup- 
ful of milk, a level teaspoonful of salt and a. few grains of pepper. Stir 
to mix thoroughly and pack into a well-oiled bread pan. Stand the pan 
in a larger one containing hot water and put it into the oven to bake for 
forty minutes. Then, if ready to serve, turn it out on a hot platter, pour 
a little Flemish sauce around it and send it to the table with the re- 
mainder of the sauce separate in a bowl. To make the sauce, put a table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour on the stove in a small saucepan and 
stir and cook a little. Add a cupful of boiling water, a teaspoonful of 
made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of freshly grated horse-radish, a tea- 
spoonful each of chopped parsley and green onion. Stir to mix thor- 
oughly until very hot and use as directed. 

LAMB SOUFFLE. 
Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one-half tablespoonful flour 
and stir until well blended; then pour on gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, one cupful of milk. Bring to the boiling point, add one-quarter 
cupful of soft stale bread crumbs, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter 



28 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

teaspoonful celery salt, few grains of pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice. Remove from the range, add one cupful finely chopped cold 
cooked lamb, yolks of two eggs, beaten until thick and lemon-colored; 
then cut and fold in the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff and dry. Turn 
into a buttered baking dish and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve with tomato sauce. Beef, veal or chicken may be used instead of 
lamb. This dish is easily prepared and a splendid way to use left-overs. 

BAKED MINCED MUTTON. 
Fry two finely minced onions, add to this any savory herds and 
finely hashed mutton seasoned well with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and 
moistened with gravy. This is put on a layer of seasoned and mashed 
potatoes and another layer is put on top of that and baked. 

MUTTON EN CASSEROLE. 

Brown in a hot frying P an > in a small amount of fat, a pound of 
mutton cut in pieces of a size to serve. Put into a casserole with finely 
shredded carrots; add water and seasonings, cover and cook in the oven 
for two hours. Add peas just before serving. 

MUTTON CURRY. 
Slice raw, lean mutton, cover with water, add two onions, a piece of 
ginger root and a few cloves; cook until tender. Strain off the gravy 
and add a tablespoonful of sugar, two of lime juice, a teaspoonful of 
curry, salt and cayenne. Then simmer for twenty minutes and serve. 

MUTTONETTES. 
Cut from a leg of mutton slices about one inch thick. On each slice 
lay a spoonful of stuffing made of bread crumbs, beaten egg, butter, 
salt, sage, pepper. Roll up slices, pinning with little skewers or wooden 
toothpicks to keep dressing in. Put a little butter and water in a baking 
pan with the muttonettes and cook in hot oven three-quarters of an hour. 
Baste often and when done thicken the gravy, pour over the meat, gar- 
nish with parsley and serve on hot platter. 

STUFFED LEG OF PORK. 

The following would be better by removing the bone from the leg 
of pork to make room for the stuffing: Make a deep incision in the meat 
and fill with dressing made as for chicken and seasoned highly with 
onion. Skewer the places together and rub the outside of the meat with 
salt, pepper and a little powdered sage. Bake very slowly and baste 
often. Strain the contents of the pan, put in a little cold water to make 
the fat rise, then skim and thicken, using a rounding tablespoonful of 
flour to one cupful of the liquid. Let the gravy cook eight minutes. 
BAKED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Split the tenderloin lengthwise and fill with a well-seasoned stuffing; 
tie and cover with thin slices of salt pork; roast in oven, allowing twenty 
minutes to the pound and basting every fifteen minutes. Make brown 
gravy and add a half teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Serve with 
creamed onion. 

BAKED SPARE RIBS. 

Anyone who likes spare ribs will find this an improvement over 
boiling them. Put spare ribs in cold water and let cook for almost an 
hour. Into a baking dish put a layer of raw sliced onions. Lay the 
spare ribs on this and finish dish with another layer of onion and the top 
layer of potatoes. Add enough hot water to half fill dish and bake one 
hour, covered the first half hour. Serve with boiled cabbage. 

PORK STEAK WITH SEASONED TOMATO SAUCE. 

Try this for a change: Roll the steaks in egg and cracker crumbs 



Meats 29 

and fry a golden brown in hot fat. While they are cooking make this 
tomato sauce: Fry a small onion, chopped fine, in one tablespoonful of 
butter; when brown, add one-half can of tomatoes and stew a few 
minutes, then put through a sieve. Heat and add one tablespoonful 
sugar, season with salt and pepper and add a pinch of soda. Thicken 
with one teaspoonful corn-starch. Arrange your meat on a platter and 
pour the sauce around the meat. 

FRESH PORK CAKE. 
Take as much fresh pork as you like, remove the bone and run the 
meat through a chopper. Season as desired and make into round balls 
or flat cakes. Put into roasting pan, cut up onions and potatoes, placing 
these in the pan also. Sprinkle with salt, add a little water and bake 
until done. 

FRESH HAM PIE. 
. Cut up some fresh ham and parboil, then add a few potatoes, two 
onions cut fine, season with pepper and salt, add a cream sauce and 
cover with a crust. Serve as chicken pie. 

PORK APPLE PIE. 
Line a baking dish with rich pie crust and put a layer of apple, then 
one of fresh all fat pork, sliced as thin as possible; repeat till plate is full 
enough, then sprinkle a little salt over top of apples, half cupful sugar, 
pinch of cinnamon or use nutmeg to taste. Cover with top crust, brush 
over with milk and bake. 

PORK LOAF. 

Have the butcher grind one and one-half pounds fresh pork, then 
add sixteen soda crackers, four eggs, one onion, one teaspoonful nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful salt, one cupful hot water; mix well; shape into a loaf, 
put into roaster and cover; bake in moderate oven about forty- five 
minutes. 

PORK SAUSAGE— I. 

Use two teaspoonfuls white pepper, one-fourth teaspoonful allspice, 
three teaspoonfuls sage, two pounds of lean fresh pork and one pound 
fat fresh pork. Pass the pork through a food chopper, add the season- 
ings and mix well. This sausage is excellent used at once. All fresh 
sausage deteriorates if it is kept more than two days. 

PORK SAUSAGE— II. 

Take five pounds of fresh, raw pork, five teaspoonfuls of salt, five 
teaspoonfuls of pepper, three and a half teaspoonfuls of sage, one tea- 
spoonful of summer savory and three-fourths of a teaspoonful of thyme. 
These herbs should be measured lightly, not as we usually level off the 
teaspoon when measuring. Place all together in a large mixing bowl 
and mix thoroughly before putting into the cases. Pack the sausage into 
the bags, leaving a two-inch lap at the top to tie with a string. When the 
sausage is wanted the cloth may be turned back and the sausage sliced 
in rings. A most attractive sausage may be put up in corn husks and tied 
up with strips of the husk, then sacked with the rest of the meat. The 
flavor of the corn adds to the savory sausage. 

AMERICAN SAUSAGE. 

Pass two pounds each of fresh pork and ham through a meat chop- 
per; chop one small onion, one green pepper, one red pepper and four 
sprays of parsley, cut fine. To the meat and vegetables add one tea- 
spoonful of powdered basil, half a teaspoonful each of curry powder and 
paprika, a teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, well beaten and one cupful of 
rich milk. Mix all the ingredients together, adding more onion and 
other seasonings if desired. Spread half a yard of cheesecloth on a meat 



30 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

board; on this lay strips of thin sliced bacon, side by side; on the bacon 
place the sausage rolled, spreading the ends with slices of bacon, then 
roll in the cloth. Tie the ends and two or three places through the 
center or sew it well. Let cook in boiling salted water (to which half a 
cupful of vinegar has been added) for three hours. Let cool under a 
weight. Serve cold, sliced thin with potato, cabbage or string bean 
salad. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Cook one pound of fresh pork until it drops from the bones. Pick 
the meat to pieces and strain the liquor, of which there should be one 
pint. Put the liquor and meat on to boil and thicken with Indian meal 
until it will harden enough when cold to cut up and fry in slices. Season 
the liquor with pepper and salt. 

BOLOGNA SAUSAGE. 
To one pint of pork, lean and fat, take two pints of beef, mix well, 
and for each pound of meat add a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful 
of pepper and a half a clove of garlic, finely chopped. Put this in casings 
and smoke for two weeks. After smoking freeze and pack in boxes, 
cover and keep in a cold place. They are better a few weeks old. 

CASSEROLE OF SAUSAGE, SPAGHETTI AND APPLE. 

Cover the bottom of a buttered baking dish with well-cooked spa- 
ghetti; over this put a layer of sausage meat, well seasoned, then a thick- 
layer of chopped apple, slightly sweetened. Cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake until the apple and sausage are cooked. A bit of onion added 
to the sausage seasoning improves the flavor of the dish. 

SAUSAGETTES AND TOMATO. 

Take three small pork sausages and dip in cold water for a few 
minutes. Now slip off the skin and form the meat into flat cakes. Fry 
in a small pan until nicely browned. Pour off the surplus fat and add 
one-half cupful of left-over tomatoes, a little chopped peppers and, if 
the mixture is too thin, a little rolled cracker meal may be added. As 
soon as hot serve on a heated plate and press small toast points around 
edge. 

BACON AND RICE. 

Boil one cupful of rice in plenty of boiling salted water until done. 
Put in a colander and wash several times in cold water or hold under 
faucet and let plenty of writer run over it. Then place in a round casse- 
role with one-fourth cupful hot water. Sprinkle the top with paprika 
and cover with very thin slices of bacon. Cover and bake thirty minutes 
in a slow oven. Uncover and brown the bacon and serve at once. 

DRY-CURED HAMS. 
For one hundred pounds of meat take four pounds of fine salt, four 
ounces of saltpeter and one pound of brown sugar; mix well, and rub the 
hams with the mixture every other day until all is absorbed. 

BAKED HAM. 

Boil over a slow fire a medium-sized ham in sufficient water to 
cover, add one tablespoonful of vinegar and skim frequently to remove 
the grease that rises to the top. When tender, take out and remove the 
rind, slash the fat on top. and stick a clove in each slash. Rub it over 
with a little maple syrup or brown sugar and bake in a slow oven forty 
minutes. 

BAKED HAM, GERMAN STYLE. 

Soak a ham over night in cold water. In the morninp remove the 
skin. Mix a tablespoonful of powdered sage, a teaspoonful of cloves, a 



Meats 31 

half teaspoonful of cinnamon and a few dashes of pepper. Rub this into 
the meat, then sprinkle with chopped onion. Make a paste of flour and 
water and spread it over the ham. Bake four hours, basting it occasion- 
ally. Remove the paste before serving. 

SPICED HAM. 
In a porcelain-lined kettle put a bag of spices, cinnamon, mace, 
cloves — a half teaspoonful of each. Into the kettle put a quart or two of. 
cider and place a well-cleaned ham which has been soaked overnight. 
Cook six or eight hours. Cool before taking it out of the cider. Re- 
member, the acid of cider will act on any metal like tin, and it should 
never be put into a tin dish. 

BARBECUED HAM. 

Lay cold fried ham in the following sauce and reheat: One table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of dry mus- 
tard, pepper and salt if needed. Lay the meat in this and let it absorb it. 

HAM AND BEAN CASSEROLE. 
Cover a two-pound slice of ham with milk and let stand for several 
hours. Put the ham in a casserole and cover with two cupfuls of kidney 
beans which have been well seasoned with mustard, sugar, salt and a bit 
of onion. Cover with the milk and bake until the beans and ham are 
tender — about three-quarters of an hour. 

HAM IN MILK. 
Take a slice of ham cut at least two inches thick. If very salt par- 
boil it and then place in a baking pan and cover with sweet milk. Bake 
for an hour or more in a slow oven. Thicken the milk with butter and 
flour and serve it with the sauce poured around it. 

HAM WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Rub a half can of tomato through a sieve. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter with the tomato into a saucepan. Add a quarter of a cupful of 
stock or milk and a teaspoonful of onion juice. Season with salt and 
pepper. Brown the ham on both sides and pour the sauce over it. 

FRIED SALT PORK— I. 

Slice salt pork in slices a little thicker than bacon, remove the rind, 
place in a skillet of cold water and add a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
soda, bring to the boiling point. Rinse with cold water, dredge with 
flour and place in an oiled skillet. Sprinkle lightly with red and black 
pepper and sift in a small amount of sage. Now sprinkle with sugar 
about as one would salt the same amount of fresh pork. Do not use too 
much. Lastly, dust with nutmeg to give a pleasant aroma, but not suffi- 
cient to taste. Fry a light brown on both sides and remove to a hot 
platter. Pour off the grease from the top, leaving about two tablespoon- 
fuls of grease in the skillet. Place a heaping tablespoonful of flour in 
the skillet and stir till it becomes a rich brown. Pour in about a pint of 
milk and bring to the boiling point. Season with salt. Serve the gravy 
and meat separately. 

FRIED SALT PORK— II. 

There is no more appetizing meat dish when well prepared than the 
following: Parboil slices of pork in boiling water, then roll in flour and 
fry until brown. In the fat which has been tried out, stir flour and cook 
until brown, then add milk and seasonings and serve with baked potatoes 
and the fried pork. 

ROAST CUTLET OF VEAL. 

Get a thick piece of veal from the upper part of the leg and have the 
bone removed. Fill the cavity with a stuffing made of one cupful of 



32 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

bread crumbs, moisten with a half cupful of water, one-third of a cupful 
of melted butter, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful 
of powdered thyme and pepper to taste. Tie into a round shape. Dredge 
with salt, pepper and flour. Put strips of pork over the top and bake. 
Add water as soon as the flour has browned and baste often. Cover 
with a paper to prevent burning and allow half an hour to each pound of 
the veal. 

VEAL WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Broil the steaks slowly over a clear fire, turning often so that they 
will not scorch. When done keep the meat hot on a platter in the oven 
while you make the following sauce: Drain the liquor from a can of 
mushrooms and cut the mushrooms in halves. Cook together a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of browned flour until they are dark brown in 
color. Pour upon them the mushroom liquor and a cupful of beef stock. 
Stir to a smooth sauce, salt and pepper and add the halved mushrooms. 
Cook for two minutes, stirring constantly, then pour over and around the 
veal steaks. 

SOUTHERN VEAL STEW. 

Peel and boil half dozen onions fifteen minutes, drain and slice thin. 
Lay two pounds of veal, sliced thin in a stewpan, season with little salt 
and pepper. Cover the veal with the onions and dot with pieces of but- 
ter rolled in flour. Finish with powdered nutmeg and grated rind of 
lemon; let simmer slowly. 

CREAMED VEAL ON TOAST. 

Save some veal from stew. Make a white sauce, using part milk and 
part stock. Cut the veal in small dice, add to sauce, season and serve 
on moist toast. 

Note. — Left-over veal may be jellied if wished. 

VEAL LOAF— I. 

Chop fine one-half pound salt pork, two pounds veal, mix thoroughly 
with two tablespoonfuls melted butter, two eggs, one cup bread crumbs, 
one cup milk, salt and pepper to taste. Add a little finely chopped onion 
if liked. Make into a loaf and bake two hours. 

VEAL LOAF.— II. 

Chop sufficient cold veal to make two cupfuls; chop ham to make a 
half cupful. Add salt, onion juice, a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of mustard. Add a quarter of a cupful of 
cracker crumbs to the same quantity of butter. When well mixed add 
to the meat with a dash of cayenne. Line a shallow bowl with the 
whites of eggs cut in strips. Moisten the seasoned meat with a thick 
white sauce, then pack it tightly in the bowl. Cover with buttered paper 
and steam for an hour. Cool, turn out and garnish with watercress or 
parsley. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE— I. 

Take one and a half pounds of cooked veal, two hard-cooked eggs, 
a little mace and cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, 
half a pound of cooked ham, one teaspoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one chopped onion, a few 
mushrooms and herbs. Cut the veal and ham into thin slices, mix the 
spices, herbs and seasoning and flour, roll each piece of meat in the 
seasoning and lay in a pudding dish, alternating with ham, eggs cut in 
slices and the mushrooms. Add a cupful of water, line the edges of the 
dish with paste and cover with a crust. When baked add a little stock 
or gravy. Serve hot or cold. 



Meats 3& 

VEAL AND HAM PIE— II. 

Cut two cupfuls of veal and one-half cupful of ham into small pieces 
and season with pepper and salt to taste. Chop finely a half cupful of 
mushrooms and some parsley, put them into a stewpan with one small 
onion chopped and a tablespoonful of butter. Fry lightly, then add a 
pint of stock and simmer five minutes. Put all together into a baking 
dish and cover with a crust. Bake and serve hot or cold. 
HEART A LA FRANCAISE. 

Fill the heart with a stuffing made as follows: Take a half cupful of 
crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped suet, a teaspoonful of 
parsley chopped, some sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, bind with a 
beaten egg. This stuffing is especially nice for veal. Fasten the heart 
with string well sewed to keep the stuffing in, rub over with fat of 
melted suet and fold in a buttered paper or put into a paper bag used 
for cooking. Roast for three and a half hours. Serve garnished with 
spinach and cooked tomatoes and serve with a brown sauce. 

LAMB'S LIVER. 

Soak the livers in cold water and wash well, then score the outside. 
Rub into the cuts a mixture of a quarter of a teaspoonful of allspice, 
cloves, black pepper and a half teaspoonful of salt. Arrange in a deep 
pan on a bed of sliced onions and carrots; cover with thin slices of salt 
pork; add a pint of boiling water or broth and strained tomato juice, 
cover closely and cook in a moderate oven three hours. 
FRIED LIVER AND BACON. 

Fry a few strips of bacon crisp, then have ready slices of liver, not 
too thin, as that makes them hard. It is nice to sprinkle with bread 
crumbs before putting into pan. Let them fry golden brown, then set 
back on stove until ready to serve. Then have ready chopped parsley 
minced with hot butter. This is a good dish for lunch served with 
baking-powder biscuits. 

LIVER HASH. 

One pint of cooked liver, chopped coarse and measured after chop- 
ping. Melt one tablespoonful, in frying pan, of butter, add one tea- 
spoonful of flour and blend well. Now add one cupful of water gradu- 
ally, while stirring, and season with salt and pepper. Stir in the liver 
and simmer for twenty minutes. Just before serving add one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. 

BAKED SWEETBREADS. 

Put two or more pounds of sweetbreads in lukewarm water for an 
hour, then boil them for another hour, drain them well and when cold 
bake them in a hot oven, basting them with the liquor which comes from 
them until they are nicely browned all over. 
SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS IN PASTRY BASKETS. 
Take one pound of fresh mushrooms, peel and use the tops only — 
the stems may be used in soup. Fry to a delicate brown in butter, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt. Have ready a pair of sweetbreads that have 
been parboiled and blanched; dice and mix with the mushrooms. Make 
baskets of good pastry, shaping over patty pans; fill them with the mix- 
ture, sprinkling a little grated cheese on top and pinching on the handle. 
Bake fifteen minutes, serve on a doily and garnish with a spray of fresh 
cress 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE— I. 

Wash a fresh beef tongue, place in a deep kettle, cover with boiling 
water, to which a teaspoonful of salt has been added. Simmer gently 
one hour. Take out, remove the skin and trim off the roots. Place in 



34 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

a casserole with one teaspoonful of butter and two cupfuls of water, add 
flavoring herbs, cover closely and cook three or four hours. An hour 
before serving add one cupful of raisins. When done place tongue and 
raisins on platter and thicken the gravy with one tablespoonful of flour. 
Serve on platter or in the casserole. This is a good fireless cooker 
recipe for summer. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE— II. 
Buy a fresh tongue and soak it over night in salt water. As it is so 
carefully covered with the tough covering, the juice is not lost. Then 
cook until tender in simmering salt water. The broth may be used for 
a most appeti/ing soup by adding rice to it. and the tongue if sliced, 
either hot or cold, is always a welcome dish. Pieces broken in slicing 
may be chopped and seasoned for sandwich filling. 

BOILED SMOKED TONGUE. 
Soak a smoked tongue over night in cold water and next morning 
put the tongue in the kettle, cover with cold water, place over the fire 
and boil thirty minutes, then place the kettle in the cooker and cover 
quickly. Six hours later take out the tongue, tree it from skin, return it 
to the kettle and let it cool in the broth. 

BREADED TONGUE. 

Cut cold boiled, fresh or corned tongue into half-inch slices. Egg 
and crumb them and cook in a small amount of hot butter. Fry an 
equal number of rounds of bread and lay a piece of tongue on each slice 
and pour around the following sauce: Add a little butter to that already 
in the pan. add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir until brown, then 
add a cupful of stock, a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of chopped pickles. 
TRIPE FRIED IN BATTER. 

Cut tripe in pieces for serving and boil twenty minutes, which makes 
it nice and tender. Beat one egg, add one-quarter cupful cold water, 
one teaspoonful salt and flour to make a batter, not too thin. Dip the 
tripe in the batter and fry until brown on both sides. If there is any 
batter left pour it into the spider and cook with the rest. Be sure to 
have plenty of fat in the spider. If you use fresh tripe add one table- 
spoonful vinegar to the batter. 

TRIPE WITH ONION SAUCE. 

Tripe is an easily digested meat and is especially good with onion 
sauce. Boil a pint of onions until tender in boiling salted water, drain 
and chop fine. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a pan, add two of 
flour, and when well blended add a pint of milk. Stir until boiling, add 
the onions, more seasoning of salt and pepper, and more butter if needed, 
pour over the tripe and serve hot. 

TRIPE WITH TOMATOES. 

rake two pounds of dressed tripe boiled: cut into strips about two 
inches long and put into a saucepan: drain off the water in which the 
tripe has been parboiled: chop a small onion fine and let all stew twenty- 
five minutes; add a little thickening and then stir in half a can of good 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper. 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE. 

Into a basin put a layer of sliced onions, one of sliced potatoes and 
a layer of chopped or sliced cold mutton or lamb (end of your last 
roast). Continue until full. Now add salt and a red pepper. Now 
cover top with potatoes cut in halves, which will roast a prettv brown. 
Sometimes I use a pork roast end the same way. only add a little s - 
to flavor. 



Meats 35 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

To two cupfuls of meat add the following sauce: Four tablespoon- 
fuls of browned flour, one cupful of meat broth or water, three teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, one bayleaf, one clove, five pep- 
percorns and a teaspoonful of salt. Turn into a baking dish and cover 
with mashed potato; sprinkle with buttered crumbs and brown in the 
oven. 

TAMALE PIE. 

Take one pound of hamburg steak or left-over meat, cut fine and 
add one level cupful of seeded raisins, one dozen stoned olives, salt, 
pepper and red pepper to taste. Stew until tender and thicken with one 
tablespoonful of cornmeal. Then stir one and one-half cupfuls of corn- 
meal into boiling water, add one tablespoonful of shortening and cook 
until the consistency of mush. Line a buttered baking dish with about 
two-thirds of this mixture, pour in the meat and cover with the remain- 
ing mixture, and bake for one-half hour. This is even better warmed 
over. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Two cupfuls chopped meat, pepper and cayenne, one-quarter cupful 
bread or cracker crumbs, one-half teaspoonful salt, celery salt, one 
beaten egg, hot water or stock to moisten. Line a buttered baking dish 
with cooked rice one-quarter inch thick. Put in the meat and cover with 
rice. Steam or bake forty-five minutes. Invert on a platter and sur- 
round with tomato sauce. 

GYPSY PIE. 

Peel and slice thin as many potatoes as will half fill a moderate- 
sized baking dish, butter the dish and put in a layer of potatoes on the 
bottom, then pieces of cooked meat or slices of lean bacon. Sprinkle in 
some herbs and onions chopped fine, and then another layer of potatoes 
until the dish is full. Dot pieces of butter on top and cover with a good 
crust. Bake three-quarters of an hour, then pour in a little rich gravy 
and cook fifteen minutes longer. 

OLD-FASHIONED BOILED DINNER. 

Boil a large piece of corned beef for an hour. Before it is done, peel 
and cut into pieces of uniform size all the different kinds of vegetables 
you have on hand — a small head of cabbage, a few beets, turnips, car- 
rots, parsnips and potatoes. Boil until tender, put the meat on a dish 
and serve the vegetables around it. 

CABBAGE ROLLS. 

Take two cupfuls of seasoned cooked meat, seasoning with onion, 
Worcestershire sauce, or any desired flavor, depending on the kind of 
meat. Moisten the meat with gravy and spread a small portion on large 
cabbage leaves, roll up and tie, place in a pan close together, cover with 
stock and cook until the cabbage is tender. Raw meat may be used, but 
longer cooking will be needed. Thicken the stock for gravy and pour 
around the rolls. Garnish with pickled chopped beets. 

LITTLE MEAT ROLLS. 

From some cooked meat remove fat and gristle and put through the 
chopper. Season well and moisten with a little good gravy. Make a 
good, rich biscuit dough, roll out thin and cut into four or five-inch 
squares, spread each piece with some of the meat mixture and roll up as 
tightly as possible. Place close together in a greased pan. brush the 
tops with milk and bake in a quick oven. Serve with a good gravy. 



36 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

SAVORY MINCED MEAT. 

Put a tablespoonful of beef drippings into a hot frying pan, add a 
tablespoonful of butter, brown in it a half of an onion finely chopped, 
then turn in any chopped meat, beef or lamb or veal. Turn with a fork 
until well seasoned and mixed, add salt and pepper, and if you have any 
gravy pour this over the meat just before taking it up. Serve with tri- 
angles of toast. 

BOSTON BROWN HASH. 

Chop any remains of steaks, roasts or stews very fine. Grease a 
deep pie dish. Put a layer of mashed potatoes in the bottom of the dish, 
then a layer of meat, then a layer of stale bread crumbs; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, a few bits of butter; moisten with a half cupful of beef 
gravy, then put another layer of potatoes. Dip a knife into milk and 
smooth the top. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. Serve hot. 

BROWN HASH. 

Chop fine cold beef or mutton, freed from fat and gristle, add an 
equal quantity of chopped potatoes, previously cooked, and sufficient 
stock or water to moisten. Heat slowly until very hot, spread over the 
top enough beef fat or butter to cover, draw away from the direct heat 
and let it cook slowly twenty minutes. Fold like an omelet and turn 
out on a hot platter. 

BURBANK SAUSAGE 

Select rather large potatoes of uniform size, cut out an opening 
through them with an apple corer after they are peeled. Put into salted 
boiling water and cook eight minutes; now drain and insert into each 
opening one of the small Deerfoot sausages, previously pricked with a 
fork. Put the potatoes into the oven and bake until tender. Serve at 
once with strips of bacon and fried onions as a luncheon dish. 

POULTRY AND GAME 

BAKED CHICKEN AND SWEET POTATOES. 
Steam the potatoes and mash with butter and salt. Fill the chicken 
with the mashed potato. Fill it to overflowing and baste well while 
roasting. Let the fowl brown well. The potato is seasoned with the 
chicken. Serve hot. 

BAKED CHICKEN TAMALE. 

One cup cooked chicken, chopped fine; one cup cornmeal, one 
tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful onion juice, three tablespoonfuls 
salad oil, one cup tomatoes, one cup pitted olives, four tablespoonfuls 
catsup and salt; cayenne pepper to taste. Scald the cornmeal with a 
cup of boiling water. Add the butter, onion juice, tomatoes, oil. chicken, 
olives, catsup, cayenne and salt. Put in a buttered dish and bake half 
an hour. 

CHICKEN COOKED IN CREAM. 

Prepare young chicken as for fricassee. Roll in flour, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Lay pieces in buttered pan close together. Cover with 
sweet, rich cream and bake until cream is nearly all cooked away and 
top of chicken is nicely browned. Chicken must be young and tender 
for this. 

CHICKEN WITH CORN. 

A most appetizing dish which may be prepared any time of the year, 
but is better with fresh corn from the cob, is the following: Scrub and 
clean a fowl in water in which a tablespoonful of soda has been dissolved. 
Cut the chicken in pieces as for frying, roll in flour, brown in a little hot 



Poultry and Game 37 

fat in a frying pan, then add enough milk to cook the chicken well, sim- 
mering or cooking slowly in a moderate oven tor two hours or till the 
chicken is tender. Season when about half cooked and add a cup of 
corn. Serve the chicken with the gravy and corn poured around it. 

OLD VIRGINIA FRIED CHICKEN. 
Cut a half pound of salt pork into small pieces and fry until grease 
is extracted. Strain. Soak a young broiler in salted water for thirty 
minutes. Dry, season with pepper and dredge with flour. Fry in the 
hot fat. Take up chicken, drain and set aside to keep hot in a covered 
dish over hot water. Pour into the gravy left in the frying pan a cup of 
rich milk; as it heats stir in one-fourth of a teaspoonful of baking soda; 
then stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled in one of flour; cook until 
thick; add a tablespoonful of minced parsley; cook for one minute and 
pour over the fried chicken. 

CHICKEN PIE. 
Cut up one chicken into neat pieces, a half pound of pork sausage 
cut in inch lengths, one dozen button mushrooms, two hard-cooked eggs, 
one-half cupful of oysters and half a cup of white stock, and season with 
pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg. Arrange the materials in a pud- 
ding dish in layers, pour on the stock and add the seasoning, and cover 
with a paste. Cook one hour in a hot oven. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 
Cut a small chicken into four parts, boil in as little water as possible 
without burning, and watch constantly. When cooked very tender take 
out the meat, but keep broth boiling. Pick the meat from the bones, 
chop it, and add butter, pepper and salt. Pour all fat or broth over the 
chopped chicken. Then press it, put plate on top with something heavy 
to hold it down. Set on ice and when very cold slice it and serve at 
breakfast or supper. 

CHICKEN WITH RICE. 
Clean, wash and cut in pieces a fat year-old hen. Rub all the pieces 
well with salt, pepper and soft butter. Pick over and wash one and one- 
fourth cupfuls of rice; mix with a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful 
each of pepper and curry powder. Lay the pieces of fowl into a kettle, 
add a tablespoonful of butter, two cupfuls of broth in which the giblets 
have been cooked an hour a cupful of sweet milk, the rice. Cook ten 
minutes, then place in the fireless cooker and cook six hours. 

CHICKEN WITH RICE AND ONIONS. 

This is a combination which is not often found in American homes, 
but is especially good. To a dozen onions, all small and even-sized, add 
a cupful of rice and a cupful of chicken meat. Put the onions into a 
baking dish with the rice. Pour over three cupfuls of chicken stock and 
a cup of chopped chicken meat. Salt and pepper and dot with butter. 
Cover, place in a moderate oven and cook for one hour; then uncover, 
add a cupful of cream and cook fifteen minutes longer. Serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

ROASTED CHICKEN WITH OLIVES. 

Heat a tablespoonful of drippings in a frying pan, add three table- 
spoonfuls each of chopped onion, celery and carrot and stir until well 
browned. Add this to a pint of bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of parsley, 
butter to moisten, salt, paprika and two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped 
olives. Clean the chicken and stuff with this dressing, and roast, basting 
with butter and water. Stone and pound to a paste two dozen large 
olives, add a half cupful of strained tomato and heat in a saucepan, cook 



38 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

until reduced to one-third. Skim off the fat, season well, add half a 
dozen stoned olives and serve with the chicken. 

RUSSIAN CHICKEN. 

The Russians have a delicious dish of stewed chicken which calls 
for a fat chicken, mushrooms, onion, cauliflower and one cupful of fresh 
or French canned peas. The chicken should be cut up as for a fricassee, 
then stewed in boiling water, to which the raw vegetables have been 
added, the onions being added whole. Cook slowly till tender. Drain 
off the gravy and thicken with flour and cream, place the chicken on a 
platter surrounded with the cooked vegetables and covered with the 
gravy. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Have a young chicken cut up for serving. Melt three tablespoonfuls 
of butter, add one small onion and carrot cut in slices, then add the 
chicken and fry until delicately browned. Add one and a half cupfuls 
of white stock a fourth of a bay leaf, add three cupfuls of diced and par- 
boiled potatoes, season, add to the meat and simmer for fifteen minutes, 
then cook slowly on the back of the stove for two hours. A few mush- 
rooms cooked in a little butter and added at the last will greatly improve 
the flavor. If no chicken stock is at hand use equal parts of milk and 
water instead. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Put a well-cleaned fowl in the kettle, cover with boiling water, add 
two onions, one teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, and boil 
twenty minutes, set the kettle in the cooker, cover quickly and let stand 
for three or four hours, or until tender. 

CHICKEN LIVERS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Cleanse six chicken livers and peel six large mushrooms, chop them 
and simmer in a cupful of stock a half hour. Prepare a batter of two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, half a cup of milk, one egg, salt and pepper, add 
the chopped livers and mushrooms, mix well and drop by spoonfuls in a 
little hot fat in a frying pan. Cook until a golden brown on both sides. 
Drain on brown paper before serving. 

POTTED CHICKEN AND BACON. 

Bake one chicken, half a cupful of butter, a bunch of herbs, a blade 
of mace, six ounces of bacon and seasoning of salt and black and red 
pepper. Roast the chicken, and while hot remove all the meat from the 
bones and chop it. Put the bones well broken into a saucepan, add three 
cupfuls of water, the herbs, mace and seasoning. Simmer gently for two 
hours. Cook the bacon, put chicken and bacon into a mortar and pound 
until smooth, add butter and a tablespoonful of the broth, press in jar 
and cover with melted butter. 

BROILED PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

Split the prairie chickens down the back and flatten them out; rub 
all over with butter and cook over a hot fire fifteen minutes. Season and 
serve. Garnish with celery tops and serve lettuce with French dressing 
with the birds. 

ROAST DUCK AND OLIVE SAUCE. 

Dress, clean and truss two ducks; place on rack in dripping pan, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and cover breast with thin slice of fat salt 
pork; bake about one hour in a hot oven. Serve hot with olive sauce: 
Melt one and one-half tablespoons butter and stir until well browned; 
add two tablespoonfuls flour, and pour on gradually one and one-half 
cupfuls brown stock; take ten pitted olives, cover with boiling water and 
cook five minutes; drain and add to sauce; season with salt and pepper. 



Poultry and Game 39 

SOUR RAGOUT OF GOOSE OR DUCK. 

Cut the left-over pieces of goose or duck into inch-long pieces. Put 
the bones and bits of meat with a carrot, a sour apple, a tomato, a tur- 
nip, a stalk of celery, all cut in small dice. Pour two cupfuls of boiling 
water over all and cook slowly two hours. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Split the birds down the back and rub all over with butter. Lay a 
broiler over a clear fire and cook the bird ten minutes, turning fre- 
quently. Serve on squares of fried bread and garnish with currant jelly. 
ROAST QUAIL. 

Tie a strip of salt pork around each bird after stuffing with buttered 
bread crumbs, browned. Put the birds into a roasting pan, cover with 
bits of butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dust with flour, cover the 
pan after adding a little boiling water and cook in a hot oven fifteen 
minutes, basting often. Serve each bird with a square of fried hominy. 
A celery salad is good served with quail. 

VENISON ROAST. 

Rub a piece of roast well with a lemon, dot with butter, season with 
salt and pepper. Chop an onion fine, also one carrot, and spread this 
over the meat. Baste often and cook four pounds three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with spiced grape jelly. 

VENISON STEAK WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Stuff a venison steak with boiled chestnuts which have been mashed 
and seasoned well, roll up, lard with salt pork, and roast. Serve with 
cauliflower or brussels sprouts. 

BARBECUED RABBIT. 

Brown piece of butter the size of an egg, add one-half teaspoonful 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. One teaspoonful Worcester sauce, 
also a little of the salted water in which rabbit was boiled. Boil the 
rabbit until tender, place in saucepan, simmer gently and baste until a 
nice brown. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

Clean rabbit and cut into pieces. Put in salted water over night. 
In the morning cover with fresh cold water and place over fire. Just 
before it reaches the boiling point add a piece of baking soda the size of 
a pea and after a few minutes drain this water off. Wash the pieces of 
rabbit again and put on with fresh water a medium-sized onion. Cut 
fine two or three sage leaves and add a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer 
until quite tender, remove the meat, roll in egg and cracker crumbs and 
fry in hot butter or drippings. Brown a large tablespoonful of flour in 
the drippings and strained stock for gravy which the rabbit was boiled in. 

RABBIT PIE. 

Clean well two or more rabbits, cut up in small pieces, put them in a 
saucepan with about two quarts of water; when it boils, skim off all scum 
that arises, then add salt and pepper, a bunch of minced parsley, one or 
two onions chopped fine and three whole cloves; cut up one-half pound 
of salt pork into dice, let all boil till tender, using care that there be 
enough water to cover the rabbits; thicken this with two tablespoons of 
browned flour and let it boil up; stir in a piece of butter as large as an 
egg, remove from the fire and let it cool. Have ready a pint of potatoes 
cut as small as dice and a rich pie crust. Line the sides of a buttered 
pudding dish with the crust, lay in the rabbit, then some of the potatoes, 
then rabbit and so on until the dish is full. Pour over the gravy, put on 
the top crust with a slit cut in the center, and bake one hour, laying 
paper over the top lest it brown too fast. 



40 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

ROAST RABBIT. 
Empty, skin and thoroughly wash the rabbit; wipe it dry, line the 
inside with sausage meat and forcemeat (the latter of bread crumbs, well 
seasoned and worked up). Sew the stuffing inside, skewer back the head 
between the shoulders, cut off the fore joints of the shoulders and legs, 
bring them close to the body and secure them by means of a skewer. 
Wrap the rabbit in buttered paper, keep it well basted, and a few min- 
utes before it is done remove the paper, flour it and let it acquire a nice 
brown color. It should be done in three-quarters of an hour. Take out 
the skewers and serve with brown gravy and red currant jelly. To bake 
the rabbit proceed in the same manner as above; in a good oven it will 
take about the same time as roasting. Most cooks garnish the rabbit 
with slices of lemon and serve with currant jelly. Sometimes the head 
is cut off before sending to the table, but this is a matter of individual 
taste. 

STUFFED RABBIT. 

Mix together a cupful of bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, two tablespoonfuls of any powdered herbs desired, four 
tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, one teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, 
one egg and salt and pepper. If there is not enough moisture, add a 
little milk. Fill the well-cleaned rabbit with this mixture, sew it up and 
boil gently for three-quarters of an hour or longer, according to its age. 
Serve with parsley and butter. 

STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls butter and add one tablespoonful chopped 
onions, three cups soft bread crumbs, chopped liver and heart, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful poultry seasoning and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful pepper. If a moist stuffing is desired add hot water to the 
above. 

TURKEY DRESSING. 

Mix toasted bread cubes with one chopped onion, one cup shelled 
pecans, two even teaspoonfuls of thyme, salt, pepper, one-half a cupful 
hot water and butter. Put in well-buttered shallow dish on stove when 
hot. Stir often until brown. Fill turkey. 

TURKEY OYSTER DRESSING. 

Prepare same as above, only leaving out pecans. After browning 
stir in one quart of oysters from which liquid has been drained. 

CELERY STUFFING. 
One quart bread crumbs, half a head of celery, two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, one tablespoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful of white 
pepper, one-quarter teaspoonful paprika and a grating of nutmeg. Rub 
the butter into the bread crumbs, then add the eggs well beaten, the 
seasonings and the celery chopped fine. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING— I. 

Shell one quart of large, sound chestnuts. Put them in hot water 
and boil until the skins are softened, then drain off the water and remove 
the skins. Replace the blanched chestnuts in water and boil until soft. 
Take out a few at a time and rub them through a sieve. They mash 
more easily when hot. Season the mashed chestnuts with one table- 
spoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful grated lemon rind and one tablespoonful chopped par- 
sley. Add one tablespoonful grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs and two well-beaten eggs. Beware of having the stuffing too 
wet. 



Eggs 41 

CHESTNUT DRESSING— II. 
Boil a quart of shelled chestnuts in salted water until tender; while 
warm mash to a paste, adding a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika 
and half the quantity of bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter and a teaspoonful of poultry dressing. Blend the ingredients thor- 
oughly and if a moist dressing is desired add a cupful of boiling milk. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING— III. 
Take a quart of chestnuts which have been blanched and cooked 
until tender, add a cupful of fresh bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, chopped parsley, pepper and milk or stock 
to moisten. 

MUSHROOM STUFFING. 

Add a small cupful of chopped mushrooms to an equal quantity of 
fine breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of finely chopped ham, a teaspoonful 
of finely chopped parsley, a few grains of powdered thyme, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of lemon rind and a small portion of onion. Mix all thor- 
oughly, then fry in boiling fat, and use as a stuffing for marrow, tomatoes 
or large onions. 

OYSTER STUFFING. 

Two cupfuls oysters, one-fourth cupful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one cupful cracker crumbs, two teaspoon- 
fuls lemon juice, one teaspoonful salt and one-half teaspoonful white 
pepper. Drain and clean the oysters. Mix the cracker crumbs with the 
butter, parsley, lemon juice, salt and pepper, then add the oysters with 
two tablespoonfuls of their liquor. 

PEANUT STUFFING. 

Crumble a small loaf of stale bread, then season highly with salt and 
paprika, add one-eighth teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs, one-half 
pint of shelled, roasted and ground peanuts, four drops of onion juice, 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and sufficient cream to moisten 
slightly. Blend well and stuff the turkey six hours before baking, if 
possible, so that the flavor of the dressing may have a chance to per- 
meate the meat 

POTATO FILLING FOR FOWL 

Chop fine the giblets of one chicken, mix one cupful of mashed 
potatoes, one tablespoonful butter, one-half cupful sweet milk, one cupful 
of bread crumbs, two eggs, and season with salt, pepper and sage. 



EGGS 



BAKED EGGS— I. 
Break in a buttered gem pan the number of eggs to be cooked; put 
upon each a few rolled cracker crumbs, a small piece of butter, and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Add a little milk or cream if desired. 
Bake in the oven until the whites are firm. 

BAKED EGGS— II. 
Butter as many muffin rings as will be needed, break into each an 
egg, salt slightly, pour over each a spoonful of cream and bake until the 
whites are set. 

EGGS BAKED IN POTATO NESTS. 
On a buttered baking sheet form small rounds of mashed potato or 
pack portions of the mashed potato in buttered muffin pans; leave a de- 
pression in each portion deep enough to hold an egg. Sprinkle the 
inside of the nests generously with chopped ham, then drop in the eggs. 



42 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

Brush the edges of potato with the beaten yolk of an egg and brown in 
the oven. The dish should be cooked long enough to brown the potato 
on the outside. It the portions are baked in muffin pans they are hard 
to remove unless the potato is brown. 

BAKED STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil some eggs hard and throw them into cold water. Then shell 
them and cut them crosswise in two. Remove the yolks and cream them 
with a wooden spoon, and to each yolk add a tablespoonful of fine bread 
crumbs soaked in milk and butter and pepper and salt to taste. Cut a 
bit of the end of each white off and stuff the whites. Stand the halves 
in a buttered baking dish, the bottom of which is thinly sprinkled with 
bread crumbs. Over all sprinkle a little bit of finely minced parsley. 
Bake five minutes. 

BOILED EGGS. 

To boil eggs, pour boiling hot water over the required number of 
eggs and set them on the back part of the stove where they will keep 
hot for ten minutes. If they are cooked in this way the whites will 
never be tough and the flavor is so much improved that the additional 
time required to "boil" the eggs is well spent. 

CURRIED EGGS. 
Slice three onions very thin and put them into saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. When they are soft put in a teaspoonful of 
curry powder, a quarter of a tablespoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and one tablespoonful of flour. When these are mixed thoroughly 
add a cupful of stock or water and stir until it boils. Place halves of 
hard-cooked eggs on a platter and pour over them the curry sauce. 

POACHED EGGS. 
Put some water in saucepan, add a pinch of salt and a little vinegar; 
let it boil very hard. Break the required number of eggs onto a plate 
one at a time and drop them into the boiling water exactly where it 
bubbles. Take eggs out with a skimmer and trim them nicely, although 
no trimming should be necessary if properly done. Place each egg on 
a piece of toast no larger than the egg (rounds are the most attractive 
shape) and serve while hot. 

POACHED EGGS AND HORSERADISH. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of meat fryings into a saucepan, add a dash 
of red pepper or mustard and break as many eggs as desired into it. 
Place on each a teaspoonful of prepared horseradish, cover closely and 
allow to set. Serve with green vegetables, such as beans, peas or 
spinach. 

SAVORY EGG. 

Separate the whites from the yolks of three eggs, beat the whites 
until stiff and fold in the well-beaten yolks, add half a cupful of grated 
cheese, a half cupful of cream, mustard, paprika and salt to taste. Mix 
well and bake in a buttered dish until firm. Serve immediately. 

PLAIN OMELETS. 

THERE are three ways of making an omelet, as follows: A foamy 
omelet can be made most quickly. For six people use four or six 
eggs. Beat the whites until stiff but not dry, with the salt, add the 
unbeaten yolks and turn the beater several times to mix thoroughly. 
Cook in a hot oiled frying pan until quite firm throughout, fold, place on 
a platter, garnish and serve. 

A second omelet may be made of flour, eggs, one-half a cupful of 
milk or water and one-half of a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs yolks 
and whites together, add the liquid and salt and cook in a hot oiled 
frying pan until firm; fold, place on a platter, garnish and serve. 



Eggs 43 

A third way to make an omelet is to prepare a sauce of two table- 
spoonfuls each of butter and flour and one cupful of milk, cooking the 
mixture until smooth and as thick as it will become. To this sauce add 
four egg yolks, salt and red and white pepper to season highly, and fold 
in the whites beaten stiff but not dry. Cook, fold, garnish and serve as 
for any other omelet. This is an economical omelet and often preferred 
to either of the other omelets. 

FANCY OMELETS. 

Fancy omelets are made with the plain omelet foundation and addi- 
tional ingredients of various kinds. These are added to the foundation 
before the whites are folded in when whites and yolks are used separately. 
A Jerusalem artichoke omelet requires for six persons the addition to 
the omelet of five tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked artichokes; a 
parsley omelet is made with the addition of two tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped parsley. Almost any meat or vegetable might be used in an 
omelet, as can many kinds of fruits, to offer variety. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

Fry two chopped onions, one sour sliced apple, one-half of a cupful 
of chopped stuffed olives in two tablespoonfuls of butter. When light 
brown add two chopped green peppers. Next add one quart of to- 
matoes. Season highly and thicken with four tablespoonfuls of flour. 
This sauce is sufficient to serve between the folds and over an eight-egg 
omelet. 

DELICIOUS OMELET. 

Stir one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour to- 
gether in a frying pan. When the mixture boils pour in a large cup of 
canned tomatoes or of fresh tomatoes cut into small bits. To this add 
a cup of mushrooms cut fine. Add next four tablespoonfuls of veal, 
tongue or chicken cut fine and mixed with a tablespoonful of chopped 
onions. Stir for five minutes. Break in a half dozen of eggs. Season 
with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Serve upon thin slices of toast. 

BOMBAY TOAST. 
Beat well four eggs, add one-half tablespoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of chopped capers, a dash of cayenne. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan and when hot stir in a tablespoonful of anchovy 
paste and the egg mixture. When it thickens take from the fire and 
spread on thin slices of buttered toast and serve at once. 

CHEESE AND EGGS. 
Put one pint of cream into a frying pan and heat to the boiling point; 
then break in carefully (so as to keep them whole) six eggs. When 
they are jellied lay them upon a platter, add to the cream in the frying 
pan, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a little salt and pepper. When 
cheese is melted, pour over the eggs and serve with toast. 

DAINTY BREAKFAST EGGS. 

Chop the whites and mash the yolks of a half dozen hard-cooked 
eggs. Make a sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour, 
cooked together, add two cupfuls of rich milk and cook until smooth, 
then add a teaspoonful of salt, a few dashes of pepper, mustard and red 
pepper, then add the chopped whites. Place pieces of hot toast on a hot 
platter, butter each piece and cover with the sauce. Sift the yolks over 
the whole and serve. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Boil eggs until hard, cut in halves and take out yolks, mash and add 
salt, pepper, vinegar, butter and a pinch of mustard, a few drops of 
tabasco sauce and enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten. When the 
seasoning is well mixed with the yolks, return the mixture to to the 



44 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

whites. Serve cold in basket luncheon, or on lettuce, with a garnish of 
cream or mayonnaise dressing. 

EGGS FOR CHILDREN. 

Beat the whites of eggs stiff, drop by spoonfuls into scalding milk 
and cook until firm. Remove, and into the milk stir the yolks, beaten 
slightly, and stir constantly to form a custard. Add a bit of salt and put 
the whites on the custard. This is a very good dish for children, served 
with wafers. If sugar is desired, it may be slightly sweetened for dessert. 

EGGS A LA CREME. 

Hard boil six eggs and slice them in thin disks. In the bottom of a 
deep baking dish spread bits of butter, then a layer of bread crumbs and 
then a layer of boiled eggs. Cover with bits of butter and sprinkle with 
pepper and salt. Continue thus to blend these ingredients until the dish 
is full or nearly so. Buttered crumbs must cover all of the eggs, and 
over the whole mixture a pint of sweet cream or milk must be poured 
before it is baked in a moderately heated oven. 

EGGS AU GRATIN. 

Butter a flat earthenware dish and sprinkle it with bread crumbs, 
and on the crumbs break eggs. Over them sprinkle grated cheese, salt, 
pepper and bits of butter, with just a little cream. Put in a hot oven 
until the eggs are set. 

EGGS AND ONIONS IN CREAM SAUCE. 

Cook four small onions in boiling water until tender, adding salt 
when they are about half cooked. Cook four eggs in boiling water, by 
covering them with the water and allow them to stand in a warm place 
tightly covered for a half hour. Turn cold water over them and remove 
the shells. Prepare a cupful of rich white sauce, using two tablespoon- 
fuls each of flour and butter and a cupful of rich milk. Season well with 
salt and paprika and put the sauce, eggs cut in quarters and the onions 
in layers, in a buttered baking dish. Just the last few minutes sprinkle 
with buttered crumbs and brown. Let the contents thoroughly heat, and 
serve hot. 

EGG PIE. 

Cut up hard-cooked eggs in a rich, white sauce, cover with mashed 
potato and bake. Brush with melted butter, season with parsley and 
serve hot. 

GERMAN EGGS. 

Cut a long French milk roll into slices and put these into a cool 
oven until crisp and brown; then arrange them in a well-buttered cas- 
serole and brush them over with warmed butter, to which has been 
added a few drops of lemon juice. Onto each piece of roll break a fresh 
egg, dust these with salt and pepper, add a few spoonfuls of cream or 
thin white sauce, and bake until the eggs are set Serve at once with 
an accompaniment of baked tomatoes. 

GOLDENROD TOAST. 

Boil the required number of eggs until hard, then put the yolks and 
whites separately through a sieve. Have ready slices of hot toast and in 
the center of each put two spoonfuls of the yolk, surrounding the edge 
with the white. Over the whole pour white sauce and serve hoL This 
is a delicious breakfast dish. 

LUNCHEON SURPRISE. 
Use cold rice to cover the bottom and sides of a bowl, leaving a nest 
in the center. Grind well the bits of cold-boiled ham, add two hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in small pieces, season well with mustard, salt and pepper 



Cheese 4J> 

and butter. Fill the center with the mixture and set in a panful of water 
and steam forty minutes. Turn from the mold and serve hot. 

A NEW EGG DISH FOR LUNCHEON. 
Poach an egg carefully in boiling water, into which a little lemon 
juice has been squeezed. With a round cutter trim the egg neatly, mask 
it with some thick, nicely flavored white sauce, which is still warm, and 
put it aside to get cold. Dust the egg lightly with flour, brush it over 
with beaten egg, cover thickly with dried bread crumbs, season with salt 
and pepper and fry it quickly (one and a half minutes should be suffi- 
cient) in a bath of boiling fat. Serve the egg on a round of buttered 
toast and garnish the plate with watercress. 

MACARONI AND EGGS. 
Break the macaroni into inch pieces and cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Place in a buttered baking dish and pour over the follow- 
ing: Three eggs, well beaten, a cupful and a half of sour cream and a 
teaspoonful of salt; pour into a well-buttered baking dish and bake a half 
hour, 

EGGS WITH PEA PUREE. 

Drop eggs on a buttered dish and put them in the oven. When they 
are just set slide them onto a puree of peas, made by putting canned or 
fresh peas through a vegetable presser and mixing them lightly with 
melted butter and heated cream. Serve hot as a luncheon dish. 

EGGS A LA SHELBURNE. 
Cut slices from the top of six tomatoes of uniform size and take out 
enough pulp to allow a raw egg to be broken inside. Cover with bits 
of butter, and with a toothpick fasten a rasher of bacon over the top of 
each tomato. Cook in very hot oven until the eggs are set (about eight 
minutes). 

EGGS ST. GERMAIN. 

Press a half cupful of cooked French peas through a sieve, mix well 
with a tablespoonful of thick hollandaise and ornament two poached 
eggs on topst cut in rounds (one egg on one round) with this sauce. 
Serve on individual plates. This makes two portions. 



CHEESE 



THERE are not a great many varieties of dishes in which cheese is 
used as a meat substitute, although cheese of various kinds may be 
used in a great many ways as accompaniments of other dishes. Sev- 
eral of the following recipes may be used as meat substitutes, and with 
the salad recipes are to be found suggestions for the use of cheese as 
substantial dishes where salads may be so used. The plain cheeses are 
fully as nutritious as fancy cheeses, and there is a great difference in cost. 

CHEESE BALLS— I. 
Rub a teaspoonful of butter into half a cupful of crumbs; add a 
fourth of a teaspoonful of mustard, one cupful of grated cheese, one egg. 
a half teaspoonful of salt and a few grains of red pepper. Shape in 
small balls and fry in hot fat. Serve with salads. 

CHEESE BALLS— II. 
Make a sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of flour, a dash of 
cayenne and two-thirds of a cupful of milk. Stir into it the slightly 
beaten yolks of two eggs and one and a half cupfuls of chopped cheese. 
As soon as it begins to soften take from the fire and turn into a shallow 
buttered pan. When cold shape, dip in crumbs, eggs and fry a golden 
brown in hot fat. 



46 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 
Allow the milk to become well soured, set the pan in a slightly hot 
oven, leaving the door open. Let it remain until the whey and curd 
separate, then pour into a cheesecloth bag and hang to drain. When 
well drained empty the curd from the bag, season with salt to taste and 
mix in some sweet cream. The cheese may be further seasoned with 
pepper, made into small balls and served with the salad course. If de- 
sired, some wet molds may be lined with the cheese and the centers of 
the molds filled with salad, nuts and celery. When cold the molds may 
be turned out on lettuce leaves and served with salad dressing. 

CHEESE CREAM TOAST. 
Take stale bread, cut in neat slices, toast lightly, cover them slightly 
with grated cheese; make a cream for ten slices out of a pint of milk and 
two tablespoonfuls of plain flour; the milk should be boiling and the 
flour mixed in a little cold water before stirring in; when the cream is 
nicely cooked, season with salt and butter; set the toast and cheese in 
the oven for three or four minutes and then pour over it the cream 
sauce. Serve at once. 

BAKED CHEESE FOR LUNCHEON. 
Line a baking dish with layers of buttered bread and slices of thin 
cheese. Pour over this two cupfuls of milk, to which has been added two 
well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt and one of cayenne pepper. Bake about 
twenty-five minutes. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Prepare a white sauce of two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper and one cupful of milk. 
About thirty minutes before time to serve add to the white sauce the 
yolks of three or four eggs, one cupful of grated cheese, a few grains of 
soda, and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff but not dry. Bake 
in an oiled baking dish about thirty minutes. Serve in place of meat at 
luncheon or as a vegetable. It may be served with a white sauce if 
wished. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Welsh rarebit is better made in a chafing dish than in any other kind 
of a dish, because it should be served the moment it is done. If a 
chafing dish is not available a double boiler may be used. Have all of 
the ingredients ready in receptacles which present an attractive appear- 
ance upon the table in sight of guests. The following ingredients are 
required: One pound of American cheese, put through a food chopper; 
one-third of a cupful of butter, three-fourths of a cupful of cream or 
milk, one beaten egg, two teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, two teaspoonfuls 
of Worcestershire sauce, one-eighth of a teaspoonful each of white and 
red pepper, toast or salted wafers. Combine with the beaten egg the 
mustard and other seasonings; melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing 
dish, turn in the prepared cheese and the milk, and when blended add 
the egg mixture; turn the flame low at this time to stop the boiling of 
the water in the hot water pan. Cook slowly, stirring constantly until 
smooth and creamy. Serve on hot buttered toast or on salted wafers. 
An attractive supper menu, in which Welsh rarebit forms the substantial 
course, might consist of grape fruit or fruit cup as a first course; Welsh 
rarebit, olives, pickles and celery as a second course, and orange ice, 
yellow sponge cake and mints as a third course, with coffee or not, as 
wished. _ 

BAKED WELSH RAREBIT. 

Cut a pound of soft, mild cheese in thin slices. Prepare two and a 
half cupfuls of bread crumbs, and add two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter. Sprinkle a layer of the buttered crumbs in a buttered baking dish, 
cover with one-third of the cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprika and 



Entrees 47 

repeat, making three layers Beat three eggs slightly, add one and a half 
cupfuls of milk, and pour over the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 
twenty-five minutes. Serve at once. 



ENTREES 



AN ENTREE is a dish served at a course dinner or luncheon be- 
tween the regular courses. Entrees are always served from the 
side and are usually prepared in individual portions. Their prep- 
aration offers great opportunity for a display of skill, and we often use 
recipes for entrees in preparing the main dish for the more simple home 
luncheon or even dinner. Many entrees may be used as vegetables, and 
many others as desserts. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 
Wash well two quarts of long or round clams, put on the fire, and 
when they commence to open extract the meats; strain the juice, and to 
two cupfuls of the juice use three eggs, one pint of clam meat and a 
pinch of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder and flour to make a 
stiff batter. Fry as you would doughnuts. If there are not two cupfuls 
of the juice use enough milk to make up the deficiency. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Select plump, good-sized oysters, drain off the juice, and to a cup 
of this juice add a cup of milk, a little salt, four well-beaten eggs, flour 
enough to make a batter like griddle cakes. Envelop an oyster in a 
spoonful of this batter, then fry in butter and lard mixed in a frying pan 
the same as we fry eggs, turning to fry brown on both sides. This is 
sufficient batter for a quart of large oysters. 

CODFISH FRITTERS. 
Take a cupful of shredded codfish which has been simmered fifteen 
minutes, cooled and drained. Beat two eggs, add half a cupful of milk, 
two-thirds of a cupful of flour or less, to make a batter that drops from 
the spoon. Add a teaspoonful of parsley, a teaspoonful of baking powder 
and pepper to season. Beat hard, add the fish and cook in deep fat. 
Serve with cucumber sauce or sliced cucumbers. 

EPICUREAN CROQUETTES. 

Soak a finnan haddie one hour, using milk and water in equal parts 
to cover, then put in oven and let stand for thirty minutes; drain and 
separate into flakes. There should be one and three-fourths cupfuls. 
Cook one tablespoonful of chopped shallot, two tablespoonfuls each of 
chopped green and red peppers in three tablespoonfuls of butter five 
minutes, add one-third of a cupful of flour and one cupful of milk. Stir 
in the finnan haddie, add one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of paprika and a few grains of pepper. Cool, shape, crumb 
and fry. 

SALMON CROQUETTES— I. 

Take one can of salmon, drain, pick over, removing bones and skin, 
and mash. Boil one Irish potato and mash. Mix the potato with the 
salmon, add one beaten egg, a teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne, the 
juice of half a lemon and a little minced parsley. Roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry brown. 

SALMON CROQUETTES— II. 

Mix a half cupful of bread crumbs with a can of salmon drained and 
minced. Season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, the juice of half a 
lemon and a tablespoonful of butter. If too dry add a little milk or 
cream. Form in any desired shape, and fry in deep fat. 



48 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

TROUT CROQUETTES. 

Mince the cold fish (left-over) as fine as possible; season with a 
little salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. To two cupfuls 
of fish allow half cupful of bread crumbs, half cupful of thick cream 
sauce. Heat over the fire until thick and smooth, flavor with a little 
nutmeg and minced parsley; turn into a large platter to cool. When 
cold and hard form into small croquettes. Dip into egg, then into bread 
crumbs, and fry to a golden brown in a frying basket in deep, hot fat. 
Drain for a moment on brown paper and serve garnished with parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

CHEESE CUTLETS. 

Melt three level tablespoonfuls butter, add two level tablespoonfuls 
corn starch mixed with one and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, then cook 
for a few minutes together. Then add gradually three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of rich milk, stir till it boils, beat for ten minutes, lift the pan often, 
then beat the mixture; return to fire and cook until perfectly done. Then 
add yolks of two eggs slightly beaten, one cake, which is one-half cupful 
of Canadian cream cheese, cut in slices, and keep hot while the cheese 
melts; add one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, dash tabasco and one-half cupful coarsely chopped American 
cheese. Mix in well, but do not let it melt. Pour mixture into deep pie 
tin, so that the cutlets may be easily shaped by cutting mixture into six 
or eight pie-shaped pieces. When cold and firm dip in beaten egg, roll 
in plenty of fine oatmeal and fry in deep hot fat. 

HAM AND POTATO CUTLETS. 
Into a pint and a half of well-seasoned mashed potatoes stir two 
eggs without beating. Spread two tablespoonfuls of this potato out 
smoothly and lay on it a slice of neatly trimmed boiled ham. Cover 
this with potato, pinch the edges well together, lay in boiling lard and 
fry to a golden brown. Scraps of any kind of meat minced and seasoned 
may be used instead of the slices of ham. 

CHEESE FRITTERS. 
Melt a fourth of a cupful of butter, add a fourth of a cupful each of 
flour and corn starch, then pour on, stirring constantly, two cupfuls of 
milk. Bring to the boiling point and let simmer three minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the yolks of two eggs, slightly beaten, one-half of a 
cupful of grated cheese, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and a few 
dashes of cayenne. Pour into a buttered pan and cool. Turn on a board 
and cut in diamond shapes. Place on a platter, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and brown in a moderate oven. 

HAM CROQUETTES. 

Brown one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour 
in a saucepan. Add one cupful of beef stock and stir until thick and 
smooth. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add ten drops of onion 
juice and one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, one cupful of boiled 
rice and one cupful of finely chopped ham. Mix and set away until cold. 
Then shape into croquettes, dip into slightly beaten egg, roll in crumbs 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with tomato or any good brown 
sauce. 

LAMB'S LIVER CROQUETTES. 

Chop together a half pound of liver and a quarter of a pound of 
bacon, both cooked. Beat two eggs lightly and add a fourth of a cupful 
of butter. Then add the meat, seasoning of herbs, parsley and salt and 
pepper and a cupful and a half of bread crumbs. The mixture should 
be just stiff enough to make a mixture which can be formed into balls. 
Divide into portions, roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat 

Note. — A similar dish is made by using raw liver and bacon, with 



Entrees 49 

the remaining ingredients the same; instead of rolling the balls in crumbs 
and frying, they are cooked fifteen minutes in boiling water. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 
Put two cupfuls of finely chopped veal in a saucepan, add two table- 
spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of butter, the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of onion juice, quarter teaspoonful of 
salt, one saltspoonful paprika and a few grains of mace. Stir the mix- 
ture over the fire until thoroughly heated, then set aside to cool. Shape 
into croquettes, dip in beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs, let stand one or 
more hours, and fry until well browned. Serve with tomato sauce. 

VEAL AND RICE CROQUETTES. 
Take three cupfuls of cold minced veal. This may be made from the 
cheapest cut you can buy. Three cupfuls of cold boiled rice, one small 
onion minced, season with pepper, salt and butter. Moisten with a little 
cream or some of the veal stock and shape, roll in beaten egg and then 
in cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat in a wire basket. 

VEAL AND OYSTER CROQUETTES. 
Mince boiled veal or cold roast, then add one-fourth as much minced 
oysters scalded in their own liquor; season with a tablespoonful lemon 
juice, a dusting of red pepper and a little onion. Mix this in a half pint 
of melted butter made thick with flour. Beat two eggs, roll the cro- 
quettes first in the egg, then in the cracker crumbs, salted and peppered. 
Have frying pan and fat hot. Fry croquettes until brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
One and three-fourths cups chopped cold chicken, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful celery salt, one teaspoonful lemon juice, one teaspoonful finely 
chopped parsley, one-half teaspoonful salt, dash of pepper, five drops of 
onion juice, one cupful thick white sauce. Mix ingredients in the order 
given. Chill the mixture. Form into desirable shapes for frying and 
carefully egg and crumb them. Test the fat with a bread cube; if it 
browns in forty seconds, put in the croquettes. 

DEVILED CHICKEN FRITTERS. 
Beat two eggs thoroughly and blend with one-half cup each of 
chicken, ham and tongue chopped fine. Add a cupful of boiled rice or 
freshly mashed potatoes. Add one cupful of flour sifted with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and a little cream. Drop by spoonfuls and 
fry in deep hot fat and serve at once. 

CARROT CROQUETTES. 
Boil four large carrots until tender; drain and rub through sieve, add 
one cupful of thick white sauce, mix well and season to taste. When 
cold, shape into croquettes and fry same as other croquettes. 

CARROT FRITTERS. 

Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon; add to them 
six eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk 
or white wine and sweeten them. Beat altogether well and fry in boiling 
lard. When of a good color take them off and squeeze on them the juice 
of an orange; stew over fine sugar. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Score the kernels lengthwise with a sharp knife, then with a dull 
edge press out enough pulp to make one cupful. Add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper, a dash of cayenne, 
one-third of a teaspoonful of salt, one scant cupful of pastry flour, mixed 
and sifted with one rounded teaspoonful of baking power, and finally fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites. Drop from a spoon in hot fat, fry until 
brown and drain on unglazed paper. 



50 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

CUCUMBER FRITTERS. 
Peel and grate a number of large cucumbers, press out all the juice 
from the pulp and measure. To each pint allow one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, three tablespoonfuls of cream, two eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste, and one-half cupful of sifted flour with a teaspoonful of baking 
powder added. Beat well and drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat. 
Drain on paper and serve hot. 

MACARONI CUTLETS. 
Four ounces of macaroni, one-half pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, two yolks of eggs. Add salt, pepper and some bread crumbs. 
Boil the macaroni in water, drain and chop in small pieces. Heat the 
milk, add the butter and flour rubbed together and stir until thick. Add 
carefully the yolks of two eggs. Take from the fire, add salt, pepper 
and macaroni and turn out to cool. Shape into cutlets or croquettes; 
roll in bread crumbs and egg; fry in hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce 
and cheese. 

POTATO POCKETS FILLED WITH MEAT. 
To two cupfuls of hot mashed potatoes add a well-beaten egg. Flour 
the board and roll out quite thin, cut in rounds, put a tablespoonful of 
minced meat on each round, pinch the edges together and fry until 
nicely browned. Garnish with parsley. 

PUMPKIN FRITTERS. 
One pint of pumpkin, boiled and sifted, one pint of milk, two eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, pinch of ginger, one teaspoonful molasses, 
flour to make a batter stiff enough to drop on griddle as for buckwheat. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Peel and boil in salted water until tender seven large sweet potatoes 
and mash while warm, season with cream, add a beaten egg and whip 
until light, and when cold mold into small croquettes and fry in deep fat. 
Garnish with parsley. 

APPLE FRITTERS— I. 

Make a batter with two well-beaten eggs, a dash of salt and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one cupful of milk, a cupful of flour sifted with 
a teaspoonful of baking powder. Add the beaten whites last; stir in two 
cupfuls of chopped apple, and drop by spoonfuls and in deep fat. Sour 
apples are best for fritters. 

CHESTNUT FRITTERS. 
Cook the nuts, peel, blanch and pound or mash fine. Add a fourth 
of a pound of butter to a pound of the nuts, two ounces or two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a beaten egg and four ounces or one cupful of flour; 
roll with the hands into little balls, dip in egg and crumbs and fry to a 
delicate brown in butter or oil. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Scald a pint of milk in a double boiler, adding an inch stick of cin- 
namon to flavor. Beat together two eggs, add a quarter of a cupful of 
cold milk, one tablespoonful of flour, two of corn starch, a half cupful of 
sugar and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Add this to the scalded 
milk, removing the cinnamon, return to the boiler and cook fifteen min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Lastly, add one teaspoonful of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of blanched and chopped almonds and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Pour into a shallow pan, and when cold cut in strips, dip in egg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve with a sweet sauce or dust with 
powdered sugar. 

GOLDEN FRITTERS. 

One pint of water, one pint of flour, six eggs, one tablespoonful of 



Vegetables 51 

butter. Let the butter boil in the water for a few minutes, then thicken 
smoothly with flour. Let it remain a short time on the fire, stirring all 
the time; then add the unbeaten eggs, one at a time. Beat the batter 
long and hard, then fry in lard. Stir the lard hard and then drop in the 
fritters by spoonfuls. These are very nice served with fruit or maple 
sirup. 

MARMALADE FRITTERS. 

Make rounds of thin bread into sandwiches, filling with marmalade. 
Prepare a batter of two eggs beaten, one-half cupful milk, one cupful 
flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful butter or oil, dash salt. 
Mix all thoroughly. Cover the sandwiches with the above mixture and 
fry in hot fat. Drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar and cinnamon, and 
serve. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Sift together a cupful of flour, a half teaspoonful of baking powder, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, add a can of pineapple, drained from its 
juice, sprinkle with sugar and let stand one hour. Dip each piece in the 
fritter batter, which should be thick enough to hold its shape when 
dropped into hot fat. If too thin add more flour. Fry in deep, hot fat, 
drain on paper and dust with powdered sugar. A sauce of the juice of 
pineapple with sugar and butter makes them still more delicious if served 
with them. 

RYE DROP FRITTERS. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar, one-half cup molasses, pinch of salt, two 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful either rye or graham flour, one teaspoonful 
soda, white flour to make a drop batter. Drop by small tablespoonfuls 
into deep hot fat. Serve with molasses or sirup. 

WALNUT CROQUETTES. 
Mix together the following ingredients, form into croquettes and fry 
as usual. Take a cup of ground or finely chopped walnut meats, a cup 
of mashed potato, a teaspoonful of salt, one egg, slightly beaten, a cup 
of soft bread crumbs and the yolks of three eggs; mix well and shape. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

NUT CUTLETS. 

Have ready a half cupful of chopped nuts, using Brazil nuts, walnuts 
and almonds; add to them a cupful of bread crumbs and a cupful of 
mashed potatoes, with a little chopped parsley and onion; beat two eggs 
and mix with the other ingredients; add salt and pepper and form into 
balls or cakes, dip in beaten eggs and crumbs and fry a golden brown. 



VEGETABLES 



THE IMPORTANCE of vegetables in the dietary cannot be over- 
stated. All vegetables are valuable for the mineral salts they supply. 
Many of them are valuable for their refreshing juices and many are 
very nutritious as well. Transportation facilities have made it possible 
for us to have in our markets greater and greater varieties of fresh vege- 
tables "in season" throughout the year. Unless the buyer makes a sys- 
tematic effort to replenish his stock of information, it is hard to keep 
informed as to the different varieties of vegetables available from season 
to season, and when they are at their best and at a reasonable price. 
The good provider cannot inform herself too well as to the cost and 
nutritive value of vegetables, how to cook them and with what other 
foods to combine them in the dietary. The good buyer will also fa- 
miliarize herself with brands of canned vegetables and with the qualities 
and costs of the different brands. She can, then, supply her family with 



52 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

those vegetable foods which give the best return in food value for the 
money expended. 

The following receipts for vegetable cookery are arranged in alpha- 
betical order. Receipts for other dishes which often serve as vegetables 
in the menu are to be found in the cheese, entree and cereal divisions. 
Certain of the salads may serve as vegetables and are likely to be not 
only wholesome but economical. 

Almost all vegetables are most wholesome cooked by boiling or 
baking and served with butter and seasoning. If more elaborate cook- 
ing processes are preferred there are to be found very few vegetables 
that cannot be creamed or scalloped or made into souffles, croquettes or 
fritters; many are delicious fried and some may be stuffed. If these 
different methods are understood, variety is more easily possible. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 
The Jerusalem artichoke is not the artichoke proper, but a plant of 
the sunflower family, which is cultivated for its tubers. They are not 
destroyed by freezing and as a shrub make a good background for 
smaller plants in the grounds. They contain starch, have a flavor pe- 
culiarly good and are well liked by those who are acquainted with them. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES A LA CREME. 
Wash and peel the vegetable and boil fifteen minutes in plenty of 
salted water, drain them and add butter, a little lemon juice and cream 
for a sauce. Serve hot. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES AU GRATIN. 
Cut boiled Jerusalem artichokes in thick slices after cooking, dip 
each in melted butter and grated brown bread crumbs, sprinkle with 
cheese and arrange in a dish; pour over a rich white sauce and bake. 

ARTICHOKES A LA LYONNAISE. 
Pare some Jerusalem artichokes and slice into cold water to prevent 
their turning dark. Boil in salted water until tender, then drain. Put 
into a saucepan with melted butter and olive oil and brown on both sides. 
Sprinkle a little salt over them. Add half a cupful of meat stock, thicken 
with a little flour and butter rubbed together, boil three minutes: squeeze 
in a little lemon juice, add a dash of pepper and a teaspoonful of finely 
minced parsley and pour the same over the artichokes. 

ASPARAGUS LOAF. 

Take two cupfuls of cooked asparagus, add two-thirds of a cupful of 

cracker crumbs to a cupful of hot cream, add a teaspoonful of butter, a 

teaspoonful of salt, a little onion juice and one egg, beaten. Fold in the 

asparagus cut in half-inch pieces and bake in a buttered dish a half hour. 

ASPARAGUS WITH PEAS 

Cut the tender portions of a bunch of asparagus in pieces half an 
inch in length; let it cook in boiling water, with salt and a tablespoonful 
of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, 
a dash of pepper and salt, and if needed, a cupful of cooked peas; add 
three tablespoonfuls of butter to the asparagus and mix with the other 
ingredients; cook until the egg thickens. Serve on toast or on a dish 
garnished with toast points. 

BEAN CAKES. 

Take left-over baked beans, mash them with spoon, add an egg, one- 
half cupful of milk and enough cracker crumbs to form into cakes. Fry 
in a little hot lard like any other small cake. 

STRING BEANS WITH CHEESE. 
Remove strings, put beans crosswise in two-inch length; there should 
be two quarts. Let stand in cold water until beans drop out Cook 



Vegetables 53 

pods until soft in boiling water, to which has been added one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda. Drain thoroughly, add one-half cupful of grated rare- 
bit cheese and one-fourth cupful of heavy cream, and season with salt 
and cayenne. Stir and turn into a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese and dot with butter. Reheat. 

STRING BEANS, A LA ROMA. 

Choose young, tender string beans, cut off the ends and remoYe the 
strings, but do not cut them, unless they are more than three inches 
long. Wash well in cold water, letting it run over them. Put them into 
a baking dish with a kitchen spoonful of good salad oil, a little minced 
onion, parsley, salt and pepper. Cover and place over the fire and cook 
slowly. As the beans dry add the strained juice from ripe tomatoes or 
a thin tomato sauce. Watch that they do not burn, as only enough to- 
mato juice should be added to keep them moist. 

TO COOK CABBAGE IN HALF AN HOUR. 

Have plenty of boiling salted water in which a teaspoonful of soda 
has been dissolved. Plunge the cabbage in. top downward; leave it un- 
covered and let it boil until tender. It will take from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. Take it out into a colander; drain well, put into a hot 
dish; add butter, salt and pepper and serve at once. 

BUTTERED CABBAGE. 

Cook finely shredded cabbage until tender, in salted water, drain and 
put it back into the saucepan, add pepper and more salt and when well 
mixed a few tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. Serve hot. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 
Shred the cabbage very fine and cook it until tender in boiling water, 
slightly salted, then drain in a colander and put it into a rich, well- 
seasoned white sauce. A few bits of finely chopped celery and a dash 
of onion improves the flavor. 

FRENCH CABBAGE. 
Select a white head, and after boiling, drain, chop fine and stir in 
melted butter, pepper and salt to taste and four tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Heat through and add two well-beaten eggs and turn the whole into a 
buttered frying pan, stir until very hot and let it brown underneath. 
Put a hot dish over the pan and reverse so that the brown underside will 
be on top when served in the dish. 

HOT SLAW. 
Shred a small head of cabbage very fine. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in the bottom of a kettle and add the cabbage with a very little 
water. Cook about thirty minutes, then put in one pint of thick sour 
cream and boil about five minutes. Add a cupful of sour vinegar, into 
which have been put two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, two beaten eggs and salt, pepper and cayenne to season highly. 
When well cooked and thickened serve. 

RED CABBAGE WITH CELERY. 
Trim one head of red cabbage and cut into quarters. Soak in cold 
water for one-half hour and slice very fine. Cut two heads of celery in 
fine slices. Just before serving add one teaspoonful chopped onion. 
Mix with French dressing and serve. 

RUSSIAN PEROK. 
Boil a small head of cabbage in salted water until tender, then cut in 
pieces; mix with diced hard-cooked egg, one for each cupful of cabbage. 
While hot add salt, pepper and enough cream to moisten the whole. 
Bake in a pie plate between two layers of rich pastry. 



54 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

SAVORY CABBAGE. 
Remove the outer leaves of cabbage and put to cook in boiling water 
for ten minutes. Drain and spread the leaves apart and place between 
them the following forcemeat: One pint of bread crumbs, moistened 
with soup stock, a half pound of sausage and one finely chopped onion, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste for the seasoning. Tie the cabbage 
firmly with tape and put into a deep baking dish Pour over it a pint of 
stock and cover closely and cook until tender. Taste from time to time 
during the cooking. Serve very hot. 

CREAMED CARROTS. 
Scrape and wash the carrots, cut in thin slices crosswise; boil in 
salted water until tender, drain off the water, cover with sweet milk, add 
salt to taste and a small piece of butter. Thicken with a spoonful of 
Hour to the consistency of good cream. 

STEWED CARROTS. 
Wash, scrape off the skin, cut into dice and leave in cold water for 
an hour. Put them into the inner vessel of a double boiler with no 
other water than that which adheres from the soaking. Cover closely 
and cook until tender. This will take longer with winter carrots than 
with those just pulled, and the dice into which they are cut should be 
smaller. When they are soft, turn into a deep dish and serve with but- 
ter, salt and pepper; or, with a white sauce made by cooking together a 
tablespoonful each of flour and butter, a half pint of milk; stir over the 
fire until the sauce is smooth and thick. Season to taste with salt and 
white pepper. 

CARROTS WITH CURRIED RICE. 

Fry one onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of stock and one teaspoonful of curry powder. Cover the pan and 
gently simmer for twenty minutes. Then throw a half cupful of rice 
into a quart of boiling water and cook until tender. Have ready diced, 
cooked carrots and brown in a little butter. When ready to serve, 
arrange the carrots on a platter and place the curried rice around them 
as a border. 

NEW CARROTS WITH PEAS. 

Scrape the carrots and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick; 
let simmer in water with half an onion until tender. At the same time 
measure twice the amount of peas. Cook together and see that most of 
the water is evaporated; combine the cooked carrots and peas, add salt, 
pepper and butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, and serve hot. 

A NEW WAY TO SERVE CARROTS. 

Scrub, scrape and wash three good-sized carrots. Chop them fine, 
put them in a kettle with a teaspoonful of sugar, one pint of boiling 
stock and a teaspoonful of chopped onion. Simmer gently until tender, 
then add half a teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of white pepper and 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Simmer one or two minutes 
longer, then add the juice of half a lemon. Pile on a round vegetable 
platter or in a shallow, open dish. Garnish with buttered toasted bread 
strips or toast triangles. Serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER IN CASES. 
Wash the cauliflower, separate the flowerets and boil in salted water. 
When done, drain and put in a cream sauce. Scoop out the inside of 
some breakfast rolls, toast them to a nice brown and fill with the creamed 
cauliflower. 

CAULIFLOWER AU PARMESAN. 

Cook the cauliflower in boiling salted water until tender and break 
it into small branches. Butter a baking dish, put in the cauliflower with 



Vegetables 55 

stems down, cover with white sauce, sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of 
grated parmesan cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
brown. 

CREAMED CELERY. 
Remove the leaves and small stalks from two heads of celery, wash 
and cut in half-inch lengths. Boil in salted water until tender. While 
the celery is boiling make a sauce of one cupful of cream or thick milk 
and one tablespoonful of butter mixed with flour. Boil the sauce until 
it is smooth and thick. When the celery is ready, drain and place it in 
a dish, pour over it the sauce and serve. 

FRIED CELERY. 
Parboil celery until soft, after cutting in three-inch pieces. Drain, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip in batter, fry in deep fat, drain on 
brown paper. Serve with tomato sauce. 

CREAMED CHESTNUTS. 
This is a delicious dish where chestnuts are reasonable in price. 
Boil until tender a cupful or two of chestnuts. Serve in well-seasoned, 
rich, white sauce. An egg may be added to the sauce to make it richer 
or cream used instead of milk. Serve as a vegetable. 

MASHED CHESTNUTS. 
These are served in place of potatoes and are seasoned as one does 
potatoes. Cook the blanched nuts in milk until very soft, then mash 
and season with salt and butter. 

CORN, CALIFORNIA STYLE. 

Mix a can of corn with a chopped green pepper and a half cupful 
of thick white sauce, well seasoned with salt. Turn into a buttered cas- 
serole and cover with strips of bacon. Bake in the oven until the bacon 
is cooked. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Take a pint of corn and simmer on the stove for ten minutes. If 
too dry add a little water. Season with a teaspoonful of salt, a few 
dashes of pepper and a teaspoonful of butter, with two tablespoonfuls of 
milk. Allow the mixture to cool, then stir in two well-beaten eggs and 
a cupful of fresh, crisp cracker crumbs. One-half teaspoonful of baking 
powder is often added to give lightness. To be sure they are crisp, dry 
them in the oven before rolling them. Put a tablespoonful of bacon fat 
in the frying pan and when smoking hot fry the oysters until brown on 
both sides. Serve at once when cooked. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Score the kernels of two dozen ears of sweet corn and press out the 
pulp. Add a cupful and a quarter of milk, three eggs well beaten, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, three tablespoonfuls of butter, half a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and a teaspoonful of salt, season well with pepper. Turn 
into a well-oiled baking dish and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 
Corn and coarse crumbs may be arranged in layers, if the bread crumbs 
are liked. 

BOILED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare and cut the cucumbers in four pieces lengthwise. Remove the 
seeds, sprinkle with salt and let stand an hour. Drain and cook in boil- 
ing water. Serve on fried bread with a hot egg sauce well seasoned with 
pepper, salt and onion juice. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. 

Pare an eggplant and cut in very thin slices. Sprinkle slices with 
salt and pile on a plate. Cover with weight to express the juice, and let 
stand one and one-half hours. Dredge with flour and saute slowly in 



&6 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

butter until crisp and brown. Eggplant is in season from September to 
February. 

EGGPLANT FLAKES. 
Boil the eggplant in hot water until tender; mash, add one beaten 
egg, seasoning, minced onion, milk and flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Form into cakes and fry on both sides. 

STUFFED EGGPLANT. 
Take two good-sized eggplants and boil until tender. Remove from 
the fire and cool. Into a wooden bowl put two good-sized onions, pep- 
pers, a few sprigs of parsley, four cloves of garlic and four or five ripe 
tomatoes; chop these fine and add two cupfuls of cracker crumbs. Mix 
thoroughly. Scoop out the inside of the eggplants, being careful not to 
break the outside; put this into a bowl, chop, add to the prepared vege- 
tables, season with salt and butter, fill the shells, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and grated cheese and bake. Serve from the shells. 

BOILED BORECOLE OR KALE. 
Use half a peck of kale. Strip the leaves from the stems, choosing 
only the crisp and curly leaves. Wash through two waters and drain. 
Boil for twenty minutes in salted water, then turn into a colander and 
let cold water run over it. Drain again and chop fine. Brown a small 
onion in a tablespoonful of butter, add the kale, and when hot and well 
seasoned serve. 

BAKED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO. 

Put macaroni in boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt and boil 
hard for thirty minutes. Drain off the water. Put in a baking dish, 
alternate layers of macaroni, tomatoes, onion sliced very thin, and grated 
cheese. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and little pieces of butter; repeat 
until dish is full, leaving a layer of cheese on top. 

NUT LOAF. 
Mix a cupful of chopped nuts with two cupfuls of bread crumbs, add 
two eggs mixed with a pint of milk. Season with salt and pepper and 
bake until firm and brown. Serve as a vegetable. 

FRIED OKRA. 
Fry together three sliced onions and some chopped pieces of fat 
bacon. Steam until tender two pints of okra, drain dry and stir in with 
the onions. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. 

DEVILED ONIONS. 
Mince six cold-boiled onions fine, make a thick sauce of one tea- 
spoonful flour, one tablespoonful butter and two-thirds of a cupful of 
milk. To this add the minced onion and finely mashed yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, one teaspoonful chopped parsley and a seasoning of 
salt and paprika. Butter scallop shells, fill with the mixture, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and brown. 

ROAST ONIONS. 

Select large onions of a uniform size: do not remove the outer peel- 
ing, but roast them slowly in a baking pan with the jackets on. When 
tender peel and lay them in a covered dish, steaming hot. Heat a large 
tablespoonful of good butter in a pan; rub into it a tablespoonful of 
flour and turn in one-half cupful of cream. Heat it hot, but do not 
scorch the butter or let it boil. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Turn this sauce over the onions and 
serve. 

ONION SOUFFLE. 

Cook the onions in boiling, salted water until soft, drain and force 
through a sieve; there should be one and one-fourth cupfuls of onion 



Yegetables 57 

pulp. Melt four tablespoonfuls of butter, add four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and pour on gradually one-third cupful of water in which the 
onions have been cooked and one-third cupful of cream; then add the 
onion pulp and bring to the boiling point. Season with salt and pepper. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs until thick and lemon-colored and add to 
flrst mixture. Cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake twenty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve at once. 

STUFFED ONIONS. 

Parboil six even-sized onions. Remove the centers and drain as 
much as possible of the moisture from the onions. Chop the centers, 
mix with bread crumbs, sage and other seasoning desired. Fill the cav- 
ities with this mixture, put a piece of butter on top of each. Bake in a 
dish, beating with stock or butter and water. Allow forty-five minutes 
for baking. 

CREAMED OYSTER PLANT (SALSIFY). 

Wash, scrape and put at once into cold acidulated water to prevent 
discoloration. Cut in inch slices, cook in boiling, salted water until soft, 
drain and add to white sauce. Oyster plant is in season from October 
to March, 

OYSTER PLANT OR SALSIFY CAKES. 

Cook oyster plant as for creamed oyster plant. Mash, season with 
butter, salt and pepper. Shape in small flat cakes, roll in flour and saute 
in butter. 

BAKED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape and cook in salted water until tender and cut in halves 
length-wise. Put in a baking dish and cover generously with butter and 
sprinkle thickly with sugar. Add half a cupful of water. Baste often 
and bake until brown. 

PARSNIP CAKES. 

Wash parsnips and cook forty-five minutes in boiling, salted water. 
Drain, plunge into cold water, when skins will be found to slip off easily. 
Mash, season with butter, salt and pepper, and shape in small, flat, round 
cakes, roll in flour and saute in butter. 

CANNED PEAS WITH ONIONS. 
Empty a can of peas, pour off water and thoroughly rinse. Cook a 
tablespoonful of finely chopped onion in a rounding tablespoonful of 
butter two minutes, add the peas, stirring until thoroughly heated; season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Cut off the small ends from young green peppers, carefully remove 
the seeds and partitions and parboil five minutes. Mix two cupfuls of 
soft bread crumbs with three-quarters cupful of thick sweet cream, one 
cupful chopped mushrooms and one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Fill the 
peppers, stand them in a baking pan and bake half an hour, basting with 
one-half cupful of water mixed with one tablespoonful butter. 

STUFFED GREEN CHILIES. 
Remove stems and seeds from six green chilies. Boil two pounds 
of meat until tender and chop fine. Add a large ripe tomato, two small 
onions, one cupful boiled rice, chopped fine; add olives, raisins, a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar and salt and pepper to 
taste. Fry the mixture in butter until all flavors are well blended, then 
stuff the peppers. Dip them in butter and fry in lard. 

BROILED GREEN PEPPERS. 
Cut young green peppers into quarters, remove the seeds and parti- 
tions, place on a greased broiler, cook over a clear fire until the edge^ 



58 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

curl, sprinkle with a dash of salt, dot with bits of butter and serve on 
cooked beef. 

CHANTILLY POTATOES. 
Mound well-seasoned, light, mashed potatoes on a platter. Have 
beaten stiff one cupful of thick cream, add a half cupful of soft cheese 
and season with salt and paprika Spread this over the top and set on 
the top grate of the oven to brown. 

POTATO DRESSING FOR BAKED FISH. 

Press hot mashed potato through a sieve, add four tablespoonfuls of 
cream and the yolks of two eggs, hard-cooked. Rub until smooth and 
press through the sieve. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
prepared mustard and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, mix and cool. Use 
with fish. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Prepare two cups of hot mashed potatoes. Add one-half cup of 
milk, two well-beaten egg yolks, two tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat well. Add beaten whites of two eggs. Pile 
lightly in buttered baking dish and bake until puffed and brown. 

POTATOES IN PATTY TINS. 
Take cold mashed potatoes and press through a colander to remove 
the lumps, adding, if desired, a little milk and butter. With each cupful 
of the potatoes mix a large tablespoonful of grated cheese. Put into 
greased patty tins, sprinkle a little cheese on top and place in the oven 
until thoroughly heated and brown on top. 

MASHED POTATO BALLS. 
Mash two cupfuls of potato very smoothly, add to them a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one egg, and salt and pepper. Beat until light. 
Form into balls the size of a walnut, roll in bread crumbs and fry a 
golden brown in deep fat. 

PARSLEY POTATO BALLS. 
Cut potatoes with a cutter into small balls, cook in boiling salted 
water, drain and shake in a dish of melted butter, with finely chopped 
parsley. Salt and a few dashes of red pepper are added, then serve as a 
garnish to a platter of poached eggs, chops or steak. 

CLUBHOUSE POTATOES. 
Cook potatoes in their jackets; peel and cut in cubes. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter to each cupful of potatoes in a hot saucepan; sprinkle 
with salt and paprika, then add thin cream to just cover the potatoes. 
Cook slowly forty-five minutes. 

DELMONICO POTATOES. 
Cut five cold potatoes into fine dice. Make a white sauce from one 
tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful flour, one cupful milk and salt 
and pepper to season. Toss the potatoes in the sauce, turn into a baking 
dish, sprinkle the top thickly with one-half cupful grated cheese and 
bake until it is a light brown. 

FRICASSEED POTATOES. 
Slice a small onion, fry brown in a saucepan with butter, paprika, 
salt and pepper. Cut raw potatoes into half-inch squares and place on 
top of the onion and pour boiling water over to cover. Cook until all 
the water is boiled away and the potatoes are mealy. Continue the cook- 
ing process until the potatoes are richly browned. 

POTATOES IN HALF-SHELL. 
To each baked potato take one tablespoonful milk or cream and one- 
half tablespoonful butter. Salt to taste. Cut potatoes in two, length- 



Vegetables 59 

wise, and remove inner portion. Add butter, salt and cream. Beat until 
light, return to the shells pyramid fashion and set in oven to brown. 

POTATOES WITH NUTS. 

Mix together one cupful of chopped nuts and two cupfuls of bread 
crumbs, and put in a greased pan. Alternate layers of cold sliced pota- 
toes and this mixture, finishing with the crumb mixture; pour over a 
cupful and a half of milk, well seasoned with salt and pepper. Bake 
slowly one hour. 

POTATO PONE. 

Grate raw potato enough to measure a quart. Pour over it three 
quarts of sweet milk to keep them from darkening. Beat two eggs, add 
two cupfuls of sugar, a cupful of butter and a little grated nutmeg. 
Grease and flour a pudding mold and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 
This is served often as a vegetable, or may be served with sweet cream 
as a dessert. This is an old favorite plantation dish. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Steam and mash a quart of sweet potatoes, add a half cupful of butter 
and half a cupful of sugar, spices to taste and a cupful of boiling water 
and the juice of a lemon. Bake in a well-buttered baking dish until 
brown on top. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS. 

Boil and slice four good-sized sweet potatoes, cooked in their skins; 
pare and slice three tart apples. In a deep buttered dish put alternate 
layers of apple and sliced potato, a little melted butter and a sprinkling 
of sugar, repeating until all the ingredients are used; four tablespoonfuls 
of butter and a half cupful of sugar will be sufficient for the dish. Over 
the top pour a cupful of cream or rich milk and bake for one hour in a 
moderate oven. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Steam in the skins or cook in boiling water until half done. Peel 
and slice a half-inch thick. Lay in the bottom of a baking dish and 
sprinkle with sugar and bits of butter. Then put in another layer and 
repeat until all are used. Cover with sugar and bits of butter, pour in a 
half cupful of water and vinegar and bake uncovered for a half hour. 
Then uncover to brown. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS, EN SUPRISE. 
Season two cupfuls of baked sweet potatoes that have been pressed 
through a colander with salt and pepper and add a beaten egg and a little 
hot cream. Form into balls and into each press a pitted prune, into 
which two walnut meats have been forced. This prune should not be 
visible. Dip the balls in crumbs and egg. Then brown the potato balls 
in deep fat, drain and serve at once. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 
Cut parboiled sweet potatoes into lengthwise slices and put them in 
a buttered pan. Cook for two minutes three-quarters of a cupful of 
water, one-half cupful brown sugar and two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Brush the potatoes with this and bake them. Baste them with the sirup 
as they cook until they are well candied. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 
Cut in thick lengthwise sections some parboiled sweet potatoes and 
plunge them in a frying basket, into deep hot fat. Brown delicately, 
drain and season with salt. 

SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES. 
Slice parboiled potatoes into a buttered baking dish and cover them 
with a well-seasoned white sauce. On top of the sauce put some melted 
butter and crumbs and bake for about twenty minutes. 



60 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

YAMS WITH ROAST BEEF. 
Lay the peeled and parboiled yams around the roast and baste them 
when the roast is basted. Bake until the yams are well browned. They 
are also good cooked with pork. 

CURRIED RICE. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, brown two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped onion, add two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, and 
cook for five minutes; add three cupfuls of cooked rice, one cupful of 
brown sauce, two teaspoonfuls of chutney, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 
one chopped tomato, stir gently until hot. Serve with hard-cooked eggs 
as a border around the base of the dish. 

CREAMED SPINACH. 
Pick over spinach and cut off the roots, and wash thoroughly. Put 
into boiling water and cook twenty-five minutes. When tender, drain 
and chop fine. Season with salt, pepper and plenty of butter, and add 
one-half cup of cream. Serve hot. 

SPINACH WITH EGGS. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; when bubbling blend in one table- 
spoonful of flour, then add one quart of finely chopped cooked spinach 
and cook and stir five minutes. Add half cupful of cream, season with 
pepper and salt; cook and stir three minutes longer and arrange in a 
mound on a heated dish. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and 
serve at once. 

SPINACH (FRENCH STYLE). 

Pick over and wash one peck spinach and cook in boiling salted 
water twenty-five minutes. Drain and chop fine. Reheat in a hot pan 
with four tablespoonfuls butter to which have been added three table- 
spoonfuls of flour and two-thirds of a cupful of chicken stock. Season 
with one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, salt, pepper and a few gratings 
each of nutmeg and lemon rind. 

MOULDED SPINACH. 

Pick over and wash one peck spinach. Cook in an uncovered vessel 
with a large quantity of boiling, salted water, to which have been added 
two-thirds teaspoonful of soda and one teaspoonful sugar. Drain very 
thoroughly and finely chop. Season with one-third cupful of butter and 
three-fourths teaspoonful salt, and reheat. Press into a buttered border 
mold, and keep in a warm place until serving time. Remove to hot 
platter and fill center with seasoned, small boiled beets. Surround with 
four hard-boiled eggs, cut in sixths lengthwise. Serve with oil and 
vinegar if wished. 

SOUBRICS OF SPINACH. 

Wash, boil and drain two quarts of spinach; then chop. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese and two egg yolks, slightly 
beaten, and season with one-half teaspoonful of salt and a few grains 
each of cayenne and nutmeg. Cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the range and stir in the unbeaten white of one egg. 
Measure by rounding tablespoonfuls, saute in butter, arrange on hot 
serving dish and serve. 

TO MAKE SUCCOTASH IN WINTER. 
Take small white beans, soak them twelve hours and then put them 
on to boil. When half done add the corn and let them boil until soft, 
when add butter, salt and pepper. 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 
Cut green tomatoes in thick slices without peeling, sprinkle with 
pepper and dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs and fry in hot butter until 
a delicate brown. Serve hot. 



Vegetables 61 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 
Peel and cut in thick slices eight firm tomatoes. Put a layer of 
them in a deep baking dish, dot with butter or sprinkle with olive oil; 
add a little grated cheese and a bit of chopped onion. Repeat the layers 
until the tomatoes are all used. Cover with buttered bread crumbs and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Nuts may be used with the layers of 
tomatoes. 

STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut a slice off the stem end of the desired number of tomatoes. 
Scoop out center and mix with rolled cracker crumbs, pepper, salt and a 
little butter and some rice and chopped green pepper. Put back in the 
shells, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake. 

A NEW WAY OF COOKING TURNIPS. 
Wash the turnips, pare and cut into cubes; there should be three cup- 
fuls. Put into boiling water and boil until partly done, then drain and 
put in a casserole with one and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of sugar, one-quarter cupful of butter and one-third cupful 
of water. Cover and cook in moderate oven until turnips are soft. 

SCALLOPED TURNIPS AND CHEESE. 

Take five or six white turnips, according to the number to be served. 
Parboil the turnips until tender, drain, cut in cubes and put in a buttered 
baking dish, in which a layer of buttered crumbs has been placed. Cover 
with a white sauce and sprinkle with bread crumbs and grated cheese, 
then brown in the oven. 

FRIED TURNIP. 

Peel white turnips, cut them into cubes about one-half inch square; 
let them stand in cold water one-half hour, then boil in salted water until 
tender. Drain and fry in butter until a golden brown on both sides. 

HOW TO UTILIZE TURNIP CUPS. 

As a little variety in serving vegetables try small peas or lima beans 
packed in turnip cups set in cream sauce. Peel and scoop out turnips, 
and after boiling the shells until transparent they are ready to fill. 
Remember in cooking fresh peas to put them in a pan of cold water for 
half an hour after shelling. Boil them in salted water (not too much 
water) and cook until tender. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Take one cupful of pearl barley, one small cabbage, two carrots, two 
onions, one turnip, parsley and herbs, piece of butter, pepper and salt. 
Put three quarts of water in a saucepan and add all the vegetables and 
cook for two and one-half hours. 

VEGETABLE COMPOTE. 

Chop vegetables left from a boiled dinner, such as cabbage, parsnips 
or potatoes. Sprinkle with pepper. Then place a frying pan over the 
fire with a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut in it and when butter 
begins to melt tip the pan in order to oil the bottom. Add the vege- 
tables and one or two spoonfuls of hot water which has been boiled. 
Cover quickly to keep in the steam. When heated thoroughly take off 
cover, stirring contents occasionally until well cooked. Serve hot. 
VEGETABLE HASH. 

Put through the meat chopper sufficient cold boiled potatoes and 
uncooked seeded peppers to make three-fourths of a pint each. Add a 
fourth of a pint of chopped onions and the pepper juice, mix and season 
with salt. Place a generous tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan and 
when sizzling hot add the vegetables and two tablespoonfuls of milk or 
stock. Cook carefully on one side, then when brown turn over like an 
omelet and serve. 



62 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

UNSWEETENED SAUCES AND 
GRAVIES 

AN UNDERSTANDING of how to make sauces and gravies is im- 
portant, because they are very popular, and because they are widely 
used to garnish dishes and as accompaniments of dishes to make 
them more palatable; again, many sauces are quite nutritious. The receipt 
for white sauce has been placed first in the following division, because it is 
possible to make a large variety of sauces with this as a foundation, and 
because when the making of a good white sauce is mastered most other 
sauces become easy to make. The perfect seasoning of sauces is exceed- 
ingly important, and if sauces do not fall short in this they cannot fail to 
be good and acceptable. A well-seasoned sauce will make the utiliza- 
tion of many "left-over" dishes possible; so for all these reasons let us 
study the theory of sauce-making and add to the small collection we 
have in this division. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, one cupful milk 
(hot), one-fourth teaspoonful salt, sprinkle pepper. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, add the flour and seasoning and blend carefully with it. When 
this mixture bubbles up add the hot milk and stir constantly until it 
thickens. Boil three minutes. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Put a slice of bread half an inch thick in two cupfuls of water. 
Chop an onion and add, and boil the mixture. Season with pepper. 
Rub through a fine sieve and put in a small saucepan. Add salt, a table- 
spoonful of butter and a few tablespoonfuls of cream. Bring to the boil- 
ing point once and serve hot. 

BROWNED FLOUR FOR GRAVY. 

Keep a quantity of browned flour on hand for making gravy; you 
will find it saves a great deal of time. Put several spoonfuls evenly on 
the bottom of a baking pan and stir it over a moderate fire until it 
becomes an amber brown. Turn it into a bottle and keep for use. 

GRAVY FOR BEEF OR MUTTON. 

One-half cupful walnut catsup, one small cupful tomato catsup, one 
small cupful sherry (may be omitted), one tablespoonful butter, rubbed 
smooth with flour; one small onion chopped very fine, one teaspoonful 
currant jelly. Salt and pepper. When thoroughly mixed lay slices of 
the meat in a dish, pour the gravy over, then set dish in the oven until 
all is well heated through. Serve. 

DUTCH SAUCE. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a small saucepan, stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour; when well blended add gradually a cup of milk; boil 
three minutes, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, a dash of salt and the yolks of two eggs; stir until it thickens, 
but do not boil. Serve hot. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Cook the giblets until tender, and when cool chop them. Add a 
cupful of the liquor in which they were cooked, a teaspoonful of kitchen 
bouquet, salt and pepper. Add the gravy from the turkey and thicken 
with flour. Cook until smooth and serve unstrained. 
HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Horseradish mixed with vinegar and sweet cream, salt and a little 
mustard, makes a nice sauce to serve with steak or fish. 



Salads 63 

BOILED HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Melt a third of a cup of butter in a saucepan and stir a half cup of 
flour in it. When this is hot pour in a pint of boiling milk and stir 
until it forms a smooth sauce. Boil for twenty minutes. Season with a 
pinch of cayenne, a half teaspoonful of salt, and strain. Add two stalks 
of grated horseradish. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Add three tablespoonfuls of finely chopped mint to two of powdered 
sugar, then add a tablespoonful of boiling hot vinegar and let stand an 
hour before serving. The addition of a few drops of olive oil before 
serving may be desirable. 

BOTTLED MINT SAUCE. 

Make mint sauce in summer according to the favorite recipe, when 
there is plenty of fresh mint to be had. Bottle and seal and you will 
have delicious mint sauce all winter without the trouble of making it. 

FRESH MINT SAUCE. 

Chop a handful of sprigs of mint with a sharp knife until well 
bruised and fine, add two tablespoonfuls each of sugar and of boiling 
water; let stand for a few minutes to steep, then add hot vinegar — only 
a quarter of a cup if quite strong; if the vinegar is not very strong, the 
water may be omitted and the hot vinegar used to steep the mint in. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

To make mushroom sauce add half can of quartered mushrooms to 
one cup of brown sauce and simmer gently for four or five minutes. 

SWEET PEPPER GRAVY. 

Allow a cupful of chopped pepper to each pint of gravy. Add this 
with the juice to the pan of gravy before the meat is done. Let them 
cook until the meat is removed, then make the gravy in the usual way, 
serving the peppers without putting them through sieve. 



SALADS 



SALADS are dishes made of many uncooked plants, fruits, cheese, 
eggs and nuts or of cooked vegetables and meats, used singly or 
appropriately combined, seasoned and dressed. Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, French dressing, cream dressing and cream offer a choice of dress- 
ings to use. Salads may be served as the substantial course at various 
simple meals, or as a subordinate course at more elaborate meals. All 
salads are cooling and refreshing. They supply mineral substances and 
acids, and many of them are exceedingly nutritious. A practical value 
of salads is that they offer excellent opportunities for utilizing "left- 
over" foods. In making salads if the following directions are observed 
they cannot fail to be good. Salad materials should be cold and of 
uniform and small size. The various ingredients should not be mixed 
until just before the salad is to be served. 

Lettuce should always be very carefully cleaned several hours before 
it is wanted and then wrapped in a wet cloth and put directly on ice 
until it is wanted. 

In mixing a plain lettuce or other green salad it is well to put the 
oil on first and then carefully toss the leaves about until all are covered 
in every part, with a thin coating of the oil. Then add the other ingredi- 



64 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

ents and toss again. A small quantity of oil is sufficient when this 
method of thorough mixing is observed. 

Salads of all kinds should be gently handled; that is, they should not 
be heavily turned, but mixed in a very large bowl, by running the fork 
and spoon down the sides of the dish and then gently tossing the salad 
with an upward movement, letting it mix as it falls back. 

The various accompaniments of a salad add much to its attractive- 
ness. One thing full of possibilities is the wafer. This should always 
be crisp; if they are damp they can be crisped in the oven. Small wafers 
flavored with cheese are delicious with salad. So are thin salt wafers 
dotted with butter and sprinkled with pepper and browned in the oven. 
These should be served hot. 

The following are some herbs that are very easy to grow and which 
are fragrant additions to our salad bowl: Basil is an aromatic plant not 
unlike sage, but much more elusive and delicate in flavor. Sweet mar- 
joram is also less coarse than sage and its use should not be limited to 
Thanksgiving turkey. Chervil and chives are two other pot herbs, the 
first delicately fragrant and the second of the onion family, with a pro- 
nounced onion taste. A little clump of either may easily be grown in a 
windowbox and offer a perennial sprig for our salads. Summer savory 
is another herb which should be better known, and coriander is a little 
plant whose seeds are particularly agreeable when added to beets and 
other relishes. 

Salads have been classified here according to the chief ingredients. 
The order is as follows: Fish, eggs, meat, nut, cheese, fruit and vege- 
table. The only exception to this arrangement is made because of a 
color. These recipes are to be found at the end. 

CHICKEN HALIBUT SALAD. 

Cut three pounds of chicken halibut in one-inch slices and cook 
them in a court bouillon made from two quarts of cold water, one carrot, 
two onions, one-half a wineglassful of vinegar and seasoned to taste with 
thyme, bay leaves, parsley root, salt and whole pepper. Boil this bouil- 
lon thirty minutes, then allow it to cool before placing the fish in it. 
Cook to the boiling point for ten minutes, then remove from the fire 
and chill the fish on ice. Make a dressing from one soupspoonful of 
French tarragon mustard, one spoonful of vinegar, three spoonfuls of 
olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of minced 
chervil and chives and pepper to taste. 

NIPPON SALAD. 
To one cupful of crab meat add one dozen stuffed olives, chopped, 
two cupfuls of celery, add French dressing to marinate and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing, garnish with pickles and capers. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Wash and dry carefully two dozen oysters; lay on a dish and place 
on ice. Rub the yolks of six hard-cooked eggs through a sieve, add a 
teaspoonful of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a teaspoon- 
ful of tomato catsup, a little salt and a teaspoonful of chili powder. Mix 
thoroughly, squeezing the juice of half a lemon over the oysters. Toss 
them in the sauce and serve on shredded celery, garnished with celery 
tops. 

DELICIOUS OYSTER SALAD. 

Take one quart of very small oysters, one pint of celery, two table- 
spoonfuls of French salad dressing and one cup of mayonnaise. Parboil 
the oysters in their own liquor, remove from the fire and allow them to 
stand in the liquor until cold. Drain and add the French salad dressing. 
When ready to serve combine the celery and the oysters, add the mayon- 
naise and garnish with curled celery. 



Salads 65 

SALAD OF SARDINE BALLS AND SLICED CUCUMBERS. 

Remove the skins from a box of sardines, rub to a paste, add a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce a dash of salt, a drop of tabasco, and 
form the paste into balls the size of a walnut. Peel cucumbers, remove 
the seeds after slicing and let stand in cold water until crisp. Arrange 
a ball of the sardines in each slice and serve on lettuce with French 
dressing. 

EGG AND SARDINE SALAD. 

Slice one head of celery and four hard-boiled eggs, and place in salad 
bowl. Mash yolks of the eggs, four sardines, salt and pepper together 
and use enough cream to form a thick paste. Thin with vinegar. Mix 
French dressing on the celery and white of eggs, and over that pour the 
cream dressing. 

JELLIED FISH SALAD. 

For two cupfuls of fish flakes use quarter of a package of soaked 
gelatin and a generous cupful of hot fish or chicken broth. Cook the 
fish in well-season and acidulated water, and when flaked mix with finely 
minced capers, a little sweet, green pepper, blanched and chopped, or a 
pimento cut in small bits. Add the gelatin, mix and mold. Unmold, 
when chilled, and serve on heads of lettuce with a garnish of salad 
dressing. 

SALAD OF SWEETBREADS IN ASPIC 
Braise the sweetbreads and cut them in two lengthwise. Have ready 
some molds of the size to hold them and in the bottom of each mold put 
dice-cooked carrots and green peas. Cover with aspic jelly and let it 
harden. Then lay the sweetbreads on this jelly and cover them with 
liquid aspic. Allow it to harden and turn from the molds. 

EGG, PEPPER AND LETTUCE SALAD. 
Wash the tender leaves of lettuce and arrange on a flat dish; chop 
fine two green peppers and sprinkle over this, then add two hard-cooked 
eggs, also chopped; cover with French dressing and serve well chilled. 

NEW CHICKEN SALAD. 
Take one cupful of cold chicken that has been chopped and shredded 
very fine and one ounce of pate de foie gras. Add to it one ounce of 
cooking sherry, the beaten yolks of two eggs and a cupful of clear 
chicken broth. Season to taste with salt and cayenne. Heat the mixture 
through and cool. Add one ounce of dissolved gelatin to a cupful of 
whipped cream. Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth and mix all 
lightly together. Put in a mold and set on ice six or seven hours. 
Serve on a bed of green with mayonnaise. 

BEEF USED IN SALAD. 
Although beef is not at all an ideal salad meat, surprisingly good 
meat salad may be made from a small piece of boiled beef (bouilli). A 
half cupful of such meat cut in small pieces and mixed with daintily 
cooked vegetables and a mayonnaise dressing may be very tasty and will 
make an unexpectedly large salad. The vinaigrette of beef, a popular 
way with the French of using left-over boiled beef, is practically the 
same thing as a beef salad, except that the meat is cut in as pretty slices 
as possible and allowed to lie in the dressing for a time before it is 
served. This is what is called marinating the beef. It is good for lunch- 
eon with hot vegetables. 

GERMAN SALAD— I. 
Half a cup of roast or boiled veal cut in small pieces, one-half cupful 
of beets, one-half cupful of celery, two apples, three salt herring boiled 
and cut small; add a tablespoonful of capers and serve with French 
dressing. 



66 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

HAM SALAD— I. 
Boil a slice of ham in water for half an hour, then cut in fine dice; 
mix with celery a few chopped olives, using twice as much ham as celery 
sprinkle with celery salt and serve with a good boiled dressing. 

HAM SALAD— II. 

Mince a cupful of cold boiled or fried ham, four hard-cooked eggs, 
a teaspoonful of celery seed, one of mustard, one of Worcestershire 
sauce, two green peppers. Arrange in nests of crisp lettuce and serve 
with boiled dressing. 

HAM SALAD, JELLIED. 

Soak a quarter of a box of gelatin in one-quarter of a cupful of cold 
water, add three-quarters of a cupful of boiling chicken stock, and strain. 
Add one cupful of ham chopped and highly seasoned with cayenne and 
lemon juice. Let stand until it begins to thicken, then add a cupful of 
whipped cream and turn into a mold. 

ALMOND SALAD. 
Blanch and shred a half cupful of almonds, add six olives, stoned and 
chopped, a half cupful of celery and a half cupful of boiled dressing or 
sufficient French dressing to season well. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

HICKORY NUTS AND CHEESE. 
Beat to a cream one tablespoonful of butter, then add six tablespoon- 
fuls of cream cheese. Mix thoroughly, adding a little oil if necessary to 
make it creamy. Have ready a cupful of hickory nut meats well broken; 
mix with the cheese; season with salt, pepper and a little lemon juice; 
make in balls and serve on lettuce leaves as a salad. 

NUT SALAD. 

A very tasty salad of nuts has oranges and olives sliced on crisp 
lettuce leaves and thickly sprinkled with the halves of English walnuts 
or beech nuts. The dressing is a simple mixture of imported olive oil, 
sugar, lemon juice and salt and pepper. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

Put one tablespoonful of olive oil and the yolk of a hard-cooked egg 
into a saucepan, beat together with a spoon, add a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper to these ingredients, and 
mix well. Grate a pound of cheese and mix that with a teaspoonful of 
made mustard, add to the first mixture and then add two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

FRENCH SALAD. 

Stuff stalks of endive with Rocquefort cheese, let marinate in French 
dressing twenty minutes, slip a red pepper ring around each stalk and 
lay on green lettuce leaves. Add a little of the French dressing before 
serving. 

APPLE AND BANANA SALAD. 

Scoop out two apple balls from peeled apples, using a French vege- 
table cutter, and prepare banana balls in the same way; cover both with 
a generous sprinkling of lemon juice to keep them from discoloring, and 
serve on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 
BANANA SALAD. 

Peel and scrape ripe bananas. Cut each one in two pieces and cut 
off the sharp end, making them look like croquettes. Roll them in 
chopped nuts of any kind — either peanuts, hickory nuts or walnuts. Lay 
on a leaf of lettuce and serve with a little French dressing containing a 
great deal of olives. 

DATE SALAD. 

Arrange six dates from which the stones have been removed, star 



Salads 67 

fashion on a lettuce leaf. Sprinkle with cream cheese, put through a 
ricer, add strips of red pepper and a tablespoonful of boiled or mayon- 
naise dressing. 

DELICIOUS SALAD. 
Mix together a cupful of candied cherries cut in bits, a cupful of 
marshmallows cut in quarters and a half cupful of shredded blanched 
almonds. Add a tablespoonful of boiled dressing to a cupful of whipped 
cream and stir the fruit mixture into the cream. Heap on nests of let- 
tuce or in orange or apple cups to serve. Garnish with the salad 
dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

A slice of pineapple placed on the tender heart leaves of lettuce and 
on each slice two sections of orange and grape fruit, cover with French 
dressing that has been mixed with bits of ice to chill. Pour over and 
serve at once. 

LEMON WALDORF SALAD. 

Chop rather fine a cupful of good tart apple add a half cupful of 
nuts and a cupful of celery finely cut, using only the tender portions. 
Mix with a lemon jelly, mold and serve with mayonnaise dressing on 
lettuce leaves. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Cut a ripe, mellow pineapple into slices, pare each slice and remove 
the eyes. Sprinkle lightly with sugar and allow to stand a few hours to 
extract the juice. Drain, and to the slices add one-half as much grape- 
fruit, tart apple or seeded Malaga grapes. Arrange on lettuce leaves. 
Dress with mayonnaise and decorate with halved grapes or candied 
cherries. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

To equal quantities of chopped apple and celery add a quarter of the 
quantity of walnuts or filberts, coarsely chopped. Mix with either French 
or boiled dressing. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD, A LA PRINCESS. 
Take some cooked Jerusalem artichokes, season well with olive oil, 
add a little mushroom, sweetbread and cooked ham, all chopped; season 
with salt and pepper, pile in the center of a bed of crisp lettuce, pour 
over a bit of boiled dressing, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Place a cupful of canned asparagus tips on lettuce leaves. Cover 
with thin slices of red and green peppers and serve with well-chilled 
French dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD SUPREME. 

Pare and slice thin four cucumbers, two bunches of spring onions, a 
dozen radishes, one small green pepper. Marinate in French dressing 
twenty minutes, drain and fill half green pepper shells. Put a little heap 
of mayonnaise on each and lay the shell on a red and green beet leaf. 
This is decorative as well as good. 

LIMA BEAN SALAD. 
Over a pint of well-cooked cold lima beans pour four tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of grated 
onion pulp, half a teaspoonful of salt and a few dishes of paprika. Serve 
on lettuce or a bed of water cress. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 
For a can of beans mix four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, a few dashes of cayenne pepper, a tablespoonful of 
catsup and a teaspoonful of grated onion, a half teaspoonful of salt or as 



68 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

much as is needed. Pour this dressing over the beans and toss until 
well mixed. 

BEET SALAD. 
Slice cold boiled beets, cut into strips; line a salad bowl with white, 
crisp lettuce; heap the beets in the center and pour mayonnaise dressing 
over them just before it goes to the table. 

BEET AND CELERY SALAD. 
Mix equal quantities of chopped boiled beets and crisp celery; 
moisten with boiled dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

CABBAGE SALAD— I. 

Cabbage eaten raw is more digestible than when cooked. When 
serving it raw it should be very finely shredded or chopped and allowed 
to stand in cold water to crisp. Drain well, add salt, sugar, thick sweet 
cream and a very little vinegar. This makes a most delicious salad to 
serve at any meal. 

CABBAGE SALAD— II. 

Put one-half cupful of vinegar and one tablespoonful of butter to 
heat in a double boiler. Beat the yolk of one egg, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one of sugar and two of sour cream, cook smooth in the vinegar. 
Just as it thickens stir in the well-beaten white of an egg and pour over 
shredded and well-salted cabbage. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a head of cabbage very fine, then pour over the following, 

boiling hot, a half cupful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of butter; take from 

the heat, add a beaten egg and three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. 

Season with salt, mustard, pepper and sugar. Pour over the cabbage hot. 

EMERGENCY SALAD. 
A most appetizing and inexpensive salad may be made of a small 
amount of cabbage, a few stalks of celery and a small onion, all chopped 
fine and dressed with a French dressing, adding a teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce and plenty of salt with a few dashes of pepper. Serve 
on lettuce or simply as a vegetable with the meat dish. 

CELERY AND PINEAPPLE SALAD. 
Shred pineapple with a fork and add chopped celery in equal quan- 
tities, mix with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

LUNCHEON CELERY. 

Take well-seasoned cottage or cream cheese, form into cones with a 
small ice cream cone, drop on a lettuce leaf and garnish the top with a 
sprig of celery. 

CORN SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled corn from the cob, carefully removing any shreds of 
silk that have lingered between kernels. Line a salad bowl with small 
white leaves from the heart of a lettuce head and then heap the corn in 
the center. Pour the mayonnaise over the whole, being sure to have 
plenty of it. It is much better served alone with mayonnaise than mixed 
with other vegetables. 

CORN AND RICE SALAD. 
Take equal quantities of cooked corn, well drained, and rice cooked 
until soft; mix and season with salt, pepper. Add stiff mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

EGYPTIAN SALAD. 
Take cold boiled corn, cut from the cob, a bit of chopped onion and 
red pepper, a few cooked peas and bits of potato and a sprinkling of 
parsley, mix with French dressing and serve on lettuce. 



Salads 69 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
Slice very thin a half of a small Spanish onion and lay in the bottom 
of a salad bowl; on this slice very thinly two cucumbers, season with 
salt and a teaspoonful of sugar. Let this stand two hours before serving. 
Then mix one tablespoonful of tomato sauce, a teaspoonful of mustard, 
three tablespoonfuls of cream and a tablespoonful of olive oil. Pour this 
over the salad and serve with roast beef. 

HOT POTATO SALAD. 
Cook potatoes in dice, drain and add chopped onion, bits of bacon 
and enough bacon fat and vinegar to form a dressing. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil pared potatoes in water in which tongue or corned beef has 
been cooked. Rub a bowl with a clove of garlic, add ten leaves of mus- 
tard, a green pepper and three sprigs of finely chopped parsley to each 
quart of potato cubes; add two hard-cooked eggs and a good French 
dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take equal portions of cooked potatoes and beets and one-half the 
quantity of celery and cabbage. Add a few English walnuts. Mix with 
a boiled dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

AN UNUSUAL SALAD. 
Hollow out small tomatoes and fill with sardines, well seasoned with 
lemon juice, turn upside down on lettuce and cover with boiled or may- 
onnaise dressing. 

TOMATO AND PEANUT SALAD. 

Peel the tomatoes carefully and remove the centers so as to form a 
cup. Fill with chopped cabbage and chopped peanuts, well mixed. Add 
French dressing. When serving, top with a spoonful of mayonnaise. 

GREEN SALAD. 
On green but tender leaves of lettuce put a little mound of spinach 
which has been boiled and pressed through a sieve and mixed with 
French dressing. In the center of each mound, concealed by the spinach, 
put a spoonful of chopped hard-boiled egg. 

GREEN AND WHITE SALAD. 
Peel and boil tiny white turnips of equal size and hollow out the 
center of each. Fill with cold-boiled peas and mayonnaise and put on 
green lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE SALAD. 
Make mayonnaise with much egg yolk in proportions to other in- 
gredients, and thin with cider vinegar. Dice tender carrots and arrange 
on lettuce leaves, dressing with orange mayonnaise. 

PINK SALAD. 

Strain tomato juice and mix it with equal quantity of white stock — 
veal or chicken. Thicken sufficiently with gelatin and harden in molds. 
Serve on white lettuce leaves, with mayonnaise that has been colored 
with a little cranberry juice. 

RED SALAD. 

Scoop out the insides of tomatoes. Save the slice removed from the 
top for a cover and replace it on the tomato after filling it with a mix- 
ture of celery and nut meats, mixed with mayonnaise. Place each to- 
mato on a white leaf of lettuce. 

YELLOW SALAD. 
To make a yellow salad use the yellower heart leaves of lettuce. On 



70 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

them put diced orange pulp, dressed with French dressing and sprinkled 
with chopped walnut meats. Or else scoop out the centers of small 
yellow-skinned apples and fill them with a mixture of orange and apple, 
dressed with mayonnaise made with lemon juice for thinning and flavor- 
ing of mustard. 

WHITE SALAD— I. 
Celery, potato, chicken — white meat only — whitefish, blanched aspa- 
ragus — any or two of these may be used for white salad. Dress with 
French dressing or with a white mayonnaise, to which the beaten white 
of an egg has been added and which has been thinned with vinegar. 

WHITE SALAD— II. 

One cup celery cut in small pieces, one small white cabbage cut fine, 
one-half cupful of almonds blanched and cut fine, one-half box gelatin, 
soaked in a pint of hot water, one teaspoonful salt, one-half cupful of 
sugar. When the dissolved gelatin is cooled add the juice of three 
lemons and all the other ingredients. Mold in a square pan, cut in 
squares and serve on lettuce, with French dressing. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

THE important salad dressings are cream salad dressing, mayonnaise 
dressing, French dressing and whipped cream. Many varieties of 
dressings can be made if these are mastered, using these as the 
foundation. If whipped cream, either sweet or a little sour, is available 
the quality of either the cream dressing or the mayonnaise dressing is 
greatly improved. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING— I. 

Mix thoroughly two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls flour, one saltspoonful salt, one tablespoonful dry 
mustard; add two eggs, well beaten; cook with one cupful milk until it 
thickens in double boiler; chill, add three-fourths of a cupful of lemon 
juice or vinegar, and serve with any kind of salad. Fold in whipped 
cream, sweet or sour, if some is at hand. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING— II. 

Two egg yolks, one-half cupful butter, one teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful mustard, one-quarter teaspoonful pepper, one teaspoonful 
sugar, juice of two lemons or one-quarter cupful vinegar. Cream the 
butter, add the beaten yolks mixed with seasonings. Cook over water 
until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add lemon juice and 
mix with whipped cream as it is used. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING— III. 
One-half pint sweet or sour cream, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one-quarter teaspoonful 
pepper, one teaspoonful mustard. Beat the cream until it is light and 
thick; add the other ingredients. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mix one teaspoonful each of mustard, salt and powdered sugar, if 
desired; a few grains of cayenne, one-half a teaspoonful of vinegar and 
the yolks of two eggs. Add gradually one and one-half cupfuls of olive 
oil, drop by drop at first, though later several teaspoonfuls may be added 
at a time. As the mixture thickens add a little vinegar, but care should 
be taken that the dressing does not become sour, and no more than two 
teaspoonfuls should be used. Toward the last whip in gradually two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Whipped cream may be added just before 
serving if desired. 



Cereals 71 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING. 
Take one cupful mayonnaise dressing, mix with one-half cupful 
whipped cream, add a small amount of tarragon vinegar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of imperial sauce, then chop one hard-boiled egg, one green 
pepper, one pimento, one pinch chives, mix well together and squeeze 
the juice of one lemon before serving. This sauce can be served with 
any kind of salad. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 
One tablespoonful vinegar, one-quarter teaspoonful onion juice, three 
tablespoonfuls olive oil, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful salt. Add salt, pepper and onion juice to vinegar. Then add 
the olive oil, beating until thick and well blended. Use a cold bowl and 
cold ingredients. The ingredients may be put into a wide-mouthed bot- 
tle, corked and shaken until an emulsion is formed. The dressing may 
be mixed and set in the icebox until chilled;, the oil and vinegar will 
separate on standing and require further beating. Following the correct 
proportions French dressing may be made in large amounts, kept in a 
bottle in the icebox and shaken before using. 



CEREALS 



ALL KINDS of cereals are most nutritious food. Many prepara- 
tions are not cooked during the manufacturing processes, as, for 
example, most of the whole and cracked grains and the meals; 
some preparations are partially cooked during the process of manufac- 
ture, for example, many of the rolled cereal preparations; and many 
preparations are sufficiently cooked to serve directly from the package, 
as for example, the shredded wheat and flaked preparations. All cereal 
foods require a large amount of moisture to make them ready to eat. 
This is supplied in the form of water (and sometimes some milk) during 
cooking processes, end as milk or cream when they are served. Cereals 
should be eaten with very little sugar, and with cream. Those which 
require cooking should receive longer cooking than the directions on the 
package usually allow. A double boiler is an almost indispensable utensil 
for cooking cereals. If cooked cereals are put on to cook while the 
evening meal is being prepared they will be found to be much more 
delicious than if they are cooked in the morning, because the time in 
which breakfast is prepared should be shortened as much as possible. 
All cereals may be cooked according to the following table: 
Amt. Amt. Amt. 
for Six of of 

Name of Cereal. People. Water. Salt. Time for Cooking. 

Granulated cereals or 

meals %c 3c 1% tsp. In double boiler 2% hrs. 

Rolled cereals 1Y2C 3*4c 1% tsp. In double boiler 1Y2 hrs. 

Steel-cut or whole %c 4c \Vz tsp. In double boiler 3 to 6 hrs. 

Cereals may be varied by serving with fruit; for example, oatmeal is 
very good served with baked apple or with banana, and several of the 
meals are good with dates or with raisins. In warm weather the cereal 
may be molded with or without fruit, chilled and served cold. Again, 
cereal molded in a square-cornered pan may be chilled, sliced, browned 
in a frying pan in butter or other fat and served with syrup; corn, rice 
and graham or whole wheat mushes are especially good served in this 
way. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Add to a quart of boiling salted water enough graham flour to make 
of the consistency of mush. Cook thoroughly, stirring constantly. Add 
a few raisins and serve with sugar and cream, either hot or molded in 



72 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

cups and served cold. When molded and served cold, this makes a 
delicious cereal to serve in warm weather. 

TOASTED RICE CAKES. 
Boil one cupful of rice in salted water until tender, drain and press 
in a buttered dish and put it in the ice chest with a weight upon it. The 
next day cut the rice into slices one-half inch thick, oil a toaster and toast 
the slices a delicate brown. Serve with maple sirup. 

YEAST BREAD AND QUICK 
BREADS 

THE MAKING of bread, as far as making it in the home is con- 
cerned, is too fast becoming a lost art. And until baker's bread can 
be produced with the delicious flavor and the well-baked crumb of 
good home-made bread, the passing of the industry from the home into 
the bakery is to be deplored. And what is equally to be deplored is the 
fact that we are not going to know what good bread is if we cannot have 
a community bakery that can produce bread of the quality of good home- 
made bread — and the community bakery has come to stay. Good bread 
is not difficult to make. The utensils and ingredients which are used 
must be absolutely clean; an over amount of yeast must not be used; nor 
should the temperature at which the bread is allowed to rise be great 
enough to force the rising process. The simplest bread is a mixture of 
flour and liquid, salted to taste, made light with yeast and carried through 
the processes of manipulation and baking which long years of experience 
have found to produce a product most pleasing in every way as a food. 
A loaf of good bread has good color, symmetry of shape and is light and 
porous, and the cells of the crumb are small and uniform in size. The 
crumb should be pleasant in color, odor and taste and the loaf should be 
thoroughly baked. 

BUTTERMILK BREAD. 

Take two and a half cupfuls of fresh sweet buttermilk, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a cake of compressed 
yeast and flour to make a stiff batter. Scald half a pint of sifted flour 
with the buttermilk, add the sugar and salt. Dissolve the yeast in tepid 
water and add to the batter. Beat thoroughly and let stand over night 
in a warm place. In the morning it should be very light and covered 
with air bubbles. Take six pints of flour, add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
half teaspoonful of soda, a tablespoonful of lard; add these to the sponge 
and knead fifteen minutes, then set to rise in a very warm place, well 
covered to exclude the air. When light, mold into loaves, set to rise, 
and when light again bake as carefully as if they were loaves of cake. 

GRAHAM BREAD— I. 
Take two cupfuls each of graham and white flour, sift the latter with 
one teaspoonful each of salt and soda. Add a cupful of molasses and 
enough sweet milk to make a batter. Add one cupful of raisins and 
chopped walnuts, well floured. Bake in a slow oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD— II. 
For one loaf take two cupfuls of white bread sponge, to which add 
two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and graham flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter; let it rise, after which add graham flour sufficient to knead, but not 
to make very stiff; then put in pan to rise and bake. 

RAISIN AND NUT BREAD. 
To a cupful of molasses add a cupful of sour milk, in which a tea- 
spoonful of soda is dissolved, a half teaspoonful of salt, a cup of raisins, 



Breads 73 

a half cupful of walnut meats, chopped. Mix with three and a half cup- 
fuls of graham flour. Bake one hour. 

TWO-HOUR BREAD. 

Two-hour bread is mixed, kneaded, raised and baked in two hours. 
But first there is 'yeast to make for it. To make yeast for the two-hour 
bread boil six potatoes until soft. Take out, mash them and add them 
to the water (there should be one quart of this) with four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of shortening, 
either lard or butter, and set all aside until lukewarm. Add, then, half 
a cake of yeast which has been dissolved in half a pint of lukewarm 
water; stir in half a cupful of flour and let the yeast stand thirty-six 
hours. Use one and a half cupfuls of this liquid for each loaf and just 
enough flour to keep the dough from sticking to the board. Stir in with 
a spoon, then knead on the breadboard for twenty minutes and shape 
into loaves. Let these rise again until they are the size you wish the 
loaves to be, put them into the pan and bake thirty or forty minutes. 

YEAST BREAD. 

Two cups lukewarm water and two cups sweet milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful salt, one com- 
pressed yeast cake dissolved in a little warm water, flour for a stiff batter. 
Let rise until it bubbles. Then add more flour and let it rise again. 
Then mold and put into tins. Let rise until even with the tin and bake 
forty minutes. 

ENGLISH BUNS. 

Rub half a cupful of butter with three tablespoonfuls of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Add two well-beaten eggs and then add, alternately, two 
cupfuls of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
milk to make a stiff dough. Add at the same time half a cupful of cur- 
rants. Roll out about an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake 
in a slow oven. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mix two heaping tablespoonfuls of lard in two quarts flour, one yeast 
cake, one dessertspoonful of salt, one-third cupful of sugar, one pint 
cool scalded milk, or milk and water. Let it rise as you would bread. 
Don't make the dough too stiff. Make into rolls, let it rise, then bake 
in a moderate oven. Don't hurry the last rising. 

GOLDEN ROLLS. 

One-half cupful scalded milk, one yeast cake dissolved in a little cold 
milk, one-quarter cupful eggs (two eggs not beaten), one-eighth cupful 
yolk (two yolks), one-quarter cupful sugar, one-third cupful butter, little 
salt, one-quarter teaspoonful lemon extract, two and one-half cupfuls 
flour. Let rise six hours, roll out thin, spread with melted butter and 
fold over twice, making three layers. Cut in strips and roll round. Let 
rise and bake. Make sirup of powdered sugar and brush thick over top 
when taken from oven. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into two pounds of flour and add 
a pinch of salt. Into a glass of fresh yeast stir a pint of warm milk and 
gradually stir this into the flour until it forms a light batter. Cover and 
allow it to rise, then work into it by means of a wooden spoon half a 
pound of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, half a pound of currants, one egg 
and a half teaspoonful of allspice. Knead well, cover again and allow to 
stand until perfectly spongy. Then knead into buns, cut a cross on top, 
let it rise until light, cover with a clarified sugar and bake twenty 
minutes. 



74 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

ENGLISH CRUMPET. 

To one quart of milk add one and one-half yeast cakes, salt and flour 
added to make a batter thinner than cake batter. Allow to rise a half 
hour. Bake in iron rings, and turn. Then break open and toast and 
spread with butter. 

FIG POPOVERS. 

Sift one cupful of flour with one-half teaspoonful of salt. Beat the 
yolk of one egg slightly, add one cupful of milk, pour the mixture slowly 
into the flour, beat until very smooth and finally fold in the stiffly beaten 
white. Butter hot gem pans, half fill them with the batter, drop a small 
steamed fig in each and bake in a hot oven. Serve immediately with 
maple sirup. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Sift a pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and half a 
teaspoonful of salt and add half a cupful each of milk and of melted but- 
ter and two beaten egg yolks. Mix thoroughly. Then add two egg 
whites beaten stiff. Drop the butter in muffin tins and bake. It is a 
stiff batter and when the egg whites are folded in they do not mix com- 
pletely with the other ingredients, and so the tops of the muffins are 
somewhat irregular. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 

Sift together a quart of flout, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of salt and one of soda, or the soda may be dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls of water and added to two cupfuls of sour milk. Sift 
the dry ingredients and add a tablespoonful of lard, then add the milk. 
Mix until soft and bake in a quick oven. 

BRAN GEMS— I. 
Take two cupfuls of bran, two cupfuls of graham flour, sifted, one- 
half cupful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda and 
two cupfuls of sour milk. Bake in gem pans. 

BRAN GEMS— II. 
One egg, one cupful flour, two cupfuls bran, one teaspoonful salt, 
three tablespoonfuls molasses, one tablespoonful shortening, one tea- 
spoonful soda, buttermilk to make a stiff batter; raisins may be added if 
desired. Bake twenty-five minutes. 

DATE GEMS. 
Take one and a half cupfuls of graham flour, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted shortening, a cupful of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, two 
eggs, salt and a half cupful of chopped dates. Bake in hot gem irons. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take a half cupful each of sour cream and sour milk, add a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, a half teaspoonful of sale, a beaten egg, a cupful of white 
flour and a half cupful of graham flour. Beat well and bake in gem pans. 
Serve with honey. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS— I. 

Mix and beat well two cupfuls of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, three cupfuls 
of graham flour or a cup and a half each of wheat and graham. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS— II. 

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream, beat in three-fourths of a cup 
of sugar, two eggs well beaten, stir a fourth of a teaspoonful of soda in 
a half cupful of thick sour milk, add this to the first ingredients, then 
beat in a cupful of flour and a cupful of graham flour with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake twenty-five minutes in a well-buttered 
muffin pan. 



Breads 75 

CORN BREAD. 
One pint of white corn meal, one quart of sour milk, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Mix well and bake in 
muffin pans. Beat the eggs with the salt, add the sour milk with which 
the soda has been combined, then the corn meal, and bake in oiled muffin 
tins. 

BREAKFAST CORN CAKE. 

Cream two-thirds of a cupful of butter. Beat into it one cupful of 
sugar, the yolks of three eggs, two cupfuls of milk and two cupfuls each 
of corn meal and white flour, sifted with one teaspoonful of soda and 
three of cream of tarter. Lastly add the beaten whites of the eggs, and 
bake. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Rub a tablespoonful of butter in a cupful of corn meal and a cupful 
of white wheat flour. Then add a teaspoonful of sugar, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Break an egg into three- 
quarters of a cupful of milk, and then fill the cup with milk if necessary 
to make it full. Pour this into the flour and mix it thoroughly. Bake 
quickly in a hot oven. 

BATTER BREAD. 

Two cups white Indian meal, one cup cold boiled rice, three eggs 
well beaten, one tablespoonful melted butter, two and one-half cupfuls 
milk or enough for a soft batter, one teaspoonful salt, a pinch of soda. 
Stir the beaten eggs into the milk, then the meal, salt, butter, last of all 
the rice. Beat up well from the bottom for two or three minutes; bake 
quickly in a round, shallow pan, and serve as a vegetable or with maple 
sirup. 

CURRANT MUFFINS. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, and gradually add two-thirds cup of 
sugar, three well-beaten eggs and one and one-half cups of milk. To this 
mixture add two cups corn meal, one cup flour and one teaspoonful salt 
sifted together. As the last of the flour is mixed, stir into the batter 
one-half cupful currants. This will make eighteen muffins. 

KANSAS CORN CAKE. 
Two cupfuls of cornmeal, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of lard, one- 
half cupful of brown sugar, one egg. Use milk enough to make a soft 
batter. Sift together meal, flour, salt and baking powder. Add lard and 
sugar, then beaten egg and milk, and beat thoroughly. Turn into 
greased pan and bake in moderate oven. 

SOUR MILK JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter and one cupful of flour mixed with one 
cupful of corn meal; add half a cupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and half a teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of sour milk, 
and two well-beaten eggs. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered pan 
and bake in a hot oven. Sour cream may be substituted for sour milk. 

CREAM SCONES. 
Take two cupfuls of flour, mix and sift well with four teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, a half teaspoonful of salt, 
four tablespoonfuls of butter and add a third of a cupful of cream and 
two well-beaten eggs; roll, cut in diamonds, sprinkle with egg and sugar 
and bake in a hot oven. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 
Mix a cupful of fine oatmeal with three cupfuls of white wheat flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a liberal teaspoonful of salt. 
Rub in one and a half tablespoonfuls of butter and lard mixed. Beat 



76 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

two eggs and add them to a pint of milk and pour this gradually into the 
dry ingredients. Mix thoroughly and bake quickly in a hot oven in 
muffin tins. 

RYE POPOVERS. 
Mix and sift together a third of a cupful of rye meal and two-thirds 
of a cupful of flour, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and gradually, 
beating constantly, one and a third cupfuls of milk and two well-beaten 
eggs. Fill hot buttered pans and bake forty minutes. 

RYE PUFFS. 

Mix two-thirds of a cupful of rye meal and a third of a cupful of 
white wheat flour. Add a quarter of a teaspoonful of sale, and sift. 
Then add two well-beaten eggs mixed with a cupful of milk, and beat for 
three minutes. Add two teaspoonfuls of melted butter, and mix. Bake 
in hot muffin tins. 

BREAD PANCAKES. 

Cut the crusts from stale bread and break in bits, cover with sour 
milk and set aside over night. In the morning add one level teaspoon- 
ful of soda to each pint of the bread and milk mixture; beat until it is 
smooth and foamy. You may need to add some sweet milk to make the 
batter thin enough. Season with salt and fry on griddle. If eggs are 
added to the above the cakes are much like omelets and may be served 
with jelly between them. 

ENGLISH PANCAKES. 
One teacupful of flour, one tablespoonful of baking powder and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt sifted together. Beat together two eggs 
and one tablespoonful of sugar and add one pint of milk and one teacup- 
ful of cream. Add this to the flour mixture to make a thin batter. Fry 
in a hot frying pan with melted butter, using sufficient batter to cover 
the pan. 

FRENCH PANCAKES. 

Take four tablespoonfuls of sugar; add four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, a cupful of milk to a half cupful of flour, two eggs and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon extract. Bake in six cakes, butter and put jam upon every 
other one. Cover with powdered sugar and serve piled high on a dish. 
Serve cut in wedge-shaped pieces like pie. 

GERMAN PANCAKES. 
Whisk the yolks of five eggs with one pint of cream or rich milk 
and beat the whites very stiff. Add to the yolks and cream four ounces 
of flour and one tablespoonful of sugar, one ounce of raisins and one 
ounce chopped almonds. Then add the beaten whites, stir and fry on a 
griddle with two ounces of butter. When brown and light sift the cakes 
with sugar and serve with preserves or hot vanilla or wine sauce. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Grate six ears of corn, add two cups of milk, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter (melted), two cupfuls of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Mix all together and 
bake like pancakes. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Beat together two cupfuls of buttermilk, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of soda and flour, half of which may be buckwheat, to 
make a thin batter. Bake on a hot griddle. Serve with maple sirup. 

JELLY PANCAKES. 

Jelly pancakes may be made in a few minutes and require two cup- 
fuls of flour, two cupfuls of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder and a generous pinch of salt. Beat the egg very light, 
add the milk, and lastly, with just enough beating to mix all together, 



Sandwiches and Sandwich Fillings 77 

the flour sifted twice with the salt and baking powder. Pour enough of 
the batter into a hot buttered pan to cover the bottom. When browned, 
spread with butter and jelly, roll up and sprinkle with powdered sugar! 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Reheat rice with boiling water and press through a ricer. To this 
liquid rice add half a teaspoonful of salt to a cupful and a half of rice, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, one cupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and when well mixed fold in stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs. Bake on a hot griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Beat one-half pound of butter with one-quarter pound of sugar until 
creamy, then add the yolks of three eggs, one-half pound of flour, one 
pint of warm milk and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with a little 
salt. Bake in hot waffle irons, dust each waffle with powdered sugar 
and serve with jam. 

CORN WAFFLES. 

Sift a pint of flour with two tablespoonfuls of baking powder, add 
a teaspoonful of salt and a cupful of milk and two well-beaten eggs. 
Beat the batter until light and stir in a can of corn; bake in waffle irons. 
Serve hot with sirup. 

BAKED CREAM TOAST. 
Toast slices of stale bread, dip quickly in hot water and lay on plat- 
ter. Spread with butter, pour over some rich milk and place in hot 
oven. Serve with crisp slices of bacon and garnish with parsley. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Make thin slices of golden brown toast, crisp and dry. Place the 
slices in a wire sieve and steam until soft over hot water. Then butter 
and put in a soup plate— about three slices, cut in half. Over them pour 
white sauce. Make this by heating a cupful of milk in a double boiler 
and then adding two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Cook gently over a low heat until the flour has lost its 
starchy taste. Season with salt and pepper and serve quickly and very 
hot. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Cut sliced bread about one inch thick and remove the crust. Mix 
one cupful of milk, thickened with one or two beaten eggs, season with 
salt and soak the toast, a piece at a time, and fry in hot fat. 

SANDWICHES AND SANDWICH 
FILLINGS 

THE SANDWICHES which would form the substantial part of a 
lunch are placed before those which might be served at tea. The 
latter are sweet sandwiches. 

CAVIARE SANDWICH ROLLS. 
Add ten drops of onion juice and a few drops of lemon juice to every 
two tablespoonfuls of caviare, mixing together thoroughly. Remove the 
crust from a fresh, moist loaf of bread not more than twelve hours old, 
cut in thin slices, spreading each very delicately with butter and the 
caviare mixture, roll and tie with one-fourth-inch ribbon or pin with 
Chinese toothpicks. 

OYSTER CLUB SANDWICH. 
Place two or three large fried oysters on the under slice of buttered 
toast, sprinkle with lemon juice and then top with two strips of bacon, 



78 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

two lettuce leaves, a spoonful of mayonnaise and then the second slice of 
toast. For those who do not care for fried oysters the oyster club sand- 
wich comes in still a different form: the oysters may be poached in their 
own liquor until the gills curl, when they are drained of moisture and 
used for the foundation of the sandwich. If preferred, oyster club sand- 
wiches may be served with Russian dressing instead of mayonnaise, as 
the addition of the tomato flavor in the chili sauce is particularly agree- 
able with oysters, either fried or poached. 

SAVORY BUTTER SANDWICH. 
Cream a cupful of butter, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, the 
hard-cooked yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, all well 
mixed together and spread on bread. 

TUNA SANDWICHES. 
One cup of tuna finely chopped, two teaspoonfuls of creamed butter, 
one teaspoonful each of lemon juice, tarragon, chervil and gherkins. 
Put into a bowl and blend lightly, adding salt, paprika and nutmeg. 
Spread the mixture on very thin white bread. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Chop separately cooked chicken and ham or tongue. For each 
three-fourths of a cup of chicken take a fourth of a cup of the other 
meat. For each cup of meat chop fine one canned pimento, or its equiv- 
alent in bulk of olives stuffed with pimentos. Mix with mayonnaise to 
spread well and put on well-buttered bread. 

MUTTON SANDWICHES. 
Take half a pound of cold mutton, some French dressing, four large 
tomatoes. Chop the mutton fine, mix it with French dressing, add a bit 
of finely chopped mint. Chop the mutton fine, mix it with the dressing 
and place on ice. Peel and slice the tomatoes and place them on rounds 
of bread a little larger than the tomatoes, fill the places in the slices 
where the seeds were removed with the meat. 

DEVILED HAM ROLLS. 
Make light, rather rich pastry, roll thin and cut into squares of about 
four inches. Spread upon each square a small quantity of deviled ham, 
leaving about half inch around the edge uncovered. Moisten the edges 
with cold water and roll each sheet of ham and pastry compactly, press- 
ing the ends together, and bake. 

HOME-MADE DEVILED HAM. 
Chop very fine one pint of boiled ham, more fat than lean, six hard- 
cooked eggs, one teaspoonful of made mustard, season and press in a 
mold. This will keep and makes a good filling for sandwiches. 

POTTED HAM. 
Use hard portions and pieces that do not make presentable slices. 
Allow one-third fat to two-thirds lean. Mince fine enough to make a 
smooth paste. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Heat thoroughly 
and pack firmly in small pots. 

SANDWICH FILLING. 
Chop one-half pound of ham very fine together with two chopped 
pickles, salt and pepper to taste. Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, 
add the chopped ham and mix well. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
with the mixture, press together, cut into diamonds and garnish with 
parsley. 

WINDSOR SANDWICHES. 

Cream a third of a cupful of chopped ham and two-thirds of a cupful 
of cooked chicken. Season well with salt paprika and spread on buttered 
white bread. 



Sandwiches and Sandwich Fillings 79 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut bread in small triangles and fit with slices of cheese the same 
size, place another piece of bread on top and saute in butter in a hot 
frying pan, browning both sides. Serve with lettuce. A dash of season- 
ing may be added to the cheese. 

OLIVE CREAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince one tablespoonful of olives stuffed with red pepper, add to a 
cake of cream cheese. When well mixed spread on buttered bread. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine and pound to a pulp a dozen olives and a half cupful of 
crisp celery, add an eighth of a teaspoonful of made mustard, one tea- 
spoonful of catsup, two tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs and a cupful of 
mayonnaise. 

BAKED BEAN SANDWICHES. 

Mash cold baked beans to a paste, season with mustard and finely 
chopped celery, spread between buttered brown bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Blanch and brown a half cupful of almonds, season well with salt 
and red pepper; add two tablespoonfuls of chopped pickles, one table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, add one tablespoonful of chutney. 
Spread sandwiches with creamed cheese and sprinkle with the almond 
mixture finely chopped. 

PEANUT BUTTER. 

Put fresh, shelled roasted nuts through a grinder and mix with but- 
ter and salt to suit the taste. If the butter is fresh and the peanut mix- 
ture is put in jars it will keep some time and be good. 

EGG AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

To six hard-cooked eggs add twelve olives and a half cupful of boiled 
dressing, salt and pepper to taste. Chop the eggs and olives very fine, 
add paprika, salt and thoroughly mix with boiled dressing. Spread on 
thinly sliced white bread. 

COCOANUT SANDWICHES. 

Add to a cupful of cocoanut a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a cupful of 
walnuts, a fourth of a cupful of cream, whipped, and powdered sugar to 
taste. Use on brown or white bread. 

FUDGE SANDWICHES. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, three-fourths of a cupful milk, butter 
size of a walnut, third cake of melted chocolate. Boil seven minutes and 
beat until thick and creamy. Spread thickly between butter thins or any 
plain crackers. 

SURPRISE SANDWICHES. 

Spread honey, jelly or jam on milk crackers, sprinkle thickly with 
chopped nuts, figs or dates, and serve. 

SWEET PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

Take half a cupful of grated maple sugar or brown sugar, one- 
fourth of a cupful of chopped peanuts and a tablespoonful of rich milk. 
Mix well and spread on buttered graham bread or crackers. 



80 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

FRUITS 

APPLES IN BLOOM. 
Cook red apples in boiling water until soft. Have the water half 
surround the apples and turn often. Remove skins carefully that the red 
color may remain, and arrange on serving dish. To the water add one 
cup of sugar, grated rind of one lemon and juice of one orange; simmer 
until reduced to one cup. Cool and pour over the apples. 

NOVEL BAKED APPLES. 
Peel some sound cooking apples of medium size, take out the core 
and roughen the outside of the fruit with a fork. Now roll the apples in 
coarse brown sugar, stand them in a large buttered pie dish, fill the hole 
in each apple with any red preserve and bake slowly until tender. Baste 
the fruit while cooking with the juice that runs from it. When done 
allow the fruit to get cold before setting in a dish to serve. Very rich if 
served with cream. 

DELICIOUS WAY TO BAKE APPLES. 
Peel and core apples and put in baking dish, filling each apple with 
sugar. Cover with hot water and stew gently, laying a few pieces of 
stick cinnamon and lemon peel on the top. When about half done 
sprinkle with a heaping tablespoonful of gelatin and place in oven until 
done. Serve cold with cream. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
Core the apples or halve them and hollow out the halves, fill the 
centers with cranberry sauce or cranberries cooked whole in a rich sirup. 
Have ready a thick sirup and baste the apples frequently with this. Bake 
until tender. The sirup should jelly when the fruit is done. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Pare and core large firm apples, fill the centers with red currant 
jelly, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice. Put a little water in the pan 
around the apples and let them bake in the oven until candied but not 
broken. Preserved ginger may be used in place of jelly if so desired. 
APPLE MARSHMALLOW. 

Cut one cupful of apple in dice, add a half cupful of marshmallows 
cut in quarters, a third of a cupful of chopped blanched almonds, half 
cupful of whipped cream, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and a 
fourth of a teaspoonful vanilla. Combine and chill. 
STEAMED APPLES. 

Wash (core, leaving in the blossom end) and pare good flavored ap- 
ples. Place in a steamer and fill the cavities with sugar, cinnamon, but- 
ter, bits of jelly, ginger, lemon rind and juice. Serve with a thin custard 
or with sugar and cream. 

APPLE SNOW— I. 

Take apple sauce that has been sweetened and put through sieve; add 
the beaten whites of eggs and pulverized sugar, beating until stiff. Heap 
in a dish and serve with a thin custard poured around the snow. 
APPLE SNOW— II. 

Pare and core a dozen tart cooking apples and place over the fire 
with just enough water to cover, and cook until tender enough to put 
through a sieve. Drain off every drop of water and mash the apples 
through a sieve and set aside to cool. Have the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff white froth. Sweeten the apples to taste and season 
with grated nutmeg; then beat them into the egg, a spoonful at a time. 
Place in the refrigerator until needed. 



Fruits 81 

APPLE WHIP. 
To a cupful of sweetened apple sauce add the whites of three eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the eggs until stiff. Add 
the sugar and baking powder, well mixed, then the lemon and apple 
sauce, thick enough to drop from spoon. Combine mixtures, turn into 
a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the 
touch. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Bananas, lemon juice, fine sifted crumbs. Remove peel, dip in lemon 
juice, roll in fine sifted crumbs. Place in baking pan and bake fifteen 
minutes in hot oven. Serve with cream, sweetened and flavored with 
cinnamon. 

BANANA COMPOTE. 

Cook together for ten minutes two-thirds of a cup of water and a cup 
of sugar; pour when cool over bananas which have been peeled and 
quartered. Add the juice of half a lemon and the grated rind, sprinkle 
with chopped almonds and serve with whipped cream. 

SPICED BANANAS. 

Take two teaspoonfuls of allspice and cinnamon, one-half cupful of 
water, one cupful of sugar and boil until thick; then add a half cupful of 
orange juice, a fourth of a cupful of lemon juice and add six bananas; 
cook until thoroughly heated. Serve with the sauce poured over them. 

CRANBERRY WHIP. 

Stew a quart of cranberries until soft, press through a sieve; return 
the pulp to a saucepan and add an equal measure of sugar; cook until 
thick. Beat four egg whites until stiff, then drop the hot pulp by spoon- 
fuls into the egg, beating constantly; add a teaspoontul of vanilla, turn 
into a buttered mold and bake until firm. Unmold and serve with 
steamed raisins. 

PEACH FOAM. 

One cupful and a half of canned peach, without the juice, cut very 
fine or strained; three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, whites of three 
eggs. Add the well-beaten whites to the fruit and sugar and beat until 
thick, smooth and velvety, then put in a mold previously wet with cold 
water. Any other fruit would vary the recipe and be good, and jelly may 
be used if you do not have peaches. Serve with whipped cream. 

PEACH WHIP. 

Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff, add three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and beat to a glossy meringue. Add gradually the pulp 
of six ripe peaches which have been pressed through a sieve, beating all 
the time; sprinkle with lemon juice and serve in tall glasses with cream. 

CARDINAL PEARS. 

Cook canned pears in sugar and water with a half cupful, more or 
less, of currant jelly. When cold set on oblong or round pieces of 
sponge cake; cover with the thickened sirup and a spoonful of whipped 
cream. Sprinkle with almonds, chopped, or shredded in strips. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Drain the sirup from a can of pineapple and when boiling stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch mixed with a little cold juice. Mash the 
fruit to a pulp and stir into the thickened juice. Beat the whites of two 
eggs until stiff and fold in lightly. Pour into a mold, set on ice and 
serve with well-sweetened whipped cream. 



82 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

CANNING, PRESERVING, JELLY 
MAKING AND PICKLING 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES. 

The berries should first be thoroughly picked over and washed, then 
placed in a kettle with one-half cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of 
water to each quart of the berries. Cook until each berry is done, then 
turn into hot jars and seal at once. 

TO CAN STRING BEANS. 
Mix together a quart of salt, a pint of sugar and five quarts of beans, 
cut ready for serving, pack in a jar, cover with a plate and place a weight 
on it. The liquor will rise and cover the beans. Before cooking soak 
the beans five hours in cold water, changing the water five times. Beans 
so canned will be fresh and most delicious all winter. 

CANNING YOUNG BEETS. 
Cut off the leaves, leaving a good stem; wash without breaking the 
skin; cook until tender; take off the skin and fill jars with the beets; add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar to each quart; a teaspoonful of salt, and fill 
with lukewarm water, set in a kettle half filled with water and cook for 
an hour, adjust rubbers and seal cans. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 
This method is also good to preserve tomatoes for salads in the 
winter time. Put a cupful of salt in a gallon of water and drop the 
whole, firm, peeled, tomatoes in the boiling water and scald through, 
take out while firm and pack in jars. They will make their own juice to 
cover, but must be carefully sealed in sterilized jars. 

DRIED CHERRIES. 

Select the most perfect fruit and cut the stems off close. Don't pull 
the stems, as this bruises the fruit and allows the juice to escape. Now 
spread and allow to dry slowly in a cool oven. When thoroughly dry 
pack away in boxes and have on hand for next winter. They may be 
used when soaked in almost any of the ways in which the fresh fruit is 
used, or they may be stewed with sugar, water and a little lemon juice. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 
To each pound of fruit allow the same quantity of sugar, one-half 
cupful of water, one-fourth cupful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
a few pieces of cinnamon bark. Make a sirup of the sugar, water, vine- 
gar and spice. Add the cherries and cook until of the consistency of 
marmalade. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE. 

Cook a quart of cranberries in barely enough water to float them, 
when cooked add an equal measure of sugar, the pulp of three oranges, 
one cupful of raisins and the grated peel of one orange. Simmer until 
thick, then pour into a mold or put in glasses. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 
One pound or quart of berries, three-fourths of a pint of water. 
Cook well and strain. Then cook the juice fifteen minutes. Add as 
much sugar as there was strained juice and boil again for fifteen minutes. 
Dip the forms or jelly cups in cold water to prevent sticking and pour in 
the jelly. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

One quart of berries, three-quarters of a pint of water and three- 



Canning, Preserving, Jelly Making and Pickling 83 

quarters of a pound of white sugar; boil ten minutes and shake gently; 
do not stir, and the berries will retain their shape. 

BAKED CRANBERRIES. 

Choose a wide, flat earthen dish large enough to allow a pint of 
berries to lie on the bottom. Pour over them a sirup made with two 
cupfuls of sugar and a cupful of water. Place in a slow oven and bake 
until done. Take from the fire, but do not stir until cold, when each 
berry will be coated with jelly, and when piled in a glass dish look like 
candied cherries. 

CRANBERRY RAISIN JAM. 

Stew a half pound of stoned raisins ten minutes in a pint of water, 
add a quart of berries and a pound of sugar and cook slowly until the 
berries have a clear transparency. Shake often while cooking, but do not 
stir the product. 

GRAPE CONSERVE. 

Three pints of grapes after skins have been removed from pulp. 
Cook until seeds come away from pulp and strain. To the skins and 
pulp add three pounds of sugar and one pound of raisins cut fine, one 
pound of English walnuts broken in small pieces, one orange sliced thin, 
add the nuts the last half hour of cooking. Cook until thick, about one 
and one-half hours. Put in jelly glasses. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Prepare the grapes as for spiced grapes and mix the pulp with an 
equal measure of sugar, simmer until thick and smooth. Put up in jars 
and seal. 

SPICED LIMES. 

Boil four quarts of limes in water until tender, drain off the water, 
cut the limes in halves, put them in a jar and pour over them a sirup 
made of one cupful of vinegar, one and one-half cupfuls of molasses, one 
cupful of water, two teaspoonfuls of cloves. Boil a few minutes, then 
pour over the limes. They should be stored a little while before eating. 

SOUTH AMERICAN ORANGE MARMALADE. 
Take equal quantities of sour oranges and sugar. Grate or slice the 
yellow rind from one-fourth of the oranges, cut the fruit in halves and 
scoop out the pulp, rejecting the seeds. Drain off as much juice as 
possible, put it with the sugar in a saucepan, stir and cook fifteen 
minutes, skim and add the pulp and rind and boil for twenty minutes or 
until the mixture jellies. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Boil twelve pounds of peaches until reduced to a pulp, with a small 
amount of water, then put them through a sieve and add a half pound 
of sugar for each pound of fruit. Boil together, stirring constantly, until 
reduced to a thick marmalade. Put away in bottles or jars for winter 
use. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Take three pounds of sugar, a pint and a half of good vinegar, one 
ounce of cloves, two sticks of cinnamon, boil all together, then add seven 
pounds of peeled peaches. Let them heat through slowly, then when 
tender and rich in color dip them from the sirup and put into jars. Boil 
the sirup down till quite thick and pour over them. Seal and serve with 
meats in winter. These are the same as the old-time pickled peaches 
which were never peeled. 

CANNED PEARS AND PEACHES. 

Weigh the fruit before paring, and to four pounds use one pound of 
sugar. Remove skins at night and sprinkle the sugar over them. In the 



84 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

morning there will be plenty of juice without adding any water. Cook 
until tender and can. 

SPICED PEARS. 
Eight pounds of pears, four pounds best brown sugar, one quart 
vinegar, one cupful of mixed whole spice, sticks of cinnamon, cassia 
buds, allspice and cloves, less of latter than former. Tie spices in a bag 
and boil with vinegar and sugar. Skim well, then add pears, cook ten 
minutes or till scalded and tender. Skim out the pears and put in a 
stone jar. Boil the sirup five minutes longer and pour over the pears. 
Next day pour off the sirup and boil down again. Repeat this three 
mornings. Keep the bag of spices in the sirup. 

CARROT MARMALADE. 
Boil the carrots until perfectly tender, then mash to a fine, smooth 
pulp, and to each pound allow one pound of sugar, six almonds, the 
grated rind of one lemon and the juice of two and a few drops of almond 
flavoring. Bring to the boiling point gradually, and let boil, stirring 
constantly for five minutes; then pour into jars and seal. 

CARROT PRESERVES. 
Boil the carrots until tender; peel and slice them, and to each pound 
add one pound of granulated sugar and one-half cupful of water; flavor 
with lemon. Simmer slowly until rich and thick, then seal. 

BLACKERRY JELLY. 
In making blackberry jelly it is good plan to have one-third of the 
juice from barberries or rhubarb and the two other thirds from black- 
berries. The sugar should be in the same proportion as for strawberry 

BEET AND RHUBARB JELLY. 

Measure equal quantities of new beets and rhubarb, cook until tender 
in as little water as possible, as the rhubarb is very juicy; when tender, 
mash and strain through a sieve, then drain in a jelly bag. Measure the 
juice and allow equal measures of jelly. Cook the juice ten minutes 
before adding the sugar heated; when it jellies on a cold plate pour into 
molds and chill. This old-fashioned preserve is especially good with 
mcRts 

AMBER MARMALADE. 

This is one of the cheapest and finest marmalades. Take one grape- 
fruit, one orange and one lemon, slice pulp, skin, and all very fine, reject- 
ing the seeds and the cores; or pass the fruits through a food chopper. 
Cover with five pints of water and let stand over night. In the morning 
put on to cook until the pulp and skins are tender, then add five pints of 
sugar and cook until the mixture jellies. Seal in glasses. 

APPLE AND PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 
Three pounds of pared and cored apples, one pound of sliced pine- 
apple; put all through a meat chopper, using the medium fine knife. 
Make a sirup of three pounds of sugar and one pint of water, put in the 
apple and pineapple and cook until clear; seal while hot. 

BANANA MARMALADE. 
Slice a dozen bananas. To every pound of the fruit allow three- 
quarters of a pound of preserving sugar. Take the juice and pulp of five 
lemons and add them to the bananas and sugar. Add a little water. 
Then chop up half an ounce of preserved ginger and add. Simmer very 
slowly for fifty minutes. Seal in glasses. 

BARBERRY AND RAISIN PRESERVE. 
Use the best seeded raisins. Cover the barberries with water and 
boil. Strain through a sieve fine enough to remove the seeds. Add a 



Canning, Preserving, Jelly Making and Pickling 85 

generous quantity of sugar and the raisins and cook until it has a little 
more than reached the boiling point. Do not cook too long or it will 
become candied. Seal in glasses or stone jars. 

CHILI SAUCE— I. 
To thirty large ripe tomatoes, ten onions and eight red peppers, 
chopped fine, add ten cupfuls of vinegar, ten tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
eight tablespoonfuls of salt, and boil all together for three hours. 

CHILI SAUCE— II. 
Take twenty-four large, ripe tomatoes, three red peppers, seven 
white onions, five cupfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt and one 
cupful of white sugar. Boil the vinegar, sugar and salt, then add the 
other ingredients, which have been put through a meat grinder. Cook 
one hour. 

PICCALILLI. 

Take two gallons of green tomatoes chopped fine, eight large 
onions, three quarts of cider vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful each of cloves, allspice, mace, two tablespoonfuls of 
pepper corns, four pepper pods, one tablespoonful of celery seed and one 
quart of granulated sugar. Let the chopped vegetables stand over night 
sprinkled with salt; drain and cook the spices tied in a bag in the 
vinegar, adding the tomatoes and onions; cook until tender. 

JAPANESE CHOW-CHOW. 
Take a dozen medium-sized green tomatoes and the same number 
of pickled limes, put both through a meat chopper, using the medium 
cutter and removing the seeds from the limes. Add six cupfuls of sugar 
and cook slowly for three hours. Put into glasses and cover as one 
does jelly. 

MUSTARD CHOW-CHOW. 

One peck green tomatoes, three large onions, four green peppers. 
Chop fine, put in brine over night. In morning drain and pack in jar. 
Dressing — Two quarts vinegar, one-half pound mustard, one cupful flour, 
one-half ounce turmeric. Cook in double boiler till thick. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 
To each five pints of grapes allow one pound of sugar, one-half pint 
of vinegar and one-half ounce each cinnamon, cloves and maize. Boil 
sugar and vinegar fifteen minutes together; meantime heat the pulp and 
skins. Let cool and rub through a colander. Add this to the vinegar 
and sugar, cooking twenty minutes. Bottle and seal. 

PLUM CATSUP. 
Take half a peck of blue plums, one pint of vinegar, half the weight 
of the plums in sugar or less, if liked less sweet. Add a tablespoonful 
each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, tied in a muslin cloth. Boil all 
together, strain through a colander and boil again until of the right 
consistency. 

TOMATO CATSUP— I. 

Take three dozen ripe tomatoes, three red peppers (the hot ones), 
six onions, all chopped fine. Add two teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon 
and mustard and one of cloves, all ground. To three cupfuls of vinegar 
add one cupful of brown sugar and three tablespoonfuls of salt. Cook 
all together; put through a sieve, reheat and bottle for winter. 

TOMATO CATSUP— II. 

This will keep two or three years, and is fine: Take one-half bushel 

of tomatoes, wash and boil with skins on until very soft, then put 

through a fine sieve. Put back the juice in the kettle and add one quart 

vinegar, one-half pint salt, three-quarters ounce ground cloves, one-half 



86 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

ounce allspice, one-half ounce red pepper, one-eighth ounce mace and 
two cloves of garlic chopped very fine. Boil about three hours, or until 
reduced half. Bottle when cool. 

TOMATO CATSUP— III. 
One onion chopped fine, one quart of ripe tomatoes, one small red 
pepper or one-half teaspoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of mixed spices and one cupful of 
cider vinegar. Boil tomatoes and vinegar together for two hours. (The 
tomatoes should be skinned and sliced if fresh ones are used.) Add the 
other ingredients and cook another hour. Strain the mixture through a 
fine sieve. _ 

UNCOOKED CATSUP. 

Cut four quarts of tomatoes fine, add one cupful of chopped onions, 
one cupful of nasturtium seeds that have been cut fine, one cupful of 
freshly grated horse-radish, three large stalks of celery chopped, one 
cupful of whole mustard seed, one-half cupful of salt, one rounding table- 
spoonful each of black pepper, cloves and cinnamon, a level tablespoon- 
ful of mace, one-half cupful of sugar and four quarts of vinegar. Mix all 
well together and put into jars or bottle. It needs no cooking but must 
stand several weeks to ripen. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Chop two quarts of green and one quart of ripe tomatoes, three 
small bunches of celery, three good-sized onions, three sweet red peppers, 
three green peppers, one small head of cabbage, one large ripe cucumber, 
sprinkle with a big half cupful of salt and let stand over night. Drain 
well in the morning and stir into the following mixture. Three pints of 
vinegar, two pounds of dark brown sugar, one teaspoonful of black 
pepper and the same of mustard. Cook until clear — about an hour. 
Seal for winter use. 

GREEN CUCUMBER MUSTARD PICKLE. 

To make green cucumber mustard pickle, put one quart of cucum- 
bers cut in cubes in a bowl, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of salt on them 
and let them stand over night; next morning drain the cucumbers in a 
colander, cut medium-sized white onions in very thin slices and put them 
with the cucumbers in a saucepan, cover with vinegar, place the saucepan 
over the fire. In the meantime mix in a bowl one cupful of sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls of turmeric, a little cayenne pepper and one table- 
spoonful of English mustard; mix, add it to the cucumbers, boil five 
minutes, remove and fill in small jars. 

PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS. 

Lay the green seeds in salt water thirty-six hours, then freshen for 
an entire day in cold water, pack in fancy small bottles, season with a 
few bits of mace and pepper corns and a little white sugar. Cover with 
scalding white vinegar and keep corked for a month, when they will be 
ready for use. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes and put them into a jar in layers with 
sliced onions, using a half dozen good-sized ones with the amount of 
tomatoes. Sprinkle each layer with salt and let stand over night. A 
cupful of salt will be sufficient. Drain and add a quart of vinegar, a 
cupful of brown sugar and a tablespoonful of cloves, with two sticks of 
cinnamon tied in a muslin bag and cooked in the vinegar. When the 
vegetables are tender put into the jar, and when cold add a half cupful 
of grated horse-radish and a tablespoonful of mustard seed. The pieces 
of horse-radish will do if the root is too small to grate. Cover with a 
plate and a weight and keep in a cool cellar. These pickles are best for 



Beverages 87 

serving with meats if not too sweet, so one may use her own taste in 
adding the sugar. 

WHITE PICKLE. 
Chop twelve large, ripe tomatoes. Put twelve large cucumbers and 
twelve large onions through the meat grinder. Salt the cucumbers and 
onions and let them stand one hour. Strain off the juice and the meaty 
part of the tomatoes and cover with vinegar. Season with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of celery seed, one teaspoonful of 
red pepper. Mix all the ingredients in the preserving kettle, bring to a 
boil and can and seal while hot. 



BEVERAGES 



LACTENE, OR ARTIFICIAL BUTTERMILK. 
This is decidedly a health beverage, as the lactic acid ferment it con- 
tains acts as a prophylactic against bacteria. The tablets may be pur- 
chased at any drug store and contain full directions for making. This is 
more nutritious than buttermilk, as it is made of whole milk. 

MULLED BUTTERMILK. 

One quart of buttermilk, one rounded tablespoonful of flour, two 
rounded tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Pour the buttermilk into 
an enameled saucepan and put on the range to boil; upon boiling add the 
following mixture: Break an egg into a bowl and beat until light and 
foamy, add the sugar, then the flour, stirring until smooth, and pour into 
the boiling buttermilk, stirring rapidly to prevent scorching. Boil up 
once, remove from the fire and serve hot or iced as preferred. 

CANNED BOILED CIDER. 
Place five quarts of sweet cider in a kettle, boil slowly until reduced 
to one quart, carefully watching it that it does not burn. Can the same 
as fruit. One gill of this added to a fruit cake makes it more moist and 
is far superior to cake made without it. You can have sweet cider to 
drink from one season to another by placing cider in a kettle, letting it 
come to a boil. Have jars sterilized, and can. 

CURRANT NECTAR. 

Take a quart of well-picked currants and bring to a boil. Press 
through a cheesecloth bag and return to fire, adding a pound of sugar. 
Fill goblet a fourth full and add cracked ice until full. 
FRUIT PUNCH. 

Four cupfuls of sugar, eight cupfuls of water, two quarts of charged 
water, one shredded pineapple, one cupful of juice of various fruits, one 
box of strawberries, hulls removed and berries cut in quarters. Four 
sliced bananas, juice of six oranges and three lemons. This will serve 
twenty-five persons. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH. 

A bunch of bruised mint, the juice of five lemons and of two oranges 
and three pints of ginger ale. Dust the mint leaves with powdered 
ginger and add just before serving to the ale and slightly sweetened fruit 
juice. Serve cold. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Wash, drain and stem the grapes. Put them in a deep kettle, mash 
well with a wooden potato masher and heat slowly, adding a very little 
water. Cook until the grapes look much lighter in color, then drain in 
a jelly bag made of three thicknesses of cheesecloth. Wring the cloths 
out of hot water, put into it the hot pulp, two quarts at a time, and hang 
up to drain. When no more of the juice drops, squeeze the pulp as dry 
as possible, keeping the cloudy portion separate. To a quart of the juice 



88 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

add a cupful of sugar or less; cook for twenty minutes, then bottle and 
seal the corks with wax. 

HONG KONG COOLER. 

Pour one quart of boiling water over three tablespoonfuls of Ceylon 
tea; let it steep five minutes and then cool While it is cooling add four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and three slices of lemon, two cloves and a table- 
spoonful of Maraschino cherries. When ready to serve fill tall glasses 
half full of shaved ice and add a dash of rum and a cherry to each glass. 
Place a spray of mint on top of each glass. 

HOT BEVERAGE. 

The yolk of an egg is beaten and a little sugar added, then the 
beaten white and a half cupful of hot milk, sprinkled with nutmeg. This 
would be both a nourishing and refreshing drink. 
EGG LEMONADE. 

Egg lemonade is both nutritious and refreshing. It is made by beat- 
ing an egg until almost thick and then adding sugar and beating it again. 
To this the lemon juice is added, and there is more beating. Add now 
ice-cold milk, beat again and pour the mixture into a glass having a little 
cracked ice in the bottom. Grate nutmeg on the top and serve immedi- 
ately. If one prefers it, only the white of the egg may be used. 
ENGLISH LEMONADE. 

Pare two oranges and six lemons thinly and steep them in a quart of 
hot water for four hours. Boil one and one-quarter pounds of granu- 
lated sugar in three pints of water and add to these two liquors the juice 
of six oranges and lemons and stir well. Strain through a jelly bag and 
serve ice cold 

LEMONADE AND GRAPE JUICE. 

Lemonade, to which has been added grape juice, is a change from 
ordinary lemonade and is very good indeed. 

ITALIAN LEMONADE. 

In Italy they make a lemonade that is especially palatable. For a 
gallon of it pare two dozen lemons thinly, and press out the juice, which 
is then poured over the peels and allowed to remain for about twelve 
hours. Add to this two pounds of granulated sugar, three quarts of 
boiling water, a quart of white wine and later a quart of boiling milk. 
Strain the whole through cheesecloth or a jelly bag, cool, and when 
serving pour in tumblers having a bit of shaved ice in the bottom of each 
glass. 

MULLED CIDER. 

To one quart of sweet cider add one teaspoonful mixed whole spices. 
Boil five minutes and strain. Beat three eggs thoroughly, add to the hot 
cider and serve at once with hot toasted raisins in each glass. 

SEA FOAM. 

Mix the pieces of one pineapple and one lemon with four spoonfuls 
of mint leaves cut into bits, and add half a cupful of sugar. Beat the 
whites of four eggs stiff and gradually whip in the fruit juices. Add 
four cupfuls of carbonated water, and serve. 

STRAWBERRY NECTAR. 

Cut fine strawberries in small pieces and sweeten with powdered 
sugar. Fill the goblet quarter full of this fruit and fill with plain or 
aerated iced water. A slice of lime may be added to this. 

ICE-COLD WATER WITHOUT ICE. 
Fill an unglazed earthenware jug with cold water and stand it in a 
bowl of water. Then soak a clean kitchen towel in cold water and wrap 
over the jug, allowing the cloth to rest in the bowl of water. It will 
become icy cold. 



Hot Desserts 89 

HOT DESSERTS 

HOT DESSERTS fall into several classes and are grouped into 
bread puddings, puddings in which a cake mixture forms the foun- 
dation, souffles, cobblers, short-cakes and many miscellaneous 
puddings. 

BREAD PUDDING. 
To a pint of soft, white crumbs add two cups of milk; let this stand 
half an hour; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the stiff whites of three eggs; put it into a buttered dish 
and bake; add a layer of raspberry jam or marmalade and the beaten 
white of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of sugar, and return to the 
oven to brown. Serve hot or cold. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 
Mix in a bowl one cupful bread crumbs, four tablespoonfuls choco- 
late melted, two and one-fourth cupfuls scalded milk, one cupful sugar, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoonful vanilla extract and two well-beaten eggs. 
Pour into a well-buttered baking dish, set into a pan of boiling water and 
bake in moderate oven; stir twice during the making to keep chocolate 
from rising to the top. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING. 
Soak a cupful of bread crumbs in a quart of milk and beat until 
foamy. Beat and add the yolks of three eggs. Grate the rind of a 
lemon. Mix with a quarter of a cupful of sugar and the juice of the 
lemon. Mix all together and bake in a moderate oven. When baked 
cover with a meringue made from the three whites and three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Set in the oven to brown. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING. 

To a cupful of stale bread crumbs add a cupful of cream. When the 
cream is all absorbed beat lightly with a fork and add the grated yellow 
rind of an orange and the juice of two. Sweeten to taste, add a pinch of 
salt and half a cupful of boiling milk. Blend the ingredients thoroughly, 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs and pour into buttered cups. 
Set in a pan of hot water and bake until firm in a moderate oven. 
QUEEN'S BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak two cupfuls of bread crumbs in a quart of milk, add the well- 
beaten yolks of four eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a cupful of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter and flavoring to taste. Bake one hour 
in the dish in which it is to be served. Spread with jelly and cover with 
a meringue made of the whites of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar for each egg. Bake until brown. 

BROWN BETTY— I. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, eight sliced apples, one-half cupful of 
molasses, one-half cupful of cold water; butter a baking dish, put a layer 
of crumbs, then a layer of apples, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar and 
dot with bits of butter; repeat until the dish is full; insert a knife in 
several places and pour in the water and molasses. Set in a pan of hot 
water and bake for forty-five minutes. Serve hot with cream or hard 
sauce. 

BROWN BETTY— II. 

Pare and chop six apples. Place a layer of apple in a well-buttered 
pudding dish, then a layer of bread crumbs, sprinkle with brown sugar 
and cinnamon, repeat until the dish is full; add several generous lumps 
of butter and pour sweet milk or hot water on until it comes within an 
inch of the top of the pan. Bake in a moderate oven until brown, and 
serve with plain or whipped cream. 



90 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

CRACKER PUDDING. 
Half pint of pieces of cracker, four eggs, three-fourths cupful of 
sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, salt, raisins, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon and same of nutmeg, one 
quart of milk. Soak crackers in milk about half hour. Bake about an 
hour in moderate oven. Eat with a plain pudding sauce. 

CRUMB PUDDING. 
Roll one quart of bread crumbs and put into the oven to brown, put 
into a pudding dish and pour over it the following custard: Beat the 
yolks of three eggs, add three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a tablespoonful of butter and a grating of nutmeg. 
Pour boiling water over it until it is smooth (one and a half or two 
cupfuls), pour it over the crumbs and cover with the beaten whites, 
which have been mixed with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown in the 
oven and serve hot. 

LEMON SUET PUDDING. 

Mix together three cupfuls of bread crumbs, a cupful of suet cut 
very fine, a teaspoonful of baking powder and a half cupful of sugar. 
Beat four eggs and add to the mixture with a pinch of salt and two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Scald three cupfuls of milk and pour 
over, stirring carefully. Let stand covered for half an hour. Then pour 
into a buttered baking dish and bake forty minutes. Any sauce, either 
custard or a lemon sauce, will be good with this pudding. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 
Soak a pound of prunes over night and remove the stones. Fill a 
buttered baking dish with alternate layers of prunes and buttered slices 
of bread (stale). Have bread on top. Beat two eggs with one-fourth 
cupful of sugar, add two cupfuls of milk; pour over bread and prunes. 
Bake for an hour. 

HOT RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Raspberry charlotte is made from one pint of raspberries, half a pint 
of bread crumbs, two eggs, one pint of milk, two ounces of powdered 
sugar, one ounce of butter. Butter a pie dish and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, then put in a layer of raspberries and sprinkle with sugar. 
Repeat the alternate layers of crumbs, raspberries and sugar until the 
dish is full. Beat up the eggs with milk and pour into the dish. Scatter 
a few bits of butter on top and bake in a moderate oven. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. 
For a delicious raspberry pudding take half a pint of raspberries, six 
ounces of bread crumbs, one-quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, one- 
quarter of a pound of suet, two eggs and half a pint of milk. Finely 
chop the suet and mix with the sugar and bread crumbs. Beat the eggs 
separately, then with the milk and add to the other ingredients. Lastly 
add the raspberries. Put the mixture into a greased mold and steam 
from two and a half hours to four hours. 

STRAWBERRY CUP PUDDING. 
Butter and dust with sugar five cups; fill three-quarters full with the 
following mixture: One cupful bread crumbs, one cupful hot milk, four 
tablespoonfuls sugar, two eggs beaten very well and a half pint of straw- 
berry preserves. Mix all together, set the cups in a pan of water and 
bake about thirty or forty minutes. Serve hot with thin cream. 

APPLE PONE. 
Pare and chop fine one pint of sweet apples. Pour a cupful of boil- 
ing water into a pint of white corn meal, beating hard to make light. 
When cool, add one cupful of sweet milk and a half teaspoonful or more 



Hot Desserts 91 

of salt. Stir in the apples a grating of nutmeg and bake in a covered 
dish. Serve with hard sauce or cream and sugar. 

GRANDMOTHER'S INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald one cupful of sweet milk and stir into this enough corn meal 
to make stiff, about like bread. Add one cupful of molasses and let the 
mixture come to a boil. Salt well and spice with ginger and cinnamon. 
Bake two and one-half to three hours. Two cupfuls of quartered sweet 
apples added is an improvement. 

RAISIN PUDDING. 

Put four teaspoonfuls of well-washed rice, one teaspoonful of salt, 
half a cupful of sugar and half a cupfu! of raisins in one quart of milk. 
Let stand on the back of stove until rice is swollen. Bake in a moderate 
oven until rich and creamy. May be served with cream. 

PEACH AND TAPIOCA. 

Soak a half cupful of tapioca, add a cupful of sugar, salt and a pint 
of water; cook until clear, then add a pint of peaches cut in halves to the 
tapioca in a baking dish. Bake until brown. Serve with cream. 

AFTERTHOUGHT. 

One pint of nice apple sauce sweetened to taste, stir in the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten. Bake for fifteen minutes. Cover with a meringue 
made of two well-beaten whites and one-half cupful of powdered sugar. 
Return to the oven and brown. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Peel and core eight medium-sized apples: arrange in a baking dish 
and fill the space from which the core has been removed with sugar. 
Make a batter with three cupfuls of milk, one cupful of flour and three 
eggs well beaten. Pour this over the apples and bake until the apples 
are done. Serve with a nice sauce. 

APPLE CREAM PUDDING 

Slice a dishful of apples and pour over them the following batter: 
Take a pint of sour cream, add a teaspoonful of soda, and when it is 
dissolved beat in one or two cupfuls of flour, enough to make a thin 
batter; add salt and pour over the apples. Bake until brown. If the 
apples are not tart enough add lemon juice and serve with sugar and 
cream or with a hard sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS— I. 

Make a rich baking-powder biscuit crust, roll out and cut in squares 
large enough to wrap a well-cored and peeled apple. Fill the apple with 
chopped peanuts, sugar and bits of butter. Pinch each square and bake 
in a hot oven. A most delicious crust may be made by using peanut 
butter in place of other shortening in the making of the dumplings. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS— II. 

Take two cupfuls of chopped apple, a cupful of sugar, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and two cupfuls of boiling water; when boiling hot, add the 
following dumplings, made by taking a cupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, a dash of salt and three-fourths of a cupful of cream; 
mix and drop by spoonfuls in the apple sirup. Cover and boil twenty 
minutes without lifting the cover. Serve hot. 

APPLE PUDDING— I. 
Line a pie plate with sliced tart apples, then cover with a batter made 
like baking-powder biscuit with less flour. Bake, turn over and spread 
with butter; sprinkle with sugar and grated nutmeg. 



92 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

APPLE PUDDING— II. 
Fill a greased baking dish half full of thinly sliced apples. Pour 
over them a cupful of hot water. Cover with a batter made of one tabic 
spoonful of shortening, one-half cupful sugar, one-half cupful water, one 
cupful flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Flavor with lemon and 
bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sweetened cream. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice apples and put in buttered pan, one-half cupful of 
sugar, one-half cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg, one. 
tablespoonful of baking powder, one cupful flour. Bake and serve with 
hard sauce. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Peel and slice enough apples to fill a deep pie plate. Make a rich 
biscuit and mixture, rather soft, and pour over the apples. Bake until 
the crust is brown and the apples tender. Turn upside down on a plate, 
spread generously with butter, sprinkle with sugar and grated nutmeg 
and serve as one does pie. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
Cream three-fourths tablespoonful butter and one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, add two teaspoonfuls of beaten egg, one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of milk and five tablespoonfuls of flour mixed and sifted 
with one-half teaspoonful of baking powder and a few grains of salt. 
Beat vigorously, turn into two buttered individual tins and bake in mod- 
erate oven. Serve with cream. 

CRANBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Make tender crust of one quart of flour, a quarter of a cupful of 
butter and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Use plenty of cranberry 
sauce and cover with whipped cream. 

LEMON SHORTCAKE. 
Make the pastry part the same as for any shortcake and shred be- 
tween the layers a paste composed of the grated rind and juice of a large 
lemon mixed with a cupful of sugar and one cupful of sweetened cream, 
flavored with lemon. 

MERINGUED APPLES. 

Prepare apples as for baking. Cook till tender, but not till broken. 
Fill the centers with apple jelly or marmalade and coat each apple with 
a meringue made of the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, flavored with lemon. Place in a quick oven to brown. 

PEACH CHARLOTTE. 

Line a plain mold with ladyfingers or strips of bread dipped in 
butter. Fill the mold with peaches, cut fine and sweetened to taste; 
cover with more strips of buttered bread, and bake. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Pare and cut fine ripe peaches in halves. Crack a few of the pits, 
remove and blanch the kernels. Butter a deep baking dish, put in two 
layers of the fruit, dredge each layer with flour, sprinkle generously with 
sugar, dot with bits of butter, then add the kernels and one cupful of 
water. Place a dish over the peaches, cover with a rich biscuit dough 
and bake in a hot oven. Serve with cream. 

PEACH DESSERT. 

Peach pudding is a very popular dish with the peach lover. Fill 
pudding dish with whole peeled peaches and pour over them two cupfuls 
of water; cover closely and bake until peaches are tender; drain juice and 
let stand until cool. Add to juice one pint of sweet milk, four well- 
beaten eggs, a small cupful of flour with one teaspoonful of baking 



Hot Desserts 93 

powder mixed thoroughly in it ; one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter and a little salt. Beat well, pour over peaches. Bake 
until brown; serve with cream. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

Make a rich short-cake batter and after baking split open and spread 
with butter Pile with treshly sliced peaches, cover with powdered sugar 
and over these spread whipped cream. Cut this short-cake into squares 
before serving. Serve with a sauce made of fresh peaches, which have 
been mashed and sweetened. Whipped cream may be piled on top. 
POPPED CORN PUDDING. 

Scald three cupfuls of milk and pour two cupfuls of popoed corn 
which has been finely pounded, and let stand one hour Add three egjjs 
slightly beaten one cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of butter 
a tew dashes of salt; stir and pour into a buttered pudding dish Bake 
thirty-five minutes in a slow oven and serve with cream and maple sirup. 
PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Into a pint of stewed pumpkin beat the whipped yolks of five e^es 
two pints of milk, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar and half a teaspoon- 
r V?i *u p( ?£ de r ed mace ' nu tmeg and cinnamon. Last of all stir in 
lightly the stiffly beaten whites of five eggs, turn the mixture into a 
buttered pudding dish and bake until set. Serve hot with a hard sauce. 
RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Make a rich biscuit dough bv mixing one quart of flour sifted with 
tour heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt ■ 
work in one tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of cream, milk enou-h to 
make the dough easy to handle, one egg broken in and stirred well. "Roll 
the dough until about an inch thick, brush over with melted butter cut 
with biscuit cutter size of the top of a cup. Place one over the other 
When baked break open, put sweetened raspberries between and put a 
large spoonful of whipped cream on top and one large berry also iuice 
poured around. " J 

RHUBARB SHORTCAKE. 
Chop fine one cupful of mixed dates and raisins. Add to two cup- 
tuls of rich, thick stewed rhubarb, cook five minutes. Split a short-cake 
and spread generously with butter, then cover with the rhubarb mixture 
Lover with whipped cream. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 
Peel and grate enough raw sweet potatoes to weigh a half pound 
Lream together six ounces of butter and a half pound of sugar; add alter- 
nately eight well-beaten eggs and a grated potato; then add the juice 
and grated rind of one orange and one lemon, one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of mace, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
two tablespoonfuls of brandy and one gill of sherry. Beat hard pour 
into a buttered dish and bake in a moderate oven for about 'three- 
quarters of an hour. 

CONCERNING THE STEAMING OF PUDDINGS. 

To prevent a steamed pudding from becoming heavy put a cloth over 
the steamer before covering. This prevents the moisture from settling 
and making the pudding heavy. 

Cook steam puddings by putting the batter in a tube angel-food pan, 

and setting this in a steamer. This allows the center to cook as well as 

the sides and does away with the sticky center so often found in large 

solid pudding molds. s 

CRANBERRY POT PIE. 

A quart of berries, a pint of water and three-quarters of a pound of 



94 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

sugar. Place in kettle, cover with squares of light biscuit dough and 
boil for fifteen minutes. Serve with sauce or nutmeg and cream. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill baking dish with sliced tart apples, then spread on top the fol- 
lowing batter: Three cupfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, butter 
size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Moisten mixture 
with milk until it is thick batter. Steam two hours. Serve with a sauce 
or with cream. 

CRANBERRY ROLY-POLY. 

Chop fine one pint of cranberries and a half cupful of raisins. Spread 
the mixture over a rich biscuit dough; sprinkle with sugar; roll up, 
pinching the ends of the dough. Arrange on a greased pan and steam 
forty-five minutes. Put in the oven just long enough to dry off. 

STEAMED CRANBERRY PUDDING. 
One cup of sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, four tablespoonfuls of butter, three-quarters 
of cupful of cold water, one and a half cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of 
cranberries. Mix as for cake batter. Alternate with batter layers of 
berries; place in a mold and steam for one and a half hours. Serve with 
vanilla or cranberry sauce. 

COLD DESSERTS 

COLD DESSERTS fall into the following classes: desserts, the thick- 
ness of which is brought about by the use of gelatine; those the 
thickness of which is brought about by the use of corn starch, 
junket, eggs, tapioca, sago, and finally a large number of miscellaneous 
cold desserts. It is in the realm of cold desserts that the possibilities for 
the handsomest dishes are greatest. 

CIDER JELLY. 

Soften two and one-half tablespoonfuls of gelatin in a half cupful of 
cold water; pour over this one cupful of boiling hot cider, add a cupful 
of sugar, a third of a cupful of lemon juice. When the gelatin is dis- 
solved add two cupfuls of cider and pour into a mold to harden. This 
may be served in individual molds. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Soak two ounces of gelatin in one-half pint of cold water for one 
hour; then mix it with one and one-half pints of boiling water, the thinly 
pared peel of one and the juice of three lemons, and sugar to taste. Boil 
all for Ave minutes, then remove it from the fire and allow it to cool. 
Stir in quickly the crushed shells and beaten whites of two eggs and boil 
the jelly up again without stirring. Allow it to settle for ten minutes, 
strain through a jelly bag of close-mesh cloth, so that the liquid may be 
perfectly clear. Pour the jelly into a fancy jelly mold and leave until set 
or put into glasses and seal. This may be made the foundation or flavor- 
ing jelly for other jellies and many desserts. 

PARADISE PUDDING. 

To a pint of lemon jelly add a half cupful of blanched and shredded 
almonds, a dozen marshmallows cut in quarters, a dozen candied cherries, 
cut in bits, put into a mold and stand until firm. Serve whipped cream 
heaped around the mold. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Prepare a pint of lemon jelly. Pour a quarter of it into a mold. 
When it is cool lay fresh peaches in it and set away to harden. When it 



Cold Desserts 95 

is firm pour in more jelly and add another layer of peaches, then the 
rest of the jelly. When set turn out and serve with sweetened cream. 

GRAPES IN JELLY. 

To one quart of hot grape juice add two tablespoonfuls of dissolved 
gelatine. Place a layer at the bottom of a mold; chill, then add a row 
of grapes cut in half and seeded, then more liquid and again chill until 
set. Repeat until the mold is full. When jellied, unmold and garnish 
with whipped cream. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

One quarter ounce of gelatine, the juice of two oranges, one and 
one-half ounces of lump sugar, one egg, one-quarter pint of cold water. 
Rub the sugar on to the orange rind till it becomes quite yellow, then 
put it into a saucepan with the water and gelatine. Cut the oranges 
open, strain their juice and put it in with the gelatine and water. Let the 
whole heat till the gelatine is melted, then remove the pan from the fire. 
Beat the egg up very well. Allow the gelatine mixture to cool and then 
pour it on to the egg, stirring briskly all the time. Have ready a mold 
which has been dipped in cold water; pour the jelly into this and put it 
aside till it is set. 

JELLIED PEACHES. 

Drain the sirup from a jar of peaches and cut the fruit into small 
pieces. Measure the sirup, and if there is not enough to make one pint 
add enough water to make the desired quantity. Heat the sirup to the 
boiling point, stir in one tablespoonful of granulated gelatin, softened in 
one-half cupful of water. Stir until dissolved, add one tablespoonful 
lemon juice, let stand in a cool place until it begins to thicken, then add 
the peaches; turn into a mold and let harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Rub five large bananas smooth with five tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
then add a cupful of cream beaten stiff. Mix with a pint of lemon jelly 
and pour into a mold to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 
CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatin in a quarter of a cupful of cold 
water. Mix together a cupful of sugar, four ounces of grated chocolate 
and three well-beaten eggs, add two cupfuls of milk brought to the 
scalding point. Cook in a double boiler until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then stir in the gelatin, a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Turn into a cold dish and serve with mounds of whipped cream 
dotting the top. 

CIDER CREAM. 

Pare, core and quarter six tart apples, add the yellow rind of half a 
lemon, cover with a pint of cider, boil and press through a sieve. Cover 
a half box of gelatin with half a cupful of cold water, and when softened 
add the juice ot one lemon, and mix all together. When molded serve 
with cider sauce or cream and sugar. Grape juice may be used in place 
of cider when it is not obtainable or any canned fruit juice may be used. 

FRUIT CREAM. 
Cook the juice of three lemons and three oranges with two cupfuls 
of sugar; set aside to cool. Soften two tablespoonfuls of gelatin with 
milk, then heat over hot water until dissolved. Whip two cupfuls of 
cream, add the fruit juice and gelatin, stir until well blended, then pile 
high in a deep dish or mold if preferred. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Prepare a pint of orange jelly and when it begins to harden fold in 
a pint of whipped cream which has been sweetened with a half cupful of 
sugar. Mold and serve cold with cream. 



96 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

PRUNE JELLY. 
Wash a half pound of good prunes and allow them to soak for an 
hour in cold water. Then put into an enameled saucepan with the rind 
of a lemon thinly peeled, a stick of cinnamon and a quarter of a cupful 
of sugar. Stew until tender, then strain the liquid and rub the prunes 
through a sieve. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels and add to the 
pulp; add a quarter of a cupful of lemon juice and four tablespoonfuls of 
softened gelatin. Stir until well mixed, strain and mold, then serve with 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with almond. 

CHOCOLATE CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Put two ounces of chocolate into a double boiler and when melted 
add a pint of warm milk. Stir well and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Moisten three tablespoonfuls of corn starch with a little cold milk; add 
it to the hot milk and cook until thick and smooth. Remove from the 
heat, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, beat well and pour into a glass dish to 
serve when cold. Serve with sweetened cream. 

ALMOND JUNKET. 

Grind a half cupful of blanched almonds, pound them until fine and 
add them with flavoring to a quart of milk which has been thickened 
with a junket tablet. Pour into sherbet cups and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

To one cupful of hot milk add two tablespoonfuls of grated choco- 
late, two well-beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a 
slight pinch of salt and one tablespoonful of corn starch mixed smooth 
with a little cold milk. Let the mixture reach the boiling point, remove 
from the stove and when cool pour into cups or glasses. Place in the 
refrigerator until firm and cold, and serve with whipped cream. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 
Two cups milk, two tablespoonfuls ground coffee, three eggs, one- 
fourth cupful of sugar, one-eighth teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Scald milk with coffee, and strain. Beat eggs 
slightly, add sugar, salt, vanilla and milk. Strain into buttered individual 
moulds, set in pan of hot water and bake until firm. Serve with cream. 

CUP CUSTARDS. 
Pleat a quart of milk in a double boiler, but do not bring it quite to 
the boil. Beat five eggs light and stir into them half a cupful of sugar. 
On this mixture pour the scalding milk very gradually, beating steadily 
all the time. Return to the double boiler and cook, stirring constantly, 
until the custard is separated. Remove the custard from the fire, season 
with two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and set aside to cool. When cold, 
nearly fill the glasses or cups with the mixture and heap with meringue 
made by whipping the whites of two eggs stiff with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 

Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk with a bit of lemon 
peel and a good bit of cinnamon, until the pipes are swelled to their 
utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard dish and pour a 
custard over them hot. Serve cold. 

CHOCOLATE TAPIOCA. 
Wash a cupful of tapioca, cover with a pint and a half of water and 
soak for two hours. Put four ounces of chocolate in a double boiler and 
when melted add a half cupful of sugar. Cook until the tapioca is trans- 
parent, stirring often; when done, remove and flavor with vanilla. Serve 
with sugar and cream. A sprinkling of nuts or bits of jelly over the top 
for a garnish adds to the appearance of either a tapioca or sago pudding. 



Cold Desserts 97 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Add one pint of water to one quart of milk and put on stove. Just 
before it begins to boil add one cupful of raisins or currants and a little 
salt When it boils stir in three or four tablespoonfuls of flour or corn 
starch, moistened in milk and sugar to taste. Serve cold with sweetened 
cream or pudding sauce. 

PRUNE TAPIOCA. 

Put a tablespoonful and a half of tapioca, a quarter of a cupful of 
sugar two cupfuls of water and a quarter of a pound of the best prunes, 
soft and plump from soaking, in the top part of a double boiler, bteam 
three hours, adding more water if necessary, but do not stir, as the 
prunes should not be broken. Cool and serve with cream. 

GRAPE SAGO. 

Wash a cupful of sago, cover with cold water and let soak over night. 
Next morning cook until transparent. Add a cupful of grape juice 
When cool turn into a glass dish and put aside to get cold. Serve with 
cream and sugar. ^^ jrlly 

Soak five tablespoonfuls of sago in half a pint of cold water thirty 
minutes, then add one cupful of sugar, add three cupfuls of boiling water; 
cook in double boiler for one hour. Pour into molds, and when cold 
turn out and serve with fruit juice. 

STRAWBERRY SAGO. 
Soak one cupful of sago in three cupfuls of cold water for two hours, 
then pour into a double boiler and cook unti the sago is transparent 
When cool pour it over strawberries in a mold. Serve very cold with 
sugar and cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM, OR TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM CAKE. 
No more delicious dessert can be imagined than good layer cake of 
two layers, filled with sweetened whipped cream and the top covered with 
it If one wishes to have the cake more elaborate bananas, pineapple 
and candied cherries may be added to the cream. However, it is sum- 
ciently satisfying with plain whipped cream. 

CURRANT FLUFF. 
Beat white (allow one egg to a person) of egg to stiff froth, add 
knife-tip of salt and scant dessertspoonful of home-made currant jelly. 
Beat till smooth and rosy. Pile on slice of cake or sugar cookie, lhis 
amount is really enough for two persons if egg is large. 
FRUIT BREAD SPONGE. 
Pour over two cupfuls of small cubes of bread hot fruit juice until it 
is all absorbed. Let stand in a cool place several hours and when ready 
to serve turn from the mold and pour whipped and sweetened cream 

OVer " FRUIT NUT CREAM. 

Whip a cupful and a half of cream, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
a half cupful of chopped nuts, two tablespoonfuls of minced candied 
orange or grapefruit peel or other candied fruits. Serve in sherbet cups 
lined with lady fingers. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

This is a most delicious dessert which may be easily made and takes 
the place of a frozen dish. Cut half a pound of marshmallows in fourths 
add to a cupful of cream beaten stiff and two stiffly beaten whites of eggs 
one cupful of walnut meats broken in bits, a tablespoonful of Powdered 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Flavor with, any desired flavoring and serve 
in sherbet cups. Garnish with cubes of jelly or with candied cherries. 



98 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

PEACH CANAPE. 
Cut rounds from nice sponge cake, sprinkle with a little peach juice 
and lay on halves of peaches with the hollow filled with whipped cream 
flavored with a dash of almond extract. Chopped almonds sprinkled 
over them add to the taste. 

PEACH CROUSTADES. 

Cut stale sponge or delicate cake into blocks, remove a portion from 
the center of each to make a well, fill with half a preserved peach, pour 
over a spoonful of the sirup, cooked until well reduced and crown with a 
spoonful of whipped cream. 

APPLE CREAM PIE. 

Make any kind of plain sponge cake batter; bake in shallow, round 
cake tins. Split carefully and fill with the following mixture: Pare and 
cut in eighths five or six apples. Cook in as little water as possible. 
Rub through a sieve or colander, add half a cupful of sugar and the un- 
beaten whites of two eggs. Whip with an egg beater until white and 
stiff. Flavor to taste. 

PINEAPPLE FLUFF. 

Line glass cups with thin slices of sponge cake which have been 
moistened in pineapple juice. Beat a cupful of cream, add one well- 
beaten egg and a cupful of powdered sugar with a cupful of shredded 
pineapple, to which a tablespoonful of lemon juice has been added. A 
spoonful of any bright, fresh berries or preserved ones of good color 
added to each cupful makes a most attractive dish. 

FROZEN DISHES 

FROZEN DISHES are of the following kinds: ice, made of sweetened 
and diluted fruit juice, which is then frozen; sherbet, a water ice, to 
which gelatine or white of egg is added; frappe, a water ice, frozen 
to the consistency of mush; parfait, a water ice into which cream is 
folded; ice cream, thin cream, sweetened, flavored and frozen; mousse, 
heavy cream, whipped, sweetened, flavored and packed in a mold for a 
time long enough to freeze. 

PROPORTION OF ICE AND SALT TO USE IN FREEZING 

DISHES. 
The proportion of ice and salt for ice cream is one part salt to three 
of ice. For ices and sherbets use one part salt to four parts of ice. For 
packing use one part of salt to four parts of ice. Use a gunny sack or 
a canvas bag and a heavy mallet to crush the ice. 

APPLE SAUCE ICE. 

Take two cupfuls of unsweetened apple sauce, add a cupful of sirup, 

or enough to sweeten to taste. Five tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or 

nutmeg may be used in place of lemon juice if desired. Freeze. 

APRICOT ICE. 
One cupful of apricot pulp and juice, a cupful of sirup, two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, three-fourths of a cupful of water. Mix well 
and freeze. 

CIDER ICE. 

Boil together for fifteen minutes one quart cider, one-half cupful 
brown sugar, six each of whole cloves, allspice and cassia buds. Strain 
and let stand until cool. Put in freezer and pack with ice and salt in 
proportion of two parts ice to one of salt. Freeze about fifteen minutes, 
remove dasher and pack. Serve in sherbet cups. 



Frozen Dishes 99 

CRANBERRY ICE. 

Cook a pint of cranberries with a cupful of water, add one and one- 
half cupfuls sugar. Put through a sieve, adding a half cupful of water 
during the process; then add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Freeze. 

A FAVORITE FROZEN DESSERT. 

Take the juice of three oranges, three lemons and the pulp of three 
bananas. Cook together five minutes three cupfuls each of water and 
sugar; cool. Put the banana pulp through a fine sieve, add it to the 
sirup with the fruit juice and freeze. This makes about three quarts 
when frozen. 

FROZEN FRUIT CUP. 

A rosy ice with the meat course is a great favorite with many. Put 
a spoonful of raspberry, lemon or orange ice in a sherbet glass and pour 
over it ginger sirup with chopped ginger on the lemon or a tablespoon- 
ful of maraschino cherries over raspberry. Garnish with very thin slices 
of banana and grapes skinned, seeded and cut in halves. 

GRAPE ICE. 

Boil together a pound of sugar and a pint of water, cool and add a 
pint of grape juice and the juice of one lemon. Freeze as usual. 

APRICOT SHERBET SERVED IN APPLE SHELLS. 

Select bright red apples of uniform size, rub until they have a high 
polish. Cut off the blossom end and scoop out the pulp, carefully notch 
the edge. Fill with apricot sherbet and serve upon apple leaves. 

BAKED APPLE ICE SHERBET. 

Pare, core and quarter ten tart apples. Add sugar and lemon juice 
and bake until tender. Scald one quart of rich milk and cream. When 
cold add to the baked apples and freeze. 

CHERRY SHERBET. 

Take a cupful of cherry sirup left from canned fruit, add the juice 
of half a lemon, a cupful of sugar and a pint of thin cream; freeze as 
usual. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET. 

Take a quart of stewed cranberry juice and add to it the juice of 
three oranges, a pound of sugar and pack it into a mold to freeze. When 
like mush, stir in the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and finish freezing. 
Serve with turkey or any meat course. 

FROZEN MAPLE SNOW. 

A cupful of maple sirup and the whites of five eggs are needed for 
the dish. Partly beat the whites then beat both together; cook until 
thick in a double boiler, stirring all the while; when cool pack in salt 
and ice for three hours. Serve in tall glasses and garnish with candied 
cherries. 

FRUIT SHERBET. 

The juice of two oranges, two lemons, a pint of cream and a cupful 
of sugar sirup or less, depending upon the fruit. Strain the juice and 
add the cream and sirup; then freeze. 

GRAPE JUICE SHERBET— I. 

Add to a quart of grape juice a half teaspoonful of clove extract, the 
juice of a lemon and freeze it as for ice; then stir in two stiffly beaten 
whites, pack in a mold and let stand in ice and salt for two or more 
hours. Serve with small cakes. 



100 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

GRAPE JUICE SHERBET— II. 

To a fourth of a cupful of cold water add one and a half teaspoonfuls 
of gelatin; when softened add a half cupful of hot water, a cupful of 
grape juice, a half cupful of sirup. Let stand until the gelatin is dis- 
solved, then freeze. 

LEMON AND ORANGE SHERBET. 

Take a half cupful each of orange juice and lemon juice, two cupfuls 
of sugar and a pint of thin cream; freeze and serve in sherbet glasses. 

PEACH SHERBET. 

Pare and remove pits and kernels of three peaches; add these to a 
quart of water and cook twenty minutes; strain and add enough more 
water to make a quart. Add two cupfuls of sugar; cook this twenty 
minutes, then add half a teaspoonful of gelatin softened in a little cold 
water, and strain. When cold qdd the juice of a lemon and the peach 
pulp which has been finely mashed through a sieve. Freeze as usual. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Put two cupfuls of water and one cupful of sugar in a saucepan and 
bring to the boiling point; boil twenty minutes, cool and add a can of 
grated pineapple; freeze to a mush. Then fold in the whip from two 
cupfuls of cream. Serve in sherbet cups with candied pineapple and a 
glaced cherry for a garnish. 

VELVET SHERBET. 

Take the juice of three lemons, two cupfuls of sugar and a quart of 
rich milk. Freeze as usual. 

CANTALOUPE FRAPPE. 

Mix well together three pints of cantaloupe pulp, two cupfuls of 
sugar and the strained juice of three lemons; freeze. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE. 

This is especially good with a turkey dinner. Stew the berries and 
add the sugar as for sauce or jelly. Cool and add the juice of two 
lemons and freeze to the consistency of mush. Serve in sherbet cups 
with turkey or chicken. 

GRAPE JUICE FRAPPE. 
Boil one cupful of sugar and two cupfuls of grape juice five minutes, 
add the juice of one lemon and one cupful of orange juice and beat until 
cold. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, pack in ice and salt 
and freeze to a mush. 

PEACH PARFAIT. 

Mash one quart of ripe peaches, add the juice of two lemons. Pour 
one quart of boiling water over two cupfuls of sugar; boil for five 
minutes, then pour over the peach pulp; cool and freeze to a soft mush, 
then add the beaten whites of two eggs, a tablespoonful of sugar and one 
of vanilla, mix well and finish freezing. 

FROZEN PLUM PUDDING. 

Scald a pint of milk, and when hot pour over three well-beaten egg 
yolks, add a cupful of sugar and cook over hot water until the mixture 
coats the spoon; strain and flavor with melted chocolate. Then fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites and one cupful of whipped cream and freeze in 
the usual way. Prepare the fruit to be used, steaming the raisins and 
currants and adding the finely shredded citron after soaking in orange 
juice. 



Frozen Dishes 101 

BANANA ICE CREAM— I. 
Mash three very ripe bananas with a silver fork and put into a bowl 
with a cupful of sugar, a pint of milk, a pint of rich cream and a table- 
spoonful of vanilla or lemon extract. Freeze, and serve with maraschino 
cherries. 

BANANA ICE CREAM— II. 

Scald two cupfuls of milk in a double boiler, and when it is just 
scalded pour it over three beaten eggs. Return to the double boiler, 
stirring constantly until the mixture coats the spoon; add a dash of salt, 
a half cupful of sugar, and when the custard is cold a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and three mashed bananas. 

GINGER ICE CREAM. 
Pound six ounces of preserved ginger to a paste and add slowly two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Mix a pint of cream with half a pound of 
granulated sugar and add slowly to the ginger mixture. Press through 
a fine wire sieve, and freeze. 

GRAPE JUICE CREAM. 

A most delicious grape juice cream is prepared with a cupful of grape 
juice, a pint of cream, sirup to sweeten and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice; freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Cut up and put through a ricer enough peaches to fill a cup and a 
half. Add the juice of a lemon and a cup and a fourth of sugar. Turn 
into a freezer, then add a pint of thin cream and freeze as usual. Pack 
in a brick mold and when turned out surround with quartered peaches, 
sprinkled with powdered sugar and pistachio nuts chopped fine. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 
Sift together one-half cupful of sugar, two level tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch and one-quarter teaspoonful of salt; stir them into one pint 
of milk, scalded over boiling water; continue stirring until mixture 
thickens and is smooth, then cover and cook fifteen minutes. Pick over, 
wash carefully, drain one box of strawberries; mix these with one cup 
sugar and allow to stand one hour. When corn starch mixture is cooked, 
strain it into can of freezer; when cold add one pint cream and begin to 
freeze as usual; when half frozen, add strawberries and sugar rubbed 
through a sieve and finish freezing. If the berries are sour use one and 
one-half cupfuls of sugar instead of the cupful designated above. 

FROZEN CHOCOLATE. 

Melt four ounces of chocolate by putting into a pan over hot water; 
add one and a half cupfuls of granulated sugar and stir until this is 
melted; then add a cupful of rich milk or thin cream and boil for one 
minute. Meanwhile, have a tablespoonful of gelatin melted in a quarter 
of a cupful of cold water, and when softened add to the hot mixture. 
When cold add a teaspoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt and three cupfuls 
of cream, whipped. Pour into a mold and pack in ice and salt. Four 
parts of ice to one of salt. 

COUP SUZANNE. 

Turn one can of apricots into a saucepan, add a third of a cupful of 
sugar, bring to the boiling point and let simmer until the sirup is thick. 
Half fill coup glasses with vanilla ice cream, place on top the prepared 
apricot, cut in small pieces, cover with ice cream and garnish with bar le 
due currants. 

PRESERVED CHESTNUTS. 

Chestnuts with a rich orange sauce cooked until they are like pre- 
serves are a delicious accompaniment to ice cream and make a most 
pleasing variety of garnish for a frozen dessert. 



102 The Court of Honor Qook Book 

SWEET OR PUDDING SAUCES 

FLAVORING SPICES. 
Take a fourth of a pound of black pepper, two ounces of ginger, one 
ounce of grated nutmeg, the same of allspice, cinnamon and cloves, all 
ground, and a half pound of salt. Put these ingredients through a fine 
sieve several times, to be sure they are well mixed and blended, and keep 
closely covered to keep the salt dry. It is a good plan to thoroughly dry 
the salt before it is mixed with the other ingredients. Add in small 
quantities as needed to season sauces. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

The juice of cherries may be used, thickened and enriched with but- 
ter or a half pint of cream cooked with two tablespoonfuls of corn starch 
until thick, then a meringue of egg white, with a third of a cupful of 
powdered sugar is added. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Melt an ounce of chocolate over hot water; add three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a half cupful of boiling water; stir while heating to the boil- 
ing point, then add two cupfuls of sugar less the three tablespoonfuls 
used previously, and a second half cupful of water; then boil six minutes 
after the boiling begins. If not smooth, strain through a cheesecloth and 
let become cold; add a teaspoonful of vanilla and a bit of cinnamon 
before serving. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Beat the white of one egg stiff; add the well-beaten yolk of one egg 
and gradually add one cupful of powdered sugar. Beat one-half cupful 
of thick cream and one-fourth cupful of milk until stiff; combine the 
mixture and add one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

CREAM SAUCE, PLAIN. 
Mix thoroughly one pint of cream, three tablespoonfuls brown sugar 
and one-half small nutmeg, grated. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 
Add a pinch of salt to a pint of milk and scald in a double boiler. 
Pour this over the yolks of two eggs which have been well beaten and 
added to one-half cupful of sugar. Stir for a few minutes, then pour 
back into the double boiler. Cook until smooth and creamy, but not 
too thick to pour easily. When cold flavor with one scant teaspoonful 
of vanilla or almond, or, better still, crack a few peach stones, blanch the 
kernels and cook them with the custard. 

A DELICIOUS PUDDING SAUCE. 

Beat until thick the yolks of two large eggs, then add the beaten 
white of one and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Place in a 
double boiler and cook, stirring until thick. Pour into an earthen bowl 
and beat until cold, then mix with this a cupful of whipped cream. If 
used with puddings a teaspoonful of vanilla is added. This sauce is good 
with fruit salads. 

GINGER CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Simmer the milk from which the custard is to be made with some 
chopped ginger in it for fifteen minutes. Then strain and proceed with 
the custard sauce in the usual way. 

GINGER SAUCE FOR BAKED CUSTARD. 

Simmer a cupful of sirup, to which a quarter of a cupful of chopped 
preserved ginger has been added. Serve hot. 



Cake 103 

HARD SAUCE. 
Put half a cupful of butter into a bowl, cream and add half as much 
sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla, and beat to a cream; then add the beaten 
white of an egg, nutmeg if desired, and set on ice to chill. 
LEMON SAUCE. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan, and when hot add a 
tablespoonful of corn starch. When smooth add the juice of a lemon, 
a half cupful of sugar and a well-beaten egg. Stir until smooth. 
MAPLE SIRUP SUBSTITUTE. 
A good substitute for maple sirup is caramelized sugar sirup. Put a 
cupful of granulated sugar into a smooth, clean frying pan, stir until 
melted, then add a pint of boiling water; stir add another cupful and a 
half of sugar and boil until all is dissolved. This will be a golden sirup 
of fine flavor at much cheaper cost than the canned sirups. 
MARSHMALLOW SAUCE. 
Cut a fourth of a pound of marshmallows in pieces and put into a 
double boiler and let stand until melted. Dissolve one-fourth of a cup- 
ful of powdered sugar in the same amount of water, add to the marsh- 
mallows and stir until blended. Cool before serving on the ice cream. 
ORANGE SAUCE. 
Juice of one orange, grated rind of quarter orange, three-quarters 
cupful granulated sugar, one and a half tablespoonfuls butter three level 
tablespSonfuls corn starch. Mix the sugar and corn starch thoroughly. 
Add to the orange juice enough boiling water to make altogether a cup- 
ful and a half of liquid. Pour this into the sugar and corn starch and 
stir constantly over the fire until it boils and clears. Add the butter, stir 
until melted, put in the grated rind and serve hot. 
PEACH CUSTARD SAUCE. 
Add a pinch of salt to a pint of milk and scald in a double boiler 
Pour this over the yolks of two eggs which have been well-beaten and 
added to one-half cupful of sugar. Stir a few minutes, then pour back 
into the double boiler. Cook until smooth and creamy, but not too 
thick to pour easily. When cold flavor with one scant teaspoonful of 
vanilla or almond, or, better still, crack a few peach stones, blanch the 
kernels and cook them with the custard. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 
Boil together one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of hot water one 
teaspoonful flour or corn starch, add flavoring and pour over slices of the 

pudding. WHIPPED CREAM SUBSTITUTE. 

When it is impossible to have whipped cream a delicious substitute 
can be made in the following way: Beat the whites of two eggs very 
stiff Slice evenly one banana, add to the eggs and beat until thoroughly 
dissolved Sweeten to taste with powdered sugar. The richness of taste 
and creamy color makes this the equal of whipped cream, and with some 
left-over slices of cake it makes a good "emergency dessert. 

CAKE 

THERE are in general two kinds of«cake, namely, sponge cake and 
butter cake. The innumerable varieties of cakes are variations of 
these Sponge cakes are of two kinds— white and yellow: butter 
cakes are of two kinds-white and yellow. With good receipts for each 
of these, almost any good cake can be made although different receipts 
are very desirable because a good result is then to be obtained without 
experimenting. 



104 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs until stiff and lemon colored, add three- 
fourths of a cupful of sugar gradually, beating constantly; then one table- 
spronful of lemon juice and a little salt and fold in three-fourths of a 
cupful of flour and the stiffly beaten whites of the four eggs. Bake in 3 
pan of proportionate size and shape thirty to forty minutes. 

WHITE SPONGE OR ANGEL CAKE 

Beat eleven egg whites (one cupful) until stiff but not dry, with a 

little salt; then add one cupful of sugar, beating it in gradually; fold in 

one cupful of flour sifted with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar five 

times. Bake forty minutes. Do not flavor, as extracts toughen the egg. 

YELLOW LOAF OR LAYER CAKE. 
Cream together one-third of a cupful of shortening and one cupful 
of sugar, add the yolks of two eggs, one-half of a cupful of milk and a 
cup and three-quarters of flour sifted in with one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Fold in the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, with one-eighth of 
a cupful of salt and a half a teaspoonful of flavoring. Bake in loaf form 
thirty, or layer cake tins fifteen minutes. 

WHITE LOAF OR LAYER CAKE. 
Cream one-fourth of a cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar 
together, add one-half cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, sifted, with 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and fold in the whites of four eggs 
beaten stiff, with a little salt. Add a teaspoonful of flavoring. Bake as 
a loaf thirty to forty minutes, or in layers fifteen to twenty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat four eggs until light, add a cupful of granulated sugar and a 
cupful of powdered sugar. Sift together two cupfuls of flour with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and beat until light and full of bubbles. 
Into three-quarters of a cupful of boiling water put a teaspoonful of 
flavoring and stir into the cake mixture. Bake in gem pans. Ice or not, 
as desired. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE— I. 

This is a very simple cake to have good, but many find it difficult to 
roll. Be careful of the baking, and if there is any brown on the edges 
trim carefully. Take two eggs, beat well; add a half cupful of sugar, half 
a cupful of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder and at the last a table- 
spoonful of water. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE— II. 

Take four eggs and beat the yolks and whites separately. Then put 
together; add one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Bake in a slow oven. When done, turn out on a 
damp towel, spread with jelly and roll. 

BROWN SUGAR CAKE. 

One cupful of brown sugar, yolk of one egg, one-quarter teaspoonful 
each of clove and of cinnamon, one-half cupful raisins, one cupful of sour 
milk, two teaspoonfuls soda added to the milk, two cupfuls flour: beat 
well. Bake in moderately hot oven. Frosting: One and one-half cup- 
fuls brown sugar, enough water to keep from burning; let boil until it 
threads from spoon; add white of one egs: beaten stiff, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Take from stove and stir until nearly cold, then spread over 
cake. 

APPLE CAKE. 

A most satisfactory apple cake or coffee cake may be made by taking 
three cupfuls of bread sponge which is light and foamy, add a quarter of 
a cupful of melted fat (butter is best), a quarter of a cupful of sugar, a 
well-beaten egg, all well mixed with a half cupful of milk and flour to 



Cake 105 

make a dough soft, but not sticky. Set to rise, add a half cupful of 
raisins when kneading it for the fiat loaf, cover with butter, slices of 
apple, sugar and cinnamon, and bake v. e its bulk. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 
Soak two cupfuls of dried or evaporated apples in cold water 
night. Chop them, add two cupfuls of molasses anc - one hour. 

When cold add one cupful of shortening, three well-beaten egg; 
capful of currants, one cupful of seedless raisins, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, half teaspoonful cloves, half nutmeg, grated, and three cupfuls of 
flour, into which has been sifted one heaping teaspoonful of soda. Add 
sufficient sour milk to make the batter of the rig :ency. Bake in 

deep tins in a moderate oven from two to four hours. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE— I. 
Rub together two cupfuls sugar and half cupful shortening. Add 
three cupfuls apple sauce, into which has been stirred two teaspc 
of saleratus. Season with two nfols of cinnamon, one teaspc i 

of cloves and one of allspice. Add three cupfuls of flour. Bake in 
shallow cake tins and serve hot as a pudding with lemon sauce or nicely 
flavored whipped cream, or frost it and serve with tea. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE— II. 
Take a cupful of sugar, half cupful of shortening, cupful of un- 
.tned apple sauce, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half teaspoonful 
of cloves and salt, a teaspoor. la, cupful of raisins and two and a 

half cupfuls flour. Sprinkle with nuts and sugar before putting ir.: 
oven. 

CHECKERBOARD CAKE. 

A pretty idea for a colored cake is to make a batter of two or three 
colors as :■: sired. If three colors are used, the cake is baked in 
. or if but two colors are desired, two layers will do. A p;- 
and a chocolate batJ r e the pretty combination for my 

Put ir. the tins by placing one color round the outer part of the tin 
third of the distance to the center, then another color for another third 
and fill the center with remaining ~ Make each layer 

ese layers are iced and placed together each slice or 
show nine little squi- i that are very rr. s _nd cause much 

ten served to the folks. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— I. 
Take a cupful of brown sugi- a fourth of a cupful of butter 
of a cupful of sour milk, a teas; □ imfnl ;:" soda, dissolved in a half cupful 
of boiling water, with two squares ::" chocolate grated and added at 

ne egg well beaten and one and i I'curth cupfuls of flour. Bake in 
layers and put together with bo: ltd frosting. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— II. 
One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, three eggs, one-half cupful 
milk, two cupfuls flour, three teaspoonfnls cocoa, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Sift flour before measuring. 

CHOCOLATE CRUMB CAKE. 
Th cry good way to use up old cake, doughnuts, cc 

Three cnpfnls cake crumbs one egg. one tab'.t r, one 

teaspoonful of vanilla mm cupful of milk, two-th b cupful of 

sugar, two teaspoonfuls bakir. g ares of melted cho: 

salt and flour to make h rather thick cake batter. Bake in loaf form. 

ONE EGG CHOCOLATE 7 -.KE. 
Boil together until they thicken one-ha! —ilk, the yolk 

of one egg and one-fourth cake choco'.ate. When cold add one table- 



106 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

spoonful of butter, one-half cupful milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and two cupfuls flour. For frosting, boil one cupful sugar with six 
tablespoonfuls water till it threads. Take from fire, pour over the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg. 

COLD WATER CAKE. 
One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-quarter cupful of butter, two 
and one-half cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one cupful of water, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder sifted with the flour. Flavor to taste and 
frost if you like. This is a good recipe for a layer cake. 

CREAM LAYER CAKE. 

Cream one cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar, one-half pint 
sweet milk, four eggs beaten very light, two teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and enough flour to make a good batter. Flavor with vanilla, mix well 
and bake in layer tins. When cold put the layers together with a filling 
made by whipping one-half pint of cream stiff, sweetening it and flavor- 
ing to taste. 

DARK CAKE FOR THANKSGIVING. 

One cupful molasses, one-half cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, 
one cupful milk, three cupfuls flour, two eggs, one-half pound raisins, 
one-quarter pound citron. Teaspoonful each cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, 
one-quarter teaspoonful cloves, three-quarter teaspoonful soda. Bake in 
a fruit cake tin (large deep tin) two hours with a slow fire. 

EGGLESS CAKE. 
One cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of water, one cupful of raisins, 
one cupful of currants, one-third of a cupful of lard, one-quarter of a 
nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cloves, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger. Boil these ingredients 
three minutes, cool, then add one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot 
water, one and one-half cupful of flour (sifted), to which has been added 
one-half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 
Take one and one-half pounds of flour, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, one pound citron, one pound sugar, one pound butter, two 
pounds currants, one pound blanched almonds, two pounds raisins, one 
pound orange peel, one pound lemon peel and twelve eggs. Bake five 
hours. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

To make an especially delicious cake of the lasting variety, cream 
together one cupful of butter and two cupfuls of sugar and add one cupful 
of milk. Sift three cupfuls of flour and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder three times and add to the mixture and stir well. Slice very thin 
one pound of citron, blanch one pound of almonds and chop fine and 
grate one medium-sized fresh cocoanut and add to the mixture with one 
wineglassful of white wine, stirring enough to mix only. Last fold in 
the beaten whites of eight eggs. Bake in two loaves and cook in a 
moderate oven. 

GOLDEN CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, three-quarters cupful butter creamed together, 
one-half cupful sweet milk and the beaten whites of three eggs, one and 
one-half cupfuls flour, one and one-half level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in layers. For filling: Yolks of three eggs, one cupful sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls thick cream beaten together until very light. Flavor 
with vanilla. These are very good. 

GOLDEN LOAF CAKE. 
Cream two-thirds of a cupful of butter, add one and a fourth cupfuls 
of sugar; beat the yolks of eight eggs until creamy; add a teaspoonful of 



Cake 107 

cream of tartar and beat until stiff. Sift two and a half cupfuls of pastry 
flour with a half teaspoonful of soda three times, then add the yolks, then 
two-thirds of a cupful of milk and the flour. Flavor with vanilla, beat 
hard and bake in a tube pan. 

LEMON CAKE— I. 
Mix one cupful of butter, two and one-half cupfuls of sugar, add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, two-thirds of a cupful of sweet milk with one- 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk, four cupfuls flour, the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons. Beat well the whites of the three eggs 
and add to other ingredients. Bake slowly. 

LEMON CAKE— II. 

One-half of a cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, 
two-thirds of a cupful of milk, four eggs, two and one-quarter cupfuls of 
flour, two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder; cream butter; add grad- 
ually the sugar, egg yolks well beaten, and milk; mix and sift the flour 
and baking powder, and add then the egg whites beaten stiff; bake in 
layers and put together with lemon filling. 

MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. 
Mix together half a cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, the whites of six eggs, one cupful of milk, two and one-half cup- 
fuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract. Make the icing as follows: One pound of maple sugar, 
half a cupful of butter and enough sweet milk to thicken; boil until thick 
when dropped from the spoon, remove from the fire and beat until it is 
of the proper consistency to spread. Cover the loaf with it, and while 
it is still soft dot over with blanched almonds. 
ORANGE CAKE. 

One-fourth cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, two eggs, one-half 
cupful of milk, one and two-thirds cupfuls of flour, two and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, yolks 
of eggs well beaten, and milk. Then add flour mixed and sifted with 
baking powder. (Do not pack flour in cup or the mixture will be too 
stiff.) Lastly fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Put together with 
orange filling and ice with orange frosting. 

PORK CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sour 
milk, one cupful fat pork chopped fine, one cupful of raisins, four eggs, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Stir 
in flour as for fruit cake. This will keep six months. 
PRISCILLA CAKE. 

Work a fourth of a cupful of butter with a spatula, add one cupful 
of sugar, two eggs well beaten, and a half cupful of milk alternately with 
one and two-thirds cupfuls of pastry flour, sifted, with two and a half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Turn into buttered tins and bake in 
layers. Fill with either caramel or maple filling. 

RAISIN CAKES. 
While nuts are not good for very little people, raisins which have 
been seeded and chopped are excellent. Cream half a cupful of butter, 
add a cupful of sugar, add a half cupful of rich milk or thin cream. 
Dissolve half a teaspoonful of soda in a little hot water, or use two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and sift it with the flour. Beat one egg and 
add enough flour to roll after adding a cupful of chopped raisins. 

RAISIN CAKES MADE WITHOUT EGGS. 
One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of sweet 



10S The Court of Honor Cook Book 

milk, four cupfuls of flour, one cupful of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful 
of flavoring and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake as drop cakes 
in little thins. Frost top and sides and put a large raisin in the center. 

SNOWFLAKE CAKE. 

Cream one-quarter cupful butter and one cupful sugar, add one-half 

cupful milk, one and two-third cupfuls flour, sifted with two and one-half 

teaspoonfuls baking powder; add the well-beaten whites of two eggs and 

one-quarter teaspoonful almond extract. Bake about forty-five minutes. 

WALNUT CREAM CAKE. 

For the layers use any regulation cake recipe. The following is very 
good and easily made by beginners: One cupful sugar, one-half cupful 
butter, three eggs (whites and yolks separately beaten), one and one-half 
cupfuls flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half cup- 
ful milk, vanilla flavoring. Bake in three layers. Fill with walnut cream 
filling. 

WALNUT TEA CAKE. 

Beat four eggs to a froth and add them to one-half cupful of butter 
creamed with a cupful and a half of powdered sugar, a half cupful of 
milk, two cupfuls of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a 
half cupful of walnut meats. Flavor with a little mixed spice. 

GINGERBREADS, COOKIES, 
WAFERS 

SUGAR COOKIES— I. 

Two pounds sugar, one cupful butter, one egg, one cupful clabbered 
cream, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful vanilla extract, one tea- 
spoonful lemon extract, one teaspoonful baking powder; flour to roll 
soft. Mix as for cake, beating soda into the cream and sprinkle sugar 
over the top and bake in very slow oven. If the dough is allowed to 
stand fifteen to twenty minutes before being rolled and the board and 
rolling pin are well floured they can be handled much softer than would 
be imagined and a better cooky will result. 

SUGAR COOKIES— II. 
To make sugar cookies take three-fourths of a cupful of fat, one 
cupful sugar, one egg, ono-fourth cupful milk, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, two cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful flavoring or spice. Roll thin, 
sprinkle with sugar, cut out and bake. 

CREAMED COOKIES. 
Cream a half cupful of butter, add one cupful of sugar, one well- 
beaten egg and a half cupful of milk, three and a half cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, then flavor with 
lemon. Roll out and cut and put the following filling in between two 
cookies before baking: Cook until thick one cupful of raisins, juice and 
rind of a lemon, one cupful of sugar and a half cupful of water, with two 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch. 

FILLED COOKIES. 

To a half cupful of shortening add a cupful of sugar, one egg and 
half a cupful of sweet milk in which one teaspoonful of soda is dissolved. 
Sift three and a half cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and mix well, roll out thin and cut 
with a cooky cutter. Cook a cupful of chopped raisins with half a cupful 
of water, a tablespoonful of flour and lemon juice to taste. When thick 
remove and place a teaspoonful on one cooky, cover with another and 



Gingerbread, Cookies and Wafers 109 

bake until brown. A filling of figs and dates may be used instead of 
raisins if so desired. 

LEMON WAFERS. 

Lemon wafers and orange wafers are made in the same manner. 
Cream a cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar; work in two beaten 
eggs. Squeeze the juice from a large lemon and grate the rind. Add 
this to a small cupful of cold water and mix with the other ingredients. 
Then put in enough flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. Roll 
very thin, cut in rounds or other shapes, and bake. 
GINGER SNAPS. 

Ginger snaps made from self-rising flour are very little trouble to 
prepare, and the cost is small. Heat a cupful of molasses, and when it 
reaches the boiling point pour over one-third of a cupful of shortening. 
Add a tablespoonful of ginger sifted with three heaping cupfuls of flour. 
Put away to get thoroughly cold, then roll out very thin and bake in a 
quick oven. 

SOFT GINGER COOKIES. 

One cupful of molasses, two-thirds cupful of lard, two-thirds cupful 
of sugar, two-thirds cupful of hot water, one teaspoonful of ginger, two 
dessert spoonfuls of soda and one dessert spoonful cream of tartar. Put 
the molasses in mixing bowl first, then add cream of tartar and soda. 
Add also a pinch of salt and flour to roll. Cut out and bake. Do not 
roll too thin. 

BROWNIES. 

Sift together two cupfuls of flour, a half teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Cream 
together a cupful of shortening with a cupful of granulated sugar and 
stir into the dry ingredients. Beat two eggs well and add to the rest; 
then add two cupfuls of rolled oats, a cupful of seeded raisins and a half 
cupful of well-washed currants. Mix well, then drop by teaspoonfuls on 
a greased baking dish. 

CARAWAY COOKIES. 
Mix one cupful of sour cream, half a cupful of buttermilk, two eggs, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll and 
caraway seeds to taste. Currants or nuts may be substituted in place of 
the seeds if so desired. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 
One cupful of sugar, one cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of but- 
ter, one-half cupful of lard, three well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, two cupfuls oatmeal (uncooked), one and one-half cupfuls of 
flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Drop from spoon in little 
balls. Bake in a moderate oven. 

PEANUT CRISPS. 
Peanut crisps are a fine substitute for the usual tea cakes. Shell a 
quart of peanuts and chop them fine. Add one cupful of powdered 
sugar, a tablespoonful of flour and the whites of two eggs. Beat up 
lightly and drop in spoonfuls on a buttered pan and brown in a moderate 
oven. 

PEPPER NUTS. 
Mix one pound and a quarter of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
three eggs and enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll it out moder- 
ately thin and cut with small cutter. Bake in a cool oven. 
CHOCOLATE KISSES. 
Gradually add two cupfuls of pulverized sugar to the beaten whites 
of four eggs and continue beating. Fold in two cupfuls of bread crumbs, 



110 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

four ounces of unsweetened chocolate, grated; two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Drop from the tip of a 
teaspoon two inches apart upon a greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

DATE KISSES. 

Take one pound of dates, one-half pound of English walnuts, the 
same quantity of figs and the white of one egg to make these. Seed the 
dates and chop them fine with the figs and nuts. Mix all together with 
the stiffly beaten white of the egg and bake in small drop cakes. 

FIRST LOVE KISSES. 

Beat together the whites of two eggs. Add to these a teacupful of 
sugar and stir until it is so thick it will not slip from the spoon. Stir in 
three tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut. Drop teaspoonfuls of the mix- 
ture on buttered paper and bake in a hot oven until light brown. 

NUT KISSES. 

Beat one pound walnut meats with the whites of three eggs, add one 
and a half pounds of sugar, mix well and add the whites of three eggs; 
lay them out about the size of a nut and cook in a slow oven. 

MARGUERITES. 

Whites of three eggs, one quart of peanuts (in shell), one teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, one and one-half or two cupfuls powdered sugar; beat whites 
of eggs very stiff, chop peanuts rather fine; mix all together and drop on 
saltine crackers, brown lightly in oven. 

MACAROONS. 

Beat the whites of four eggs until stiff, add a cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of cocoanut and one of nut meats, then three cupfuls of corn 
flakes, stir until well mixed and drop by spoonfuls on a buttered sheet. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

SCOTCH SHORT-BREAD. 

Cream a cupful of butter, add a half cupful of 'light brown sugar and 
four cupfuls of flour a little warmed. Form the mixture into a flat cake 
and prick well all over with a fork. Sprinkle the top with caraway 
candies or bits of citron in flower design with the candies, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE PANCAKES. 

This makes a delicious dessert for luncheon and one that is quickly 
prepared: Mix together two eggs, yolks and whites, with two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sweetened chocolate that has been grated (if unsweet- 
ened brand is used, then the mixture must be sweetened to taste), half 
cupful of milk, half cupful of flour. Beat all together well. Fry like 
ordinary pancakes, brown on both sides and roll them, lay on a hot 
platter, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve immediately. 

CHOCOLATE SQUARES. 

One cupful of sugar, one-quarter cake of chocolate, one-half cupful 
of molasses, one-half cupful of milk, one-half cupful of butter; mix this 
all together and boil it twenty minutes, cool it a very little and add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into pans and, when cool, mark off in 
squares. 



Gingerbread, Cookies and Wafers 111 

RICH GINGER BREAD. 

Mix well together one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one 
cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of sour cream, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt, one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water. Two cup- 
fuls of flour. 

DOUGHNUTS— I. 

Take one cupful of sugar, creamed with one tablespoonful of butter, 
two well-beaten eggs, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, one cupful of sour 
milk with one teaspoonful of soda stirred in, a little salt and flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Roll out to a half-inch thickness, cut in rings 
and have the lard boiling hot. The lard in which doughnuts are fried 
should be hot enough to brown a little piece of bread very quickly, and 
the cook should allow a minute for it to reheat between each lot of 
doughnuts. She should have a few thicknesses of soft brown or white 
paper to drain the doughnuts on after they are taken from the fat. 
Sprinkle the doughnuts with sifted sugar, if liked. 

DOUGHNUTS— II. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful sweet milk, three cups flour, four 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

DOUGHNUTS— III. 

Mix one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Roll thin and cut with a round cutter. Drop into hot grease. 

OLD-FASHIONED DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg well beaten, add two-thirds cupful of sugar, one-half cupful 
sour milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful dry ginger and nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoonful cream of tartar sifted with the flour; try cupful and a 
half of flour, more if needed; roll out. These are delicious. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful mashed potato (warm), two tablespoonfuls shortening 
(warm), cupful and a half of sugar, two eggs, one cupful milk, one- 
fourth teaspoonful each nutmeg and cinnamon, six cupfuls flour, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. To mix: Put shortening and sugar in 
mixing bowl and cream; add the warm mashed potatoes and then the 
eggs, one at a time, until they are mixed well through. Add the flour, 
baking powder, spices and beat thoroughly. Let stand about half an 
hour to ripen. Then add enough flour to roll and cut; fry in deep fat 
until a golden brown. Lay on a wire screen to drop. You will find they 
will stay fresh longer than the old-fashioned kind. 

CRULLERS. 

Mix a cupful of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of butter, a cupful of 
cream, three cupfuls of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of salt. If 
more flour is needed for a soft dough add it. Roll the dough out and 
cut in two-inch squares. Slash with a jagging iron or a knife, fry, drain 
and roll in sugar. 



112 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

PASTRY 

PLAIN PASTRY. 

For one pie with a double crust use one and a half cupfuls of flour, 
six tablespoonfuls of shortening, lard, suet or butter, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and cold water to "mix very dry." The ingredients must be cold 
to insure crisp, flaky crust. Quickly rub the shortening into the flour 
with the tips of the fingers, leaving it coarse. Use only enough water to 
form the mixture easily into a mass; it should be dry, not sticky; mix 
lightly. 

Use plenty of flour on the board. What is rolled in is not detri- 
mental, but any kneading injures the quality of the paste. Pie paste may 
be kept three or four days if kept cold. This is a convenience, as few 
pies can be kept without injury more than twenty-four hours after baking. 

When rolling out paste, roll only enough for one crust. Lay the 
bottom crust in loosely and press against the edge of the pan. Cut edges 
carefully with knife. To make a deeper pie, build up the edge of the 
lower crust with folds cr rolls of the paste, moistening with cold water 
the line where they are joined. If there is to be no top crust the lower 
crust may be baked before or after filling. If baked before filling it may 
first be brushed over with white of egg. This prevents the filling from 
becoming soggy. 

Roll out the top crust, perforate with knife or fork in neat design, 
that the steam may escape. Moisten the edge of the lower crust with 
cold water, cover the pie, press the upper crust upon the under crust with 
thumb and forefinger, making even impressions. Cut off the over- 
hanging edges carefully. 

CRUST FOR CHICKEN PIE. 

The ingredients are three cupfuls of sifted bread flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half cupful 
of lard and butter, one cupful of milk. Sift all dry ingredients together. 
Rub in the shortening with finger tips, then stir in the milk, using a fork 
and handling it lightly. As soon as combined place on floured board, 
and with a rolling pin pat into the required size. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

To one large cupful of stewed and sifted apples add one cupful of 
sugar, a dash of salt, the beaten yolks of two eggs and two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, melted; turn into a pie plate lined with paste and bake in 
a moderate oven; beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, fold in two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, flavor with a few drops of lemon; spread 
roughly over the pie and brown in the oven. 

CARROT PIE. 

Scrape and boil the carrots until very tender, then mash thoroughly, 
and to one cupful of carrot add one pint of milk, one-half teaspoonful 
each of salt, cinnamon and ginger, one well-beaten egg, sugar to sweeten 
to taste. Bake slowly in one crust like squash pie. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 
Line a deep tin with rich pastry, pricking the bottom to keep it 
from puffing as it rises. Fill with a custard of two cupfuls rich milk, 
two eggs, a half cupful sugar, grated rind of an orange and a cupful of 
grated cocoanut. 

INDIVIDUAL COCOANUT PIES. 

Beat together the yolks of two eggs, one cupful sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour and pinch of salt. Add one pint of boiling milk and 
stir briskly until it thickens smoothly. Remove from stove, flavor with 



Pastry 113 

vanilla and add three-quarters cupful shredded cocoanut. Pour into 
individual shells that have been previously baked. Make a meringue of 
whites of two eggs and a tablespoonful of sugar and drop on pies. 
Brown in quite hot oven. These are truly delicious. 

JERSEY PIE. 
Line a pie plate with a crust filled with apples, add sugar, nutmeg, 
bits of butter, and bake; then pour over sweetened whipped cream for the 
top crust and serve. 

LEMON PIE— I. 

Line the pie dish deep with good puff paste. Beat the yolks of three 
eggs with one cup of sugar, and add the juice of one large lemon and a 
little of the grated peel. Don't fail to wash the lemon before grating. 
To one tablespoonful of flour add one cup of light cream. Mix as 
smooth as possible and then strain into the other ingredients; mix and 
turn into the crust. Bake the pie in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Beat the whites stiff, with about four heaping teaspoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and spread the meringue on plain, or through a pastry bag; return 
to the oven for a couple of minutes to brown, watching it carefully so it 
does not scorch. Chill before serving. Whipped cream may be served 
with it for those who wish it. 

LEMON PIE— II. 

One cupful each of sugar and milk, one tablespoonful of flour or 
corn starch, yolks of three eggs, grated rind and juice of one lemon and 
one cupful of water. Fill baked pie crust with this custard mixture; bake 
same as custard pie. Beat three egg whites, sweeten slightly and put on 
the pie after it is baked. Return to oven to brown delicately. 

LEMON PIE— III. 

One-half cupful of water with teaspoonful corn starch stirred smoothly 
into it, one cup sugar, tablespoonful butter, yolks of three eggs, one 
lemon and a little salt. Pour into crust-lined pans and bake. Beat 
whites of eggs with the tablespoonful of powdered sugar, spread over 
top, put into oven and brown lightly. 

MAPLE PIE. 

Take a cupful of maple sirup, add two cupfuls of rich sweet milk and 
a cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, cooked together; add to the milk with the yolks of three eggs. 
Flavor with mapleine and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
the eggs after the pie is baked. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

A most delicious pie for a festive occasion is a fine pumpkin pie, 
covered with whipped cream which has been flavored with a half cupful 
of strong grated cheese. 

PUMPKIN PIE FILLING. 

Here is a good recipe for pumpkin pie filling: Put the pumpkin in 
the oven and bake it until it is soft. Then remove the inside and press it 
through a strainer. This results in drier pumpkin than that prepared in 
the ordinary boiled way. To the pulp of one medium-sized pumpkin 
add a quart of rich milk, a cupful of granulated sugar, three beaten eggs, 
a teaspoonful of ground ginger and one of cinnamon, a big pinch of salt 
and three tablespoonfuls of dark molasses. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until light and creamy, add a cupful 
each of sugar and of chopped raisins and of sour cream, with a fourth of 
a teaspoonful of cloves. Place in a double boiler and cook together untd 
smooth and thick. Line a pie plate with a rich crust and bake in the 



114 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

oven as for lemon pie. Fill this crust with the mixture and cover with a 
meringue made from the whites of the eggs mixed with four tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar. 

SOUR MILK PIE— I. 
One cupful thick sour milk, one cupful chopped raisins seeded, one- 
half cupful sugar, or more if needed, piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
nutmeg and cinnamon and one egg. Make with two crusts. 

SOUR MILK PIE— II. 
One cupful each of sugar and sour milk, two-thirds cupful molasses, 
one cupful chopped raisins, one tablespoonful vinegar, one teaspoonful 
cloves and cinnamon, two eggs, salt to taste. This makes three pies. 

VINEGAR PIE— I. 
Take three eggs, saving two whites for the meringue. Beat to- 
gether one tablespoonful of soft butter and a cupful of sugar, add a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon and half a teaspoonful of allspice and three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Place this filling in a crust and bake in a moderate 
oven. Cover with a meringue and brown lightly in the oven. 

VINEGAR PIE— II. 

Put together in a saucepan a heaping tablespoonful of flour, wet to 
a paste with a gill of cold water, a cupful of vinegar and a cup of sugar. 
Stir until melted, then add onecup of cold water. Cook, stirring steadily 
until thick, then pour into an open crust and bake at once in a very hot 
oven. When done cover the pie with a meringue and bake to a light 
brown. 

APPLE PIE. 

Make a rich crust and fill with a good flavored apple. Dust with 
flour, sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg and bake until well cooked. An 
hour is not too long a time for fruit pie of this sort. When serving put 
a spoonful of ice cream on top and sprinkle with finely grated strong 
cheese. Whipped cream with grated cheese is also another good accom- 
paniment to apple pie. 

APPLE SAUCE PIE. 

Fill the under crust with well-strained apple sauce mixed with 
whipped cream and sugar and flavored with nutmeg. Return to oven to 
heat. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Peel and core the required number of tart apples and cover each 
with a good pastry crust. Put into a baking pan and pour over them one 
cupful of sugar and two cupfuls of hot water. Baste from time to time 
until apples are soft and the crust a rich brown. Serve with cream. 

EVAPORATED APPLE PIES. 
One-quarter box of evaporated apples and one-half pound of rhubarb 
to a pie. Soak the apples over night. Peel and cut rhubarb in small 
pieces. Use the usual amount of sugar for apple pies, a pinch of salt 
and a few bits of butter. Use a little spice if desired. The rhubarb gives 
the flavor of green apples. 

OLD-TIME APPLE PIE. 
Slice tart apples, lay them on a lower crust, cover them with maple 
sirup and very thin slices of salt pork; add a dash of red pepper. Cover 
with perforated upper crust and bake until apples are soft and sirupy. 
The pork melts and disappears. 

BANANA PIE. 
Bake a shell and fill with sliced bananas well sprinkled with sugar 
and a little lemon juice, then heap with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 



Pastry 115 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

For a pie one and one-half cupfuls berries are needed. Add a table- 
spoonful of flour, one cupful of sugar and tablespoonful of butter in bits. 
Bake with a lattice-work top. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Wash and stem enough currants to measure three cupfuls and put 
them in a deep pudding dish. Cover them with enough sugar to sweeten 
them. If they are very sour they will need a good cupful. Then pour 
over them half a cupful of boiling water and put the dish in a slow oven 
to simmer gently for half an hour. Remove from the oven, cool and 
cover with pie crust. Bake until brown and sprinkle with powdered 

SUgan RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

Crush one cupful of currants; add a cup of sugar. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs; add two tablespoonfuls of water and one of flour, mix with 
the fruit and sugar, cook until smooth. Fill a baked crust and cover 
with a meringue made of the two whites and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Brown in the oven and serve cold. 

MEATLESS MINCE PIE. 

Half a cupful of molasses, two-thirds cupful of water, two-thirds of 
a cupful of vinegar, one cupful each of sugar, of breadcrumbs, of chopped 
raisins, of minced apples, one tablespoonful each of cloves and of cinna- 
mon one nutmeg, grated, and a piece of butter the size of a hen s egg. 
Mix'all the ingredients and heat thoroughly without really allowing it to 
cook, stirring it often. While hot fill the pie pans and bake with two 
crusts. 

MINCE MEAT— I. 

Select two pounds of the round of beef and cook until tender. Chop 
fine and add a pound of the best suet freed from strings and chopped, a 
pound each of raisins and currants, four pounds of apples weighed before 
paring coring and chopping, one-quarter pound of citron shredded, a 
level teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice, two nutmegs grated three 
level tablespoonfuls of salt, one cupful of molasses, the juice of one emon 
and broth from the meat to moisten. If liked more tart, add more lemon 
juice or vinegar. _ 

J MINCE MEAT— II. 

Take a pound each of raisins, suet, currants, sugar, half a pound of 
orange peel and citron, two pounds of apples, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of mixed spices, a tablespoonful of salt, juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, a cupful of nut meats and a cupful of cider. Chop the suet tine 
and mix all the ingredients together. The nuts and apple should be 
chopped also. Cover and set aside in a crock to ripen. 
MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cupful of raisins, one-half cupful of breadcrumbs, one egg, one- 
fourth cupful of vinegar, one-fourth cupful of butter one and one-halt 
cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of boiling water, one-half teaspoonful cinna- 
mon one-fourth teaspoonful each of allspice and cloves. This quantity 
makes filling for two pies. It is delicious and cannot be distinguished 
from the regular mince meat. 

PEACH PIE. 

Line pie plate with a rich pie crust and fill with peaches, either 
canned or fresh. Sweeten as desired and bake until nearly done Then 
cover top with dots of currant jelly or any tart jelly and finish baking^ 
Beat whites of two eggs stiff; stir in one-fourth cupful of sugar; spread 
over pie and brown. 



116 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Mix together thoroughly one-fourth cupful flour and three-fourths 
cupful sugar, add one cup grated pulp and juice of pineapple; stir and 
cook until the mixture boils and becomes thick, then remove from the 
fire and add one egg well beaten. In using canned pineapple put a little 
sugar in at a time until it is sweet enough to suit the taste. Bake be- 
tween two crusts. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Line a pie tin with good, rich pastry and fill with stewed prunes, cut 
in bits. Sprinkle with one-half cupful of powdered sugar and enough 
cinnamon to flavor or a grating of lemon rind. Bake and just before it 
is well done cover with a meringue made from two beaten whites of eggs 
and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Return 
the pie to the oven and finish baking until the meringue is brown. 

TO PREPARE PUMPKIN FOR PIES. 

Instead of peeling and boiling pumpkins for pies, just cut the pump- 
kin in halves, clean out the seeds and place the pieces in the oven to 
bake. When tender, scoop the pulp from the shell and mash It is then 
ready for use. Pumpkin prepared this way is much sweeter and finer 
than when boiled. If you put the pumpkin in a neat pan, with just a 
little bit of water that scarcely touches the rind, and put the cover on, 
you will achieve splendid results from partly steaming, then finish with 
baking. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Peel and slice the green tomatoes and pour boiling water over them 
and let stand until cool, then drain. Line a pie plate with pastry; fill 
with the tomatoes, a half cupful of sugar, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
one of water, sprinkled with flour and dust with cinnamon; cut bits of 
butter over the top, cover with crust and bake. 

CINNAMON CREAM TARTS. 

Beat a teaspoonful of butter, add a half cupful of powdered sugar 
and a half teaspoonful of cinnamon in a bowl. Place a half dozen 
crackers which have been split and placed hollow side up in a baking 
pan, drop a spoonful of this mixture in each half and bake for two 
minutes in a hot oven. 

CRANBERRY TARTS. 

We are all more or less familiar with cranberry tarts. Sometimes 
the tart shells are filled with plain sauce, while pie crust is latticed across 
the top. A cupful of seeded and chopped raisins may be added by way 
of variation. Whole berries cooked in sirup may be used as a meringue 
top. If the uncooked berries are used they should be mashed and well 
sweetened before being placed in the crust. It requires from forty-five 
minutes to an hour to thoroughly make the tarts in this case. 
CREAM CHEESE TARTS. 

Make tart shells of pastry and fill them with a cream cheese, half a 
cupful of cream, a cupful of currants, three eggs beaten well and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake for about half an hour. 
LEMON AND ORANGE TART. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one-half cupful of butter, scant 
cupful of sugar, two eggs. Cook in double boiler till thickened, bake in 
puff paste shells without allowing to boil over. 
ORANGE TARTLETS. 

Grate the peel of one, add in order the juice of two oranges, one- 
half to three-quarters cupfuls of sugar, creamed with one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of corn starch, moistened with one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon or raspberry juice and one egg. Beat well and bake in puff 
paste. 



Fillings and Fkostings 117 

RASPBERRY TARTS. 
Incorporate one pound of self-rising flour and a pinch of salt with 
one-quarter of a pound of butter; add a pint of milk and two beaten eggs 
Mix thoroughly, roll out thin., cut in circles and line buttered patty pans 
with them. Fill with raspberry jam or stewed raspberries. Bake in a 
hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

CREAM PUFFS. 
One coffee cupful of boiling water and butter the size of a small egg; 
melt the butter in the water; while boiling stir in one cupful of flour' 
sifted. Use the same size cup for all. Stir thoroughly; when cool stir 
in two eggs one at a time, and a pinch of soda the size of a pea; beat 
well, then drop in tin far enough apart so they will not touch while 
baking. Bake in a very hot oven. This makes nine puffs. Filling for 
puffs: One cupful sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of corn starch 
and sugar to taste; flavor with vanilla. 

RASPBERRY ECLAIRS. 
A delicious dessert for the fruit season is eclair or pastry puffs filled 
with a raspberry mixture. To make the filling, whip until stiff a half pint 
of cream. Stir in gradually a scant quarter of a pound of sugar and add 
three-fourths of a pint of raspberries which have been thoroughly 
crushed. Keep the mixture on ice a short time before serving. 

WHITE POTATO PIE. 
Pare and grate one large white potato, add the juice and grated rind 
of one lemon, one cupful of cold water, one cupful of white sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and the well-beaten white of one egg. Turn into 
a pie plate lined with puff paste and bake. When done cover with a 
meringue made of the beaten whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar and flavored with a few drops of lemon extract. 
Brown delicately and when cool dot with bits of bright-colored jelly. 

FILLINGS AND FROSTING5 

WHITE ICING— I. 

One cupful of sugar, one-third cupful of water, two egg whites, one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil the sugar and water until it threads. 
Pour the sirup slowly into the beaten egg whites and beat until cooi 
enough to spread, then add the flavoring. 

Note. — Other flavorings may be used; for example, one square of 
melted chocolate may be added for a delicious chocolate frosting. 

WHITE ICING— II. 
Take a cupful of granulated sugar and five tablespoonfuls of milk, 
stir and then boil five minutes without stirring. Place in a pan of cold 
water and beat until thick. Flavor with vanilla and use for cake frosting. 

APPLE FILLING. 
Grate one or two good, juicy, well-flavored apples, add a cupful of 
sugar and the whites of one or two eggs, depending upon the amount of 
apple pulp. Beat until light and firm, then put between layers of cake 
and on top. This filling may be flavored with a drop of almond and two 
or three of lemon extract. Cake filled with this mixture keeps moist 
for days and is good to the last piece. 

BANANA AND APPLE JELLY FILLING. 

Take a small glassful of apple jelly, the white of one egg unbeaten, 

one cupful of sugar and two sliced bananas; put all into a deep dish and 

beat with a wire whisk until light and foamy. Place between the layers 

of the cake and cover with whipped cream. It will be a popular cake. 



118 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

COCOA FROSTING. 

A frosting that will not break and always remains soft and easy to 
cut is made from two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of cocoa and enough boiling milk or coffee to 
make the frosting spread nicely. It usually requires three or four table- 
spoonfuls of milk or coffee. 

COCOANUT CREAM FILLING. 

Scald a cupful of milk in a double boiler, add two eggs beaten lightly, 
first adding a little of the milk to the eggs. Add a half cupful of sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Cook until thick, then set aside to cool. Whip a 
half cupful of heavy cream, add it with two-thirds of a cupful of grated 
cocoanut to the custard, stir until well blended, then spread on the cake. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Boil a half cupful of sour cream and sugar together for five minutes, 
add the yolks of two eggs beaten well, a half cupful of chopped nuts and 
three-fourths of a teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in a double boiler and 
cook until thick and smooth. Cool and beat until thick enough to spread. 

FIG FILLING. 

Grind a pound of figs, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a cupful 
of water, cook until smooth, then add the juice of one lemon, beat well 
and when cold spread on layers of cake. 

HICKORY NUT FILLING. 

One cupful of sour cream, a cupful of sugar cooked until thick and 
a cupful of hickory nut meats added, makes a most delicious cake filling. 

LEMON FILLING. 

One cupful of sugar, two and one-half tablespoonfuls of Hour, one 
egg, one teaspoonful of butter, grated rind and juice of two lemons; mix 
in order given; cook, stirring constantly till boiling point is reached. 

ORANGE CREAM FILLING. 

One-half cupful of sugar, two and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, 
grated rind one-half orange, one-fourth cupful orange juice, one-half 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, one egg slightly beaten, one teaspoonful of 
butter. Mix ingredients in order given. Cook ten minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly. Cool before spreading. If too thick add 
more orange juice or a little hot water. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

Grated rind one orange, four teaspoonfuls of orange juice, one-half 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, yolk of one egg, confectioner's sugar. Add 
rind to fruit juices, let stand fifteen minutes. Strain and add gradually 
to yolk of egg slightly beaten. Stir in confectioner's sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING FOR WHITE CAKE. 
A cupful of grated pineapple with sugar added to whipped cream or 
even to a beaten white of an egg is a most dainty filling for any white 
cake and adds a delightful flavor. 

RAISIN ICING. 
One and one-half cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of 
milk; boil until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water; take 
from fire and add one cupful of chopped raisins and beat until it becomes 
creamy. 



Confections 119 

CONFECTIONS 

COCOANUT BRITTLE. 
Remove the shell from a half a cocoanut and shred or shave it with 
a silver knife. Spread it on dishes in the open door of an oven until it 
is soft and elastic. Dessicated cocoanut can be used instead, but the 
fresh is better. Then boil a cupful of molasses and a cupful 'of sugar 
brown or white; a teaspoonful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of butter' 
When this is cooked enough so that it is brittle when tested in cold 
water add the warmed cocoanut and pour into buttered dishes. Mark 
into squares when it is thick but before it is cold. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 
Melt two cupfuls of sugar in a frying pan, stir until brown, then pour 
over a pan of shelled peanuts. 

CARAMELS. 
Mix two cupfuls each of chocolate, of milk, of molasses, of brown 
sugar and two-thirds of a cupful of butter together. Boil until it hardens 
in water, but just before it hardens flavor it with vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 
Cook four cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one- 
half cupful cream and one-third cupful of grated chocolate from twenty 
to thirty minutes, or until the mixture forms a very firm ball when a 
little of it is tested in cold water. When nearly done add two teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar, flavor with vanilla. When done pour into buttered pans 
and when cool cut into squares. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 
To a pint of water add a pint of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar; boil until it hardens to a firm ball, pour on buttered plates and 
pull when cool. 

PULLED CREAM CANDY— I. 
Take a pound of sugar and a half cupful of hot water, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a half teaspoonful of cream of tartar and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Boil until a drop in cold water cracks. Pour on buttered pans 
and cool, then pull. 

PULLED CREAM CANDY— II. 
Dissolve five cupfuls of sugar in a cupful of boiling water and cook 
without stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. 
Add a cupful of sweet cream and cook until it hardens when dropped in 
water. Add a half teaspoonful of vanilla and turn into a buttered tin 
until cooj enough to pull. After pulling cut in pieces and set away in 
air-tight jars to become creamy. 

WALNUT CREAM CANDY. 
Cook together three cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of corn sirup 
and a cupful of cream. Drop in a bit of water, and if it makes a firm, 
soft ball, remove from the heat and add a teaspoonful of vanilla; stir 
when cool and add a cupful of chopped nuts, spread on buttered pans 
and mark off in squares. 

DELICIOUS FUDGE. 
Boil without stirring two cupfuls of sugar and a quarter teaspoonful 
of salt and one cupful of milk. When a bit dropped from a spoon makes 
a firm, soft ball in water remove from fire and place in pan of cold water, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of butter and two ounces of Baker's chocolate. 
When cool the chocolate and butter will be melted. Beat till creamy; 
pour on buttered dish and mark into squares. 



120 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

MAPLE FUDGE. 

To two cupfuls of sugar add a half cupful of maple sirup, one-half 
cupful of milk, a third of a cupful of corn sirup and two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Cook until a soft ball forms when dropped in cold water. 
Take from the fire and cool, then stir until creamy. Put in a pan and 
cut in squares. 

HONEY CANDY. 

To make honey candy, put half a pound of honey into a saucepan, 
add half a pound of sugar, one tablespoonful of cream and a dessert- 
spoonful of cold water; then mix and stir well. Allow to stand for one 
hour. Put over a moderate fire and cook, stirring gently until it is stiff 
enough to pull. Pour into buttered tins. When cool enough to handle 
pull and cut into small pieces. 

TO KEEP MARSHMALLOWS. 

To keep marshmallows fresh for an indefinite length of time place 
them in a glass jar used for canning. Put in a slice of bread about one 
inch thick and seal tightly. When bread is very dry put in a fresh piece. 

MARSHMALLOW GINGER. 

The flavor of ginger is particularly good in combination with marsh- 
mallows. A novel sweet for the dinner table is made by cutting marsh- 
mallows in halves crosswise and inserting in the center of each cut a 
wedge-shaped piece of crystallized ginger. Place in circles on flat bon- 
bon plate. Small cakes covered with white icing can be decorated in 
similar style. 

PENUCHE— I. 

Take two pounds of brown sugar, add six ounces of butter and cook 
together seven minutes, stirring constantly; add half a pound of peanuts 
which have been rolled until like coarse crumbs. Put in a buttered pan 
and mark off in squares. 

PENUCHE— II. 

One pound brown sugar, water enough to moisten, small piece of 
butter. Cook until it hardens in water. Take from fire and set in cold 
water until it is about lukewarm, add broken nut meats (pecans are best). 
Beat until creamy and pour into buttered pans. 

PEPPERMINTS. 
Boil two cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of water without stirring 
until the sirup threads from the spoon. Remove from the fire and beat 
with an egg whip until white and creamy, flavor with one-half teaspoon 
ful of essence of peppermints (less if you do not like it so strong) and 
drop in wafers on waxed paper to harden. You can make chocolate 
peppermints by dipping the cream into melted chocolate. Wintergreen, 
lemon, orange and other flavors may be used for the mints. 

BUTTER TAFFY. 

Boil three cupfuls of brown sugar, one-half cupful of molasses and 
one-fourth cupful each of vinegar and hot water. When the candy will 
crack when tested in cold water add two teaspoonfuls of butter, cook 
three minutes, flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla and cool in buttered 
pans till it may be pulled. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Cook two cupfuls of molasses (or sirup), one cupful of granulated 
sugar and one tablespoonful of butter until the mixture hardens when 
tested in cold water, remove from the fire, add a pinch of soda, flavor 
with vanilla, pour onto plates and when cool pull until light colored. 



Mexican, Spanish and Other Dishes 121 

VINEGAR CANDY. 
Cook three cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of water, one-half cup- 
ful of vinegar, without stirring, until the mixture is brittle when tested 
in cold water; remove from the fire and add one-fourth teaspoonful of 
soda, flavor with vanilla; pull until perfectly white. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 
Pour boiling water over shelled almonds. Let stand until the skin 
will fall off. Pour over two teaspoonfuls of good olive oil and one tea- 
spoonful of salt; let stand in a bowl two hours. Put into a dripping pan 
and brown in a moderate oven, stirring often. 

POPCORN BALLS— I. 

Cook one pint of sirup, one pint of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one teaspoonful of vinegar until the sirup hardens when 
dropped into cold water. Remove to the back of the stove and add one- 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water and 
then pour the hot sirup over four quarts of freshly popped corn, stirring 
till each kernel is well coated, when it can be molded into balls or into 
any desired form. 

POPCORN BALLS— II. 

Two cupfuls of best molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, butter size 
of an egg, one tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil until thick and soft and 
pour over warm, salted corn and make into balls. 

POPCORN BALLS— III. 
Make a sirup by boiling together two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
and one cupful of water. Boil until the sirup strings from the spoon or 
hardens when dropped into cold water. Pour over six quarts of freshly 
popped corn and stir well. 

CHOCOLATE POPCORN BALLS. 
Put two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, one-half of a cupful of corn 
sirup, two ounces of chocolate and one cupful of water into a kettle and 
cook them until the sirup hardens when put in cold water. Pour over 
four quarts of crisp, freshly popped corn and stir well to insure the 
uniform coating of the kernels. 

MEXICAN, SPANISH AND OTHER 

DISHES 

CHINESE SALAD. 
Equal parts of cold macaroni cut into small bits, minced ham, 
lobster and cold-boiled carrots, chopped. Mix well and add some good 
mayonnaise dressing, with a few capers. 

CHOP SUEY— I. 

Let a cupful of dried beans sprout and use these sprouts with two 
pounds of lean pork; cut in small cubes, which have been dredged in 
flour and browned in hot fat; add one minced onion, two small bunches 
of celery, and with the seasonings, cover with boiling water and simmer 
until tender. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. 

CHOP SUEY— II. 

Take two chicken livers and two gizzards, an ounce of green root 
ginger, three stalks of celery and a pound of young pork, cut into small 
pieces. Saute this in a frying pan, adding from time to time four table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, one of vinegar, a tablespoonful of Worcestershire 



122 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

sauce, half a cupful of boiling water, a dash of powdered cloves and salt 
and pepper to taste. Just before it is cooked add a cupful of small mush- 
rooms and one of bean sprouts. 

POLENTA— I. 

The great national dish of Italy is polenta, which is nothing more 
than common mush, made from white corn meal. It is cooked in boiling 
salted water, then put into a dish to cool. It is sliced and fried in olive 
oil or drippings and is often served with tomato sauce. 

POLENTA— II. 

Into three pints of fast boiling water put a tablespoonful of olive oil 
and a pinch of salt, sprinkle in gradually one pint of corn meal, stir and 
cook until smooth, then allow to cook two hours or longer. Stir occa- 
sionally, and cook in a double boiler; then there is no fear of scorching. 
Have ready some thickened gravy and a half pint of strained thickened 
tomato. Fill a baking dish with the cooked mush, gravy and tomato, 
alternating them in layers. Sprinkle the top layer with grated cheese, 
place in the oven and cook until brown. 

ITALIAN TAGLIATELLE. 

Make a good paste with flour and eggs, roll it out thin and cut into 
strips half an inch wide; parboil in salt water. Cut a slice of ham in 
cubes, mince the same amount of carrots and celery and put them in a 
pan with butter. Add strained tomatoes or tomato paste and a cupful of 
broth. Serve in a hot dish all together, the paste seasoned with grated 
cheese 

SALADA A LA CREOLE. 

' Two solid, ripe tomatoes, two sweet green peppers or one green and 
one yellow pepper, a Spanish onion and plain French dressing, with 
crisp, tender lettuce. If you cannot get the yellow peppers see if you 
cannot get yellow (large) tomatoes in order to get a genuine Spanish 
combination of colors. Slice the vegetables thin, throwing the onion and 
pepper in ice water for half an hour. Drain and arrange in alternate 
layers on the bed of lettuce. Sprinkle a few chopped, pickled nastur- 
tiums or a chopped truffle over the whole and do not add the dressing 
until salad is served. 

TOMATOES A LA INDIAN. 

Cut rounds of bread and saute in butter until brown on both sides. 
Cut firm tomatoes in thick slices, two for each slice of bread. Shape a 
good-sized green pepper into strips, dip in boiling water, thei drop into 
ice water. Wipe the tomatoes and fry in hot butter. Lay a slice of each 
on a slice of bread, season well and sprinkle with the pepper, cover with 
another slice of tomato. Garnish with parsley and the yolk of an egg 
hard cooked and put through a ricer. 

JAPANESE OTAMA. 
Slice a sweet green pepper with seeds removed, add an equal quan- 
tity of Spanish onion and green tomato. Put some fresh dripping or 
sweet beef suet in a stewpan, adding a little hot water. Then put in the 
vegetables, cover closely and stew gently for an hour. Stir often enough 
to prevent burning, and serve very hot. 

CITY OF MEXICO CANDY. 

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of cream, one-half 
cupful of hot water. Boil these together until the mixture will form a 
soft ball when tested in water. Then remove from the stove and stir in 
a pound of English walnuts, well chopped, and teaspoonful of vanilla. 
This should be spread about one inch thick in the cooling pan. 



Mexican, Spanish and Other Dishes 123 

MEXICAN RICE. 
Put a half cupful of rice into a hot frying pan with a tablespoonful 
of olive oil. Roast until the rice is brown and add four or five chopped 
or canned tomatoes, with two teaspoonfuls of chili pepper pulp. Pour 
in a cupful of water and simmer until the rice is soft. 

MEXICAN SALAD. 
Cut one alligator pear in half, remove the pit and pare it. Fill it 
with heavy mayonnaise, to which plenty of chopped walnuts have been 
added to make it thick. Lay on white lettuce leaves and garnish with 
segments of grape fruit and heap some mayonnaise in the center. 

MEXICAN TOMATO SALAD. 
Rub a salad bowl with a cut clove of garlic. Line the bowl with 
lettuce and lay in a few slices of tomato, cover with chopped green pep- 
per, a teaspoonful of onion and a dozen chopped olives. Pour over a 
French dressing of a tablespoonful of vinegar to three of oil, season with 
salt, pepper and a dash of celery salt. Serve well chilled. Cucumbers 
may be added in place of the olives if so desired. 

MEXICAN TAMALES— I. 
Prepare fricasseed chicken by cutting the fowl into sections, dredg- 
ing with flour and browning in hot drippings. Make a sauce of a quart 
of tomatoes, tabasco sauce or minced red pepper and stew the chicken 
in this mixture. Make a thin corn meal mush by using chicken stock 
with corn meal. Carefully strip the husks from green ears of sugar corn, 
spread each husk with a layer of the mush. In the center pack two or 
three pieces of the chicken and pepper sauce. Tie the husks together 
with strips of corn husks and cook in a steamer for two or three hours. 

MEXICAN TAMALES— II. 
Thicken highly seasoned beef broth with corn meal; cook slowly for 
an hour, being careful not to scorch. Meanwhile chop boiled beef and a 
large onion. Add six tablespoonfuls of tomatoes, salt and pepper and 
mix well. Take two strips of muslin twelve by twenty inches, wet them 
and upon them spread a thick layer of the corn meal mush, then add the 
seasoned meal, roll up and tie each end securely and drop in a steamer. 
Cook for a half hour. Serve with tomato catsup. Chicken and chicken 
broth may be used and will make a more appetizing tamale. 

ORIENTAL DISH. 

Cook a half tablespoonful of sliced onion in three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, add a cupful of tomato, a chopped green pepper, a teaspoonful 
of salt and a can of green beans. Cook until the onions are tender. 

SPANISH BEANS. 
Soak over night two cupfuls of pink beans, and in the morning boil 
them until tender. Boil three sweet red peppers and put them through 
a sieve. Fry three slices of bacon until brown, then add the pepper pulp 
and one green pepper that has been minced fine and one shredded onion. 
Then put in the beans, adding plenty of juice, a little salt and some 
grated cheese. Cook together thoroughly. 

SPANISH BUNS— I. 
One and one-fourth pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, half pound 
of butter, four eggs, a teacupful of cream or milk, warmed sufficiently to 
melt the butter; a tablespoonful of rose water, two of wine, a grated 
nutmeg. Make into buns and bake. 

SPANISH BUNS— II. 
Soften two-thirds of a cupful of butter and add two cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of sour milk and four well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, cupful of chopped raisins, a teaspoonful of cloves and 



124 The Court op Honor Cook Book 

two of cinnamon. Bake in a large flat tin and ice while warm. Do not 
be afraid to use the baking powder with the sour milk; the flavor is 
delightful. 

CHILI CON CARNE— I. 

Boil until tender one pound of small red chili beans. Just before 
they are quite done add one onion and one clove of garlic finely chopped. 
There should be at this time in the dish about three pints of water; add 
seasoning of chili powder and a teaspoonful of salt. Chop a pound of 
suet, let cook to try out the fat, remove the bits and add a pound and a 
half of chopped steak or hamburger. Stir for a few minutes, then add 
to the beans and let cook several hours. 

CHILI CON CARNE— II. 

Slice one large onion and fry it in drippings until yellow, then add 
two pounds of beef which has been cut in inch cubes, rolled in flour and 
well seasoned; add one can of tomatoes, two large green peppers, 
chopped, and a few dashes of red peppers; season with salt, cover with 
boding water, and simmer until tender. Add half cupful of cooked kid- 
ney beans to the stew and put another half cupful through a sieve and 
add to it, to thicken it. Serve very hot. 

SPANISH SALAD. 
Three pounds meat boiled, five ripe tomatoes, four red peppers, one 
can French peas, one can mushrooms, three large potatoes, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one onion, one quart hot water, boiled rice. Arrange 
attractively upon a large platter or upon individual salad plates. The 
salad will serve from six to eight persons. 

CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS 

CHAFING DISH suppers are so popular that a few well-tried receipts 
have been placed in this special section; other dishes, to be found 
among the soups and vegetables, may also be used for such oc- 
casions. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Welsh rarebit is one of the most attractive of chafing dish receipts. 
The receipt is to be found with other cheese receipts. 

CHEESE AND BEAN RAREBIT. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in half a cupful of hot milk, add 
one cupful cold baked beans pressed through a strainer, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful paprika and a grating of onion. 
When the mixture is thoroughly heated add three-fourths of a cupful of 
soft cheese, finely cut, and a teaspoonful table sauce. Stir until the 
cheese is melted. Serve on crisp toast. 

EGG AND CRAB RAREBIT. 
Take three spoonfuls of flake crab meat, warm it in cream, beat four 
fresh eggs in a bowl, season to taste with celery salt and pepper, toss in 
the pan; then toss in your crab flakes and cream and scramble while 
cooking. 

SHRIMP RAREBIT. 

Allow one-half of a cupful of butter to melt in the blaze of a chafing 
dish and add the contents of two five-ounce cans of shrimps. The 
shrimps should have the intestinal vein removed and then should be cut 
into uniform cubes. To this add one-half cupful of milk and when 
scalding add two egg yolks and whites beaten together. Stir this con- 
stantly so the mixture will be smooth, and season highly with salt, white 
pepper and red pepper. Serve hot on toasted salted wafers or on rounds 
of toasted bread. 



Invalid Cookery 125 

TOMATO RAREBIT. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan and when bubbling hot 
add a tablespoonful of flour; when smooth add a cupful of tomato puree 
(strained tomato). Cook for a few minutes until smooth, then add a 
half cupful of grated cheese, and when melted a half cupful of milk, 
mixed with a beaten egg. Season well and serve on salted wafers. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Cut into small dice three hard-boiled eggs and thoroughly heat in a 
delicate white sauce. A receipt for white sauce may be found under 
unsweetened sauces. Serve on toasted crackers or on toasted bread, 
garnishing with a sprig of parsley and a dash of paprika. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE. 
Make a white sauce according to the receipt under unsweetened 
sauces, and heat in it a half cupful of canned peas and a cupful of diced 
shrimps, from which the intestinal vein has been removed. When thor- 
oughly hot serve on toast, each portion topped with a small piece of 
butter and a dash of paprika. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 
Melt one-half of a cupful of butter in the blaze of a chafing dish and 
add the shredded flakes of a cupful of canned lobster. When the lobster 
flakes are coated with butter add one-half a cupful of rich milk and allow 
it to scald. At this point stir in carefully two beaten eggs and salt and 
black and red pepper to season highly. W'hen the mixture has thickened 
serve at once upon rounds of delicately toasted bread. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 
For this dish three dozen oysters, a cupful of cream, four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, three hard-cooked egg yolks, lemon juice and salt, will be 
needed. Put the butter in a chafing dish or saucepan, add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and stir until smooth. Rub the yolks of the eggs with a 
little of the cream, add them with the cream to the mixture, then the 
oysters and seasoning. Cook until the oysters are well curled, add 
lemon juice to taste and serve very hot. 

INVALID COOKERY 

BARLEY WATER. 
Wash two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, scald with boiling water, 
boil five minutes, add two quarts of cold water, simmer till reduced one- 
half. Strain, add lemon juice to taste. Good in fevers. 

BEEF BROTH— I. 
Beef broth is one of the best remedies for constipation in children. 
Use one pound of lean boiling beef; cover with cold water; salt; let cook 
slowly three or four hours, until the meat is nice and tender, then set 
aside to cool. When cold, skim off all the fat, strain, and give a cupful 
just before the meal, or use toast in it for the meal. This makes a good 
meal, and will not hurt the most delicate stomach. 

BEEF BROTH— II. 
Cover lean beef, chopped fine, with cold water and boil until the meat 
falls to pieces. Strain through a colander and let the broth stand until 
cold. Remove any traces of fat on top. Heat, season with salt and a 
little pepper and serve with small squares of dry toast. 

BEEF TEA— I. 

Take one pound of lean beef cut into small pieces. Put into a jar 
without a drop of water, cover tightly and set in a pot of cold water 



126 The Court of Honor Cook Book 

Heat gradually to the boiling point and continue this steadily for three 
or four hours, until the meat is tender and the juice is all drawn out. 
Season with salt to taste, and, when cold, skim. Reheat for serving. 

BEEF TEA— II. 

Chop very fine one pound lean beef round. Cover with one-half 
pint cold water. Stand in cold place one hour. Set over hot water, stir 
till liquid begins to turn color. Strain, add pinch salt, reheat, set cup in 
pan of hot water. 

BEEF OR MUTTON TEA. 

Cut into small pieces one pound of beef or mutton or a part of both. 
Boil it gently in two quarts of water. Take off the scum and when re- 
duced to a pint strain it and season with a little salt. Give one teacupful 
at a time. 

EGGS FOR AN INVALID. 

Beat the yolk and white separately until very light, add a pinch of 
salt, put into a cup which should be set in a saucepan of hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until scalded, but not cooked. The cup will almost be 
filled with creamy custard. Then set in the oven a moment and serve 
at once. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL. 

One tablespoonful of sifted corn meal wet in cold water. Have one 
quart of boiling water in a kettle, dip a spoonful of the thin batter into 
the water, stir, let it boil up, then add more batter until the gruel is of 
the right consistency. Let it boil twenty minutes or more. Salt to taste. 
In large quantity corn meal gruel should cook from three-quarters of an 
hour to an hour. For serving add cream and, if allowed, a little sugar. 

PRUNE SOUP. 
Wash and soak a pound of prunes in three pints of cold water. Next 
day place over a slow fire, and when steaming add one lemon, washed 
and cut without paring, into the thinnest of slices, a stick of cinnamon, 
one inch long, and cook below the simmering point until the prunes are 
tender but unbroken. There should be fully three pints of water when 
the prunes are done. Add three tablespoonfuls of sago, a little salt and 
sufficient sugar to sweeten; cook until the sago is transparent. Remove 
the cinnamon, add a cupful of grape juice, and serve when hot. 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 



More Than 100 /e 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

mi mi mil mi mi mil iiiii inn mi mi mi mi 



014 485 107 9 



THE COURT OF HONOR 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 
A Fraternal Beneficiary Society 



All members pay rates sufficient to guarantee the payment in full 

of all contracts at maturity. 



The Court of Honor Issues Three Whole 
wm^Lif e Certificates ■■ »■ ^ 

Rates based on National Fraternal Congress Mortality 
Table, viz: 

WHOLE LIFE with level rates Tor the entire period 
of life. 

COMBINED TERM AN WHOLE LIFE with low level 
rates to age GO, and a higher level rate for the re- 
mainder of life. 

AUTOMATIC TERM AND WHOLE LIFE with very 
low level rate to age 50, and a higher rate for the re- 
mainder of life. 



Jl 



OLD AGE DISABILITY AND EXTENDED INSURANCE 
PROVIDED UNDER EACH PLAN. 



"The Court of Honor Is as Strong as the Strongest Legal 

Reserve Company" 



Proof of these statements will be furnished upon request. 
■• M dixon, A L . HEREFORD, 



Supreme Treasurer. 

ROBINSON, 
Supreme Recorder. 



robinson, Supreme Chancellor, 



<.. m. french, Springfield, Illinois. 

Supreme Medical i : \:iiiiin<T. r ° 



PRESS OF THE WESTERN NEWSPAPER UNION, DENVER 



