TX 

M* J 

ft U3 J 



il 



Vegetarian Supplement 

to 

Scientific Feeding 



By MRS. DORA C. C. L. ROPER, D. O. 



Oakland, California. 

Buckner Printing Co., Printers. 

1915 






■^ 



COPYRIGHTED, 1315. 

DORA C. C y L. ROPER 

All Rights Reserved. 



©CI.." 

JUL 19 19/5 



^ 



DEDICATION. 

THESE PAGES ARE DEDICATED TO ALL -WHO READ T3EM, 

WITH THE EARNEST DESIRE TO MAINTAIN HEALTH 

AND FB£TH»T DISEASES WHICH ARE CREATED 

BY WR-ONS AND IN TEMPERATE EATING- 

AND DRINKTNG- 



Eat not to dulLaasa; 
Drink not to elevation. 

— Bewjauiin Pranklin. 



t 



<Jiltan is composeb of friljaf ije fyae 

asstnttlateb front ijfs spiritual 

mental anb physical 

foob 



CONTENTS 



PART I. 

Classification and Function of Food. 

Recipes of Cooked and Raw Foods, with Foot Notes Referring to 

Correct Chemical Combinations. 

100 Simple and Fancy Menus. 

Sandwiches. 

Right and Wrong Food Mixtures. 

Hygiene, Economy and Sanitation. 



PART II. 

Anatomy and Physiology of Brain and Nervous System. 

Circulation. 

Care of the Body. 

Stimulants; Their Effects on the Body. 

Constipation. 

Obesity (Causes and Treatment). 

Psychotherapy. 
Menus for Acute Convalescents. 
Table of Food giving Caloric Value. 



INTRODUCTION 

This book has been prepared to meet the needs of a 
constantly increasing" number who for various reasons have 
adopted a vegetarian or near vegetarian diet. 

My experiences first as a nurse, later as a physician, have 
brought me in contact with many different nationalities, and 
from them has been gleaned much valuable information which 
has been used in the hope of aiding all who are earnestly 
seeking a safe and sane method of living, simple and rational 
methods of using vegetarian foods. 

It has been my special object to eliminate artificial sugar 
in the recipes as much as possible, also to pay special attention 
to correct chemical food combinations which are as important 
as their proper selection and preparation. 

My endeavor has been to perfect a system of hygienic 
feeding which avoids all such mixtures as tend to over-load 
the system with excess of starch and soft nitrogenous foods — 
an excess which results in malnutrition and dangerous 
diseases. 

The book is designed for all who do not desire meat in 
their bill of fare. It will serve as a handbook for summer 
cookery, containing menus and recipes which are in harmony 
with the laws of health. 

In adopting a raw food diet, or in reducing heat-giving 
elements, such as artificial sugars and hot drinks, it is 
important to apply more external heat to the body for a while, 
or else have the morning meal served in a sunny room. 
Plenty of outdoor exercise is necessary to properly utilize a 
vegetarian diet. 

In the preparation of this volume I have been assisted by 
several friends who are interested in the publication of such a 
work. 

It is my hope that this book will be instrumental in 
reducing the high cost of living as well as in lessening 
women's work and worry. 



PART 
I. 



CHAPTER I. 

"THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE," 

Its Structure and Function Depend on the Building 
Material. 

Foods are substances which, when introduced into the sys- 
tem, supply the necessary material for growth, renewal and 
maintenance of the vital structures. Food is anything" that 
nourishes. 

Foods must contain the same elements found in our bodies. 
The body requires a combination of different food elements in 
proper proportion to produce a suitable diet. Foods are 
divided into five classes: water, protein, fats, carbohydrates 
and mineral matters. 

Air and sun are also foods, but are not generally spoken of 
as nutrient. 

WATER. 

Our bodies consist of about two-thirds water. It helps to 
regulate the body processes, and supplies building material. 
Watery fruits and vegetables contain pure distilled water. 
The amount of water required for the average individual dif- 
fers greatly. If water is added to our foods in the cooking 
process, a lesser amount is required for drinking. Wholesome, 
non-stimulating food will call for a normal supply of water 
between meals. 

PROTEINS. 

These are sometimes called albumen, and they supply the 
body with nitrogen, sulphur and phosporus. They are great 

Pure water is as important as pure food. If you boil your water 
the minerals are deposited on the bottom of the kettle instead of in 
the system for bone-making material. 



14 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

tissue builders ; they also furnish energy and heat, in combina- 
tion with fats and carbohydrates. 

Sources of Proteins : 

Legumes, lean meats, nuts, cheese, whites of eggs, fish, and 
the glutens of the grains. Milk contains proteins in the right 
proportion with fats and sugars to make it suitable as a food 
for infants. Oats, wheat, and rye contain more protein than 
other grains, and if no other protein foods are on hand, these 
can maintain health for a long time without harm. 

FATS. 

They are obtained from the vegetable and annimal king- 
doms. They supply heat and energy in the most concentrated 
form, and are also flesh-builders. In diseased conditions, where 
economy of nerve force is required, fats in combination with 
acids, minerals and gelatine can form a substitute for part of 
the protein foods. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

These are found in large percentage in cerals and in fruits 
which contain stones and seeds, and in underground veg- 
etables, including the lighter starches, such as sago, agar agar, 
sea moss and gum. Milk can serve as a carbohydrate for 
special conditions , being evenly proportioned with fats and 
protein it contains little waste. A certain amount of carbo- 
hydrate foods in the form of cereals is necessary in our daily 
diet, as they are rich in lime and fat — yielding material which 
is required for ligamentous and other elastic tissue. People 
who live on fruits, greens and nuts, or on fruits, greens and 
meats only, require a larger amount of protein food, in order 
to make up for the loss of cereals. 

MINERAL MATTER. 

In an organic form, we find mineral matter in large propor- 
tions in green leaf vegetables, small fruits and berries, bran, 
rye, green peas, string beans, tomatoes, yolks of eggs and in 

Teach a growing child that selecting and preparing his food is an 
important occupation. Do not allow a child to fill his body with trash. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 15 

all the outer skins of legumes, grains and fruits. The import- 
ance of the mineral elements in our foods has been little under- 
stood, so far. Of la\e, health reformers are beginning to real- 
ize that many serious diseases, such as tuberculosis, insanity 
and malnutrition, are the result of mineral starvation. Three- 
fourths of these valuable minerals are removed from our foods 
daily by modern milling, bleaching, and polishing of rice, 
wheat, corn and all the other grains. Not alone the minerals, 
but necessary volatile oils, acids, and ferments are removed by 
these processes. Refined white flour and sugar have been 
on the market for the last hundred years ; and much time and 
health have been wasted with the writing of fashionable cook 
books, and the manufacture of anemic snow white cakes, crack- 
ers, biscuits and soft putrefying puddings and desserts, pre- 
pared with skim milk, sugar and eggs. The deficiency of 
minerals in these products has created an abnormal desire for 
salts, spices, and chemically pure sugar, followed by an addi- 
tional craving for intoxicating beverages and liquors. The 
latter articles cannot enter into the composition of perfect 
teeth and bone, or gray nervous tissue ; therefore, the result 
is premature death and many new diseases. 

It is my desire to present in this book food combina- 
tions as perfect as can be produced from food material with 
our present methods of milling and preliminary treatment. 
Many people have become so delicate in structure that they 
cannot use coarse breads and cereals ; therefore, a variety of 
different cereal foods have been included. Vegetable foods, 
such as are rich in minerals, have been added to the breakfast 
foods in place of sugar and beverages. In order to supply the 
body with the necessary amount of minerals, we must learn to 
eat greens for breakfast, until our so-called breakfast foods 
have improved in quality. 

All foods possess potential or latent energy. The sun is the 
great positive element, and plants store up the sun's energy. 
It is transferred to us through the eating of plants and animal 

Keep the feet warm, the head cool and the stomach not too full. 
Take walks out of doors daily and breathe deeply. 
Do not wear itigrht shoes or corsets. 



16 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

foods. Through the process of oxidation this energy 1- 
free in our bodies, and appears as heat and muscular power. 
This energy contained in foods is known as heat or fuel value, 
and is expressed in terms of a heat unit or calorie. A calorie 
is the amount of heat necessary to raise one kilogram of water, 
one degree centigrade. This is spoken of as a large caloric, 
which is used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is r>/iooo of a large caloric. 

The physiological fuel and energy value of the different 
foods is as follows : 

i gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

1 gram of Eat _ yields 9 Calories 

1 gram of Carbohydrates yields 4 Calories 

To determine the energy value of a food or combination of 
foods it is necessary to know first its composition. Then de- 
termine the weight of protein, fat, ami carbohydrate in grams 
and 'multiply these weights accordingly. 

Many people are under the impression that if a certain food is recom- 
mended as especially healthful, over-indulgence must be beneficial. A LI 
natural foods are wholesome; over-eating- piod'uces discomfort and disease. 
Home fruits and vegetables have high medicinal values. Specific foods 
prescribed in large quantities are useful for certain ailments, but not 
for a healthy individual. 

Some people think that we become like the food we eait. This is 
true when the vibrations of what we eat are stronger than the vibrations 
in our bodies. All food consumed has a vibration of its own and unless 
th-e vital force within can change the rate of vibration of the food eaten 
and tune it to the vibration of the body Itself, one cannot become 
nourished, or in other words "he becomes like the food he eats." There 
is but one force or energy in the body, which is life or "spirit". Under 
normal conditions this force has in itself all the power to harmonize with 
the vibrations of the foods taken into the body. Provided there is a 
demand for food in the form of true hunger. 

Natural diet, deep rythmic breathing with corresponding exercises 
awaken latent talents within us and rapid mental and spiritual unfold- 
ment takes place. Inharmony, disease and pain are caused by living 
a life contrary to the laws of God and Xai'irre. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 17 



CHAPTER II. 



PREPARATION OF FOODS. 

TABLE OP aEEASTTBEMElTTS AJTD WEIGHTS. 

A standard measuring cup contains 8 ounces or ^-pint. 
I tablespoon is equal to 3 teaspoons. 
'A tablespoons is equal to 1 ounce. 
8 tablespoons is equal to 4 ounces or Vi-cup. 
16 tablespoons is equal to 8 ounces or 1 cup. 

All ingredients measured by the cup, tablespoon or teaspoon are 
DO ;isured level. 

I pound (English weight) is equal to 425 grams or 16 ounces. 

1 pound (Metric system), is equal to 500 grams. 

2 pounds (Metric system) is equal to 1000 grams, or 1 kilogram. 

GREEN VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables furnish a large amount of easily digested 
carbohydrates and contain much mineral matter. That they 
add to the highest purity of our blood has been proven by the 
fact that many blood and skin diseases have been cured by the 
application of specific greens alone. However, no matter how 
valuable an article is, it should be used according to the needs 
of the individual. As vegetables also contain a large amount 
of water, it is not wise for one who has to perform active 
mental or physical labor to indulge in a large amount of 
cooked, especially underground, vegetables at the noon meal. 
At this time of the day the system requires the most nutritious 
foods in the form of protein elements, no matter whether the 
meal consists of cooked food, cold or warmed over. Green 
peas and corn are best eaten at the noon meal, as they are rich 
in proteid elements. Asparagus, tomatoes, string beans and 
leaf greens are also suitable at this time of the day, provided 
some nutritious food of the proteid class is served with them. 

The blanching of vegetables, as advised by some authorities, 
will always remove valuable constituents of the plant. This 
blanching and ventilation of vegetables during the process of 



18 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

cooking Is advised, in order to make them more wholesome. 
All artificially prepared foods will lose certain constituents 
through the process of cooking, and this loss is generally made 
up by additional flavoring or sauces. Vegetables which are 
cooked in very little water and kept well covered (not venti- 
lated), will lose less of their natural qualities, and the inju- 
rious gases which do not escape by this process can be made 
harmless through the addition of fats, in the emulsified form, 
as sauces, the yolk of an Qgg, lemon or cream. 

In the consumption of iood, as well as the custom of dress 
and education, some people have reached that stage of refine- 
ment where degeneration begins. We cannot refine natural food 
without paying the penalty for it. 

GREEN VEGETABLES. 

ARTICHOKES No. i. 

Wash them thoroughly and remove the outside leaves. 
Drop into salted boiling water and cook for 20 or 30 minute-. 
Add a few drops of vinegar to the water while boiling. Serve 
warm with a white sauce or let cool and serve with French or 
mayonnaise dressing. 

ARTICHOKES, No. 2. 

Prepare like the foregoing; when tender put them into a 
deep bowl and squeeze diluted lemon juice over them, or 
use vinegar diluted with one half or third water. Let stand 
in sufficient liquid to cover the hearts well for 10 or 20 minutes. 
Serve with a wdiite sauce or with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. Wheat or rye bread with butter is a good addition, 
also dried stewed fruit. If served for dinner, boiled eggs or 
eggfood of some kind should be added. If soup is desired. 
pea, tomato or milk soup is the most suitable. Olives also 
form a good addition. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash and cut into inch pieces until the hard part oi 

People who suffer from obesity, or those who can not use much 
sweets, should always treat cooked vegetables (except potatoes) with 
acid as mentioned above. The volatile oils and bitter preservative 
qualities in vegetables evaporate in the process of cooking, leaving it 
with a sweetish taste, and making it more liable ito ferment. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 19 

the stem is reached. Boil for 20 minutes, or until tender. 
Serve warm with butter, milk, cream, or egg sauce, or cold 
with French or mayonnaise dressing. The asparagus may be 
scraped and tied into bundles when boiling. 

BEETS. 
Remove the green tops and wash them carefully. Do not 
prick the skin, as the juice will then escape and injure the 
color as well as the flavor. Young beets will be tender in 
about one hour, older ones take two or three hours. When 
done, peel and slice. Serve with a butter or cream sauce, or 
plain, with butter and chopped parsley. For salad, cut into 
slices and pour over them boiling vinegar, diluted with one- 
half water. Add whole spices if desired. 

MASHED BEETS. 
Prepare like the above. When tender, peel and mash very 
fine with a potato masher, and add butter and a few drops of 
lemon juice. 

ROASTED CARROTS. 
Wash, scrape, and cut them lengthwise into halfs and quar- 
ters, then cut crosswise into inch pieces or smaller. Cover 
with boiling water and cook for 10 or 15 minutes, with a little 
salt. Drain off the water (add to soups) ; brown some fat and 
flour, add to it whey or the water which was drained off, 
and roast the carrots in it until done. Cover them tightly and 
add more fluid while roasting, if necessary. Flavor with 
chopped parsley. 

CARROT PUREE. No. 1. 
Steam or cook the carrotts with salt and as little water as 
possible. When done, mash very fine with a potato masher. 
Flavor with butter and a little pepper and parsley or lemon. 

CARROT PUREE. No. 2. 
Prepare like the above, and add one potato to three 

Legumes and carrots with lettuce salad are a good combination. 
Crackers or black bread with lettuce salad and beets or carrots. Nuts 
for dessert are a fair combination. People with a billious temperamemt 
should not combine cooked beets or carrots with cheese or eggs. 



20 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

medium-sized carrots. If the potatoes require less time to 
cook, add them when the carrots are half done. This prepara- 
tion may be especially recommended for chronic invalids or for 
those who have a dislike for the sweet flavor of the vegetable. 

CREAMED CARROTS. No. i. 

Cook like carrot puree. When tender, make a butter sauce 
with the water; add parsley and hot cream, if desired. 

CREAMED CARROTS. No. 2. 

Cook like number one. thicken with flour or corn starch, 
and add some hot cream and parsley. Serve, like soup or 
vegetables, for breakfast or supper, with dry whole wheat or 
black bread. Butter is not required at the meal if cream is 
used. If the butter and cream are emulsified as in sauces, 
they are more wholesome. 

PEAS. 
Wash the peas while in the pods, then shell. Boil the 1 
in a very little water for 15 minutes, then take out and put the 
peas to boil in the same water. Add a little salt and sugar 
when almost done. Prepare further like creamed carrots. 
Some people prefer them with no dressing- except butter. 
Those who have difficulty in digesting starch and wish to cut 
out the bread at the meal may use sauces or cream dress 
with their vegetables, especially in the winter. 

MIXED PEAS AND CARROTS. 

Put the peas on to boil, and when half done, add an equal 
amount of carrots which have been cut into half inch pieces. 
Prepare with a butter sauce like creamed carrots, and add 
chopped parsley. This will afford a perfect meal for dinner in 
spring or summer. A few bread or flour dumplings may be 
served with it. The latter should be cooked with the peas io 
minutes before serving. 

Lama beans and green peas are more suitable during warm weather 
than small white or colored beans. Dark colored beans and lentil 
rich in iron and minerals and therefore best suitable during cold days. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 21 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower should be avoided by those who have deli' 
stomaehs, at the evening meal. Jt should he perfectly fresh 
and {nit into salted water for an hour before cooking, in order 
to take out any hidden insects. It should he boiled 20 to 30 
minutes; if steamed it takes a little longer. Flavor with salt 
and a little sugar while boiling. Serve with brown or melted 
butter and lemon, or butter sauce, or with cream. Season 
with pepper. Serve for breakfast, or dinner. Left over cauli- 
flower may be baked in the oven with cheese or bread crumbs, 
and served for breakfast. Tomato sauce is also suitable a> 
a dressing. Cold cheese is a better combination with the latter 
than cream sauce or baked cheese. 

STRING BEANS. 

They are very purifying and should be eaten often, by peo- 
ple of a bilious tendency. Select young string- beans, pull off 
the string on each side and break in pieces an inch long. Boil 
in slightly salted water and prepare like green peas. They 
may be mixed with carrots. For further combinations, see 
"Boiled Mixed Dinners." 

SPINACH. 

This is also a very valuable vegetable. Besides being rich 
in iron and phosphates, it is laxative, and excellent as a medici- 
nal food for constipation. Wash it thoroughly. For a delicate 
>tomach use the leaves only. Steep in as little water as pos- 
sible, chop very fine or rub through a colander; season witii 
pepper, salt, lemon and butter, or prepare with butter sauce. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Cut off the stem end and remove the seeds. Fill the pepper- 
with a dre-sing such as is given in recipes for bread dump- 
lings. Place them in a baking dish with two tablespoonfuls of 
oil or fat ; when brown add a little flour and water, cover the 

5*tring-bf-ans resf-mble the KT«'' - n leaf ve^etablfs. They are very 
purifying to the liver and intestines, and should be eaten freely by 
people with a bilious temperament. 



22 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

dish and bake in an oven for about 50 minutes. The inner part 
of the peppers may be mixed with a filling. 

ONIONS. 
For stewing use small or medium sized onions. Boil them 
in salt water, drain off the water and serve with butter and 
lemon, or prepare a butter or cream sauce. They are best eaten 
for breakfast or dinner with wheat or rye bread. 

RAW ONIONS. 
People who like onions and find they disagree on account 
of the strong acids, should grate them and mix thoroughly with 
sauces, or French or mayonnaise dressing. 

FRIED ONIONS. 
Chop the onions very fine in a wooden bowl. Then heat 
some butter and oil and fry them until light brown and pour 
over steak or mix with potatoes. 

PARSLEY. 
Chop enough to last for several days. Melt some butter 
and add the parsley, and let boil up once. When cold put on 
ice. This saves time, though it is best to prepare the parsley 
fresh for each meal. 

MUSHROOMS. 
Wash and dry them, then roll in flour and fry in fat until 
brown. Add some soup stock and steep until done. Cover 
well. If the stock is too thin, add a little browned flour; sea- 
son and serve on toast. 

COOKED CORN. 
Steam the ears until tender. Serve with tomato or with 
potato and apple puree. 

CANNED CORN. 
Thicken the corn with flour and water. Add a small 

Mushrooms prepared in any style form a good combination with egg 
foods. Honey and sweet dried fruits are too rich in carbon to serve at 
the same meal with egg foods. Oranges, cherries, green grapes, dried 
apricots, cranberries, or rhubarb compote are suitable for dessert when 
egg foods are used. If raw berries are desired they should be eaten 
at the beginning of the meal. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 23 

amount of hot cream and season with salt and pepper or a few 
spoonfuls of tomato juice. If no cream is desired, drain off 
the liquid and thicken like butter sauce. Canned corn, be- 
ing a rich and soft food, should not be mixed with many other 
foods at the same meal. It is more suitable for the morning 
or noon meal than for supper. 

KOHLRABI. 

Peel, slice thin, and stew in a very little water. When 
nearly done, add some hot soup. Prepare with a butter sauce. 
Chop fine some green leaves of the plant previously boiled 
and add. 

CABBAGE. 

Wash and cut in quarters. Mince very fine and put on to 
boil in a little water with salt. When tender, drain off the 
water and prepare a butter sauce for it ; mix with the cabbage, 
flavor with lemon, mace or pepper and serve with hard boiled 
eggs. If a cream sauce is desired, thicken the cabbage with 
a little corn starch dissolved in cold water, let boil a few min- 
utes then add the cream. Milk may be used instead of 
cream, or with the butter sauce but is not to be recommended 
for people with intestinal indigestion. 

RED OABBAGE. 

Prepare like the foregoing. Let it boil for twenty minute.-. 
in an earthenware dish, then add three to five ounces of oil, 
a few tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one of sugar, a little salt and 
caraway seed. Let all simmer slowly for several hours. A 
few tart apples may be cooked with it to flavor the cabbage. 
The apples may be removed when done, and can be served 
for breakfast. Thicken the cabbage with a little brown flour. 
Flavor with onion if desired. 

CABBAGE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Wash and cut into quarters, and cook in a very little water. 

Cabbage is rich in minerals. It can be made very indigestible by 
careless preparation. Raw cabbage is easily digested if chopped very 
fine and mixed with grated potato and mayonnaise dressing. 



24 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

When done prepare a tomato sauce and pour over the cabbage, 
or serve plain with butter or oil. 

SAUERKRAUT WITH DUMPLINGS. 
Wash the sauerkraut in cold water several times. For 
people with sensative stomachs boil it for a short time ; then 
drain off the water and boil again. Cook from one to two 
hours. Then add butter and flour. 

SAUERKRAUT SALAD. 
Wash several times in cold water, press out dry and mix 
with French or mayonnaise dressing". It may be chopped 
fine if desired. Serve with eggs or beans. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER. 
W r ash. scrape and boil in salt water until tender — about 40 
minutes. Prepare with butter, milk or cream sauce, or mash 
fine and fry like potato balls. Season with lemon or pepper. 

TURNIP PUREE. 
Prepare like carrot puree. Cook with as little water as 
1 ->ible. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 
Scrape, wash and cut in slices, lengthwise. I 'oil in salt 
water for 5 minutes, then drain and fry in smoking hot fat. 
They can be turned in batter if desired. They may be fried 
without cooking, like sweet potatoes. 

KALE. 
This is a desirable vegetable in cold weather. It is purify- 
ing and very valuable during the rainty season, in malarial 
districts. Remove the leaves from the stems, wash and boil in 
salt water, using as little water as possible. Chop very fine 
and prepare like spinach. 

Spinach is also a very valuable vegetable. Besides being rich in 
iron and phosphates, it is laxative, and excellent as a medicinal food 
for constipation. Wash it thoroughly. For a delicate stomach use the 
leaves only. Steep it in as little water as possible, chop very fine or 
rub through a colander; season with pepper, salt, lemon and butter, or 
prepare with a butter sauce. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 25 

SQUASH. 
If young and tender it does not require peeling. Wash, 
cut into small pieces and steam. When done, mash fine and 
season with salt, pepper and cream, or butter, and a few drops 
of lemon. It may be cut in slices and fried in oil, or dipped in 
butter and fried like egg plant. 

TOMATO PUREE. 
Cut some fresh, firm tomatoes into several pieces. Cook iti 
a double boiler with as little water as possible. Rub through 
a sieve with a spoon or potato masher. From 3 to 6 ounces of 
thick puree is sufficient at a meal, for the average adult. For 
medicinal purposes, tomatoes may be eaten in large quantities. 

CANNED STEWED TOMATOES. No. 1. 

They are more wholesome if not cooked. Place a can of 
tomatoes in hot water to heat, drain off the liquid, and serve. 
The liquid may be kept for soup. 

STEWED TOMATOES. No. 2. 
Heat a can of tomatoes, thicken with flour and water, and 
let boil 10 minutes. Add some butter and flavor with onion, 
and small amount of sugar if desired. 

STEWED TOMATOES. No. 3. 
Prepare as number two, thicken with bread or cracker 
crumbs, instead of flour. 

STEWED TOMATOES. No. 4. 
Heat a can of tomatoes. Then heat some butter and oil in 
a flat saucepan, thicken with mixed flour, flavor with onion, 
add the tomatoes gradually, and let boil a few minutes. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
Boil the potatoes in the jackets, let cool, peel, slice, and fry 

The tomato stimulates peristalsis and is a wonderful tonic. it 
contains a vegetable calomel and seizes as a purifier for the liver ia 
billious conditions. 



26 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

in one-half butter and one-half oil. Serve with cranberry 
sauce. Sweet potatoes may be peeled and sliced in the raw 
state, and fried in half oil and half butter. Serve as above. 
They are very suitable for breakfast. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 
Select small potatoes and boil in the skins. Add some salt. 
When done, peel and cut into thin slices. Bring some milk 
to a boil, and thicken with corn starch dissolved in water, or 
prepare a butter sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add the 
potatoes and some finely chopped parsley. 

CRUST POTATOES. 
Use small, imported German potatoes. Boil with the 
skins, peel and turn in yolk of eggs and rye nuts ; fry in oil 
and butter. Serve with sprouts, or spinach and eggs. 

STEAMED POTATOES. 
Peel small sized potatoes, wash and put into a steamer or 
colander. When done pour into a dish, and mix with chopped 
parsley and fresh butter. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 
Peel and cut into long strips or thin slices. Put into salt 
water on ice for half an hour. Fry in boiling oil. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Peel, wash, and boil or steam the potatoes ; when done, 
mash fine, and add some hot cream or cold butter-milk, and 
a little salt, also a piece of butter. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 
Prepare the same as white potatoes. 

POTATO BALLS. 
Beat 2 eggs with an egg beater, mix with one cup of left- 
over mashed potatoes, shape into balls ami fry in hot fat. 

If certain foods do not agTee, or prduco Indigestion, study their com- 
bination and preparation carefully, also the proportion and time of the 
day when most suitable. If this does not prove satisfactory, lcavo them 
alone. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 27 

POTATO PUDDING. 
Prepare the same as potato balls. Put the mass into a pud- 
ding dish and cover with rye nuts, grated cheese, or a beaten 
egg mixed with rye nuts, and bake for an hour. 



Potatoes consist mainly of .starch and water. Th<:y aro more ex- 
pensive than wheat, rye, oats, barley and corn. They Hhould not be 
eaten oftener than once a day, or better three timet a week. People who 
do hard physical or mental work Hhould not eat potatoes at the noon 
meal. Fats, eggs, cheese and greens combine well with potatoes. 

naked potatoes or tomatoes form a good addition with cabbage. For 
proteins use hard boiled eggs or any variety of beans either baked. In 
the form oS soup, or as a roast. Potatoes and tomatoes shouhl not be 
mixed at the same meal unless a liberal amonmit of fat Is served at the 
same time. 

Cooked foods which have poor keeping qualities should not be kept 
for further use, or no more should be prepared than can be eaten at one 
meal. To this class belong cooked under-ground or leaf vegetable*, 
eustardH, soft puddings, milk and egg foods and gelatines. Damp or 
rainy weather is more favorable for decomposition of foodstuffs than 
dry weather. If a variety of left-over food Is on hand which cannot be 
combined into one dish, it is better to serve different food to each 
member rather than to divide each article for all; the latter custom may 
be more polite, but It is not wise to mix a great variety of foods at 
one meal. 

Left-over potatoes can be utlli^-d in many different ways: for pan- 
cakes, potato-dumplings, creamed potatoes or for salad. Fried cooked 
potatoes are not a good food for the noon meal, especially for children 
or people doing active work. 



VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CHAPTER [II. 
LEGUMES, EGGS, AND CHEESE. 

LEGUMES. 

Legumes lose their natural flavor and stimulus in the 
process of drying and cooking", therefore they are n<>t palatable 
or as easy to digest without some form of fat and an appetizing 
raw salad, fruit or soup, which supplies the needed stimulant 

the system. Apples, lemons, grapes, oranges, carroo. 
celery and lettuce arc most suitable as an addition. Many 
people add sweets to legumes or make them more indigestible 
by adding ground nuts and other rich foods. Such foods are 
a dangerous burden to a weak stomach and liver. Heavy 
•protein foods require an acid medium for proper digestion 
and utilization. If legumes are used in the form of soups and 
purees, nothing should be added but a little flour, dry toast, 
or raw vegetables. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Pick over the beans carefully, wash and soak them in soft 

r. Bring to a boil in the same water, simmer slow!) 

until the beans are tender and the fluid is nearly absorbed. 

If necessary add more water during the process oi boiling. 

n done, pour them into a bean-pot or round pan, cover 

the top with cooking oil and a lew whole onion-. Bake about 

an hour. 

BAKED LENTILS OR PEAS. 
Prepare in the same manner as baked beans, use less fat for 
preparing them, especially during the summer. ( hiions and 
celery roots are rich in fatty substance. These may be added 
1o the legumes while boiling, and be made into a salad for 
another meal. In cooking legumes it is best not to add the 
salt until they are nearly done as the salt hardens the water. 

Baked legumes if preserved with fat or oil can be kept on hand for 
a week and be re-bakt-d two or three times per w 

One third to one fourth of beans (measured before soaking) is suf- 
ficient for one meal for the averagre person ander ordinary conditions. 
JMasticate two or 'three beans at a time to insure good digestion. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 29 

If legumes are prepared boiled instead of baked it is better 
to add a thickening of flour and butter before serving, other- 
wise they may produce flatulent dispepsia. 

LIMA BEANS. No. 1. 
Soak some lima beans in soft water. Cook in a small 
amount of water with a little salt. When tender, dissolve 
some cornstarch with cold water and add to the beans; boil 
for 10 'minutes, then add a few tablespoon fuls of hot cream 
and remove from the fire. Flavor with chopped parsley, if 
desired. Mashed or raw carrots are a good addition. 

LIMA BEANS. No. 2. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Drain off the water and add 
a piece of butter, the yolk of an egg, a little lemon juice and 
parsley, if desired. 

LIMA BEANS. No. 3. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Drain off the water and pre- 
pare a butter-sauce, mix with beans and serve plain, or add 
the yolk of an egg, a little lemon and parsley. 

PEA PURLK. 
Soak 24 cup of dried green peas in soft water. Boil with 
1 quart of water and 1 onion for about an hour. Bake in a 
beanpot for iy 2 hours or longer; add more water if necessary. 
Keep the peas covered. When done run through a colander 
and add 1 teaspoonful of butter. This makes about }i of a 
cup of puree. One-third of this portion is sufficient for a sick 
n or a young child. Serve on toast, or with raw carrots. 

PLAN AND LENTIL PUREE. 
Prepare and serve like the foregoing. If a soup is desired 
in place of puree, dilute one-third of a cup of puree with one 

and a half of boiling water and finish as in legume soup. 

•i"d beans contain more of the protein than peas, lentils or beef. 

I arc then fore a very rich food and should not be consumed In 

Larg< qpudfctities. In countries where the water is hard, it is well to 

soft water on hand for the <ooking of legumes. if rain waiec 

ot be obtained, boil a keittle of water each day and set aside to 

[ >r cooking purposes. Legumes may be soaked with hot or cold 

water. 



3 o VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

RAW BEANS. 
Soak one tablespoonful of white beans or twelve to twenty 
lima beans in soft warm water for four hours or over night. 
Serve plain with tomatoes or carrots and green leaves or 
prepare in the form of a salad. Onions and parsley are also 
good additions. No more than the above measure should be 
used for one person at a meal. People with digestive troubles 
or those who can not live out of doors, should leave raw 
legumes alone. 



SOFT BOILED EGGS. No. i. 
Put the eggs into cold water, place on the stove, and 
let come to a boil slowly. When the water begins to boil 
the eggs will be done. 

BOILED EGGS. No. 2. 
Pour boiling water over them and let stand on a stove 
for 10 to 20 >minutes. Boiling will make the albumen of the 
egg harder to digest. 

FRIED EGGS. 
Have the frying pan very hot. Set it back and pour in 
some olive oil, then break in the eggs and cover. Let them 
harden slowly. Serve with apple or tomato rice or with cooked 
or raw starchy or leaf vegetables, except beets or carrots, 
unless they are pickled. 

BAKED EGGS. No. 1. 
Pour whites of eggs on an oiled tin and place in a mod- 
erate oven or over steam until firm. Serve with any kind of 
vegetable or a salad of tart fruits. 

BAKED EGGS. No. 2. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff snow, add a little 
salt, mix with two tablespoonfuls of sifted bran and with 
two of fine rye nuts. Pour on an oiled tin. bake and serve 
as number one. 

Scrambled Eggs No. 3 are preferable for people with gastric dis- 
turbance. Nos. 1 and 2 are recommended for people with intestinal 
weakness. All soft watery nitrogenous foods are more liable to ferment 
before tiny roach the intestines than those to which flow is added. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 31 

SAXON-SOOL EGGS. 

Pour boiling water on the eggs and let them stand for 20 
minutes on a hot stove, or boil the eggs 10 minutes. Lay in 
cold water for a few minutes, crack the shells well ; place 
them for four hours or longer in a strong salt solution, which 
must contain so much salt that the eggs will swim. Prepare 
as follows : Bring a quart of water to a boil, dissolve about 
one cupful or more of salt, let boil a few minutes and cool. 
ESCALOPED EGGS. 

Boil or set some eggs until hard. Cut into halves or quar- 
ters and pour over them a butter sauce flavored with horse- 
radish, capers or mustard. Serve with baked potatoes and 
string beans or sprouts. If the butter sauce is prepared with 
tomato juice, serve wheat bread or crackers with them instead 
of potatoes. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Boil or set some eggs until hard. Then boil one pint of 
vinegar with a pint of water and a little salt and pour into 
a deep earthen dish, add some whole peppers and bay leaves. 
Remove the shells from the eggs and place them in the pickle. 
Tie up with paper, let stand for a week or longer. These eggs 
are a good addition to sandwiches or can be served with 
salads or green leaves, olives, apples, tomatoes, asparagus 
or cabbage. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. 1. 

Break the yolks and whites into separate bowls. Add one 
teaspoonful of flour to each yolk of egg and also a little salt. 
Beat with an tgg beater until smooth, then add as many 
tablespoonfuls of cold water as there are eggs and beat again. 
Add the snow of the whites and pour into a large frying pan, 
in which some oil or fat has been heated. Stir constantly 
until all is solid. Serve with potatoes or toast and green 
vegetables. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. 2. 

Prepare the same as the foregoing. Use a double amount 
or more of water or milk or cream, also more flour if desired. 

People who have difficulty in digesting eggs will find it more agreeable 
to eat the yolks and whites at different times of the day. The former 
prepared in salad dressing or boiled custards; the latter in the form, of 
baked eggs with lemon and green vegetables. 



32 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

Mixed flour is preferable to pure white flour. If eggs are 
expensive serve a milk or green pea soup as entree and use 
less eggs. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. 3. 

Beat yolks and whites separately. Add as many table- 
spoonfuls of water or milk or cream as there are eggs. Omit 
the flour, 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH POTATOES. 

Cut left-over potatoes into small pieces or slice; fry them 
in half butter and half oil until brown. Then prepare a 
batter as directed for scrambled eggs, pour over the potatoes 
and stir until the egg is firm. If the flavor of onion is 
desired, add a few, finely chopped, and brown in butter in a 
separate pan ; when done, mix with the eggs and potatoes 
and serve. Flavor with pepper, if desired. String beans and 
black toast make a good addition. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

Prepare a batter as directed for scramblled eggs, add 
tomato juice or tomato puree instead of milk or water. Flavor 
with grated onion and celery salt. Serve with bread and 
green vegetables. OMELET. 

Prepare the same as scrambled eggs No. 1 and 2. Do 
not stir. Cover and set in a moderate oven or on back o\ 
stove. When firm remove the cover and brown in oven. 
Serve with tart fruit sauce or with apple and lettuce salad, 
prepared with French or mavonnaise dressing. 
COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put some whole, or skim milk, into a pan and set in a cool 
room, which has plenty of fresh air. Do not cover the pan. 
If the room is exposed to dust, put a few long sticks over the 
pan and cover with a cheese-cloth. When the milk begins to 
get thick, set the pan into a larger pan with warm water, and 
keep it in a warm place or in the oven until the curd separ 
;t must not become hard. Then put a cheese-cloth on a 
colander ami pour the milk into it. Let stand for several 
hours, until the whey i^ thoroughly drained off. Then chop 
fine some green peppers or onions, mix with the cheese, add 
a little salt and pepper, and serve with apple or potato - 
or spread on sandwiches. A few teaspoonfuls of sugar and 
caraway seed may be added in place of the onion and pepper. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 33 

CHAPTER IV. 

MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 

IRISH STEW. 

Let a quart of water come to a boil; add 10 to 12 pearl 
onions, two bay leaves, a teaspoonful of salt and a few whole 
black peppers or the skin of green peppers. When the onions 
are nearly done, add six small potatoes, let all simmer slowly 
until the potatoes are tender; then blend a spoonful of flour 
with some butter or oil, add the broth gradually. Cut five 
Saxon Sool eggs into halves, mix with the butter sauce and 
let stand in a warm place for ten minutes or until the eggs 
are warmed through. Then add the cooked vegetables and 
plenty of chopped parsley. Serve on a large platter. A table- 
spoonful of horseradish or French mustard added to the 
butter sauce gives it a pleasant flavor. In place of the butter 
sauce, the broth may be thickened with a little corn starch 
dissolved in water and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream 
used in place of butter. The above quantity is sufficient for 
a family of three. The most suitable cooked vegetable served 
with this dish is string beans. People who have to live on 
an economical plan can add one cup of hot milk to the 
broth and prepare more sauce. In this way the protein in the 
milk can serve as a substitute for two eggs. If bread is de- 
sired, serve it at the end of the meal. Toast is preferable. 

DUMPLINGS WITH POTATOES AND PRUNES. 

Steam the potatoes. Prepare some nutritious dumplings 
from flour or bread with eggs. Heat some butter or oil, add 
finely chopped onions, fry until brown, remove from the 
fire and add two tablespoonfuls of syrup and some lemon 
juice or vinegar. Pour the potatoes and dumplings on a 

Do not keep a tight cover on a dish, jar or bottle which contains 
raw or cooked food, unless the air within is sterile. Allow <:ooked food 
to stand open until it Is cool, then put the cover over two-thirds of its 
opening or cover with a cheese-cloth or colander. 



34 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

dish, mix with stewed cold or warm prunes, pour the syrup 
sauce over it, and serve. The syrup sauce can be thickened 
with flour and strengthened with the water in which the 
dumplings have been cooked ; the prune juice can be added 
in place of the syrup. Good during summer. Dried pears 
or string beans may be substituted for the prunes, or a lettuce 
or string bean salad served with it. Macaroni or noodles 
may be used in place of dumplings. Growing children or 
those who work hard, not finding this meal satisfying, may 
drink some milk or eat nuts at the end of the meal. 

LIMA BEANS WITH CARROTS AND POTATOES. 

Soak one pound of lima beans in rain or soft water over 
night, cook for half an hour, add salt, and then add five good 
sized carrots cut to the size of the beans. Cook both for half 
an hour, then add four or five potatoes and cook all together 
until done. Thicken the bro th with corn starch, add chopped 
parsley and butter. A tablespoonful of vinegar and sugar 
may be added to the sauce if the flavor is desired. The carrots 
may be cooked by themselves ; when done, add the water to 
the beans and potatoes, pour a little diluted vinegar over the 
carrots, let stand 20 minutes, drain off the vinegar and add the 
carrots to the beans and potatoes. This is preferable for 
people who dislike the sweet taste of the carrots. Bread is 
not needed at this meal, as potatoes and carrots furnish suf- 
ficient carbohydrates. If bread is desired, it should be eaten 
in place of dessert with a little unsweetened black coffee or 
malt coffee. 

SMALL WHITE OR BROWN BEANS WITH CARROTS 
AND POTATOES. 
Prepare as above. Time for cooking depends on the 
quality. Do not add the carrots until the beans are nearly 
done. 

PEAS WITH CARROTS AND POTATOES. 
Prepare the same as the foregoing. Young green peas or 

The recipes for mixed boiled dinners consisting- of legumes, carrots 
and potatoes are more wholesome and nutritious than a meal consisting 
of potatoes and vegetables each cooked in water and served with yeast- 
bread, sweets, or rich soft nitrogenous foods. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 35 

string beans may be used in place of dried peas. This furn- 
ishes an excellent combination during the summer for those 
who prefer cooked food. 

GREEN PEAS WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare a flour dough for dumplings. Boil them in salted 
water or in the liquid of the peas. If the peas are desired 
in soup form, boil the dumplings in the soup and omit thick- 
ening. Use one-third to one-fifth of a cup of dried peas for 
each person, according to size, age and occupation of the 
individual. This makes a perfect meal for dinner. The 
peas and dumplings furnish sufficient protein and starch ; 
the fat can be added to the dough of the dumplings. 

SUCCOTASH. 
Cook lima beans until tender, add one cup of corn (canned 
or scraped from the cob) to two cups of lima beans. Let 
both come to a boil, thicken with a little corn starch which 
has been dissolved in cold water, season with celery salt or 
pepper and serve. Do not serve yeast bread or potatoes at 
this meal. Thoroughly toasted bread, green leaf salad and 
tomato puree are good additions. 

LENTILS WITH ONIONS. 
Soak a cup of lentils in soft water. Cook or stew in a 
double boiler, when nearly done add ten to twelve onions 
and salt. Let simmer slowly, when done thicken with a little 
corn starch, add a piece of butter and serve with tomato puree 
or with a salad of green leaves and raw tomatoes. 

MIXED VEGETABLES (Leipsiger Allerlie). 

Use asparagus tops, young French carrots, peas, and cauli- 
flower. Cook each vegetable separately with salt, in as little 
water as possible. When done, drain the water from each 
and use for soup. Mix the different vegetables in one dish 

Green peas are richer in minerals than yellow peas, beans or lentils, 
the protein being in the form of legumin and easier to digest. Tbey 
are very purifying. 



36 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

and pour browned butter over them. Serve with eggs. A 
butter sauce may be prepared from the vegetable water in 
place of brown butter. Bread or flour dumplings may be 
served with it. 

CABBAGE WITH RICE. (Jewish Dish.) 
Remove the outside leaves from a firm head of cabbage, 
cut into halves and quarters and let stand in salted water 
for half an hour. Then put into boiling salted water and cook 
for about 20 minutes. Wash a cupful of rice and add, cover 
and let simmer slowly until all is done. There should be 
plenty of water on the cabbage for the rice to swell, so that it 
will not become sticky. About 2 quarts for a medium sized 
head of cabbage. Some people prefer to cook it with a table- 
spoonful of sugar. When ready to serve add a piece of butter, 
and pour all on a large platter. Do not eat yeast bread with 
it. Drink fresh milk or eat walnuts at the end of the meal. 
If bread is desired, use toast. 

CABBAGE ROLLS. 
Wash some large cabbage leaves. Fill them with dough 
mixed with eggs. (See recipe for bread dumplings). Then 
tie the rolls together with a string. Steam in a shallow 
dish with as little water as possible. Serve with a butter or 
tomato sauce and hard boiled eggs. Flavor with mace. 

POTATO STEW. (Pood Man's Bill of Fare.) 
Boil some steel cut oats or pearl barley as directed for 
gruel ( See Page 54 ; when nearly done add some medium 
sized potatoes and a little more salt. When the potatoes are 
tender, put them into a deep bowl, strain the gruel and pour 
it over the potatoes. Add a piece of butter or prepare a little 
sauce and mix with the gruel. Flavor with chopped parsley 
or onion. Good additions are : black toast, bran crackers, 
string beans, sprouts or kale. Oranges or apples for dessert, 
if desired. 

The amount of fat required for a meal depends much on the season 
of the year, the occupation and the individual peculiarities, therefore 
it must he left to the consideration of the housewife. All legumes 
(except peanuts) are poor In fat. A glass of fresh milk is a fairly good 
addition with mixed boiled dinners, especially for the growing child. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 37 

MACARONI WITH PEA SAUCE. 
Boil macaroni in salted water until quite soft ; put into a 
colander. Prepare a pea sauce from the water which is 
drained from the macaroni, add left-over pea puree or dried 
pea meal. Serve over the macaroni. If the flavor of onion is 
desired, boil one onion with the macaroni or cut up fine and 
fry in butter. If this meal is not sufficiently satisfying serve 
some grated cold Swiss cheese in addition or drink fresh milk 
with it. In place of the latter walnuts may be eaten at the 
end of the meal. If the macaroni is served with tomato in- 
stead of pea sauce, some form of the above mentioned protein 
foods is absolutely necessary. 

MACARONI WITH BAKED CHEESE. 
Boil sufficient macaroni in salted water to fill a baking 
dish two-thirds full, pour over it some hot milk or tomato 
juice and a cupful of grated cheese, add a piece of butter and 
bake until brown. Serve with string beans, green leaf salad 
or pea soup. 

RICE WITH PEA OR LENTIL SAUCE. 
Cook some rice in salted water. When done add a piece 
of butter. Serve with the above mentioned sauce. Eat nuts 
at the end of the meal, either alone or in combination with 
dried currants or raisins. 

SPANISH OMELET. 
In the middle of the cooking omelet put a roll of hot 
spinach, turn over carefully and serve on a platter with puree 
of tomato as a gravy. 

PEAS AND CHESTNUTS. 
Boil blanched chestnuts until tender, then add some young 
peas (canned or fresh ones boiled separately), let come to 

A pinch of pepper on gravies, milk soups, or other nutritious dishes, 
if mixed thoroughly with the food, assists n the coagulation of soft 
nitrogenous foods and prevents putrefaction, but excess of it, or if 
sprinkled on dry food, is very harmful. Free salt and ground spices 
create an abnormal desire for water and food, and they injure the 
mucous membrane lining of the blood vessels and glandular structures, 
and obstruct the capillaries. 



38 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

a boil, season and serve with unleavened crackers or toast. 
For dessert use grapes, oranges or fruit gelatine. 

PEA CHEESE. 

Bake or steam six medium sized potatoes. Then grate or 
mash fine, add salt, pepper and some butter or one-half cup of 
hot cream and one cup of pea puree. Mix well and pour into 
a square dish. When cold, slice and dip into cracker crumbs 
and brown in the oven or fry. Serve with carrots or mush- 
rooms and green salad. Chestnuts or walnuts are also a good 
addition. 

PEA LOAF. 

Prepare as the foregoing, pour into a baking dish and cover 
with grated Swiss cheese. Bake in the oven and serve with 
tomatoes or apple salad and green leaves. Beans and lentils 
may be prepared in the same manner and flavored in different 
ways. Parsnips may be used for bulk instead of potatoes. 
The latter two vegetables are preferable to bread or toast 
as bulk for the reason that it makes the dish too rich in certain 
food elements. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 39 

CHAPTER V. 
SOUPS. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Wash one and one-half cups of black, white, red or mixed 
beans and soak in I quart of warm soft water over night. 
The next day add 5 pints of cold or boiling water, let come 
to a boil ; add 2 finely cut onions and a potato, parsley or 
other flavoring. Let simmer slowly for 3 hours or longer; 
then strain. Heat some oil or butter, mix with 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of flour in a clean saucepan over the fire, add the 
strained bean soup gradually, let boil a few minutes and 
serve. A cupful of strained tomato juice and chopped parsley 
may be added. Serve with fried bread or bread and butter 
and raw carrots. 

CREAM OF BEAN SOUP. 

Prepare like the foregoing. Leave out the fat, flour and 
tomatoes ; mix with one-fifth part or less of hot cream before 
serving. Add plenty of chopped parsley. 

LENTIL OR PEA SOUP. 
Prepare like bean soup. Flavor with celery roots if desired. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 
Use Carque's dried vegetables and follow directions on 
the package. Add butter and flour or thicken with barley, rye, 
or flaked wheat. 

KNORR'S VEGETARIAN SOUP. 

Knorr's dried legumes and vegetable soups can be bought 

in first class grocery stores. Some are prepared with meat, 

others without. Legumes soups can be prepared in many 

different ways. Sample: Cut up a few onions and potatoes 

Soups. Many American housekeepers do not know how to prepare 
soupfl and do not like them. The fact that people of many nations In 
the world, with smaller incomes than the average American working- man, 
use soups daily, once or twice, and are far superior in physical strength 
and endurance to the laitter, should convince every one that nutritious 
soups are an important article of diet. 



4 o VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

and cook in the desired quantity of water. When partly done, 
disolve some dried legume powder, use less than the directions 
call for. Let all cook 20 minutes. Mash up fine ami run 
through a colander. Add plenty of chopped parsley anil a 
little cream or thicken with butter and flour. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Soak one-third of a cup of green or yellow split peas in 
soft water. Put to cook with two or three cups of water and 
let simmer slowly for an hour or longer, add salt and flavoring 
to suit the taste. When done, mash the peas fine with potato- 
masher. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch in cold water 
and add while stirring it. Let boil 5 to 10 minutes, remove 
from the fire and add a teaspoonful of butter or two ounces 
of hot cream and some chopped parsley. Serve with soda 
crackers or swieback. Raw celery, carrots, parsnips or 
cucumbers may be substituted for the bread or eaten in 
addition at the end of the meal. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. No. 1. 

Cut off one-third of the upper end of the asparagus, then 
wash, cut in pieces and put to boil in water, add some salt ; 
when tender thicken the water with mixed flour, let boil 10 
minutes. Add one-half hot milk. Flavor with pepper. Serve. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. No. 2. 

Prepare as No. 1 ; when tender heat some butter, thicken 
with mixed flour, add the asparagus water gradually and boil 
a few minutes. Then remove from the fire, stir several yolks 
of eggs with a little cold water on a soup plate, add the 
asparagus soup gradually. Flavor with lemon and serve. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. No. 3. 
Prepare like No. 1 ; add three tablespoonfuls oi fresh rich 
cream or 3 yolks of eggs dissolved with a little cold w 

Close study and persistent effort will enable every homekeeper with 
small means to learn how to prepare a soup that is palatable and 
nutritious. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 41 

Add lemon juice and a tablespoonful of butter before serving 
if eggs are used. Hygienic crackers or black crusts are a good 
addition. Serve as a whole meal mornings or evenings or as 
an entree for dinner. 

CORN SOUP. No. 1. 
Dilute a can of corn with two canfuls of barley water and 
press through a colander. Heat some butter, mix with flour 
and add the hot broth. This is more suitable for breakfast 
or dinner than for supper. Serve with black toast. 

CORN SOUP. No. 2. 
Dilute the corn with hot milk or water. Thicken with 
corn starch, add a little hot cream or piece of butter. 

BUTTERMILK SOUP. 
Mix some white flour with cold buttermilk, stir over the 
fire until it boils, add sugar and boil ten minutes. Add hot 
cream or yolks of eggs or flavoring before serving, as desired. 

MILK SOUP WITH MACARONI. 
Break some macaroni into boiling water, boil fast for 45 
minutes. When done, add an equal part of buttermilk or 
sweet milk. Thicken with a little rice flour. 

MILK SOUP WITH FLOUR DUMPLINGS. 
Prepare some flour dumplings with or without eggs. Drop 
into boiling salted water ; when done, add some hot milk or 
buttermilk. Thicken with a little flour, add salt and serve. 
Sweet dried fruits can be added. 

BUTTERMILK SOUP WITH RICE. 
Cook some rice with water as directed for "Water Rice"; 
when done add one quart of buttermilk to one quart of cooked 
rice, mix well and stir over the fire until it boils. Add one- 
third cup of sugar and simmer with a piece of cinnamon or 

Ijeft-over skim-milk is best utilized for cheese, pancakes, whey gruel, 
whipy or milk sauce, or boiled and served with stale rye or corn bread. 
Vegetables prepared with milk do not make a good combination. Soft 
puddings prepared with skim-milk, sugar and eggs, are not very whole- 
some unless the necessary amount of fat is added in the form of butter 
Skim-milk and fruit is not a good combination. 



42 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

vanilla for half an hour longer. Add more salt if necessary. 
Some dried soaked cold prunes, currants or raisins may be 
mixed with the soup before serving". This forms a perfect 
meal for dinner on hot summer days or for supper in winter 
or summer. 

MILK SOUP WITH EGG. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, arrowroot or fine 
white flour with a cupful of cold water; add a little salt and 
the yolks of two eggs and beat with an egg beater. Then 
mix one quart of fresh milk with a cup of water and heat over 
a quick fire to about 170 F. Then add the flour and egg, 
some lemon rind, vanilla bean or bitter almond. Stir fast or 
beat with an egg beater over the fire until it comes to a boil. 
During hot weather this soup can be served cold, as a light 
luncheon or for supper. For this purpose it should be stirred 
for a while after removing it from the fire until it is nearly 
cold. Serve with crackers, toast or strawberries. If a sweet 
flavor is desired, add a tablespoonful of sugar, honey or 
Eagle-brand Condensed Milk with the other flavoring. If 
skim milk is used add a tablespoonful of butter also. 

MILK SOUP WITH BARLEY. 
Wash and soak a cup of pearl barley with soft water for 
several hours or over night. Put on to cook with a quart of 
water and a little salt. Let simmer slowly for about one hour; 
then add a quart of cold or hot milk. Stir well and let cook 
10 to 20 minutes longer. Serve with toast or with bread and 
butter for a lunch or supper or as an entree. 

MILK SOUP WITH RICE. 

Wash four tablespoonfuls of rice, boil in \]/ 2 pints of water 

with a little salt until the grains burst. Then add 1^2 pints 

of hot or cold milk and cook 10 minutes longer. Flavor to 

suit the taste. Serve with soda crackers or with toast. If 

People who are not able to digest a sufficient amount of protein or 
cereals, require more fats. The latter can be made easily digestible if 
rightly combined and prepared in the form of soups, warm sauces, boiled 
custards and mayonnaise dressing. In this way the fat globules are 
equally divided in the food and can be better emulsified. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 43 

skim milk is used add butter after removing the soup from 
the fire or cook the butter with the grains before the milk 
is added. 

MILK SOUP WITH OATS OR BUCKWHEAT. 

Wash one-half cup of either with cold water several times. 
Put on to boil with a quart of water and salt to taste. Let 
cook for about 40 minutes or until the grains burst. (Buck- 
wheat requires nearly an hour to cook). Then add 2 cups of 
rich milk and let come to a boil. Serve plain or with dried 
soaked fruit. Bread is not needed at this meal. 

MILK SOUP WITH CORN MEAL OR RICE FLOUR. 

Bring three cups of milk and i l / 2 of water to a boil. Dis- 
solve 4 to 6 tablespoonfuls of meal with half a cup of cold 
water and stir into the hot milk. Add salt and cook it for 
20 minutes. 

MILK SOUP WITH CORN STARCH. 

Prepare as the foregoing. Cook 10 minutes. Dried cur- 
rants are a good addition. Corn meal being rich in oil and 
pure in nitrogen, combines better with skim milk than some 
of the other cereals. 

MILK SOUP WITH WHEY. 

Prepare a pint of sweet whey according to directions ; then 
heat to the boiling point and add a cup of hot water. Heat 
some butter or vegetable oil, mix with two tablespoonfuls of 
mixed flour, add the hot whey gradually and salt to taste. Let 
cook a few minutes, then add one cup of hot milk. Flavor. 

MILK SOUP WITH CHOCOLATE. 

Bring 3 cups of milk and 1 of water to a boil, add a piece of 
vanilla bean. Dissolve chocolate and pour into the boiling 
milk. Let cook a minute; then dissolve 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch or arrowroot with a little cold water and stir 
into the hot chocolate. Add salt and serve. Black crusts or 



44 VEGETARIAN SITTLEMENT 

toast are a good addition. Potato flour can be used instead of 
arrowroot. It is cheaper, and can be bought at a first class 
store. 

If this soup is prepared from cocoa, add the necessary 
amount of sugar and prepare the same as the foregoing. 

MILK SOUP WITH BROWN FLOUR. 

Brown some flour according to directions. Dissolve with 
warm water and stir into boiling milk or half milk and half 
water. Let boil a few minutes. Flavor. 

MILK SOUP WITH WHITE FLOUR. 

Prepare as above. Use plain or mixed flour. Add the yolk 
of an egg and a piece of butter, if desired. 

Water Soups and Gruels. 

WATER SOUP. No. i. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter or oil, mix with I table- 
spoonful of white or mixed flour over the fire. Then add 
gradually a pint or less of boiling salted water while stirring. 
Boil a few minutes. Serve. 

WATER SOUP. No. 2. 

Prepare as above. Add a grated carrot or half of an apple 
and boil for about 10 minutes. Add 2 to 3 ounces of rich hot 
milk before serving. 

WATER SOUP. No. 3. 
Cut up an onion or any desired vegetable and soak for half 
an hour. Strain and prepare as No. 1. Add 2 tablespoon fu Is 
of cream, if desired. 

WATER SOUP. No. 4. 
Prepare as No. 1. After removing from the fire add two 
tablespoonfuls of hot cream or dilute the yolk of an egg or 
one-half tablespoonful of almond butter with an ounce of 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 45 

cold water. To this add the hot soup gradually. Two ounces 
of cold buttermilk may be used instead of cream. 

WATER SOUP. No. 5. 

Prepare as No. 1. Add an ounce of fresh or preserved 
fruit juice or a tablespoonful of fruit jelly before serving-. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Wash and soak a cup of pear! barley. Boil with 2 to 3 
quarts of water and a teaspoonful of salt for 2 hours very 
slowly. Tie some celery stalks with a string and cook with it. 
Carrots or asparagus make also a good flavoring. When done, 
add a piece of butter and serve with soda crackers. Dried 
soaked fruit may be added before serving, if the flavor of 
vegetables is not desired. Cream and parsley are also good 
additions. 

RICE SOUP. 

Prepare as barley soup No. 1. Flavor with fruit or veg- 
etables. Add the yolk of an egg, if desired. Follow directions 
as in Water Soup No. 4. Cream is also a good additi©n. 

WHEY GRUEL OR SOUP. 

Heat one and one-half cupfuls of sweet or slightly sour 
whey to the boiling point. Melt a tablespoonful of butter, 
mix with a tablespoonful of mixed flour and add the hot whey 
gradually. Boil a few minutes. Remove from the fire, add 
the yolk of an egg and a few drops of lemon juice. If sour 
whey is used, add a tablespoonful of cane-sugar while it boils, 
or mix the gruel with a few soaked or stewed prunes or with 
dried currants. Add cream in place of egg and butter, if 
desired. 

WHEY GRUEL FOR TWO PERSONS. 

Wash one-fourth of a cupful or 4 tablespoonfuls of sago 
several times with cold and warm water until the water be- 
comes clear, then soak in one-half cup of cold or warm water 



46 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

for several hours or over night. Bring 2 cups of whey to a 
boil with the peeling of one-half a lemon or a piece of cinna- 
mon bark. Stir in the sago, let boil 20 minutes, and add one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt Remove from the fire and add a 
teaspoonful of butter, the yolk of an egg diluted with a table- 
spoonful of cold water, and a few drops of lemon, or leave out 
the egg, butter and lemon, and add 3 ounces of hot cream. 
Mix well, pour on soup plates and serve with soda crackers or 
zwieback, or one-half of a raw red Oregon apple. One table- 
spoonful of sugar may be added, if allowed. Sour whey may 
be used instead of sweet whey. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Wash celery stalks, scrape and cut into one-inch pieces. 
Boil in a very little water, with a pinch of salt. When tender, 
put the celery into one cup and the water into another cup. 
Squeeze the juice of one-half lemon on the celery stalks and 
let stand for 10 or 15 minutes. Heat a tablespoonful of butter 
and mix with a tablespoonful of mixed flour, and add the hot 
celery water. If there is not sufficient fluid, add more boiling 
water. When done, remove from the fire, add another tea- 
spoonful of butter, then add the celery; mix well. 

If the lemon -makes it too sour, pour some boiling water 
over the celery, and let it drain through a colander. When 
ready to serve, combine the soup with the yolk of an egg. 

If vegetables cause fermentation, they are less liable to do 
so if treated with acids as directed above. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. No. 2. 

Prepare like No. 1, omitting lemon, egg and extra butter, 
and using three ounces of hot cream instead. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. No. 3. 

Cook the celery as directed in No. 1. Add 2 teaspoonfuls 
of corn starch with water, and 3 ounces of hot cream. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 47 

STRING BEAN SOUP. 

Select young, tender string beans, wash, trim and shred 
fine or break into one-half inch pieces. Cook in a very little 
water. Finish like Cream of Celery Soup, with or without 
lemon, egg or cream. 

Add plenty of chopped parsley just before removing from 
the fire. This soup is very purifying to the liver and intestines, 
but should not be given to fever patients. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 
Prepare the same as Cream of Celery Soup. The use of 
lemon is important for people who suffer with gas and flatu- 
lent dyspepsia. 

SPINACH SOUP. 
Prepare from spinach water, with butter and flour. When 
done, add a few tablespoonfuls of finely chopped spinach. 
Flavor with grated onion and lemon. 

TOMATO SOUP. 
Strain a can of tomatoes, and heat. Add an equal amount 
of boiling water or soup stock. Heat some oil, butter or fat; 
add flour, boil a few seconds; then add the tomato juice gradu- 
ally and a little salt. Boil 3 to 5 minutes, then serve. It must 
be of the consistency of gravy. Raw cucumbers and celery 
are a good addition. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Add one-fourth part or more of 
hot cream before serving. If milk is used, it must be more in 
proportion than cream. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. No. 2. 
Mix one quart of hot water with one quart of strained 
hot tomato juice. Dissolve two to three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch in cold water and stir into the boiling fruit juice. 
Boil 10 minutes, and season with salt and a little sugar, if 
desired. Remove from the fire, add hot cream, mix and serve. 
Good in the summer. 



48 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

APPLE SOUP. No. i. 

Heat a tabespoonful of olive oil and one of butter, mix 
with a tablespoonful of white flour, gradually add a pint of 
boiling" water and stir. When done, wash and grate one apple 
with the skin. Add the grated apple to the soup, also a pinch 
of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar and a stick of cinnamon. 
Let all boil for about 10 minutes. Remove from the fire, add 
another teaspoonful of butter and a few drops of lemon ; mix 
well, pour on a soup plate and serve with crusts. If the 
stomach is very delicate the soup must be strained. 

APPLE SOUP. No. 2. 

Prepare as the foregoing. Add one-half of hot cream be- 
fore serving; mix well. Omit the extra teaspoonful of butter, 
oil and lemon. 

APPLE SOUP. No. 3. 
Soak some stale or French bread with a little boiling water 
and a pinch of salt for an hour or longer, then add about a 
quart of boiling water, also one or two apples which have 
been cut up with the skins on, simmer slowly for an hour. 
Then run through the colander, add a piece of butter, or a 
little hot cream and serve. For flavoring use some dried rais- 
ins or currants or prunes; soak them with a little boiling water 
for an hour and add the soup before serving. In place of the 
fruit add vanilla bean, cinnamon or lemon rind and a table- 
spoonful of sugar with the soup in boiling. 

HUCKLEBERRY SOUP. 
Wash one quart of huckleberries and boil with two quarts 
of water and a piece of cinnamon. When done strain or leave 
the berries in the soup. Shape some dumplings with a dessert 
spoon and boil in the fruit soup until they rise to the top. Use 
recipe for flour dumplings No. 1. Cherry soup from fresh 
cherries may be prepared with dumplings instead of thickening. 

All who are in the habit of eating more than their systems require 
and especially those wlio indulge in large amounts of bread at dinner, 
would do well to begin their meal with a soup. Legume and cream soups 
will furnish a satisfactory meal by themselves. For combinations, see 
"Menus". 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 49 

BLACKBERRY SOUP. 

Prepare the same as the foregoing or see recipe for black- 
berry gruel. 

CHERRY SOUP. 

Remove the stones from one quart of cherries, and bring 
two quarts of water to a boil with a stick of cinnamon, pour in 
the cherries and let them simmer for 20 to 30 minutes. Add 
enough sugar to counteract the tart taste and thicken with a 
little cornstarch. Cool and serve with swieback. If used for 
supper on hot days it should be prepared in the morning and 
allowed to cool. Beaten whites of eggs with a little sugar may 
be placed on top. Serve on soup-plates. 

DRIED CHERRY SOUP. 

Soak some dried cherries for several hours. Cook with the 
desired amount of water and a little sugar and cinnamon. 
Finish as the foregoing. This is excellent for convalescents 
during the winter. 

PLUM SOUP. 

Wash one pound of blue plums and boil with three to four 
pints of water, a stick of cinnamon and sugar until well done. 
Thicken with cornstarch, or with sago which has been soaked. 
Cook 15 to 20 minutes or longer. Run through a colander and 
add a piece of butter. Cool and serve with zwieback and 
beaten whites of eggs, if desired. Hot cream may be added 
in place of butter. 

POTATO SOUP. No. 1. 

Boil potatoes with salt water and an onion ; pour off water, 
mash potatoes fine, and add the potato water. Bring to a boil 
some fresh cream and milk in a separate saucepan, and add 
it to the potatoes. Flavor with a little pepper, and chopped 
parsley. 

POTATO SOUP. No. 2. 

Boil the potatoes in plenty of water with salt and onions ; 
drain off water, mash potatoes, and return to the potato water. 
Then melt some butter, thicken with flour, add the hot potato 
soup to it gradually, and boil all a few minutes. Bring some 
fresh milk and cream to a boil, add it to the soup, and flavor 
with chopped parsley and pepper. 



50 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

MIXED VEGETABLE SOUP. 
Chop up some celery, onion, potatoes, and parsley stems. 
Simmer in water slowly for 30 minutes. Strain, and prepare 
with butter and flour. Add plenty of chopped parsley. Finely 
cut cauliflower, string- beans, and peas can be prepared in the 
same manner. For people with delicate stomachs the pulp of 
the vegetables shauld never be pressed through. 

DREAD SOUP. No. 1. 
Soak some stale white and black bread in boiling water for 
half an hour. Put on to boil with more water. Cut up a few- 
apples with the skin and add a stick of cinnamon, a little sugar, 
salt, and some lemon rind. Simmer for 30 minutes or longer. 
Press through a colander and add some cold soaked raisins 
or currants and a piece of butter, also the yolk of an egg, it 
desired. 

BREAD SOUP. No. 2. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Leave out the apples. Add hot 
cream or milk in place of butter and egg. Use dried soaked 
currants or prunes, if desired. 

BRAN SOUP. No. 1. 
Use equal parts of stale bread and bran. Prepare like the 
foregoing. Leave out the egg. 

BRAN SOUP. No. 2. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Use more water, and strain. 
Melt some butter, thicken with mixed flour, add the hot broth 
gradually. When done, remove from the fire and mix with 
soaked cold raisins and a few drops of lemon. 

BRAN SOUP. No. 3. 
Use one cup of bran, four cups of water, four tablespoon- 
fuls of milk sugar. Strain and thicken with butter and flour 
as directed for Bran Soup No. 2. Omit the fruit. A little 
lemon may be used, if desired. Good for invalids. 

BARLEY GRUEL. 
Soak a half cup of pearl barley, put to boil with three pints 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 51 

of water, add salt and three tablespoonfuls of milk sugar. Let 
boil sic "ly for one hour, then strain. Heat a tablespoonful of 
butter, thicken with mixed flour, add the barley gruel gradu- 
ally, let all boil a few minutes, then serve. 

WHEAT GRUEL. 

Put two to three tablespoonfuls of cream of wheat or 
farina into a saucepan. Add a pint of boiling water, a pinch of 
salt, and a tablespoonful of milk sugar. Let boil half an hour. 
Remove from the fire and mix with a teaspoonful of butter 
or two to three ounces of hot cream. Dried soaked raisins or 
currants may be added. 

GLUTEN GRUEL. 

Prepare as directed on package. Add cream or butter 
and the yolk of an q^. 

RAW CEREAL GRUEL. 
Soak one-half to one-third cup of flaked raw cereal with a 
cup or more of warm salted water. Let stand for several 
hours or over night in a warm place. Serve plain or with 
sweet dried fruits and fresh cream. 

MIXED FLOUR GRUEL. No. 1. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of mixed flour with a little cold 
water, add two to three cups of boiling water, salt and a table- 
spoonful of milk sugar. Let boil 10 to 15 minutes, remove 
from the fire. Add two to four ounces of hot cream. Flavor 
with vanilla, cinnamon, grated lemon rind or bitter almond. 

MIXED FLOUR GRUEL. No. 2. 
Put to boil the same amount of flour as in number one. 
Use a cup of rich milk and one and one-half of water instead 
of water alone. Flavor and serve. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 
Prepare the same as mixed flour gruel. Add hot cream. 

NUT GRUEL. No. 1. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of mixed flour with a little cold 

Barley is rich in lime; it should take a more prominent place among 
food substances than it does. Pearl barley should be soaked with soft 
water before cooking. 



52 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

water, add two to three cups of boiling water, salt, and a 
teaspoonful of sugar, if desired. Boil 10 to 15 minutes. Stir 
;t tablespoonful of almond-butter or combination nut-butter 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of water to a smooth paste, 
add the gruel gradually, mix all well and serve. 

NUT GRUEL. No. 2. 

Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a flat saucepan, thicken 
with mixed flour, add two cups of boiling water, and salt, let 
boil a few minutes. Stir smooth a teaspoonful of almond- 
butter with cold water, add the gruel, mix well, flavor with 
lemon, if desired. 

SAGO GRUEL. 

Wash and soak a half cup of sago for several hours in a 
cup or more of cold water. Put into three cups of boiling 
water, add salt, a tablespoonful of milk sugar, or a teaspoonful 
of cane sugar, a stick of cinnamon, vanilla or lemon rind. 
Boil the sago 20 to 30 minutes. Remove from the fire, add 
three to six ounces of hot cream. Less sago may be used and 
a tablespoonful of rice flour dissolved with cold water added 
to it while boiling. 

CORNSTARCH GRUEL. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold 
water, add three cups of boiling water, salt, a tablespoonful of 
milk sugar or a teaspoonful of cane sugar, boil 10 to 15 
minutes. Add two to three ounces of hot cream. One-half 
of rice flour and one-half of cornstarch may be used in place 
of pure cornstarch. Flavor as desired. 

MILK GRUEL. No. 1. 
Mix a tablespoonful of rice flour and one of cornstarch 
with a little cold water. Add one quart of boiling milk. Boil 
10 to 20 minutes. Add salt and flavor, as desired. 

MILK GRUEL. No. 2. 
Bring one pint of milk and one pint of water to a boil. 

Sago and Tapioca are manufactured from certain palms and roots, 
and can be partially substituted for cereals. Cornstarch, arrowroot, 
potato-flour and agar agar belong to the same class. They ana all 
valuable for the sick and for young children. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 53 

Dissolve two or three tablespoonfuls of white flour with a 
little cold water and stir into the hot milk. Let boil 10 to 15 
minutes. A stick of cinnamon, vanilla or lemon rind can be 
boiled with the milk. If the flavor of almonds is desired, 
grate one bitter-almond on it after it is removed from the fire. 
The yolk of an egg may be added, if desired. 

PEPTONIZED GRUEL. 
Prepare a gruel from any farinaceous article. Pour into a 
bowl and allow it to stand until lukewarm. Add peptonized 
powder according to direction. 

ONION GRUEL. No. 1. 
Cut fine three or four onions, stew them in a quart of 
water very slowly and keep them well covered. When tender 
strain; heat butter or olive oil and thicken with mixed flour; 
add the onion broth slowly, let boil a few minutes. Flavor 
with salt and lemon. Cream can be added if desired. 

ONION GRUEL. No. 2. 
Put one-half of a cup of barley to soak, boil with four 
dried or green onions. Add salt, and strain. 

BREAD GRUEL. No. 1. (WITH BARLEY.) 
Soak and boil one-half cup of barley with salt in three pints 
of water, very tender, until there remains about a cup of liquid. 
Strain this. Then take some French bread or soda crackers, 
pour sufficient boiling water and a tablespoonful of milk sugar 
or cane sugar on it, let stand until it is perfectly soft, or until 
the water is all soaked into the bread. Then add the cup of 
barley water, let all boil for a few minutes or until bread and 
barley are well united. It may be strained, if desired. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 
Wash half a cup of steel-cut oats. Put on to boil with 
three pints of boiling water and salt. Let boil half an hour. 
Strain, add butter and serve. This is excellent for nursing 

Brown Flour: Put some white flour on a pie tin and brown in the 
ore*. 



54 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

mothers. Use more water if it is desired thin. Do not press 
through the pulp. 

RICE GRUEL. No. i. 
Mix two to throe tablespoonfuls of rice flour with a little 
cold water, add to it a pint of boiling water, two level table- 
spoonfuls of sugar of milk, salt to taste, boil 15 to 20 minutes. 

Put on a soup plate, pour hot or cold sterilized cream over it. 

RICE GRUEL. No. 2. 
Prepare as number one. After removing from the fire, add 
a piece of butter, and the yolk of an tgg, mix thoroughly, then 
put on a soup plate. Serve with or without cream. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH. 

Bring' a pint of water to a boil, mix with two tablespoon- 
fuls of chocolate, let boil two minutes, then thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. Flavor with salt and vanilla. 
Pour on a soup plate. Serve with sterilized cream, hot or cold. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 
Bring one pint of sweet cream or rich milk and one pint of 
water to a boil with a piece of vanilla. Then mix one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch with a little cold water and three yolks 
of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt. Add 
all to the boiling milk, stir over the fire or in a double boiler 
until it thickens. Remove and beat until nearly cold. Put on 
ice. It may be served with zwieback and fruit juice or with 
fresh berries. For dyspeptics, it is better if prepared with 
water and butter instead of milk and served with sterilized 
cream. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 55 



CHAPTER VI. 

CEREALS, NOODLES AND DUMPLINGS. 

BUCKWHEAT GROATS. 

Wash one cup of buckwheat groats several times with cold 
water, add about six cups of boiling water and two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt. Boil rapidly for 20 minutes or until it thickens, 
then allow it to cook 50 to 60 minutes longer on the stove or in 
the oven. Serve with hot cream. Cooked or soaked dried 
prunes may be eaten with it, or added to the mush just before 
serving. Buckwheat is a winter food. People who suffer from 
eruptions on the skin after eating buckwheat should let it 
alone. 

STEEL-CUT OATS. 

Prepare the same as buckwheat groats. Rolled oats may 
be used instead. 

ROLLED OATS WITH CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
Boil two cups of rolled oats with a quart of water and a tea- 
spoon of salt for 20 minutes. Cover and set in the oven, or 
cook on the stove for about 40 minutes. Remove from the 
fire, add a piece of butter and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Serve on soup plates, pour over it cranberry sauce, prune or 
apricot jam. Eat raw celery or nuts at the end of the meal. 
It is good for dinner or breakfast. 

RYLAX WITH PRUNE JAM. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Omit the lemon. Serve with 
prune jam, celery or nuts, or with hot cream. 

ROLLED WHEAT. 
Prepare and serve like rolled oats. Cranberries, prunes, 
apricots, or apple sauce, are all good additions. The yolk of 

Cereals are the most perfect products of the vegetable kingdom, and 
make fairly well balanced foods. They are deficient in fat, with the 
exception of corn and oats. 



56 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

an egg may be added to the wheat when mixing it with butter. 

RAW ROLLED OATS. 

Soak one-half cup of Quaker rolled oats with a scant cup 
of warm salted water. Let it stand for several hours or over 
night. When ready to serve put it into a dish of warm (not 
hot) water for 20 minutes. Then add some raisins, dates or 
dried prunes and serve with or without cream. The dried 
fruit should be soaked for a short time in a small amount of 
water. A teaspoonful of nut cream may be substituted for 
two ounces of cream. 

RAW ROLLED WHEAT OR RYLAX. 

Soak each separately as in the foregoing or take equal 
parts of each. Dried soaked currants are an excellant addition 
to wheat and rye where the very sweet fruits are not desirable. 
Cream is a more necessary addition to wheat and rye than 
to oats. 

BRAN MUSH. 

Bring one and one-half to two cups of water to a boil, add 
one-half teaspoonful salt. Drop in one shredded wheat biscuit 
and one-half cup of bran. Mix all well and boil one minute. 
Serve with hot cream. 

BRAN AND RYE MUSH. 

Put one-half cup of rylax into boiling salt water, and cook 
20 minutes. When done, moisten one-half cup of bran with a 
little hot water, and mix with the rye mush. Serve with hot 
cream. 

RAW" WHOLE WHEAT. 

Soak one-half cup of whole wheat in three-quarters or one 
cup of warm water over night. Keep the water warm, if pos- 
sible. A small amount of salt may be added. Serve with 
cream and dates, or with bananas, carrots, or nuts. 

Oats are rich in fat and lime, and like wheat and rye belong to the 
most perfect foods. A tireless cooker is a convenient apparatus for the 
preparation of oats and wheat. They should he thoroughly cooked for 
at least half an hour before setting them into the fireless cooker. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 57 

BOILED WHOLE WHEAT. 
Soak some whole wheat over night. Boil for several 
hours with sufficient water and salt. Serve like the foregoing. 

POLENTA (Italian Dish). 
Stir some yellow corn meal into boiling, salted water in an 
iron pot. Boil for about 40 minutes and stir well to prevent 
burning. Eat with a fork, and serve with cheese for break- 
fast or dinner. 

RICE FLOUR. No. 1. 
Mix a cup of rice flour with cold water, then add three or 
four cups of boiling water while stirring. Boil 15 to 20 min- 
utes. Before removing from the fire, add some dried currants, 
which have been soaked for a while. Put on a soup plate, and 
pour over it some hot cream. 

RICE FLOUR. No. 2. 
Use pure rice flour, or one-half cornstarch and one-half 
rice flour. Prepare as number one. Before serving, mix with 
a piece of butter and the yolk of one or several eggs, and flavor 
with vanilla, lemon or bitter almonds. Put on a soup plate, 
and pour over it hot cream. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 
Stir one and one-half cups of corn meal into four cups of 
boiling salted water; cook 30 minutes; finish like foregoing. 
Use lemon for flavoring. 

BARLEY. 
Soak a cup of pearl barley over night in soft water, and the 
next day boil it in 5 or 6 cups of water for two hours or 
longer. Flavor with onion, if desired, and if it does not become 
thick enough, dissolve a little rice flour with cold water, and 
add it to the barley ten minutes before removing from the fire. 
Serve with cream or with lettuce for breakfast or dinner. 

Rye is richer in minerals and contains le.ss starch than wheat. I» 

iMrt superior to wheat, but it is one of the oldest and most perfect 

foods, and is the staff of life to some of the healthiest and strongest 

races of ithe old world. It is laxative, and because of this it is more 

suitable for certain individuals than for others. 



5 8 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

BREAD AND MILK. 
Bring some fresh, whole or skimmed milk to a boil, pour 
on dried black bread or crusts, and add a little salt. Let it 
stand for 10 minutes and serve on soup plates. 

CRACKER AND MILK. 
Prepare like the foregoing, or pour one cupful of boiling 
salted water over one large unleavened cracker, let stand 5 
minutes. Then add one cupful or hot milk and serve. 

DIRECTIONS FOR BOILING RICE. 
Wash one cup of rice, and pour into seven or eight cups of 
boiling, salted water. Boil rapidly until the grains burst ; then 
cover "and put into a hot oven or on a platter, and cook for 20 
or 30 minutes. Remove from the fire and add a piece of 
butter and the yolk of an egg, or serve the rice with hot cream. 
Dried currants, raisins, apricots or prunes may be mixed with 
the rice. If eaten in place of mush, pour the rice on soup 
plates, and add hot cream. 

MILK RICE. 
Allow a pint of water and a pint of fresh milk to come to a 
boil with vanilla or cinnamon, and put into it three or four 
tablespoonfuls of Japan or Carolina rice, which has been 
soaked for several hours. Boil rapidly until the starch granu- 
ules burst, then boil slowly for 40 minutes longer. If it is not 
thick enough, mix a little cornstarch in cold water, and add to 
the rice when nearly done. The yolk of one or more eggs 
may be added before serving, if desired. It may be eaten plain 
in the form of a thick gruel or with a fruit sauce. It will serve 
as a whole meal for children, morning, noon, or evening. A 
few nuts, or some celery, may be eaten at the end of the meal. 

LIGHT RICE WITH EGG. 
Wash two tablespoonfuls of rice, boil rapidly in one pint of) | 

Baked and boiled cereals are more nutritious than bread. In the 
fermenting- process which takes place in rising bread, valuable substances 
such as lime and saKs are lost. It is rendered more acid, and therefore 
unfit for food for people with weak stomachs. If yeast bread is combined 
with foods which render the fluids of the stomach alkaline, it is less 
harmful. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 59 

water with a little salt until the grains burst. Then boil slowly 
in the oven or on the stove (uncovered) until the rice is dry. 
Remove from the fire and add one teaspoonful of butter, the 
yolk of one egg and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve plain 
with two soda crackers or one small round zwieback. 

RICE CREAM. 
Cook one cup of rice like plain, water rice with a stick of 
cinnamon, or vanilla. When done, add the yolks of several 
eggs and a piece of butter, or some hot cream and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, or one-half cup of soaked currants or 
raisins. Stir over the fire until it boils again. Serve hot or 
cold with fruit sauce. 

ALMOND RICE. 
Cook rice with water as directed for boiling rice. When 
done, remove from the fire, and mix with it some almond but- 
ter stirred smooth with a little water. Some dried currants or 
apricots previously soaked may be mixed with the rice. In 
combination with a dish of lettuce it will serve as a whole 
meal. A few whole almonds may be eaten at the end of this 
meal. 

APPLE RICE. 
Boil rapidly for 30 minutes one-half cupful of rice with 3 
cupfuls of water and a little salt. Peel three medium sized 
apples, cut them into small pieces after removing the cores, and 
add to the rice with one tablespoonful of sugar. Cook on the 
stove or in the oven until the apples are tender. Remove from 
the fire, add a piece of butter, and serve with eggs or cheese. 

CHERRY RICE. 
Prepare like apple rice, and use ripe black cherries, or 
canned cherries. Omit the juice. A tablespoonful of sugar 
may be added to the fruit while boiling. It is necessary to 
have the rice boiled in sufficient water, and long enough to 
allow each grain to burst before the fruit is added, or the acid 

Rice, althoug-h low in protein and fat, is one of the most easily 
digested of all cereals, and is especially suitable for brain workers and 
peopi* of sedentary habits. 



60 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

of the fruit will present the rice from softening. Butter alone, 
or butter and the yolk of an egg, should be added when acid 
or sub-acid fruits are mixed with cereals. Serve with sterilized 
cream or with eggs, or eat nuts at the end of the meal. 

CURRANT RICE. 
Prepare like cherry rice. Add fresh ripe or dried currants 
in place of cherries. Serve with sterilized cream or with fried 
or boiled eggs. 

RHUBARB RICE. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Use sterilized rhubarb which 
has been cooled. Serve with sterilized cream. 

TOMATO RICE. 

Prepare like apple rice. Use one-half to one cupful of 
strained, canned tomato juice. Omit sugar. An onion may be 
boiled with the rice, if desired. Serve with fried eggs and 
greens. 

BROWN RICE. 

Brown the rice in butter to a light yellow color. Add suffi- 
cient boiling water and salt, and boil one-half hour or longer. 
Dried mushrooms may be added, if desired. Serve with eggs. 

CARROT RICE. 
Put some rice to boil in water with salt. Cut young French 
carrots into small pieces and add ; both will be done about the 
same time. Add finely chopped parsley and a piece of butter. 
Serve with peas puree. 

MACARONI WITH CREAM. 

Break up some macaroni and put in a saucepan, adding 
boiling water and a little salt. Boil for 30 minutes, and add 
more water if necessary. Dissolve some rice flour in a little 
cold water and thicken the macaroni, then cover and bake in 
an oven for 30 minutes or longer. Heat some rich cream in 

People who have a tendency to high blood pressure and those who 
suffer from intestional indigestion should eat sparingly of macaroni and 
other white flour preparations. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 61 

another saucepan and mix with the macaroni, and serve. 
Flavor with a little pepper, or finely chopped parsley. 

NOODLES. 
Beat two eggs with two large tablespoonfuls of water and 
a httle salt. Mix with sufficient white flour to make a stiff 
paste. Put some flour on a wooden board, knead the dough 
and add more flour until hard and dry ; then roll out as thin 
as possible, dry in the sun or on a tabic, and cut into fine 
strips. Boil in salted water for half an hour. Serve with 
tomatoes, grated Swiss cheese and lettuce. 



DUMPLINGS. 

LIGHT FLOUR DUMPLINGS. 
Cream a tablespoonful of butter, and add to it a whole 
egg and the yolk of one egg, some salt, nutmeg, chopped pars- 
ley, and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir well for several 
minutes. Form small dumplings with a spoon, put into hot 
soup and boil eight minutes. 

POTATO PUMPLINGS. No. i. 
Cream a tablespoonful of butter, add to it three yolks of 
eggs, a cup of cold grated potato, and one cup of dry bread 
crumbs. Flavor with lemon rind, salt and nutmeg, and mix 
the beaten whites of two eggs with it. Roll out into small 
dumplings, and boil eight minutes in soup or water. 

POTATO DUMPLINGS. No. 2. 
Mix two cups of cold grated potato with two-thirds of a cup 
of flour and one-half cup of creamed butter, adding the yolks 
of four eggs, the whites of two eggs, and salt and flavoring. 
Mix well and form dumplings. Boil in hot water for about 
15 minutes. 

BREAD DUMPLINGS. No. 1. 
Put some stale white bread or rolls to soak in cold water 
and press out as dry as possible. Add a tablespoonful of 



62 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

creamed butter, the yolks of two or three eggs, salt and nut- 
meg. Add the beaten whites of two eggs. Form dumplings 
with a spoon and boil in water, soup or fruit juice until they 
swim on top. Serve with stewed prunes or apricots. 

BREAD DUMPLINGS. No. 2. 
Remove the crust from one-third of a loaf of milk bread 
and soak the soft part in cold water for 5 minutes. Put into 
a clean cloth and force out the water. Cream three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, or melt some fat, mix the bread and stir 
it very smooth. Let it cool, and add the yolks of four eggs, 
salt, a little mace, some finely chopped parsley, and onion, if 
desired. Then beat the whites of two eggs, mix with the mass 
and form dumplings with a dessert spoon. Put them into 
the boiling soup and cook for about 5 minutes or until they 
swim on top. 

BAKED CORN MEAL DUMPLINGS. 
Boil in two cups of milk or water two cups of white corn 
meal with a tablespoonful of butter, stirring all the time, 
until the mass is very thick. Let cool. Flavor with lemon 
rind and nutmeg, and mix with three or four well beaten 
eggs. Shape into dumplings with a spoon, turn in rye nuts or 
bread crumbs, and bake in butter. Serve with sugar and cin- 
namon, or with apricot or apple sauce. 

MIXED DUMPLINGS. 
Mix over the fire one and one-half cupfuls of flour with 
two cupfuls of milk and a large tablespoonful of butter, until 
it does not stick to the saucepan. Let it cool, add the yolks of 
four eggs, salt, cinnamon, a tablesDOonful of sugar, one-halt 
cupful of finely cut fried bread crust, then the beaten 1 
whites of eggs. Form medium sized dumplings with ai 
tablespoon, and boil in salted water for 5 or 6 minutes. Serve: 
with stewed pears, cranberries or prunes. They are also good! 
with sauerkraut. 

FLOUR DUMPLINGS. No. 1. 
Mix one cupful of flour with one-half cupfiU of melted 
butter, one cupful of hot water, and some salt. Stir well on a 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 63 

hot stove until no more lumps appear. Cool a little, then mix 
with several yolks of eggs, and flavor with mace, chopped 
parsley or other spices. Dip a spoon in hot water and form 
dumplings of the desired size. Put into boiling salt water or 
on top of stewed fruit, and boil 6 to 10 minutes, or until they 
rise. The spoon must be dipped into hot water each time 
before forming a dumpling. Serve with peas or stewed fruit. 

FLOUR DUMPLINGS. No. 2. 
Mix one cup of white corn meal and one cup of flour with 
a little cold water, and stir it into boiling milk. Let it soak for 
five minutes or until it is thick. Then add a piece of butter, 
salt, and flavorng; let cool, mix with several yolks of eggs, and 
shape dumplings with a spoon, and put into boiling soup or 
blackberry juice. Boil about 10 minutes, or until thev swim on 
top. 

FLOUR DUMPLINGS. No. 3. 
Mix some white flour, or three-fourths white and one- 
fourth rice flour, with baking powder and salt. Shorten with 
butter and fat like dough for pie. Roll out, enclose some 
apples and bake in the oven for 20 minutes or longer. 

FLOUR DUMPLINGS. No. 4. 
Mix some flour with baking powder and salt. Stir to a light 
paste with cold water, adding several eggs or yolks of eggs. 
Boil with stew or in water. 



64 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CHAPTER VII. 
BREAD AND CAKES. 

POMPERNICKLE OR BLACK BREAD. 

Prepare a sponge with a pint of white flour, three-fourths 
of a yeast cake, a little salt and sugar, and a pint of warm 
water. When light, add two quarts of rye meal, a tablespoon- 
ful of salt and about one quart of water. Mix well, and let 
rise over night. The next morning add about one quart of 
warm rye meal, and one of white flour; knead the dough for 
at least one-half hour. Let rise again, knead a little more, 
and shape into loaves. When light, bake in a hot oven for 
about an hour. Pure rye meal may be used in place of one- 
fourth white flour. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Prepare the same as black bread. Use whole wheat flour 
in place of rye meal. 

LIGHT WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Make a sponge from one cupful of lukewarm water and 
one cake of yeast, with enough white flour to make the thick- 
ness of sponge cake. Cover and set in a warm place, about 90 
degrees F. When foamy, add about three pints of lukewarm 
water, or milk which has'been scalded and cooled to lukewarm, 
about two teaspoonfuls of salt, a little sugar and a piece of 
butter or fat. Stir into it with a spoon sufficient white flour 
to make it of the same consistency as the first sponge. Beat it 
from 10 to 15 minutes, dust the top with flour, and put it into 
a warm place to rise. When light, add enough whole wheat 
flour to make a stiff dough. Put it on bread-board with flour 
to prevent sticking, knead for half an hour or longer, and let 

Bread and cake may he kept sweet and free from mildew for a long 
time in the following way: Cut i; with a sharp knife, when about fom 
days old. into slices about one inch thick, then place it on a large wire 
ecreen in the hot sunshine, cover with a cheese cloth, and let It lie For 
several hours, turning each sliee tmtil thoroughly dry. Then pace the 
slices In an upright position in a square box made of wire screening, ana 
keep In a dry or sunny place, covered with a light eloth. The box may 
be placed In the sunshine several times a week. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 65 

it rise again. When light, shape in loaves without kneading, 
put into pans and prick top with a fork several times. When 
sufficiently raised, bake in hot oven for about an hour. Cover 
top with pieces of oiled paper, the first 20 or 30 minutes. When 
done, put the bread on a sieve or in towels to cool. 

LIGHT GRAHAM BREAD. 
Prepare in the same manner as light whole wheat bread. 

WHITE BREAD. 
Prepare the same as whole wheat bread, using pure, rich 
milk, cream and water, or sweet whey. Add a large piece of 
butter or konut. Use white flour instead of whole wheat, 
mix it with one-fourth white corn meal, or rice flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Prepare the same as white bread, using less flour, and add 
a few well beaten eggs, the grated rind of several lemons and 
oranges, or flavor with nutmeg, dried fruit, vanilla, mace or 
bitter almonds. Serve with fresh, sweet milk, or with scalded 
milk, as a whole meal for supper. 

All breads and cakes made with yeast are more nutritious 
and wholesome when stale, on account of the evaporation of 
water and the changes which take place in the bread. They 
should be kept in tins with holes on all sides, to allow a perfect 
circulation of air. The tins should be placed in the sunlight, 
or on a high, dry place near a stove. In many foreign countries 
pompernickle is kept for many months during the winter by 
placing it on top of high stone ovens near the ceiling. It 
finally assumes a sweet taste similar to that of nuts. 
RAW BREAD. 

Grind your wheat, rye or corn in an old-fashioned stone 
burr mill, and partake of it at each meal instead of bread. This 
is less expensive than the so-called "unfired bread". Not 
more than one to three tablespoonfuls should be consumed at 
each meal. 

Plain cake, coffee cake, fruit tarts and fruit pies are more wholesome 
than cakes that are prepared with large amounts of sugar or frosting. 
Whipped cream and fruits are good additions to cake, if agreeable. Light 
desserts in the form of cake or pudding are more wholesome if eaten at 
the beginning of a meal or else be served after soup or salad. 



66 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

TOASTS. 

WATER TOAST. 
Use zwieback, or toast some stale white bread over the 
open fire. Lay on a plate and pour over it quickly boiling- 
water, slightly salted, and drain off at once. Serve plaia, or 
spread with sweet butter, or the yolk of an egg. 

TOMATO TOAST. 
Prepare like the foregoing, spreading with tomato puree in 
place of butter. Drink with it rich fresh milk. This is excel- 
lent for some people who have difficulty in digesting milk. 
Strained hot tomato juice may be used in place of water. 

BARLEY TOAST. 
Prepare like tomato toast. Use thick, barley jelly prepared 
from pearl barley, or soften the toast with barley water. 

RICE TOAST. 

Use thick rice jelly prepared from Carolina rice. Flavor 
with cinnamon, if desired. 

RYE OR BRAN TOAST. 
Make a strong tea from toasted black bread and bran, and 
prepare like the foregoing. 

PRUNE TOAST. 
Soften some black or white toast with boiling water, and 
add a little salt. Spread with thick prune juice. Sterilized 
cream may be added. 

APRICOT TOAST. 
Prepare the same as prune toast. Add cream or a piece of 
butter and the yolk of an egg. 

CREAM TOAST OF WHEAT BREAD OR 
SHREDDED WHEAT. 
Dissolve one tablespoonful of milk sugar in one-half or 

Predigested foods are beneficial for the sick, and under certain 
conditions for the well, provided they are not over-indulged in. If 
desired, they are generally best eaten at the evening meal, after the 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 67 

three-fourths cup of boiling water and pour over one slice of 
whole wheat bread or biscuit. Let stand a minute, then add 
four ounces of hot cream, and serve. 

CRANBERRY OR TOMATO TOAST. 
Heat two small round or one long zwieback and soften with 
two tablespoonfuls of tomato or cranberry sauce. Serve on 
a plate and drink milk with it. 

APPLE TOAST. 
Use thick apple sauce. Prepare the same as apricot toast. 
The four last recipes are excellent for constipation. 

MILK TOAST. 
Scald some fresh milk. Add a stick of cinnamon, if desired. 
Pour over white or black toast. 

CREAM TOAST. No. 1. 
Prepare like water toast. Bring some fresh cream to a boil 
with a stick of cinnamon. Add when the toast is soft. Use 
black or white toast. 

CREAM TOAST. No. 2. 
Prepare a white sauce from butter, salt, flour and hot water, 
as directed in "Sauces." Add one-fourth of a cup of hot cream 
and pour over black toast, which has been softened with one- 
half cup of hot water. 

CREAM TOAST. No. 3. 
Use sweet whey in place of hot water, and prepare as No. 2. 
The cream may be omitted. 

CELERY TOAST. 
Cut sonic celery and cook until tender. Soften the toast 
with the celery water. Prepare a plain butter sauce and add 
cream, if desired. Mix with the celery and pour over the toast. 

SPINACH TOAST. 
Cut eff the stems and select only fresh, tender leaves. Cook 

body has expended considerable energy, and is too tired ito properly digest 
natural foods. If over-indulged in they keep the stomach from doing 
its proper work, and tend to make it weak and lacy. 



68 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

and chop as fine as possible, flavoring with butter and lemon 
juice. Soften some black or white toast with broth or spinach 
water, and add the spinach. Serve with hard boiled eggs for 
dinner. If it is desired for supper, and if the patient's stomach 
is delicate, use only the hard yolks. Fried beach-nut bacon 
may be added. If the flavor of onion is desired, remove the 
onion before serving. This is good for constipation. 

EGG TOAST. No. i. 

Beat one egg with three tablespoonfuls of water aad a 
little salt. Let the toast soften in it and fry to a golden brown 
in one-half butter and half vegetable fat or oil. 

EGG TOAST. No. 2. 

Use cream or unsweetened condensed milk. Beat up with 
eggs, salt and cinnamon, and prepare like the foregoing. This 
is good for diabetic patients. 

BISCUITS. 

Mix one quart of white flour with one-fourth of entire 
wheat flour, corn meal, or rice flour. Mix it thoroughly with 
two level teaspoonfuls of salt, and four of baking powder. Rub 
into it two tablespoonfuls of vegetable fat or butter. Mix with 
rich milk and prepare as usual. Serve with eggs, or with rich 
cheese and olives and salad of greens. 

POP-OVERS. 

Grease the iron gem pans, and place on the stove or in the 
oven, to have them very hot. Then beat two eggs very light, 
mix a cup of rich milk with a cup of flour, and a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; add the eggs and beat with an egg beater until all 
is very light. Pour the mixture into the pans, filling two-thirds 
full, and bake in a quick oven. This will make about eight 
pop-overs. 

BRAN MUFFINS. 

Mix one cupful of white flour with one-half cup of graham 
flour and one and one-half cups of finely sifted bran. Rub into 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 69 

it ^ree tablespoonfuls of butter; then add one and one-half 
:ups of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, a little salt and three 
:ablespoonfuls of molasses. Put into hot muffin tins, and bake 
in a hot oven. 

BRAN BREAD. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff snow, add a little 
salt, and mix with two tablespoonfuls of fine, sifted bran, and 
two of fine rye nuts. Put the mixture on a pie tin and bake in 
& very moderate oven. Leave the door open. Serve with apple 
>alad and lettuce. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
Mix together one cup of coarse corn meal, one of rye flour, 
one of graham flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. Dissolve two 
teaspoonfuls of soda in two cupfuls of sour milk and mix with 
the flour, adding three-fourths cup of molasses. Pour into 
narrow, oiled tins, and steam for four hours. Serve with let- 
tuce, celery and apple, or tomato salad, and nut butter. 

WHITE MUFFINS. 
Use mixed flour, or rice and wheat as suggested for white 
bread. Mix with baking powder and salt. Use two eggs and 
about one and one-half cups of rich milk to about three cups 
of flour. Serve with tomato or peas puree and lettuce for 
breakfast or supper. 

PASTRY FOR TARTS OR PIES. 

Mix one and a half cups of white flour with one-half cup of 
rice flour. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt, shorten the flour 
with three tablespoonfuls of butter and three of oil. Then add 
to it the yolks of two eggs beaten with sufficient ice cold water 
and a little flavoring to make a paste which is not very stiff. 
Roll it several times, then cover and put it in the ice box for 
an hour. 

SAND TART. 

Mix one-half pound of white flour and one-half pound of 

Avoid fresh breads, inferior cakes and pastry. Do not eat unless 
you are hungry. Do not over-indulge in athletic or any other kind of 
exercise. Remember that natural feeding, pure air and sufficient sleep 
call for natural breathing and natural exercise. Unnatural feeding and 
late hours create disease or nervousness. 



70 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

rice powder, or wheat starch. Keep in a warm place. Melt 
one pound of butter, cool and cream with one pound of sugar,, 
adding ten yolks of eggs, alternating with the flour. Stir the 
mass for one-half hour, add the rind of two lemons, the juice of : 
one-half lemon, and 2 tablespoonfuls of flavoring extract. Beat 
the whites of 10 eggs, mix lightly with the dough, and add a 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven for 
one and one-half to two hours. During the first half hour 
have more heat at the bottom than at the top. During the' 
last half hour have little or no heat at the bottom. The' cake 
tin should not be moved. 

_ The tart may be baked in layers or on round tins and be 1 
mixed with different colors, if desired. 

PLAIN CAKE. 
Cream one-half cup of butter with one-half cup of sugar, 
add two eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, a little salt, one cup of water, one-half cup of raisins or 
currants, and any kind of flavoring. Bake in cake tins. Cake 
prepared with water is more wholesome than with milk. 

FROSTING. 
Cream equal quantities of butter and chocolate. Spread on 
the layers when cold. Frosting prepared from pure sugar is 
unwholesome. 

NUT-BUTTER PIE CRUST. 
Take one to two tablespoonfuls of nut-butter to one of 
flour, ad dsufficient water to make a dough. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. No. 1. 
Spread Granose cakes with diluted almond-butter and a 
layer of strawberries over it. Serve with nuts or with milk 
soup prepared with sago. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. No. 2. 
Prepare a light biscuit dough, bake in tins and cover with 

Artificial sugar is not a necessary article of food for the healthy- 
individual who is able to supply his body with fresh and dried fruits 
the year round. The delicious summer fruits are better eaten without 
sugar. Undoubtedly nature did not mean for us to indulge in sweets 
during hot days, or she would have provided us more plentifully with 
them. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 71 

strawberries and whipped cream. Use no more sugar than is 
necessary. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Chop up one cup of currants, citron, and raisins, and mix 
with one cup of flour. Sift one cup of flour with a teaspoonful 
of soda, one of cinnamon, and a little salt. Cream one-half cup 
of butter with one cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses and two well beaten eggs ; add the flour, fruit and one- 
half to three-fourths cup of strong black coffee. Stir well and 
bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

MIXED FLOUR. 

Mix two cups of white flour with one cup of rice flour and 
one of cornstarch. Sift and keep in a tin box for sauces and 
soups. 

RYE NUTS. No. 1. 

Remove the outer crust from a loaf of stale pompernickel 
and grate the soft part on a grater. Pour the crumbs on a 
large piece of paper, and dry in the sun or in an oven. Keep in 
a dry place, in a tin with good ventilation. 

RYE NUTS. No. 2. 
Cut a loaf of stale pompernickel into thin slices and remove 
the crusts. Cut the inside into small strips, lengthwise and 
crosswise. Allow it to dry thoroughly in a moderate oven or 
in the sun, and while still warm, grind it through a coarse meat 
grinder. Place it again in an oven or in the sun to dry, or 
brown slightly. If desired as fine as grape nuts, grind it again 
or sift it, and keep in a dry place. It may be mixed with one- 
half grape nuts. Use as directed in menus and recipes. The 
outside crusts may be dried in the oven or sun, and kept in 
tins. The crusts are an excellent addition to milk soups or 
other soft foods. 

Rye combines well with all starchy fruits and vegetables, which are 
deficient in minerals, such as potatoes, pumpkins, squash, melons, turnips, 
carrots, beets, bananas, cucumbers, rice and corn. It alo combines well 
with sweet fruits. Apples, pork, veal, lamb, cheese, eggs, cream, milk, 
bacon and oily foods are all good additions to rye. Boiled rye and 
starchy foods are unsuitable combinations. 



72 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Core, pare and cut some tart apples into slices one fourth 
inch thick. Dip each slice of apple into a batter prepared as 
follows: Beat the yolks of three eggs with an egg beater, add 
three tablespoonfuls of white or mixed flour and a little salt. 
Beat until smooth. Have some olive oil or half butter and 
vegetable oil hot and fry to a light brown on both sides. The 
whipped whites of the eggs may be used with the batter or 
made into a separate dish to be used at another meal. Count 
one whole or two yolks of an egg to one person. If a nutritious 
soup is served at the beginning of the meal, fewer eggs can 
be used. 

FRIED BREAD. 

Cut into strips as directed in the foregoing recipe. Fry in 
hot oil, or butter and oil. Serve with legume or fruit soups. 

CRUSTS. 
Cut some stale whole wheat or black bread into slices. Re- 
move the outer crusts with a sharp knife and dry them in an 
oven. Keep in a tin box in a dry place. 

IMPERIAL STICKS. 

Cut stale buttered bread into long narrow sticks, and brown 
in the oven. 

CORN BREAD. No. i. 

Three-fourths of a cup of white or yellow corn meal, one 
and one-fourth cups of white flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter or one-half oil and one-half butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two well beaten eggs, one and 
one-half cups of rich milk, and sugar, if desired. Bake in a 
quick oven for 30 minutes. 

CORN BREAD. No. 2. 
Bring one quart of water to a boil, and add a teaspoonful 
of salt. Stir about one cup of coarse yellow corn meal into it 
and let boil 30 or 40 minutes. Then take it off the fire, beat 
thoroughly with a spoon, and cool until lukewarm. Add a 
large tablespoonful of oil or butter, a little lemon juice and four 
yolks of eggs. Stir well, and add the beatten whites of the 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 73 

eggs. Put the mixture into a flat, oiled pan and bake or heat 
on a griddle. Small cakes may be formed from the batter and 
baked in an oven or fried until browned nicely. The whites 
of eggs may be left out, if desired. Serve with salads of 
lettuce, water-cress, tomatoes or apples, or with fruit sauces. 
Acid and super-acid fruits combine best with this bread. 

CORN BREAD. No. 3. 

Prepare the same as number two, using white corn meal. 
Flavor with cinnamon, vanilla or bitter almond, and mix with 
dried, soaked fruits as currants, finely cut appricots, or prunes, 
or serve with a fruit sauce prepared from blackberries, huckle- 
berries or the above mentioned fruits. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Use four eggs, a small cup of sugar, two cups of rich fresh 
milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and about one quart of flour finely 
sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add grated 
lemon rind or cinnamon, for flavoring. Beat the dough until 
very light. Drop by the tablespoonful into hot fat. Stewed 
cold prunes or apricots may be placed in the middle of each 
doughnut. They may be served with fruit soups, fruit sauces, 
or green salads for dinner in the summer, or for supper in 
the winter. 

CEREAL OMELET. 

To two cupfuls of left-over boiled wheat add two well 
beaten eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, finely chopped parsley 
an onion. Heat butter and oil in a frying pan, and pour in 
the mixture. Cook by moderate heat until firm. 

HOMINY CAKES. 
Prepare the same as Cereal Omelet or mix with eggs only, 
and serve with fruit sauce. 

BREAD OMELET. 

Remove the crust of one-half loaf of stale milk bread. Soak 

the bread in cold milk or water for 5 minutes. Lay it in a 

cloth and press out as dry as possible. Cream one-half cup of 

butter with one-half cup of sugar ; add one-half cup of dried 



74 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

currants, one-half cup of almond meal, the rind of one or two 
lemons or oranges, four yolks of eggs, some cinnamon or mace 
and a little salt. Mix well, and add the beaten whites of four 
eggs. Heat a large flat pan, oil it well, sprinkle with rye nuts 
and pour in the batter. Bake on a medium hot stove, turning 
the omelet, or bake in the oven. Serve with fruit sauce and 
£reen salad. 

CORN FRITTERS. No. i. 

Grate the corn from the cob, mix with several well beaten 
eggs, add salt and fry in hot fat. Serve the same as the fore- 
going or with apple sauce. 

CORN FRITTERS. No. 2. 

Prepare a batter from flour, eggs, salt, baking powder, and 
water or milk. Mix with the grated corn and fry. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Place four eggs in warm water. Mix two cups of flour 
with a cup of warm water, salt, and one-half cup of melted 
butter. Stir it over the fire until the flour does not stick to the 
saucepan. Let cool and mix with the eggs. Beat the dough 
for about 10 minutes. Shape balls with two tablespoons, and 
bake in the oven or fry in hot, deep fat. Sprinkle with sugar 
and serve for afternoon tea or for supper. 

EGG TOAST. 
Soak slices of stale bread in milk, and beat up some eggs 
with a little salt and cinnamon. Turn the soaked bread into 
the egg, and fry in hot butter. The milk and eggs may be 
beaten up together and the bread soaked in it before frying. 
Serve with apple, cranberry or apricot sauce, or with syrup and 
lettuce. This is suitable morning, noon or night. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Mix some left-over rice with several well beaten eggs, and 
the grated rind of a lemon. Bake on a hot griddle. Serve 
with fruit sauce and lettuce, morning, noon or night. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 75 

UNLEAVENED GERMAN PANCAKES. No. 1. 
Use six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour, one and one-half 
cup of warm milk, one-half cup of cream, and a little salt. Mix 
well the yolks, salt, cream, milk and flour, then add the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. The dough must be of the consistency 
of thick cream. Bake in thin layers in half butter and half oil, 
in a small pan. Serve with lettuce and fruit sauce or with 
French dressing at the noon meal. 

GERMAN POTATO PANCAKES. No. 2. 

Grate five large raw potatoes and one onion. Mix two 
tablespoonfuls of white flour with a little warm water and a 
cup of rich cream, add salt and mix with the potatoes. Then 
add three whole eggs beaten well, and fry in hot fat like 
griddle cakes, until brown. Serve with apple sauce, or lettuce 
and French dressing. 

GERMAN PANCAKES. No. 3. 

Mix one pint of white flour and one-fifth pint of rice flour 
with one pint of rich warm milk, or with one-half milk and one- 
half warm water, and a teaspoonful of salt. Beat four whole 
eggs, add to the mixture and beat with an egg beater for a few 
minutes, until perfectly smooth. Bake on a small, shallow, 
iron griddle, using about four tablespoonfuls of the mixture for 
each cake. The fat used for frying must be boiling hot. Pile 
on a plate standing over hot steam until all are done. Cut in 
sections and sprinkle with sugar, if desired. Serve with green 
'salads or apples, or with apple, apricot or cranberry sauce. 

APPLE PANCAKES. 
Peel some apples and cut in thin slices. Mix with the 
dough as directed for German pancakes and fry on both sides. 
If fewer eggs are used, take a little more flour. 

PLUM PANCAKES. 
Prepare the batter a little thicker than the foregoing. Peel 
and slice some blue plums very thin, mix with the batter and 
bake as above. 



76 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CHERRY PANCAKES. 
Remove the stones from ripe black cherries. Prepare the 
dough as directed for German pancakes, mix the cherries with 
it and fry in hot fat. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 
Mix prepared or unleavened buckwheat flour with sweet 
cream or one-half cream and one-half water, and bake on a hot 
griddle. Serve with fruit sauce or French dressing at the; 
morning or noon meal. 

ROMAN MEAL CAKES. 
Soak two tablcspoonfuls of dried currants in a little hot >r 
cold water. Mix one-half cup of flour with one teaspoonful of] 
baking powder, a little salt, and one cup of Roman meal. Beat 
two eggs very light, with about one-half cup of water, mix] 
with the flour and currants and bake in hot fat. Serve fruit! 
sauce with them. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak some stale bread in cold water, press out dry, and stir 
smooth. Melt one-third of a cup of fat and one-half of a cup! 
of butter, and mix the bread with it on a hot stove, stirring 
until it loosens from the saucepan. Cool a little, and flavor 
with mace, nutmeg, lemon rind or cinnamon and salt. Add] 
several well beaten eggs and some finely cut dried fruit. Mix 
well and steam from one to one and one-half hours. Serve 
with lettuce and fruit sauce. In place of fruit and the above] 
flavoring, chopped parsley, onions and pepper may be used. 
Serve with tomato or apple sauce. 

BLACK BREAD PUDDING. 
Cream one cup of butter with three-fourths of a cup ofj 
sugar, and add the yolks of five eggs, three-fourths of a cup of 

Artificially prepared desserts in the form of attractive, soft puddings 
and other rich mixtures flatter the palate and renew the appetite. Thel 
true -enjoyment of eating is in the satisfaction of hunger. The craving 
for desserts indicates a desire to stimulate certain nerves, which force] 
the contents of the stomach into the intestine and destroy the dige»tive] 
processes. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 77 

dried currants or raisins, the rind of a lemon, a little cinnamon 
and cloves, salt, three cups of grated black bread and l /i glass 
of milk. Mix well and add the beaten whites of the five 
eggs. Oil pudding pan and pour the mixture into it. Steam 
two and one-half hours, and serve with vanilla, or custard 
sauce. Diluted almond butter or one-half cup of almond meal 
may be mixed with the batter, if desired. 

MATZOON PUDDING. 
Soak matzoon in cold water or milk for several minutes. 
Then press out dry, stir until fine and mix with several well 
beaten eggs, cream, or butter, and raisins, chopped apples, cur- 
rants, lemon rind or any other flavoring. Heat a cupful of oil 
or suet in a high iron pot, put the pudding mixture into it and 
bake in a moderately hot oven for about one hour. Serve 
warm, with fruit sauce or wine sauce. 

MATZOON CAKES. 
Prepare the same as the foregoing. Shape into small balls 
with two tablespoons and fry in hot fat. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING. 
Soak some stale bread in cold water, press it out thoroughly 
and stir smooth over the fire, with some butter or fat. When 
cool, add salt and several well beaten eggs or some flour, and 
syrup, mix well and add any desired flavoring or sugar. Tie 
in a cloth and boil for two hours in salt water, or with white 
beans. Serve with stewed fruit. 

RICE PUDDING. 
Cook some rice as directed for water or milk rice. When 
cool, cream some butter with an equal amount of sugar, and 
add several well beaten eggs, lemon rind, cinnamon, a little 
bread crumbs, some raisins or currants and some sweet or 
sour cream, or melted butter. Bake for about an hour. 
SAGO PUDDING. 
Soak the sago and cook with one-half water and one-half 
milk. Finish like rice pudding. 

The foregoing recipes for cakes and puddings can serve as substitute 
for meat as well as for dessert. They are moTe nourishing than sponge- 
cakes and soft puddings which consist largely of starch and sugar. 



7 S VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

FLOUR BREAD PUDDING. 
Mix over the fire two cups of flour with two cups of milk or 
water, and three-fourths of a cup of melted butter, until the 
batter loosens from the bottom of the saucepan. Let it cool a 
little and add the yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, two cups of bread crumbs, salt and mace. Then beat 
the whites of four eggs, mix and add flavoring extract. 
Pour the mixture into an oiled pudding pan and steam two and 
one-half hours. Serve with stewed plums, pears, or cherries. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. 
Bring two cups of milk to a boil, and mix four cups of yel- 
low or white corn meal with a pint of cold water. Stir into the 
boiling milk and add two tablespoonfuls of butter. When it is 
thick, remove from the fire and cool. Cream half a cup of but- 
ter with three-fourths cup of sugar, add the yolks of four or 
five eggs, salt, lemon rind, several grated bitter almonds, and 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Put into a pudding pan and 
steam from two to two and one-half hours. In place of bitter 
almonds use lemon juice, if desired. Serve with white or red 
wine sauce, or with stewed apricots or cranberries. 

BLACK BREAD PUDDING. 
Cream one cup of butter with three-fourths of a cup of 
sugar and add the yolks of five eggs, three-fourths of a cup 
of dried currants or raisins, the rind of a lemon, a little cinna- 
mon and cloves, salt, three cups of grated black bread and one- 
half glass of orange juice. Mix well and add the beaten 
whites of the five eggs. Oil a pudding form or double boiler 
and pour the mixture into it. Steam two and one-half hours 
and serve with vanilla sauce. A cupful of rich cream, diluted 
almond butter or one-half cup of almond meal may be mixed 
with the batter, if desired. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 
Soak stale bread in cold water, press out dry and stir until 
smooth. Melt one-third of a cup of butter or fat and mix with 

Masticate your food thoroughly. Select, combine and prepare it 
rightly. Do not overeat. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 79 

the bread over a hot stove until it loosens from the saucepan. 
Cool a little, then flavor with mace, nutmeg, lemon or cinna- 
mon and salt. Add several well beaten eggs and some finely 
cut dried fruit. Mix well and steam from one to one and one- 
half hours. Serve with lettuce and fruit sauce. In place of 
fruit and the above flavoring chopped parsley, onions and 
pepper or capers may be used. Serve with tomato or apple 
sauce. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Cream one-half cup of butter with one-half cup of sugar, add 
the yolks of six eggs, two cups of grated potatoes, salt, cin- 
namon and the rind of one lemon ; then add one cup of black or 
white bread crumbs and the beaten whites of six eggs. A 
half cup of almond meal mixed with a few bitter almonds may 
be added to the mixture, if desired. Bake this pudding for 
about sixty or seventy minutes, or boil two hours. Serve 
with stewed prunes or apple sauce. 

RICE FLOUR PUDDING. 
Prepare the same as corn meal pudding. 

APPLE-BREAD PUDDING. 
Grease a pudding dish and fill with alternate layers of 
mixed bread crumbs, using whole wheat or rye nuts. Mix the 
apple sauce with a large piece of butter, while still warm. 
When the dish is filled, beat up two eggs with a tablespoonful 
of sugar, one-half cup of cream, a little salt and some cinna- 
mon ; pour it over the top and bake in moderate hot oven for 
40 to 50 minutes. It affords a perfect meal for the evening. 
If served at noon, eat some nuts at the end of the meal. 

BAKED BREAD PUDDING. 
Pour two pints of hot milk over two cups of bread crumbs, 
cool a little, then cream one-half cup of butter with one-half 
cup of sugar, mix with the bread crumbs, adding three well 
beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, 
the juice of one-half a lemon and the rind of two lemons. Mix 
well together, and bake in a buttered dish for fifty or sixty 
minutes. Serve with lemon, cherry or any kind of fruit sauce. 



So VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

Dried fruits may be mixed with the batter. Serve for supper 
using soup at the beginning of the meal. Celery is an excellent 
addition to almost any food at the evening meal. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING. No. i. 
Prepare as baked bread pudding. Use legume soup in 
place of milk, leaving out the sugar. Use butter or cream and 
mix with two tablespoonfuls of peanut butter or other nut but- 
ter or walnut meats. The eggs can be omitted. Flavor with 
finely chopped onions, celery and parsley. Pour on oiled pie 
tins and bake thirty to forty minutes. Serve with tomato 
sauce or string beans for dinner. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING. No. 2. 
Boil some rice with salt and water. Add a cupful of thick 
legume puree and finish like the foregoing. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 81 

CHAPTER VIII. 

SAUCES, SALAD DRESSINGS AND SALADS. 

Sauces are a necessary addition to cooked foods, especially 
in cold weather. The proper utensils used for sauce making 
are wooden spoons and flat, round J bottomed saucepans. 

Good fresh butter, oil and dry flour are necessary to make 
nutritious sauces. Flour for thickening- should boil at least 
ten minutes. If the flour is to be cooked with fat before the 
liquid is added, only a few minutes of boiling is necessary, for 
the reason that fat, when boiled, reaches a higher temperature 
than water or milk. Mixed flour is preferable to pure wheat 
flour. 

BUTTER SAUCE. No. i. 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, or half butter and half 
oil, mix with two tablespoonfuls of flour over the fire, and boil 
for a few seconds. Then add gradually a pint of boiling water 
or hot whey, while stirring it. Boil a few minutes. Flavor 
with salt, onion, chopped parsley, celery, nutmeg, bay leaves, 
lemon, or whatever flavor is desired. 

BUTTER SAUCE. No. 2. 
Prepare like the foregoing. Use milk in place of water. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
Prepare as number one, using strained tomato juice instead 
of water. 

DRIED CURRANT SAUCE. 
Soak the currants in boiling water, and let stand thirty min- 
utes. Prepare a plain butter sauce from butter, flour, and hot 
water, and when done mix the currants with it. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Wash half a handful of young fresh mint, pick the leaves 
from the stalks, and chop them very fine. Make a plain butter 



82 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

sauce, add vinegar and sugar to suit the taste. Then remove 
from the fire, mix with the chopped mint. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Wash a lemon, remove the peel and steep in three cups of 
water for fifteen minutes. Add the juice of one or two lemons 
and the necessary amount of sugar. Dissolve three teaspoon- 
fuls of cornstarch with a little cold water and stir into the 
lemon juice. Boil ten minutes. Remove from the fire and mix 
with a tablespoonful of butter while warm. The lemon rind 
can be grated and added to the sauce instead of boiling the 
rind. This is good for steamed puddings. The yolk of an 
egg may be added. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

Remove the stones and steep the cherries in water with a 
stick of cinnamon. Add a little sugar and thicken with corn- 
starch or arrowroot. Strain or leave the cherries in it. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Prepare as number one, add capers and lemon before 
serving. 

HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

Prepare as number one, adding dried currants and grated 
horse radish at the last minute. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 
Prepare as number one, adding two to four teaspoonfuls of 
prepared mustard a minute before serving. Serve with hard 
boiled eggs. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Prepare as number one, add the desired amount of dried 
mushrooms, which have been soaked in water for several 
hours, and boil for ten minutes. Serve with rice. 

The best way to >irse spices is to buy them whole, in the fresh or 
dried state, and chop, grate, or grind them when needed. Vanilla beans, 
bitter almonds, bay leaves, cinnamon bark and many others may be used 
whole and removed before serving. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 83 

CREAM SAUCE. No. 1. 

Prepare as number one; remove from the fire, add a few 
tablespoonfuls of hot cream, or the yolk of one or several eggs, 
which have been diluted and stirred with a little cold water. 
Flavor with mace, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, lemon, or vanilla. 
Serve with macaroni, plum pudding, French toast, or boiled 
onions. 

CREAM SAUCE. No. 2. 

Thicken some water with flour. Cook ten minutes, and add 
hot cream and flavoring. 

ALMOND SAUCE. 
Prepare with hot water as directed for butter sauce. Stir 
smooth a tablespoonful of almond butter or paste with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, remove the sauce from the fire, 
add the almond butter and stir thoroughly. Serve with baked 
apnles, rice, or bread. 

OLIVE SAUCE. 
Prepare as butter sauce. Soak some olives in warm water, 
remove the stones and add to the sauce, boiling all a few 
minutes. 

DRIED CHERRY SAUCE. 
Soak the cherries and prepare as the foregoing. Strain, if 
desired. 



SALAD DRESSINGS FOR CEREALS, VEGETABLES 
AND FRUITS. 



They can be prepared from oil, butter, eggs, cream or nut 
butter. Dressings prepared from nut butter are especially good 
during the summer months. They can be prepared by making 
a plain butter sauce with flour and water, and adding nut but- 
ter before serving, or by diluting nut butter with water to the 

Great care should be exercised in the preparation of foods with 
nut-bti'tter. Never spread it on bread without first diluting 1 it with an 
equal amount of water. Do not keep it on the shelf like ordinary butter 
after it has been mixed with water; prepare only sufficient to last for 
twenty-four hours, and keep it on ice. 



84 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

desired consistency. They may be flavored with orange or 
lemon juice. If a sweet flavor is desired, boil a little water 
with sugar, then add the juice of lemon or oranges and mix 
with nut butter. Serve hot or cold. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of olive oil with one of vinegar, or 
with the juice of one lemon and one grated onion. To this 
may be added sugar, pepper, salt, parsley or mustard, if de- 
sired. The proportion of oil and vinegar may be changed ac- 
cording to the taste. For fruit salads, lemon should always be 
used instead of vinegar. For raw vegetables, the dressing 
should not be poured over the salad until ready to serve. 

.MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. i. 

Put into a high narrow bowl the yolk of an egg and one 
whole egg, a tablespoonful of flour, one of olive oil, one of 
vinegar, and a little mustard; beat with an egg beater about 
five minutes, or until it becomes thick, adding slowly one cup 
of cottonseed or olive oil while beating it. Flavor with lemon 
juice, onion and salt, to suit the taste. Keep on ice. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. 2. 
Stir one or several yolks of eggs and mustard with a fork 
on a soup plate for several minutes. Slowly add some olive 
oil, and if it becomes too thick, add lemon juice, then salt, 
sugar and onion, if desired. Keep on ice. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. 3. 
Make dressing number two. Add salt and sugar to suit the 
taste, and one cup of thick cream. Keep on ice. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. 4. 
Take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs and one raw yolk. 
Stir as smooth as butter, with one teaspoonful of mustard, one 
of sugar, one of grated onion, a little salt and pepper, the juice 
of a lemon or some good vinegar, then add slowly one-half or 
one cupful of olive oil. Keep on ice. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 85 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. 5. 
Grate one medium sized cold boiled potato, stir one or two 
hard "boiled eggs through a strainer and mix with the potato. 
Add the yolk or one or more eggs, stir well, then slowly add 
some olive oil, mix with lemon juice or vinegar, and flavor. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 6. 
Cream one-fourth of a pound of butter, add the yolk of one 
raw egg, and the finely grated yolks of two hard boiled eggs. 
Mix well, and add finely chopped parsley, onion, a little mace 
and some lemon juice. Spread on bread. 

HONEY OR SYRUP DRESSING. 

Add the juice of one lemon, orange, or grapefruit, to one- 
half cup of honey or table syrup. Mix well and serve with pan- 
cakes. This is more nourishing and wholesome than pure 
sweets. Do not prepare more than enough for one meal at 
a time. 

SYRUP DRESSING. No. 2. 

Let a half cup of syrup and a small tablespoonful of vinegar 
come to a boil. Add one finely chopped onion. Remove from 
the fire and cool, adding the desired amount of oil, and mixing- 
well. This is good for lettuce and watercress. Serve with 
pancakes, or baked rolled oats. If lemons or oranges are used 
in place of vinegar, do not allow the latter to boil. Prepare 
fresh for each meal. Do not use vinegar or onions with 
fancy fruits. 



SALADS. 



APPLE SALAD. No. 1. 
Peel some tart apples, slice and mix with French or may- 
onnaise dressing. Garnish with lettuce. Grapcnuts or rye- 
nuts may be sprinkled over this. Serve with egg food or 
nuts or any kind of cheese for lunch or dinner. For breakfast 
or supper serve with black toast or hygenic crackers. If 
protein foods are added, use the lightest form. 

Do not combine legumes with bananas, berries or other fancy sum- 
mer fruite. 



VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

APPLE SALAD. No. 2. 
Peel, slice and chop in chopping bowl as fine as rice. Then 
prepare and combine as explained in number one. Onion is 
.1 good addition. Chop or grate the onion very fine, mix with 
a little oil and lemon juice separately. Add this to the apple 
and the mayonnaise last of all. 

APPLE SALAD. No. 3. 

Arrange some lettuce or celery in a salad bowl, add dried 
raisins, currants or shredded cocoanut. Serve with nuts. Nut 
cream may be added to the apples in place of the cocoanut. If 
bread is desired "unleavened" is the best. Grapenuts or rye- 
nuts sprinkled over the salad makes it look dainty and 
appetizing. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut the tender white stalks into small pieces. Add chopped 
apples and nuts or salad dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
Peel and slice the cucum'bers thin and pour French or may- 
onnaise dressing over them. They may be combined with 
lettuce, tomatoes, chopped parsley or onions, 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Prepare and mix like cucumber salad. Serve with French 
- mayonnaise dressing. 

BOILED VEGETABLE SALAD. 
Use left-over asparagus, string beans, cow beans, lima 
s, peas or cauliflower. Pour over them French dressing 
half an hour before serving, adding lettuce and mayonnaise 
ssing when ready to serve. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 
Use the innermost part of a head oi cabbage. Cut and chop 
fine, add lemon and olive oil, and mix with mayonnaise 

Cucumbers are a valuable food ana should be eaten almost daily by 
rig children and anemic people, especially if much muscular work 
ulred. It" eaten in combination with half a dozen other articles, 
it produces Indigestion. Cucumbers should never be eaten at night. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 87 

dressing. A cold grated potato may be added for those who 
have difficulty in digesting cabbage. 

TOMATO AND WATERCRESS SALAD. 

Carefully wash some watercress, dry, and mix with equal 
parts of sliced tomatoes. Use French or mayonnaise dressing. 

DANDELION SALAD. 

Carefully wash and mix with finely cut green onions and 
French dressing. 

YELLOW DOCK SALAD OR SOUR GRASS. 
Wash and serve plain or mix with lemon and olive oil. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Lettuce should be kept in a cool, dry place and not left in 
water longer than 15 minutes. It may be served alone as a 
salad mixed with French dressing or served in combination 
with fruits, starchy foods or other vegetables, and eaten in 
addition to cheese, eggs, nuts or legumes. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Take some fresh leaves of raw spinach or use cold boiled 
spinach, and mix with French dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD. 
Chop up some tart apples, arrange lettuce in a salad bowl, 
pour in the apples, and sprinkle over it grated Swiss cheese. 

NUT SALAD. 
Chop or grind in a nut grinder some almonds or walnuts. 
Arrange lettuce and chopped apples in a salad bowl, sprinkle 

Lettuce is the most desirable greens on our tables and combines 
well with almost any kind of food. Being rich in minerals and alkaloidal 
extracts, it tends to render the digestive fluids alkaline and promotes 
oxidation and nutriition. PeopLe with dolicate stomachs should not 
eat lettuce at the evening meal. 



88 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

the nuts over it, and serve with celery and raisins. The 
French dressing may be omitted. 

EGG SALAD. 
Arrange lettuce in a salad bowl. Cut up hard boiled eggs, 
pour over them French or mayonnaise dressing. Caper or 
olives may be added. 

CEREAL SALAD. No. i. 
Mix a cupful of raw rolled wheat, oats or rye with a cup of 
finely grated or chopped carrots. Add a few drops of lemon 
or orange juice, and a little olive oil. Lettuce, celery or 
parsley may be mixed or eaten with it. 

CEREAL SALAD. No. 2. 
Wash and chop lettuce or celery, and apples. Mix with 
French or mayonnaise dressing. Then add an equal amount 
of rolled raw cereals and serve. Parsley or watercress may be 
added. A syrup dressing or onions combine well with it. 
Peaches and apricots may be used in place of apples and car- 
rots. Onions shouid not be used with peaches or apricots. 

EMPIRE SALAD. 
Ingredients : Two raw apples, two cold boiled potatoes, 
six hard boiled eggs, three boiled beets, three stalks of celery 
or one boiled celery root, onions, parsley, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of mustard. Chop fine each of the ingredients separately. 
Set apart three tablespoonfuls of chopped whites of eggs, 
yolks of eggs, beets and parsley. Mix all the other ingredients 
well and add mayonnaise dressing. Put the salad on a platter 
or into a large glass dish ; garnish with lettuce and olives and 
make designs or green, red, white, and yellow with left-over 
ingredients. 

Nuts are high in nutritive value, and are better evenly combined 
with non-protein elements than flesh foods are. They are rich in fat 
and form an ideal diet in combination with raw fruits and 
greens. They are not sufficiently appreciated as a food, and 
receive much unjust criticism as to their digestibility. All nuts are 
wholesome. The right combination and proportion, and the time of 
day when eaten, are of great importance. The kind of activity as well 
a^ individual peculiarities have much to do with likes and dislikes or 
requirements of certain foods. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 89 

CORN SALAD. 
Remove the husks and put in cold salt water for thirty 
minutes. Scrape from the cob, put into a deep bowl and pour 
diluted lemon juice over it. Let stand ten minutes. Then mix 
with sliced tomatoes and lettuce or watercress and olive oil. If 
the acid taste is not liked, mix it with French dressing or serve 
plain with tomatoes and green leaves. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 
Use canned or left-over string beans. Mix with French or 
mayonnaise dressing and add chopped parsley. Serve with 
eggs, egg foods or vegetable pudding. 

RADISH SALAD. No. 1. 
Wash and slice some radishes, mix with chopped onions. 
Garnish with lettuce, and serve with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

OLIVE SALAD. 
Stone and slice some ripe olives. Mix with equal parts of 
thinly sliced tomatoes and French or mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce. 

RHUBARB SALAD. 
Wash the rhubarb, cut the red part of it into one inch pieces 
and mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 
Cut off the tips of raw asparagus, arrange some lettuce or 
watercress in a salad bowl, and mix with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. Sliced tomatoes may be added. Boiled asparagus 
may be prepared in the same way. 

MUSHROOM SALAD. 
Arrange some lettuce or watercress in a dish, select fresh 
mushrooms, wash and mix with French dressing, and pour 
over the green leaves. 

Green corn is rich in fat and protein, and can form a perfect meal 
dirring the summer if combined with tomatoes. Do not cook the corn 
if it is agTeeable raw. Canned corn should be used with care for people 
with intestinal weaknesses. If used for soups it should be strained and 
diluted with an .equal amount of hot water before thickening. 



90 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CELERY ROOT SALAD. 
Wash and boil the roots with the skins. When tender, peel 
them and cut into slices into a big bowl. Pour over them a 
little hot vinegar diluted with water; let stand 15 minutes. 
Then drain off the liquid and mix the roots with French or 
mayonnaise dressing. Flavor with parsley. Serve with lettuce 
and tomato puree or with string beans or green peas and bread. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil or steam some potatoes with their jackets on. When 
done, peel and slice them into a deep bowl while warm ; then 
sprinkle over them a little salt, pepper, and finely chopped or 
grated onion, and pour over them some boiling hot vinegar 
diluted with one-half water and mixed with melted butter or 
oil. Cover with a saucer and shake well ; let stand for twenty 
or thirty minutes. If there is too much liquid, pour off some 
and mix the remainder with mayonnaise dressing and chopped 
parsley, if desired. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Arrange lettuce and sliced bananas in a salad bowl, adding 
a French dressing of lemon and olive oil. Ryenuts or grape- 
nuts may be sprinkled over it. Scrape off the inside of the 
skin of the bananas, and mix with it. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Peel some oranges, slice them crossways, remove the seeds, 
put into a bowl and grate some of the orange rind over them. 

Serve plain or with lettuce, and pour a French dressing of 
lemon and olive oil over it. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 
Peel and slice crossways, serve with lettuce and lemon or 
with sweet cream. 

PINEAPPLE AND APPLE SALAD. 
Mix equal parts of sliced apples and pineapples. Serve like 
the foregoing or with nuts. 

Celery contains valuable minerals and is soothing: to the nervous 
system. Celery roots are rich in fat and a healing food for people 
"with kidney, liver, and intestinal trouble. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 91 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGE SALAD. 
Mix equal parts of sliced oranges and pineapples. Serve like 
the foregoing - . 

APPLE AND BANANA SALAD. 
Prepare and serve like the foregoing, with cream or nuts. 

ORANGE AND BANANA SALAD. 
Scrape off the bitter pulp of the inside of the skin of the 
banana, mix with sliced oranges and bananas, and serve like 
the foregoing. 

FRUIT SALAD IN GELATINE. 
Prepare some lemon or orange gelatine. Let cool and pour 
over the sliced fruit. Set on ice and serve plain or with cream. 

CRANBERRY AND CELERY SALAD. 
Wash and cut some celery the size of cranberries. Mix 
with an equal amount of cranberries, and serve plain or with 
lemon and olive oil. 

PEACH SALAD. 
Wash and slice some peaches. Serve with cream or lettuce, 
lemon, and olive oil. Fried beachnut bacon and shredded, 
puffed or raw rolled wheat are a good addition, if lemon and 
oil is used. 

APRICOT SALAD. 
Prepare and serve in the same manner as peach salad. 

CRANBERRY AND BANANA SALAD. 
Cook some cranberries, strain, and thicken with a little 
cornstarch. Cool and pour over sliced bananas. Serve with 
raw celery. 

CRANBERRY AND PEAR SALAD. 
Combine like the foregoing or use baked pears. Raw cran- 
berries with raw pears and celery is also good. 

BANANA AND GRAPE SALAD. 
Slice some bananas and mix with an equal quantity of gree» 
grapes. Garnish with lettuce, and add lemon and olive oil, 
if desired. 



92 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

RADISH SALAD. No. 2. 

Mix some chopped or sliced radishes with French or may- 
onnaise dressing, and add lettuce or celery. Serve for break- 
fast with whole wheat 'bread and butter, or with raw wheat 
flakes. 

BEET SALAD. 

Mix some left-over sliced beets with French dressing - . Serve 
with celery and whole wheat or black toast with butter for 
breakfast or dinner. 

MIXED SPINACH SALAD. 

Wash some fresh tender spinach leaves. Cut fine and mix 
with French dressing, mint and onions. Tomatoes majr be 
added. Serve with hard boiled eggs. 

CARROT SALAD. 

Grind, chop or slice the carrots and mix with French dress- 
ing. Add chopped parsley, lettuce or celery. Serve with rye 
or wheat flake. 

PLUM SALAD. 

Green, red and blue plums are all valuable fruits. The blue 
plum is rich in iron, minerals, and sugar, and is, next to apples 
and tomatoes, one of the most perfect fruits. It has great pre- 
serving qualities and if picked on a dry, sunny day and placed 
carefully in straw in a dry, cool place, will keep until Christmas. 
Remove the stone and slice, mix with rylax or ryenuts or serve 
with stale bread and butter. Nuts, lettuce and celery make a 
good addition. Olive oil is also good. 

DRIED VEGETABLE SALAD. 
Soak Carque's dried vegetables in a little water for several 
hours. Then steam in a colander for about ten minutes. When 
cold, add salad dressing or nut cream. 

Salads consisting of mixed nuts or mixed boiled vegetables are not 
■wholesome for delicate people. 

Fresh raw fruits, if eaten in the right proportion with other articles. 
are wholesome. The habit of eating a large amount of acid fruits at 
the beginning of the morning meal is not necessary. If a heavy meal 
is eaten in the evening, remaining half digested in the stomach over 
night, and putrefying, then acid fruits will cleanse the stomach in the 
morning. 

Apples are among the most perfect of fruits. People who have 
difficulty in digesting a sufficient amount of cereals should eat apples 
almost daily. If raw apples disagree, they can be made agreeable by 
. ombining them with oil in ithe form of a salad. Baked apples and 
apple saucx are also good, provided they are not spoiled with too much 
sugar. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 93 

CHAPTER IX 

FRUITS AND LIGHT PUDDINGS 

STERILIZED DRIED FRUITS 
Place some dried cherries, apricots, currants or prunes in 
a Mason jar. Fill to the top, cover with water, and let stand 
over night. The next day set the jar into a water bath, heat 
to the boiling' point, then cool. Enough can be prepared to 
last for several days. The juice may be used again for soak- 
ing, or it can be used for fruit gruels. 

SOAKED FRUIT. No. 1. 
Wash some dried fruit, put into a bowl, pour over some 
hot or cold water, place over it a little saucer with a weight 
upon it; in this way it requires less water; let stand over 
night. It is ready for use the next morning, and may be mixed 
with boiled cereals in place of sugar. 

SOAKED FRUIT. No. 2. 
Place some dried fruit in a bowl, pour over it some hot 
cereal coffee. Use in the same way as number one. This is 
excellent for people suffering with fermentation of the 
stomach. The cereal coffee acts as a preservative. 

FIG BUTTER. No. 1. 
Wash some dried figs, dry them ; then cut into small 
pieces, and grind on a nut grinder. Mix with one-fourth (in 
quantity) of ryenuts. Serve with whipped or sterilized cream. 

FIG BUTTER. No. 2. 
Prepare as the foregoing. Mix with about one-third or 
one-fourth of ground nuts, also with ryenuts, if desired. Serve 
with lettuce. 

Compotes or Stewed Fruits are more wholesome and economical titan 
jams and jellies, which are prepared with large amounts of sugar. A 
few jars of sterilized fruit juice should be prepared and kept on hand 
for medicinal purposes only. 



94 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

RAISIN OR CURRANT BUTTER. 

Prepare like figs. Mix with ground nuts. Serve with let- 
tuce or with chopped apples. 

BUCKTHORN BARK EMULSION. No. i. 
Pour a quart of boiling water on five ounces of Buckthornr 
bark, let steep for from 10 to 15 minutes, then strain; wash! 
about a half a pound of dried French prunes, cut into smalll 
pieces, soak these with the strained hot Buckthorn tea for anr 
hour or longer, then steep until tender, press through ai 
colander thoroughly. 

BUCKTHORN BARK EMULSION. No. 2. 
Combine with fat, as follows: Heat a large tablespoon ful 
of olive oil or butter, mix with a tablespoonful of mixed flour, 
gradually add to it the hot pulp of the prunes while stirring, 
let boil three to five minutes. 

GROUND DATES. 
Remove the stones and prepare as above. Mix with rye-- 
nuts or orange juice. Serve with lettuce and sliced bananas* 
or nuts. 

GROUND DRIED PRUNES. 
Prepare like figs. Mix with ryenuts. Serve with cream on 
with nuts and lettuce. 

BAKED APPLES. 
Wash and remove the core; then place in a baking tin,,, 
stem end down; pour over some water and a little sugar, ifi 
desired; bake in a moderate oven until tender. Let cool andl 
serve plain with butter and bread or with whipped or sterilizedJ 
cream. 

BAKED PEACHES. 
Prepare the same as baked apples, and serve with cream. 

Hot house fruits out of season are health destroying. Certain' 
fruits, such as apples, plums, tomatoes, apricots, grapes, figs, bananas and 
cranberries, will keep for a Ions time in the natural state, if properly 
preserved, Fresh fancy summer fniits are not required during the 
winter by healthy individuals, neither are canned fruits, jams or jellies. 






TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 95 

AMBROSIA. 

Mash baked apples very fine and rub through a colander. 
Mix with soaked or stewed raisins, if desired. Serve in place 
of apple sauce with beaten whites of egg or whipped cream 
and zwieback. 

BAKED APPLES IN GELATINE. 

Prepare in the usual way, pour some fruit or rye gelatine 
over them. 

APPLE SAUCE. No. 1. 

Wash some tart apples, cut into four pieces and remove the 
seeds; steep with a little water and sugar until tender. Then 
mash fine with a potato-masher and run through a colander. 
Add a piece of butter while warm. Apple sauce prepared in 
this way is more wholesome than prepared from apples that 
have been peeled. 

APPLE SAUCE. No. 2. 
Soak some dried apples over night, steep for 30 to 40 min- 
utes with a piece of cinnamon and a little sugar, and mash fine 
with a potato masher. Add a piece of butter. Let cool and 
serve with eggs, or cheese. 

BANANA GELATINE. 
Prepare some gelatine with orange, cranberry or lemon 
juice. When nearly cold, cut up some bananas and mix with 
the gelatine. Flavor and set on ice, serve with whipped or 
sterilized cream. 

PINEAPPLE GELATINE. 
Prepare some gelatine with lemon or orange juice. When 
nearly cold, add some fresh or canned pineapple. Serve with 
whipped or sterilized cream, and zwieback. 

Dried sweet fruits are more wholesome than canned summer fruits. 
However, they should not be indulged in during hot summer days, or 
in the spring time when the brain needs relaxation. 



96 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

APPLE SNOW. 

Prepare some apple sauce from dried or fresh apples, ruin 
through a colander; when cool, mix with the snow of whites >f 
egg's. Serve with zwiehack. 

APRICOT SNOW. 

Prepare same as apple snow. 

APRICOT SAUCE. 
Wash some dried apricots thoroughly, cut into small pieces 
soak over night, then simmer slowly until soft. Run through 
a colander and add a piece of fresh butter while warm. Servj 
with French toast, corn bread, corn cakes, steamed puddings 
or omelet. 

GOOSEBERRY COMPOT. 
Remove the stems, wasli the berries and pour some boilin 
water on them. Let stand five minutes; then pour off the 
water and add fresh boiling water, a stick of cinnamon and 
the necessary amount of sugar. Thicken with cornstarch. 
Serve with unleavened pancakes. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Prepare the gooseberries in the same manner as for compot, 
but use more water. When done, strain and thicken with 
cornstarch. Let boil 10 to 15 minutes. Serve hot or cold with 
cream. 

STEWED BLACKBERRIES. 

Wash a pint of blackberries, put on to cook with abo 
pints of boiling water and a stick of cinnamon. Let simmer 
slowly and add a few tablespoonfuls of sugar. When nearly 
done thicken with a little cornstarch. Cool and serve with 
milk rice, custard or pancakes. 

STE W ED HUCKL E BERRIES. 

Prepare the same as stewed blackberries. Strain, if desired. ! 

Fruits are an important article of diet, but few people know how 
to use them wisely. A large percentage of deaths in young children,' 
is due directly to the wrong use of fruits. 



m w 1111 

Hit tWO 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 97 

RAKED APPLES IN OIL. 
Wash some tart apples, wipe and core them. Have some 
vegetable oil, boiling hot, drop in the apples and cook until 
tender. Let cool and reheat when needed. 

STRAWBERRIES WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Select fresh ripe berries and wash. Put the desired amount 

on flat medium-sized plates. Beat up some cream with the 

whites of several eggs and a little powdered sugar. Cover 

the berries with the cream and serve with wafers or triscuit. 

PEACHES AND PEARS WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 
Peel and slice them. Prepare and serve the same as the 
foregoing. These dishes are not good for delicate stomachs. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA. 
Soak a cupful of plain tapioca in a pint of cold water over 
night, or for several hours. Cook in one pint of unfermented 
apple, grape or berry juice in a double boiler, add salt and 
sugar while boiling. Serve with sterilized cream. The 
tapioca may be cooked in water, adding salt and sugar, when 
cold add lemon juice and sliced pineapples, serve with whip- 
ped cream. 

BLACKBERRY SAGO. 
Boil one quart of blackberries with about two quarts of 
water and some sugar very slowly, then strain and cool, bring 
to a boil again, prepare with instantaneous tapioca or plain 
sago. The latter must be well soaked. Serve warm with 
zwieback or wafers and sweet butter. 

APPLE SAGO. 
Boil tart apples with the skin in plenty of water; when 
tender strain and cool. Reheat, flavor with cinnamon and 
sugar. Prepare with instantaneous tapioca or plain sago. After' 
removing from the fire add orange juice, lemon, butter and 
the yolk of an egg or serve with sterilized cream. 

People with a tendency to acid fermentation should not mix boiled 
cereals with fnuita. 



98 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

BERRY TAPIOCA. 
Cook one quart of raspberries or blackberries with two 
quarts of water, a piece of cinnamon, add three-fourths to one 
cup of sugar, let boil slowly, then strain and cool. Reheat and 
prepare with instantaneous tapioca. Pour on a soup plate, 
pour sterilized cream over it. In cold weather, the cream as 
well as the tapioca should be served warm. 

RHUBARB PUDDING. 
Wash the stalks and cut off the green end. Cut the re- 
mainder in small pieces and steep in earthenware with a stick 
•of cinnamon. When tender, strain and add the necessary 
amount of sugar. Dissolve some cornstarch, arrowroot or 
agar-agar with cold water and stir into the fruit juice. Let 
boil to minutes and serve warm on soup-plates with sterilized 
cream or put into molds and cool. If it is eaten warm, it is 
preferable to let the fruit juice cool first, then reheat and 
add the thickening. 

APPLE PUDDING. 
Save all the peeling from several days ; add a few whole 
apples. Cook with water, strain and prepare like rhubarb 
pudding. 

CURRANT. RASPBERRY OR PEACH PUDDING. 
Prepare the same as the foregoing. If peaches or peach 
skins are used, do not press much of the pulp through. It is 
better to use more peeling than whole fruits. In serving peach 
•or apple salad, the peelings can be saved from a day or two and 
preserved by stewing them in a little water until ready for use. 

LEMON FILLING FOR PIE. 
Stir the yolks of three eggs with one-half cup of sugar, add 
the grated rind and juice of two lemons or one lemon and one 
orange, then add two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one of 
butter and one and one-half cup of hot water. Stir in a 
double boiler over the fire until it is thick. Then pour it into 
the baked crust. Beat the whites with a tablespoon of sugar 
and a little lemon juice. Put over the top and brown in the 
oven. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 99 

PLAIN JUNKET. 
Warm one pint of milk to blood heat, flavor as desired ; 
stir in one junket tablet which has been dissolved in a little 
water and pour into a dish ; set on ice. Serve with cranberry 
or prune sauce and wafers. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE, STERILIZED. 
Put one cup of cranberries into a pint jar, add two and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of sugar and sufficient water to fill the 
jar ; screw tight and cook in a water bath for 40 minutes or 
longer. Let cool and run through a colander. 

RHUBARB WINE. 

Wash, and cut the red end of the plant into half-inch 
pieces. Put into a Mason jar, fill with water, screw tight and 
set on a grate in a water bath. Cook 40 to 50 minutes. Raisin 
wine or any kind of berry juice may be prepared in the same 
manner. Sugar is not necessary. Stewed fruit prepared in 
this manner is more wholesome and requires less sugar than 
if cooked in the ordinary way. For fruit juice take one cup 
of fruit to one and a half or two of water. 



ioo VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CHAPTER X. 
FLUIDS AND GELATINE. 

Fluids for Infants and Invalids. 

MILK. 

In preparing modified milk or other fluid foods for infants, 
where top milk is used, it is very important that the milk 
contain the same amount of cream for each feeding, or else 
digestive disturbance and irregularity of bowel movements 
will occur. 

If milk, fresh from the cow and run through the cooler, is 
put into bottles or jars and kept at the same temperature, the 
same percentage of to-milk will be obtained daily. Five hours 
is generally sufficient to obtain the desired quality. The 
best means of removing it is by a spoon or siphon. 

If raw milk is used without being sterilized, the desired 
amount for each meal should be put into sterile bottles di- 
rectly after delivery and lightly covered by cheese-cloth or 
■cotton and kept on ice or other cool place. In this way each 
bottle will contain the same amount of cream. 

PREPARATION OF MODIFIED MILK (RAW). 
Put the desired amount of top-milk into as many bottles as 
are required for feeding during twelve hours. Prepare a 
solution of water and milk-sugar by dissolving the sugar with 
the desired amount of boiling water. Let cool and keep on 
ice for twenty-four hours. At each feeding, add the prescribed 
amount of water to the milk, shake and heat in a water bath. 
Add a tablespoonful of lime water or barley water. If the 
milk cannot be obtained fresh twice per day, it is safer to scald 
the milk which is used during the night. 

Milk is a food, not a drink; it should never be taken in addition to, 
or at the end of a heavy meal. Many people object to boiled milk on 
account of a theory that it tends to constipate. Do not dwell on theories; 
find out for yourself. Potatoes, toast and many other cooked foods are 
constipating also. Why not object to those? 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 101 

All milk, even if handled carefully, contains a large number 
of germs. When one is not certain that the cows from which 
the milk is obtained are healthy, the milk should be sterilized. 
During the summer it is safer to scald or sterilize all milk 
for infants. 

SCALDED MILK (MODIFIED). 

Dissolve the desired amount of milk sugar in boiling water 
in a clean saucepan, add the milk, stir over a quick fire until 
it foams, which means that the milk is heated to about 200 F. 
The most harmful germs are generally destroyed by this pro- 
cess. Pour the milk into a clean pitcher and set the latter in a 
pan of cold water. Stir the milk until cold and change the 
water several times. The stirring makes the milk homo- 
geneous and easier to digest. If any scum has formed on top, 
through careless preparation, the milk should be strained 
through a cheese-cloth before putting it into bottles. Put a 
cotton stopper in the bottles and set on ice. Milk prepared 
in this manner is generally suitable for the average healthy 
infant. 

BOILED MILK AND CREAM FOR TABLE USE. 

Put the desired amount of milk or cream, or mixed milk 
and cream, into a clean sauce-pan, stir over a hot fire until it 
reaches the boiling point or to about 20O°F. Then pour into 
a pitcher and set in a pan of cold water ; stir until the milk is 
cold. Set on ice or in a cold place for 24 hours. Milk prepared 
in this way is the only wholesome kind to use in addition to 
boiled cereals and fruit puddings. It is also often preferable 
to raw cream and milk, in combination with raw fruits. If the 
milk is to be used on cereals for the morning meal, it can be 
reheated or used directly after boiling. If hot milk is added 
to cereals, the sugar will not be missed. 

STERILIZED MILK (MODIFIED). 
Dissolve the milk sugar as directed for scalding milk. Add 
the desired amount of milk, top-milk or cream, and prepare as 
directed in the hcapter under "Sterilized Milk." 

PASTEURIZED MILK. 
Put the desired amount of milk or milk and cream mixture 



102 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

into sterile bottles, put on a stopper and set in a water bath ; 
heat the water to 155 or 170 F., and keep it at that tempera- 
ture for 30 minutes. Then remove the bottles at once, cool 
them in a pan of cold water and set on ice. 

BOILED MILK. 

Put the desired amount of milk, or modified milk into a 
clean sauce-pan, stir over a hot fire and boil from two to five 
minutes. Then cool by setting the pitcher into a pan of cold 
water; stir until cold and set on ice. This is excellent for 
infants as well as for the sick who suffer with diarrhoea. The 
milk may be modified with arrow-root, barley water or rice 
flour gruel, which has been boiled with salt and water and a 
stick of cinnamon. Milk-sugar should be boiled with the 
gruels, two level tablespoonfuls to a pint of boiling water. 

KUMYSS. 

Dissolve one-fourth of a cake of compressed yeast in a little 
warm water. Take a quart of fresh blood-warm milk, add to 
it a tablespoonful of sugar and the yeast. Put the mixture 
into beer bottles with patent stoppers, filling them to the 
neck. Place them for about twelve hours in a room suitable 
for raising bread, at a temperature of about 70 , then put 
the bottles on ice, up side down, until wanted. 

RICE WATER. 

Wash one-half a cup of Carolina rice several times with 
water, then soak or put on to boil at once with three pints of 
water. Boil slowly for about an hour, strain, and sweeten, or 
flavor as desired. Serve plain or with one fifth part of 
sterilized cream. 

BARLEY WATER. 
Prepare in the same manner as rice water. 

If milk or cream Is delivered in bottles, remove the cover immedi- 
ately after delivery. If the air where it stands is dusty, protect the 
milk with cotton or cheese-cjoth* Treat boiled milk in the flame 
manner. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 103 

EAGLE BRAND CONDENSED MILK. 
It can be prepared in many different ways, and mixed with 
barley-water, and cream, or used for sweetening in the prepar- 
ation of gruels. 

WHIPPED SOUR MILK. 

Beat one quart of thick, sour milk with an egg beater for 
ten minutes. Serve with zwieback. Three-fifths tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sugar and a little cinnamon may be added, 
if it is agreeable. 

Whipped sour cream may be prepared the same as sour 
milk. 

WHIPPED SWEET CREAM. 

Whip one quart of sweet, thick cream with two-fifths of a 
tablespoonful of powedered sugar, add a little vanilla, if de- 
sired. Serve with fruit gelatines or ground white figs, stewed 
prunes, baked apples or raw fruits, such as peaches, straw- 
berries, raspberries or bananas. 

CLABBER. 

Put some fresh or skimmed milk into large soup plates 
or wide bowls and set in a room which has plenty of ventila- 
tion. Do not cover tight. If the room is exposed to dust, put 
long sticks over the dish and cover with cheese cloth. When 
the milk is thick, set a little while in warm water until some of 
the whey separates. Pour off about half of the liquid, so 
the milk has the consistency of mush. Then pour over it some 
fresh rich milk or cream, and serve. People who have no 
tendency to flatulent dispepsia may sprinkle a tablespoonful 
of sugar and one of dried grated pumpernikel over it in ad- 
dition to the cream. Strawberries, raspberries, dried sweet 
fruits, nuts and zwieback are also a good addition. This will 
form a perfect meal on a hot summer day. 

TOAST WATER. 
Toast a slice of stale wheat or black bread until thoroughly 
brown. Break into small pieces and pour on it two or three 
cups of boiling water. Cover tightly, and set aside for twenty 
minutes or longer. Strain, and flavor to suit the taste. Serve 
hot or cold. 



k>4 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

TOAST AND APPLE WATER. 

Prepare like toast water, and add the peelings of one or two 
apples before pouring on the boiling water. 

LEMONADE. 
Boil a quart of water for several minutes with three to five 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of one lemon. Remove 
from the fire, add the juice of two or three lemons or oranges, 
strain and cool. Fresh clean cold water may be added to suit 
the taste. This is excellent in fevers, where much fluid food is 
required. It may be served hot or cold. 

BRAN TEA. 
Soak over night a cupful of Ralston's select bran in one 
quart of soft warm or cold water. The next day strain it and 
serve raw, or put it on to boil, simmer for one-half hour, then 
strain. Serve hot or cold. The bran may be mixed with oats 
or ryenuts when put to soak, and may be used raw or boiled. 
Hot bran tea with cream is excellent as a substitute for tea. 
It can be prepared without soaking. 

MALTED MILK. No. I. 
Put two teaspoonfuls of malted milk into a cup, pour on 
some boiling water and add a pinch of salt and one-fourth of a 
cup of cream. 

MALTED MILK. No. 2. 
Prepare as the foregoing, omitting the cream. Serve plain, 
or add a few drops of lemon juice. 

UNFERMENTED BEER. 
Soak a cup of bran and a slice of thoroughly toasted black- 
bread for several hours in a quart of water. Add a stick of 
cinnamon, bring to a boil and let simmer slowly for 20 min- 
utes or longer. Strain and serve hot or cold. 

CAMOMILE TEA. 
Put a tablespoonful of tea into a teapot and pour on it 
one-half pint of boiling water. Allow it to stand on a hot 
platter or over steam for five minutes. Then strain and serve. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 105 

FENNEL TEA. 
Prepare the same as camomile tea. 

BUCKTHORN TEA. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of buckthorn bark into a teapot, 
pour on it a cup of boiling water, and allow to steep from 
10 to 15 minutes. Strain and serve warm (not hot). 

WHEY. No. 1. 

Soak one of Hansen's rennet tablets in a little cold water. 
Heat one quart of skim milk or fresh milk until it is luke- 
warm. Crush the tablet and mix with the milk, and stand on 
a warm place for five minutes or until it is thick. Then heat 
over the fire until the whey separates. Strain and throw 
away the curd. 

WHEY. No. 2. 

Heat some fresh milk until it is blood-warm. Add Fair- 
child's essence of pepsin, according to directions. 

BRAN GELATINE. 
Prepare the same as Bran Tea, use less water. Black or 
white toast may be added to the bran. Flavor with salt or 
sugar or add a teaspoonful of condenced milk after straining. 
Let cool and serve plain or with cream. 

IRISH MOSS. 
Wash and let it soak for several hours, or over night. Boil 
for 10 minutes, strain through cheese-cloth, and add one-half 
or two-thirds of a cup of hot milk. Flavor as desired. 

RAW GREEN PEA JUICE. 

Wash some fresh green peas in the pods and grind through 
a meat grinder, allowing the liquid to drain into a bowl. 

LEMON WHEY. 
Heat a pint of fresh milk to about 200 F., remove from the 
fire and squeeze into it the juice of one-half a lemon. Let 
stand for a few minutes, beat with a fork, and strain through 
a cheese-cloth. Serve hot or cold. 



106 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

ALBUMEN WATER. 

Add to the white of one fresh egg eight ounces of water 
and a little lemon juice or brandy, and shake thoroughly. 
Keep on ice. 

FLAXSEED TEA. 

Add a quart of water to two tablespoonfuls of whole flax 
seed. Boil one or two hours with one or two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Strain and add lemon juice or cream, to suit the 
taste. 

APPLE BARLEY WATER. 

Soak a cup of barley over night. Put to boil with two 
quarts of water, add a little salt and the skins of two or three 
apples, and a little sugar. Boil slowly for an hour or until it 
becomes red in color. Strain, and add lemon juice, if desired. 
Serve hot or cold. 

WATER EGGNOG. No. I 
Beat the whole of an egg with one-half a cup or less of 
water. Flavor with lemon juice. 

WATER EGGNOG. No. 2. 
Beat the yolk of an egg with one-half or a whole cup of 
water. Flavor with lemon juice. 

LEMONADE WITH EGG. 
Take some lemonade prepared from oranges and lemons" 
and add to it the yolk or the whole of an egg. The acid taste 
must dominate the sweet taste. 

MILK EGGNOG. 
Beat up the whole or the yolk of an egg with a little water 
and one or two tablespoonfuls of sugar. To this add eight 
to ten ounces of rich raw or sterilized milk, or one-half cream 
and one-half water. Flavor with nutmeg or bitter almond. 

FRUIT LEMONADE. 
Boil some water with a little sugar and the rind of a 
lemon, orange or apple. Add to it some preserved strawberry, 
cherry, pineapple, currant or raspberry juice, and seltzer 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 107 

water, or add a mixture of several different fruit juices. This 
is excellent for fever patients, but not for people suffering 
with lung or heart diseases. 

ALMOND MILK. 

Blanch one cup of almond meats, chop or grind them 
coarsely, and pour over them a quart of hot water. Let stand 
several hours or over night, press through a cheese-cloth, and 
keep on ice. A few bitter almonds may be added. 

RYE LEMONADE. 
Wash a half cup of dried currants or raisins, put on to 
boil with a pint of water, a tablespoonful of ryenuts or black 
toast, a piece of cinnamon, some lemon rind and one or two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, 
then strain. Keep in a cool place. Serve hot or cold. 

STRAWBERRY MILK. 
Wash two cups of fresh strawberries. Put into a imilk- 
pitcher and add two quarts of fresh raw or cold boiled milk, a 
little vanilla and a small piece of ice. Strain, serve with zwie- 
back or shredded wheat. Sugar may be added, if desired. 
This is more wholesome than ice cream. 

COCOA SHELLS. 
Boil cocoa shells for twenty minutes, then strain. Use as a 
substitute for tea or coffee. 

TEA. 
Rinse the teapot with boiling water. Take a teaspoonful of 
black Japan tea, add a pint of boiling water, and let stand over 
steam for one or two minutes. Strain, and serve hot or cold 
with lemon juice or cream. 

COFFEE. 
Grind very coarsely two tablespoonfuls of fresh coffee 
beans. Pour two cups of boiling water on them, let stand five 
minutes (do not boil), then strain. Serve black or with cream. 
Tea and coffee should be used for medicinal purposes only. 



io8 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

MALT OR CEREAL COFFEE. 

Take one-half cup of instantaneous Postum or Kneipp's 
malt coffee, pour three or four cups of boiling water on it. Let 
stand from five to 15 minutes, then strain. Serve hot or cold, 
with or without cream. People who wish to leave off coffee 
may add a teaspoonful of coffee beans to the cereal coffee 
a few minutes before straining. Tn this way they will gradu- 
ally lose the desire for coffee. Bran tea or legume tea may 
be substituted for black tea or coffee. 

COCOA. No. 1. 

Dissolve one teaspoonful of cocoa and one of sugar in a 
little boiling water or milk and add a cup of rich milk. Let 
all boil a few minutes. Hot or whipped cream may be added 
before serving. 

COCOA. No. 2. 

Dissolve one-half a teaspoonful of cocoa and one teaspoon- 
ful of milk sugar in a little boiling water, add one cup of hot 
rich milk or one-half cup of cream and water, and boil a few 
minutes. Add more cream, if desired. 

BEAN TEA OR BROTH. 

Use white, brown or black beans; soak one-half cup of 
beans in soft water over night. The next day put on to boil 
in a quart of water, cook slowly for one hour or longer, and 
keep covered well. Then strain and serve plain, or add some 
hot cream to it. Small white and lima beans are excellent 
in the summer. 

PEA AND LENTIL TEA. 

Prepare the same as bean tea. Dry green peas are richer 
in minerals than yellow peas. Yellow peas contain more 
starch. 

LEGUME GELATINE. 

Prepare like legume broth. Take about one cupful of 
beans or peas to three pints of water, soak over night, and 
simmer from one to two hours. Strain, do not press the pulp 
through. Green imported split peas or lima beans are more 
suitable for gelatine than other legumes. Add salt or other 
flavoring to suit the taste. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 109 

CHAPTER XL 
MENUS AND SANDWICHES. 

FANCY MENUS FOR DINNER. 

I. 

Strained tomato juice or legume broth, wafers, celery or olives. 
Asparagus or celery root salad with lettuce. 
Young peas, mashed potatoes, fried egg-plant. 
Fancy cut black toast with butter and black coffee. 

II. 
Mushroom salad with lettuce, imperial sticks. 
Legume cheese or croquettes, creamed carrots or puree. 
Celery and olives or sliced oranges and apples. 
Fruit tarts or toast and black coffee. 

III. 
Radishes, wafers, olives and water cress salad. 
Stuffed green peppers and tomato puree. 
Apple pie or black bread with grated Swiss cheese. 
Green grapes or oranges, nuts, coffee. 

IV. 
Raisin, currant or rhubarb wine, nabiscos. 
Celery root salad, olives, French dressing. 
Spinach, eggs or omelet with tomato puree. 
Apple salad with mayonnaise dressing and nuts. 
Fancy cut toast with butter and nuts. 

V. 
Green leaf salad of any kind with cucumbers and olives. 
Raw soaked oats or wheat with dried soaked fruit and cream. 
Fancy cut toast with butter and cheese, coffee or grapes, nuts. 

VI. 
Tomato cream soup or fancy tomato salad. 
Vegetable pudding or legume roast, string beans. 
Fruit tapioca with whipped or sterilized cream. 
Nabisco or zwieback with black coffee. 

The above menus are agreeable to the average healthy person. Those 

with a tendency to acidity or flatulent dy*>pepsia should avoid eating 

several different fruits at one meal, also leave out soft puddings at the 
end of a heavy meal. 



no VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 



A menu which is one-sided or combined wrongly, that is, 
one in which either protein, carbohydrates, minerals or fluids 
are provided in excess, leads to waste of nervous energy as 
well as to waste of nutritive material. A wrong combination 
•creates an abnormal appetite for too much or too little food. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING in 



SIMPLE MENUS FOR BREAKFAST. 
(Each line represents a complete meal.) 

Stewed rhubarb with cornmeal cakes or muffins. 

Tomato juice. Left over macaroni with grated Swiss cheese. 

Sweet potatoes with stewed fruit, black toast. 

Baked potatoes with whey sauce, boiled eggs, black toast. 

Toasted wheat or rye bread with nut butter, stewed prunes. 

Rylax with cream or butter, prunes, raisins or raw carrots. 

Oat Gruel, prunes, raisins, raw carrots or cucumbers. 

Black toast with cream cheese, baked or raw apples. 

Carrot puree, black toast or bran crackers, butter. 

Black cream toast prepared with cream or nut cream. 

Left over macaroni with fried onions or milk or tomato sauce. 



ii2 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 



MENUS FOR LUNCH OR SUPPER. 
(Each line represents a complete meal.) 

Milk soup with sago or rice. Dried fruit or celery. 
Fruit soup with snow of egg. Toast with butter. 
Baked apples or pudding with cream. Toast and milk. 
Bread soup. Apple salad with mayonnaise dressing. 
Legume broth. Omelet with fruit sauce. 
Spinach or sprouts or string beans, with bread or crackers. 
Apple salad. Rye bread with cream cheese. Grapes. 
Tomato or apple soup with cream, crackers with milk. 
Malt coffee, wheat or rye bread, butter, dried fruit. 
Kale, or spinach, toast with butter. Dried fruit. 
Wheat or oat gruel with cream. Dried fruit or carrots. 
Cream of tomato or potato soup. Crackers. Olives. 

The above will be unusual menus, yet they are correct 
chemical combinations for normal digestion. Try them and 
see for yourself. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 113 



MENUS FOR SIMPLE DINNERS. 

(Each line represents a complete meal.) 

Baked beans or lima beans with sauerkraut, creamed carrots. 

Saxon Sool eggs with mushrooms and string beans. 

Baked beans or lima beans with cabbage, tomatoes or potatoes. 

Red cabbage with mushrooms and baked potatoes. 

Baked cauliflower with cheese and tomato puree, bread. 

Green pea soup. German pancakes with fruit sauce. 

Buttermilk soup. Omelet with green salad. 

Apple or potato salad. Legume roast with carrot puree. 

Legume soup. Cabbage with potatoes or rice. Carrots. 

Milk soup. Mixed boiled dinner, lettuce salad. 

Oat gruel. Kale or spinach, bread with nut butter. 

Green pea soup. Dumplings or pudding, stewed fruit. 

Bean salad, lettuce. Apple fritters or brown bread. 

Black bread soup. Corn fritters with apple sauce. 

Oat gruel or rylax with cream or butter. Nuts. 

Green pea soup, imperial sticks. Carrot puree, crackers. 

Apple salad and lettuce, nut loaf, olives. 

Lettuce salad, fried apples, nut loaf. 

Bean soup, bread dumplings with tomato sauce. 

Lettuce, macaroni with pea or tomato sauce. Nuts. 

L«axative Foods: Fruit juices, plums, tomatoes, apples, pears, 
grapes, figs, fruit-soups, fruit-gruels, raisins, gelatines, corn, oats, spinach, 
oranges, carrots, parsnips, bran, oil, butter, cream, olives, yolks of eggs, 
pecans, walnuts, Brazil nuts, cucumbers, onions, greens, butter sauces. 

Constipating Foods: Skim-milk, liquid foods, fine flour bread, pota- 
toes, tapioca, white of eggs, gluten, mush, cheese made from skim-milk. 



j i 4 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 



NATURAL DIET. 

Adopting a natural diet does not mean a return to 
savagery. Cracked and flaked grains can be made into de- 
licious dishes with very little labor and time, and are far 
more nutritious than cooked cereals. Sun cooked foods are 
rich in vital magnetism, of which artificially cooked foods 
have been deprived. They also diminish the desire for tea, 
coffee, spices and other artificial stimulants. However, the 
change should be made gradually. The best time to begin 
is in the spring by partaking of some raw cereal in the form 
of a gruel or mush each day. The most unsuitable time is 
when tired or overworked. During a vacation is a favorable 
time to begin. People who have lived on excess of cooked 
and starchy foods for a long time cannot expect to like the 
raw foods immediately, it may take several months, or even 
a year, to educate the cells of the stomach to act upon them, 
Dried sweet fruits (which have been soaked separately) and 
sweet cream make good additions if grains cannot be relished 
any other way. 

On the following pages are a number of menus consisting 
largely of uncooked foods. Try them. Lay aside your 
prejudices against nature, and stop making new and complex 
recipes which ruin your health. Simplicity and knowledge 
are great helps for a low purse. 

Each person should learn 'by experience to select the 
kinds of food which yield him nourishment and avoid those 
which disagree. 

The most perfect foods, such as apples, tomatoes, wheat, oats, rye, 
legumes and nuts seldom disagree with a healthy individual, provided 
tthey are used wisely. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 115 

SAMPLE MENUS SUITABLE FOR ANY MEAL. 

(Each line represents a complete meal.) 

Cereal salad of rye with bananas or carrots, milk, green leaves. 

Raw or cooked lima beans with tomatoes or carrots, leaf salad. 

Apple and lettuce salad, fruit cake or fruit pie, Swiss cheese. 

Plain cake, gelatine, cream or green salad, milk or lemonade. 

Bananas with strained tomato juice and raw green peas. 

Plum salad, lettuce, mayonnaise dressing, walnuts. 

Strawberries, lettuce and oil or mayonnaise dressing, almonds. 

Apple or tomato salad, cheese and raw bread. 

Clabber milk, triscuits or zwieback, dried fruits, nuts. 

Raw blackberries or lemonade, zwieback, or raw bread. 

Raspberries or strawberries, rich milk, raw bread or nuts. 

Banana salad, lettuce, cherries or sweet fruits, almonds. 

Fruit pie or fruit toast, a glass of milk, pecans. 

Green grapes, black bread, Swiss or cream cheese. 

Cereal or fruit salad and lettuce, nuts. 

Fruit butter with cream or toast and almonds. 

Cherries with eggs or omelet or corn bread. 

Melon with lemon, banana salad, pecans or almonds. 

Bean salad with lettuce and raw carrots. 

Potato or carrot salad, lettuce, walnuts. 

Fruit soup (warm or cold) eggs or nuts. 

Pear salad with cranberries and celery, raw bread. 

Buttermilk or sweet milk with toast or raw bread. 

Raw rolled oats, plain or with fruit and cream. 

Mixed rylax and wheat with cream and fruit. 

Cabbage salad with hard boiled eggs, bread and butter. 

Peach or apricot salad, wheat or rye and nuts. 

Soaked whole wheat with cream, prunes or dates. 

Raw corn or bananas and strained tomato juice. 

Cooked pea or string beans salad and raw carrots. 

Baked apples with cream, toast with cheese. 

Carrot or tomato salad, olives, lettuce, legumes any style. 

Sweet potatoes, baked or boiled, buttermilk. 

Raw huckleberries, zwieback or raw wheat, butter,cream, nuts. 



n6 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 



Thie sandwich is an important part of the hill of fare. It is not 
necessary to eat a cooked dinner in order to have a square meal, but for 
those who work indoors and are unable to take walking exercises before 
or after their noon meal, it is important to take some warm fluid or 
semi-fluid food in the form of broth, milk or soup as an enitree or with 
their meal. With the convenience of modern inventions of gas, alcohol 
and electric stoves, or patented bottles which keep food warm for hours, 
this is easily obtained. 

Some people thrive on raw foods, while others do not. The best 
time to begin with raw foods is in childhood. Hot-house plants cannot 
digest raw foods. Open your doors and windows and learn to breathe first. 
Fresh air and sunshine are necessary for the change of food. If your 
teeth are poor, substitute a food-chopper or grinder for your foods. 

Use only one rich protein food at any meal. Exceptions: A. few 
nuts which are rich in fat may be eaten at the end of a meal where 
cottage cheese, peas, or eggs are served. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 117 



SANDWICHES. 

HONEY SANDWICHES. 

Spread some stale or sun-dried black or Graham bread with 
honey or with butter and honey. Serve with black malt coffee 
for supper. A salad consisting of fruits, almond cream and 
raw green leaves makes a suitable entree. Whipped cream 
may be used instead of butter or almond cream. Among 
fruits, apples, prunes, bananas and pineapples are the most 
suitable combinations. Honey should be used sparingly 
during hot summer days as it is very heating to the blood. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS ON SANDWICHES, AND 
CHERRIES. 
Eat the hcerries at the beginning or at the end of the 
meal; lettuce is a good addition. 

GROUND NUTS WITH APPLES AND RAISINS. 
Grind six to twelve nuts in the morning and keep in a 
jar or paper bag. At lunch-time cut one apple into small 
pieces, add twelve raisins and the ground nuts. Eat with or 
without bread and butter. It is best to use only one kind of 
nuts at a time. Celery is also a good addition. 

NUT AND DATE SANDWICHES. 
Remove the stones from one-half dozen or more dates, 
cut the dates into small pieces and mix with one-third or one- 
half the amount of chopped or ground walnuts. Spread on 

buttered bread or eat the bread with it. Apples combine well 
with it, either as a substitute for bread or in ombination with 
it. In place of whole nuts, nut-butter may be used; the latter 
should always be diluted with an equal amount of water. 

Figs, raisins or dried currants aan be used in the same 
way as dates. Lettuce and celery are good additions. 

TOMATOES WITH POPCORN, BREAD AND BUTTER. 
Prepare a salad with tomato and lettuce, or strain some 



n8 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

canned tomatoes. The latter can be carried conveniently in a 
small Mason jar. Always open the jar a little, if left to stand 
in a store or office, so the air can criculate through it. Take 
one cup of tomato juice in combination with one-half pint or 
more of warm, buttered popcorn. Eat bread and butter with 
it, if desired. 

EGG SANDWICHES WITH WATERCRESS, OLIVES. 
Slice some hard boiled eggs and lay on buttered bread. 
Mix some olives and watercress with mayonnaise dressing, 
and serve with the bread. Egg sandwiches combine well with 
apples. 

GRATED CHEESE, APPLES AND BUTTERED BREAD. 
Grate two to four ounces of Swiss or American cheese 
and carry in a glass jar or paper bag. At lunch-time peel one 
or two apples, cut them up in small pieces and mix with 
grated cheese. Eat with buttered bread. 

COTTAGE OR CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of rye or black bread with cheese. 
Combine with apples or olives, with or without lettuce and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD WITH BREAD AN D BUTTER. 

Prepare the salad in the morning, mix with mayonnaise 
dressing and carry in a glass or jar. Eat the cabbage salad 
as an entree or with the sandwiches. Hard boiled eggs are 
a good addition. 

POTATO SALAD WITH BLACK BREAD AND BUTTER 
Serve the salad as an entree. Prepare thin slices of 
pompernickle with butter and combine with hard boiled eggs. 
Nuts may be substituted for eggs. 

PEANUT AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Remove the pits and cut the olives into small pieces, mix 
with diluted peanut butter, and season with lemon. Spread 
on rve bread. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 119 

HEALTH HINTS. 

The house we live in should be constructed for health and com- 
fort, rather than for style. Sleep by open windows. Night air is as 
pure as day air. Protect yourself from dampness by an open fire if 
necessary. 

Do not dress and wash in a cold bath room. Have your wash bowl 
in the bed room. Sewer gas from a small pipe in a well ventilated bed 
room is not harmful, as it is carried off in the air. Have the stopper 
placed in ithe hole when not in use. 

Dress by an open fire or in a sunny room. A chill before break- 
fast produces indigestion and a desire for unnecessary hot foods. Never 
sleep by night lamps or any other artificial light. They are injurious 
to the eyes and absorb oxygen. 

Mothers of girls should think it more important to furnish healthful 
exercise, wholesome food and restful sleep during the years of budding 
womanhood, than to worry about lessons in music and art, or a business 
education. All these can be taken up with much greater benefit after 
maturity. Arrested development of the organs or reproduction will lay 
the foundation for many years or unhappiness and suffering. 

Many parents are impressed with the idea that their children require 
a large amount of sweets, in order to make tnem grow. We cannot force 
natUTe without paying the penalty. At maturity, we reap what has 
been sown for us, or what we have sown for ourselves. 

Each individual is a law unto himself. Two different people afflicted 
with a disease of the same name may require entirely different treat- 
ment. Human beings cannot be standardized like inert machines. 

All berries are rich in minerals and feed the brain cells. They 
contain traces of protein. Blackberries and huckleberries are rich in 
volatile oils and iron, and are of great medicinal value. They are 
excellent for the evening meal in ithe form of gruels and drinks. 
The pineapple contains bromaline and is of medicinal value in the 
treatment of certain stomach disorders. 

Don't use fruits in excess if you lead a very active life. The right 
proportion is the key note to maintain balance. Excessive fruits and rest 
is a prescription for sickness. 

If no great hunger is felt at a meal, do not eat nuts or any kind 
of foods classed as protein. Neither stuff yourself with liquid foods. 
A fast or fruits, or fruit juices are the best under such conditions. 

Cooked milk is not a natural food, but neither are cooked cereals. A 
combination of raw milk, or cream, and cooked cereals will force the 
stomach to absorb the milk immediately, while the remainder, poorly 
masticated and filled with germs, will tend to produce an acid process 
rather than an alkaline. If sugar is added to raw milk and cereals, the 
process of intestinal fermentation is complete. 

Milk which is acid in reaction, or blue in color, is unfit as a food for 
children and invalids. If a mother is uncertain as to the quality of 
the milk she is feeding her child, she should have it examined by the 
city chemist. 

Many people who find pancakes indigestible will do well to observe 



120 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

the time when they are most agreeable, if thev are made with eggs. 
oream, and water, or with rich milk, ami properly prepared and combined 
with suitable articles, they are generally agreeable to the most sensitive 
Btomach. People of sedentary habits, or those who do brain work mainly, 
should not eat pancakes or muffins Cor breakfast. 

Cheese la one of the most economical and nutritious of foods. To 
serve cheese after a dinner Is a wasteful extravagance, and dangerous 
.o health. Cheese combines well with bread, macaroni, potato and other 
cereals; raw greens are also a good addition. 

Oranges, Grapefruit, Lemons and Limes belong to the citric acid 
group, and are of all the fruits the richest in valuable acids, which in 
the process of digestion are converted into salts, rendering the blood more 
alkaline 

Cranberries, like gooseberries, em-rants and lemons, are purifying 
to the blood and verj valuable as a food In malarial districts. Cran- 
berries combine well with oatmeal and cornmeal. 

Figs and dates have an average of thirty per cent water, are rich in 
and contain some protein and saline matter. 

Crapes are a valuable fruit for the table if eaten in the right 

, roportion with other foods which contain fat and protein. They are 

In sugar and tartaric acid. As a medicinal fruit they may be 
tn large quantities by themselves. 

People with digestive troubles should be careful in combining raw 

- erries with other foods. They are lich in protein and may take 
ace Of part Of the meat dish on hot summer days. They should 
never be used as a dessert after a heavy meal. 

The bitter substance which is contained In the inner skin of the 
banana should be scraped off and added to the bulk, as l<t counteracts 
sweet flavor of the banana and adds to its digestibility. Baked 
as are not necessary for a healthy stomach. 

: t take drugs for sleeplessness. Tired feeling in the morning 
e results of nerve starvation and auto-intoxication. 

Rye meal, if ground in an Old-fashioned stone mill, contains all the 
tuentS o( the rye. It is 'used for black bread, also called pumper- 

Do not eal berries and legumes at the same meal. Apples, carrots, 
. tomatoes, lettuoe, grapes, oranges or lemons are good additions. 
Tomatoes and potatoes should not be mixed at the same meal I - 

nail quantities, and only when a considerable amount oi' fatty foods 
at Walnuts may be eaten at the end of the meal, where 

or lentils are served. 

Soups prepared from legumes, fruits or cereals require an addition 

I in the form of butter, oil. the yolk of an esrc or cream. A soup 

as, beans, corn or lentils may be pre. ttn left-over food or 

cooked legumes To one cup of cooked legumes add three to five 

if hot water, boil or mix well, then strain. They form a perfect 

:i economical meal without the addition of other protein foods 

Celery, lettuce, raw apples and crackers with butter are a good addition. 

should be well masticated, ard the I n with them very 

• ly. 

For people of a billions temperament cares should not be mixed with 
milk or su,,[ foods at the same meal. Tomatoes, tart apples or green 
w or cooked are anti-bilious foods. 
For fruit-gelatine use sago. . potato-flour or agar 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 



121 



RIGHT AND WRONG FOOD MIXTURES. 



DO NOT MIX: 

Boiled Eggs and Cheese. 
Cherries and Milk. 
Fancy Summer Fruits and On- 
ions. 

Fancy Summer Fruits and Cu- 
cumbers. 

Nuts and Excess of Starchy 
Food. 

Potatoes and Tomatoes or Acid 
Fruits. 

Potatoes and Fresh Yeast 
Bread. 

Potatoes and White Bread. 

Potatoes and Underground 
Vegetables. 

Cooked and Raw Greens. 

Cucumber and Sago. 

Strawberries and Tomatoes. 

Strawberries and Beans. 

Bananas and Corn. 

Raw Fruits and Cooked Veg- 
etables. 

Milk and Cooked Vegetables. 

Fresh Raw Fruits and Cooked 
Cereals. 

Cheese and Nuts, except Cot- 
tage Cheese. 

Boiled Eggs and Nuts. 

Boiled Eggs and Canned Corn. 

Boiled Eggs and Bananas. 

Boiled Eggs and Cheese. 

Bananas and Cucumbers. 

Skim-milk and Fruit. 

Cheese and Bananas. 

Beans and Bananas. 



GOOD COMBINATIONS. 

Raw Fruits and Raw Cereals. 
Raw Fruits and Raw Cereals 

and Nuts. 
Raw Fruits and Raw Greens 

and Nuts. 
Raw Cereals and Nuts. 
Raw Cereals and Raw Milk. 
Raw Cereals and Raw Veg- 
etables. 
Boiled Cereals and Boiled Milk 
Boiled Cereals and Boiled 

Cream. 
Raw Greens and Eggs and Acid 

Fruits. 
Boiled Greens and Eggs and 

Acid Fruits. 
Fats and Acids. 
Rye and Butter and Honey. 
Rye and Cream and Honey. 
Cream and Sweet or Acid 

Fruits. 
Eggs or Nuts and Apples. 
Popcorn and Tomatoes and 

Lettuce. 
Cucumbers and Milk or Cereal 
Food. 
Cheese and Apples and Green 

Leaves. 
Cheese and Rye and Apples. 
Eggs and Pickled Vegetables. 
Eggs and Acid Fruits and Raw 

Leaf Vegetables. 
Eggs and Greens and Rye. 
Nuts and Apples and Sweet or 

Acid Fruits. 
Nuts and Bananas and Sweet 

or Acid Fruits. 
Almonds and Rice and Green 

Leaves. 
Nuts and Raisins and Green 

Leaves. 



The harmony arid disharmony between the different foods as 
mentioned above are only stated in a gen«-al way. Certain combinations 
are absolutely harmful <to every individual, others are either harmful 
to certain temperaments, or, to mix them would mean a waste in the 
animal economy of the body. 



122 



VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

CHAPTER XII. 
HOUSEHOLD BOOKKEEPING. 





tfl 








4; 








u 








3 
























-O 


c 


(/) « 


6 
o 

u 

c 


c 

V 

0, 





real 
ead 

tato 


X 


u O 


w u 


W 


CLlfe 


OPQPL, 



C -" 
O > 



• — tn rt 

3 " bo 
u rt 3 



3 



1 l_ 


| 










9 
















3 .... 
















4 
















5 .... 
















6 
















7 
















8 
















9 
















10 
















11 
















12 
















13 
















14 
















15 
















16 
















17 
















18 

















19 
















20 

















21 


















22 











23 
















24 
















25 


















26 
















27 

















28 1 















29 1 


















30 I 









. ..1 




31 




| 


1 




Tot'l | 


1 


1 


! 





Monthly Total Receipts. $. 
Savings, $ 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 123 



HYGIENE, ECONOMY AND SANITATION. 

The pantry shelf with its contents is responsible for many 
acute diseases and ptomaine poisoning by unhygienic and 
careless handling and preservation of foodstuffs. 

A closet for the preservation of food should be located on 
the north or east side of the house if possible. It should 
have several long and narrow windows from top to bottom, 
so as to allow plenty of air and light. The shelves should be 
constructed of wire, zinc or wooden slats, and be removable. 

Raw fruits and vegetables should never be kept in the same 
closet with cooked food. Potatoes, carrots and under-ground 
vegetables shauld be kept out of doors or in a dry basement. 
They may be preserved in a box with dry sand. 

Onions should not be left in a paper bag; hang them up in 
the sun or keep them in a flat box in a dry place. Onions 
which have been cut should never be used again for food, 
unless the cut side has been preserved in vinegar or oil. 

All raw foods which have a thick skin have better keeping 
qualities than those with a thin skin; therefore, fancy summer 
fruits should be eaten while fresh on the same day they were 
picked. No more should be bought than can be eaten the 
same day, or else they should be preserved by sterilization. 

Green vegetables should be used fresh if possible, and not 
kept longer than three or four days. Never keep them in 
the house or pantry. 

Apples or other winter fruits should be kept in a dry store 
room out of doors, in the attic or in a dry basement. 

The white film that often gathers around grapes is a 
breeding place for diphtheria germs. Wash thoroughly be- 
fore eating all fruits which have been stored in houses or at 

Whites of eggs should not be kept longer than 18 or 24 hours. They 
must be preserved in a very cold place and be utilized at the earliest 
opportunity. They are like all proteins, more dangerous than starches 
if left to ferment, whether the fermentation begins on the pantry shelf 
or in the stomach. White of egg can be useu in many different ways. 
It may be beaten to a froth and served on fruit-soups or fruit pies, or 
it can be taken in place of broth at the beginning of a meal. Add a 
tablespoon of water and a few drops of lemon or orange or apple 
or --ranberry juice to one white of an egg and beat up with a fork, or 
drink without beating. White of egg can also be utilized for bran cakes. 



i2 4 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

the market. Do not prepare more raw food than can be eaten 
at one meal. Never allow it to stand after it is cut. 

Many housekeepers think it important to scald their dishes, 
but do not know that it is far more important to sterilize or 
reboil cooked foods which have stood on the shelf for 18 
to 24 hours and sometimes longer. Such foodstuff is danger- 
ous long before the process of fermentation can be detected 
by the sense of smell or taste. 

Some foods begin to undergo changes immediately after 
cooling; therefore, cooked foods left over, with the exception 
of a few, should be reboiled before serving again. Rice or 
other cereals should be stirred over the fire for a while and 
then baked in the oven until they are thoroughly sterile. The 
care of milk has been discussed in the chapter on food. Soups 
which are preserved with fat will keep wholesome for several 
days without reboiling. Fruits and fruit juices should not 
stand longer than 24 hours. Eggs are best preserved in bran 
or lime-water or on ice if kept for a week or longer. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS FOR THE WINTER. 

Put one layer of common salt or bran one inch deep on the 
bottom of a wooden pail or washtub. Then grease the eggs 
w r ith parafine or oil and place them with the small end down- 
so that they will not touch the bottom of the tub. Fill with 
enough salt to cover the eggs one inch. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS. No. 2. 

Preserve the eggs with salicylic acid, which can be bought 
in the drug store. Follow directions on package. 

DISHWASHING. 

Dishwashing is a work which takes up so much time in 
every household, that it is a subject which should receive 
some attention. 

The housekeeper who serves a considerable amount of 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 125 

raw food saves much time and strength by relieving herself 
of greasy dishes and saucepans. 

Scrape off the fragments from plates and utensils and pre- 
pare one basin with hot soapsuds and another with rinsing 
water of clear hot or cold water. People whose time is valu- 
able can save much work by placing the dishes from the 
draining board upside down on a shelf prepared from wooden 
slats, or set them in a wire basket and let them dry without 
wiping. 

If the dishes are not washed immediately after each meal, 
place the silverware and knives in a high bowl or quart meas- 
ure and let them soak in hot or cold water. Remove all foods 
from metallic utensils immediately after the meal is over. 
Never allow metallic spoons to stand in fruit sauce, salt or 
many kind of prepared food. Acids dissolve metai and in 
this way may produce poisoning. 

In contagious diseases all dishes should be sterilized. Burn 
up all particles of left-over food, put the dishes into a narrow 
pail and boil with plenty of water and soda for an hour 
or longer. 

DISINFECTION OF EXCRETA. 

Use solutions of carbolic acid or chloride of lime. Mix 
with equal quantities of the excreta and allow it to stand for 
several hours before it is disposed of. 

WHITEWASH FOR WOODWORK. 

Soak one-fourth of a pound of glue in cold water over 
night. Dissolve some lime with cold water, add a few hand- 
fuls of salt. Heat the glue until it is dissolved and add to 
one bucket of whitewash. This makes a smooth and healthy 
paint. Use for rough or smooth woodwork, twice per year 
in laundry, basement or cellar or pantry. 



PART 
II. 



CHAPTER I. 



ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF BRAIN AND BODY 

The vitality and activity of every organ of the body is 
maintained and controlled by mental impulse, which is trans- 
mitted or individualized by the brain, transmitted in the form 
of mental impulse through the channels provided by the 
nerves. The brain consists of three parts: the cerebrum or 
fore brain, the cerebellum or back brain, and the medulla 
oblongata. 

The nervous system consists of two kinds of nervous tis- 
sue .One of these is called the white substance, composed of 
nerve filaments, and is found in the trunks and branches of 
nerves on the exterior of the spinal cord and in the internal 
parts of the brain. The grey substance is composed of gran- 
ular matter and ganglionic cells. This forms the external 
layer of convolutions of the brain. This substance forms 
itself into a double chain of nerve masses or ganglia which 
are connected by intervening cords and extends down on 
either side of the spinal column. It is also found in the 
interior of the spinal cord, the walls of the internal organs 
■<\n(\ in various parts of the body, forming large plexuses. 
The solar system, also called the abdominal brain, is the 
greatest collection of nerve matter in the body outside the 
skull. Other collections of sympathetic nerve matter are 
found in the chest and pelvic organs. 

The Brain. 

The brain is covered by three membranes, called meninges. 
One, composed of fibrous substance, forms the lining of the 

Natural will-power can direct Its force wherever it is wanted, be it 
for work or resit; it can sustain on bread and water for many days. 
Without substance there can be no power. Substantial food, fresh air, 
water and natural exercise develop strong bodies and minds. 



ijo VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

interior of the skull and extends downward around the spinal 
cord. Next to this is a loose meshwork of delicate fibers, 
called the arachnoid. The inner membrane rests directly upon 
the brain substance which encloses a meshwork of small blood 
vessels and lymph channels. At the base of the brain these 
blood vessels form a circle, called the circle of "Willis." 
through it the blood is evenly distributed into the fine miro- 
scopical structures of the brain. 

The cerebrum, or fore brain, is divided into two hemi- 
spheres, each of which is further divided into numerous lobes 
consisting- of grey and white nervous substance and millions 
of nerve cells and fine blood vessels. The hemispheric 
ganglia are the instruments through which the intellectual 
powers manifest themselves. If these instruments have be- 
come imperfect in structure through retarded development by 
wrong environment and education, or have been damaged in 
any manner by severe shock, violence or disease, the mani- 
festations of intelligence are affected in a corresponding- 
degree. 

The cerebellum also is composed of grey and white matter 
and lies at the back part of the base of the skull. It has no 
convolutions, but is subdivided by many parallel ridges. The 
pons varolii is the bridge of brain matter which unites various 
parts of the brain, connecting the cerebrum with the cerebel- 
lum and the medulla oblongata. The cerebellum is the seat 
of co-ordination, or associating power, through which the 
various muscular movements are effected. 

The medulla oblongata is situated at the top of the spine- 
on issuing from the skull it enters the spinal column and then 
is known as the spinal cord. Any injury to this part is more 
fatal than to any other part of the brain. 

The cranial nerves are twelve in number on each side and 
originate in the brain. In addition to these we have thirty 
one pair of nerves branching out from the spinal column. 

By natural feeding-, overwork is not possible. The bodv demands 
rest when its strength is exhausted. Artificial stimulants are deceivers. 
They make a man feel strong when he is weak. They produce artificial 
heat and will-power and an abnormal temperature; they lead to over- 
work, abnormal development and degenerate brains and bodies. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 131 

The spinal nerves also originate in the brain, they converge 
at its base and form the spinal cord which passes out of the 
skull through an opening called the foramen magnum into 
and through the center of the circular spaces in the vertebrae 
of the spinal column. 

The white fibres of the spinal cord consist of collections 
of nerve filaments, each of which carries on a special work in 
the transmission of nerve impulses to and from the brain. 
Each nerve arises from two roots, a motor and a sensory- 
root. The divisions and sub-divisions from these filaments 
form minute plexuses and fine nerve branches which finally 
terminate in the muscles, skin and various organs of the body. 
Each of these five nerve branches consist of neurons and 
dentrites, by which motions and sensations are carried to 
and from the brain. These nerve impulses which are carried 
to and from the nerve centers by a mysterious energy, re- 
semble electricity and can be studied much the same as 
electrical currents. 



The Sympathetic or Involuntary Nervous System. 

The chains of the sympathetic nervous system are con- 
nected by cross branches to the sympathetic nerve ganglia on 
either side of the spine. It also connects by cross branches 
and nerve plexuses with the central nervous system or white 
nerve fibres. While the white nerve fibres, also called the 
animal nerves, are largely concerned with the voluntary acts 
of the body, the functions of the sympathetic, or vegetative 
nerves, arc those concerned with the health of the body. They 
govern circulation, digestion and elimination, and the repair 
which takes place after a tissue is injured. The sympathetic 
nerves spread to every part of the body, especially to the vital 
organs. An individual who is richly supplied with nervous 
matter of this nature has more endurance (or vegetative 
force) than one who is not so endowed. While the brain and 
body of man wears out from the clay's work and sleep is ab- 



i 3 2 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

solutely necessary, the functions of the heart and lungs and 
the work of nutrition must go on just the same, but during 
this time the sympathetic nerves carry on the vital processes 
of the body without interruption. They never sleep. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 133 



CIRCULATION. 

The blood is a circulatory fluid and is pumped by the 
heart through the arteries to every part of the body. The 
arteries are elastic tube-like canals with walls consisting - of 
fibrous material and are lined by delicate muscular layers. 
The arteries in their distribution communicate freely with 
one another, dividing and sub-dividing, becoming continually 
smaller, until they can no longer be traced by the naked eye. 
These smallest branches are called capillaries. It is by means 
of them that metabolism becomes possible. The nutriment 
of the blood passing out through their walls into the tissues 
and the waste from the tissues passes back into the blood. 
These unite forming larger vessels called veins which carry 
the waste matter back to the heart and lungs. The color of 
the venous blood is dark blue while that of the arteries is 
bright red. 

The Lymphatics. 

The lymphatic system consists of lacteals, glands and 
lvpmhatic vessels. The lacteals are small vessels originating 
in the villi of the small intestine side by side with the blood 
vessels. They contain the milk-white flued called chyle. The 
lymphatic vessels, like the arteries and veins, are tubular 
canals, lined with delicate muscular layers and membrane. 
They unite with each other, gradually forming larger vessels. 
In their course they pass through numerous lymphatic glands 
and finally unite into two great trunks. 

Absorption. 

The alimentary tract with its different departments re- 

Sunligrht is a gTeat disinfectant. Dark rooms are a breeding: place for 
tuberculous germs. Daily out-of-door exercise in the sunshine will 
increase health and reduce the coal bill. Without exercise our food can 
be of little benefit tto us. 



i 3 4 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

sembles somewhat a manufacturing plant. The first of these 
departments is the mouth. When mastication and insaliva- 
tion are completed, the food is conveyed by deglutition to the 
stomach. Here it is subjected to churning and chemical 
changes by the involuntary muscles and the secretion of the 
gastric juice. When this is accomplished, the contents pass 
into the intestine. Here they mingle with fluids secreted 
by the gall bladder and pancreas. Food which has been re- 
duced to chyme by the stomach is now reduced to chyle or 
Iiquidified food and is absorbed by the lacteals. When the 
digested material is absorbed and carried to the liver the 
glands and other blood making organs, the process is called 
sanguification. From there the blood is carried to the heart 
and lungs to receive oxygen and then it is distributed to the 
different organs and tissues of the body. These processes 
are directed by the intelligence of the sympathetic nervous 
system which therefore governs the nutrition of the central 
nervous system, known as the animal nerves. Space is too 
limited to go into a discussion of the functional activities of 
the different ductless glands and their relation to the tissue 
metabolism. 

Drink sufficient pure natural water between your meals. There is 
danger in over-drinking as well as in under-drinking. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 135 

CHAPTER II. 
KNOW THYSELF. 



The foregoing pages present an outline in the elementary 
anatomy and physiology of the brain and nervous system, to 
those who are not acquainted with its structure. To all who 
are interested in the intelligent care of the body it is of prime 
importance to obtain practical knowledge of the principles 
underlying the control of the body. The proper development 
of the individual is a steady growth. It resembles the un- 
folding of a flower, through the partaking of proper food, 
water, air and sunshine. A normal human being enjoys 
merely being alive. This is Nature's law. The shortest road 
to happiness is to regard the body as the present dwelling- 
house of the eternal, and not merely to dream of the possi- 
bilities of becoming perfect in some future state of existence. 
Our physiological body constitutes the source from which 
the immortal man receives its strength. In order to have 
a healthy mind, all the body must work together harmonious- 
ly. The quality and quantity of the fluids must be right, 
there must be no leakage, the wires or nerves must lie in per- 
fect harmony with the structures resting on a perfect found- 
ation. Only in this way can the oxygen undergo the highest 
modification. 

A seed requires the power of the sunshine in order to 
utilize the elements which it takes from the earth, and in the 
same sense the spiritual man receives his nutriment from the 
spirit through its elementary forces. God gave us these 
bodies, and unless we are willing to care for the temple which 
our spirit inhabits, we are not worthy of a better body in this 
world or in the one beyond. The primary course for most 
ailments can be traced back to hereditary weaknesses, de- 
veloped through wrong environment, bad habits and improper 
feeding. We cannot develop a fashionable disease of typhoid, 
!l-pox or diphtheria unless our lymphatic glands are stor- 



136 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

ing up excessive waste matter produced by continuously over- 
eating or wrong eating of unclean combinations of foods. 
Neither can right eating alone, without right thinking, physi- 
cal exercise, fresh air and sunshine, produce health. The air 
we breathe is filled with healing power. The water we drink 
is from the fountain of life. 

Deep philosophy combined with material science and prac- 
tical work will lead to the understanding of the divine laws 
of nature. An individual who is suffering from a chronic ill 
which he is unable to coriect or by following a physician's 
advice at home, should see krefuge in a sanitarium and be 
educated in the divine laws of God or Nature. 

"No soul helps flesh more, now, than flesh helps soul!" — 
Browning's Rabi Ben Ezra. 

Spirit, also called essence, light, mind, or soul, is depend- 
ent upon matter for its expression. In other words, structure 
precedes function. 

Example : To produce light we need to act upon a 
mechanism. As the striking of a match or the pressing of 
a button produces light, so the action upon the brain cells 
by the ether of the blood produces light or spirit. 

Pure air and raw vegetables are rich in ether, and there- 
fore are a necessity for a healthy mind or spirit. 

Mental exercise or "thought" is necessary to convey the 
blood to the cell mechanism. Obstruction of blood vessels, 
preventing blood flow, produces death, partially or wholly. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 137 



STIMULANTS— THEIR EFFECT UPON THE BODY. 

Sugar, tobacco, alcohol, and sweetened beverages in the 
form of coffee, etc., produce a stimulating effect upon the 
sympathetic ganglia near the base of the brain and through 
these arouse the emotional nature, exciting the nerves of 
sociability, the facial muscles, the sense of sight, the sense of 
speech and the nerves controlling the organs of reproduction 
and those of muscular action. Excitability of one set of nerve 
fibres will always produce a morbid condition upon the 
opposites, and these are the finer instincts and sensualities. 

An individual with a delicate, nervous structure or one 
who has bony displacement or contracted tissue in the cervical 
region interfering with normal blood flow, would therefore be 
more injured by such irritants or stimuli than one whose 
structures and functions are working harmoniously. A per- 
son who, in addition to these physical defects, has weak kid- 
neys and intestinal obstruction interfering with the gly- 
cogenic functions of the liver will suffer far more often in 
spite of total abstinence from all such stimulants because he 
indulges in foods such as canned, watery cooked fruits in 
combination with yeast bread, potatoes and a variety of 
cooked foodstuffs which his eliminating organs are not able 
to manage, and alcoholic fermentation is the result. The 
blood instead of being a transparent, homogeneous, and 
alkaline fluid, resembles in appearance sour milk. The co- 
agulated constituents of the blood clog the fine capillaries and 
infiltrate the structures of the lower body, allowing the watery 
contents to circulate in the tissues of the brain and chest, 
exciting the nerves and vital organs and producing an undue 
pressure upon the glandular secretions of the suprarenal 
capsules, tyroid and pituitary body, leading to diabetes or 
dropsy. The symptoms of such conditions are similar to 
those of chronic alcoholism. 

Persons of the latter class should avoid all artificial stim- 



138 



VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 



ulants, and use natural stimulants such as sweet fruits and 
honey in very moderate quantities, (during the winter only), 
and never at the morning meal. They should restrict them- 
selves to a diet of dry natural foods, including a considerable 
amount of fats properly combined with acids and raw greens 
in the form of salads. In addition to these they may use 
legumes in moderate quantities, raw or plain boiled cereals 
without sugar, also nuts several times per week. Clabber 
milk and cottage cheese are also good. Fresh milk, if agree- 
able, should be modified with one-third water and milk sugar 
added, heating to ijo° F. The heating of the milk to this 
point prevents fermentation. During hot summer months 
when the skin is active, there is less tendency to fermentation 
by such people, and heating of milk, if fresh, is generally un- 
necessary. (However, this is not the case with infants or 
people who have a tendency to diarrhea.) 

Artificial sweets, white bread and poisonous beverages develop but- 
terflies that crave excitement and artificial life. The world is full 
of people that are without substance, power or principle. They earn their 
living the easiest way they can. Wrong feeding is responsible for such 
conditions. Social reformers and humanitarians cannot solve problems 
until 'they have learned how to feed the race 

Tlie "Dreadnaug-lit" — Stimulant. (Quoted from Dr. Axtel Emil Gib- 
son's Work). The ruling stimulant of the world today is not the coffee, 
tea, beer nor even whisky — but the innocent-looking, pleasant-tasting, 
alluring white powder known as sugar. Its stimulating power is greater 
than that of the alcohol, because it is the parent and generator of the 
alcohol. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 139 



CHAPTER III. 



CONSTIPATION. 

This is one of the most common disorders of civilized peo- 
ple. The disease may be primary or secondary. The move- 
ment of the bowels normally depends on the amount eaten. 
Some people eat such great quantities that two or three 
movements are necessary every day in order to carry off the 
excess of waste. People of moderate habits who eat dry food 
properly combined need not of necessity have a movement 
every day in order to maintain health, but such are few. The 
fecal discharge, if allowed to remain in the colon longer than 
is natural, accumulates in the folds of the colon, and its fluids 
are re-absorbed into the circulation while the remainder be- 
comes hard ; part of it continues to adhere to the mucus 
membrane and attracts more accumulation until finally the 
entire walls of the colon become encrusted with fecal matter. 
A physic will not always remove the encrusted matter or even 
loosen it ; it may give temporary relief by establishing a small 
passage way through the accumulation of the colon and some 
benefit is felt. Thousands of people suffer from such con- 
ditions for years without being aware of it. Is it any wonder 
that men who are thought to be in apparently good health 
die of apoplexy, paralysis, consumption, appendicitis or 
Plight's disease? Besides this nearly all diseases of a con- 
tagious nature have their origin in the colon. 

The question is often asked why do these conditions exist? 
Take a lesson from the animals who live on natural sun cooked 
foods. They masticate their food and obey the call of nature 
whenever evacuation is necessary. 

Constipation may be the result of purely mechanical con- 
ditions, such as want of exercise, tight corsets, drug taking, 



i 4 o VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

paralytic state of the bowels, strictures or adhesions to neigh- 
boring organs from previous inolammations. Under all con- 
ditions it is possible to be greatly benefited by a diet suitable 
in quantity and quality to the individual needs and by cor- 
rect habits. 

Raw foods are more nutritious than cooked foods, if they are pure 
and fresh and can be digested without difficulty. A change from cooked 
ito raw foods might produce diahrroea or constipation. The latter con- 
dition is generally not dangerous. Constipation from cooked, foods is 
more dangerous. 

A daily evacuation of the bowls is not always a sign that the stomach 
and intestines are in good working order. The bowels can be forced to 
move by eating of too rich foods. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 141 



OBESITY. 

There are several different forms of obesity, due to varied 
causes, and each requires a different form of treatment. The 
first class suffer from ordinary causes, and can be cured 
easily by a diet which is suitable in quantity and quality to 
the particular temperament and occupation and by taking 
sufficient exercise out of doors. Unless the person is willing' 
to deny himself those foods which create this unnecessary fat, 
disease or heart failure will follow. The stomach and in- 
testines under the fermentation of sweets, fruits and starches 
resemble a yeast jar; the follicles of the mucous membrane 
become filled with beer, alcohol, vinegar and all sorts of 
irritating acids and paralyze the cells of the secretory glands 
of the alimentary tract. As a result of this paralysis, an ex- 
cessive amount of ropy, sticky mucus is poured out, and the 
patient suffers with lassitude, nervousness, gas and head- 
aches. Under this condition the circulation grows weak, the 
lower limbs are cold, constipation takes place and often the 
feet are swollen. If this condition is not relieved by proper 
dietetic treatment, the lower end of the stomach closes to 
such an extent as to retain the gasses and alcoholic ferments, 
thus dilating the stomach to an enormous degree. Later the 
lower end of the stomach becomes partially paralysed, the 
portal vein of the liver becomes sluggish and the breathing 
difficult. As this condition extends farther down to the 
junction of the small intestine it paralyzes the structures near 
the appendix and causes appendicitis ; or it may congest the 
intestine extending to the rectum and cause prolapsus or 
falling of the intestines. If the vital organs are so strong 
that the latter condition does not occur, there is, nevertheless, 
a state of starvation, because the muscles are infiltrated by 
fat, and the nervous tissues can not receive nutriment. The 
whole body becomes finally congested, paralyzed, and feeble, 
and mental and physical disease is the result. 

To those who are fairlv well nourished and have no 



142 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

organic diseases the following suggestions may be of assist- 
ance : Begin your change of diet with a fast of a day or two. 
Take sufficient out of door exercise to bring about a good 
circulation. If the heart be weak, take only short walks and 
do not expose the shoulders or chest to hot sun light. Use an 
umbrella. Drink water between meals according to your 
normal desire. Eat two meals a day for a while, taking break- 
fast between nine and ten. The menu may be composed of 
raw or cooked spinach, celery, string beans, cabbage, onions, 
mustard greens, dandelion greens, black olives, lettuce, cu- 
cumbers and tomatoes. Salads with French or mayonnaise 
dressing are more beneficial than cooked greens. Serve with 
toasted whole wheat or black bread and butter. Dinner 
should be taken between three and five and the menu may be 
composed of baked apples, or apple sauce, ambrosia, apricot 
sauce, plum sauce, stewed prunes, or clabber milk with sweet 
sterilized cream and toasted black bread, or of raw fruits such 
as berries, apples, peaches, oranges, pineapple, or soaked 
French prunes. Serve plain or with cream. The first four 
mentioned may be served with lemon and olive oil or mayon- 
naise dressing (fats properly combined with acids are not fat- 
tening). Whole wheat toast or nuts may be served in ad- 
dition. Later add legumes, eggs and cheese to your diet. For 
combinations see recipes. Avoid artificial sweets, white flour 
preparations, wrong combinations of food, and excesses of 
any kind. 

People who are confined to mental or indoor work should 
take walks and other physical exercise every day in order to 
equalize the circulation. Those who do domestic work should 
devote some time each day to mental activity and walks out 
of doors. People who do not reduce by taking out of door 
exercise, should remain in bed until 10 A. M. for awhile and 
take exercises with the lower limbs in a horizontal position. 
The above suggestions are only for conditions where the 
powers of digestion and assimilation over balance those of 
elimination. The treatment of special conditions should not 
be undertaken by the patient alone. The condition that leads 
to fatty degeneration is also a forerunner of consumption. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 143 

However, in the latter case the patient has less absorbing 
power and only assimilates the irritating acids. The brain 
cells and vital organs become gradually paralyzed by this acid 
fluid and death follows. 

Certain persons of enormous vitality produce pseudo tissue, 
and develop tumors of various types. The names of the vari- 
ous diseases are many but the causes that produce them are 
few. Different persons with hereditary tendencies to different 
constitutional diseases may all trace their ailments to one 
great cause, that of wrong eating. Chemical and mechanical 
injuries by drugs and accidents are often secondary causes 
which help to develop such conditions. People who desire to 
undergo drugless methods of treatment, such as fasting, diet- 
ing or exercises, should never do so without the direct care of 
a physician. 

Disease is a sin, produced by improper breeding and feeding and 
wrong habits. To those who employ physicians I would say: Do not 
expect to be relieved by paying the doctor for your sins. Leave your 
arguments at home and take faith with you. Do noit expect to be relieved 
(from ills) in a short time which have been years in the making. If 
you are poor and helpless you will receive more assistance from doctors 
than from other human beings. If you are not so unfortunate still do 
not deceive him. Leave out all shrewdness and business methods. If 
you expect honesty, give it first; be willing to pay for the advice which 
has taken many years of hard study and work to acquire. If you meet 
a dishonest physician, remember that very often he is the product of 
dishonest treatment by his patients. Do nott therefore lose faith in 
humanity, but seek for another, and be willing to follow his advice, 
paying for it cheerfully, and you will be happier and healthier. 



CHAPTER IV. 
PSYCHOTHERAPHY. 



A science applied to diseases which are of a purely mental 
origin and which sooner or later will affect the body. All 
chronic physical diseases caused by physical injury will in 
time become mental. Here material science, with or without 
mental treatment, will bring relief. The treatment is not at all 
comfortable and (in most cases) a housecleaning process. 
The liver is the greatest filter of the body and the most 
sensitive organ. Chronic or acute and poisonous secretions 
are produced through mental influences, and this in turn 
produces mental congestion. Pressure upon nerves produced 
by chemical or mechanical injury affecting the liver or other 
vital organs will in time produce congestion of the brain. The 
latter can be cured by taking away this pressure through ap- 
plied physiological chemistry and applied anatomical adjust- 
ment. In severe cases of illness the cure depends to a large 
extent on the faithfulness with which the details are carried 
out. Some of these seem unimportant to the patient and to 
those who know little of the treatment. In any case where 
successful results have not been obtained, it has always been 
easy to point to faults of commission or omission. 

An individual who has an analytical turn of mind ever 
ready to investigate his methods of treatment after he has 
put himself under a doctor's care makes a cure almost im- 
possible. The over-development of certain nerve centers and 
the mental discipline necessary for relaxing these functions 
will retard or oppress the functions and nerve centers of the 
sympathetic nervous system, which are needed for control of 
repair work. In other words, nerve centers which are ab- 
normally positive will cause other abnormally negative nerve 
centers to exist and prevent these from reaching a normal 



146 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

positive state. As a result the body cannot eliminate its waste 
matter, and reconstruction is almost impossible. 

Two-thirds of the inmates of our insane asylums and 
prisons might be cured if the proper treatment were applied. 
The young under twenty years of age yield much easier to 
treatment than older persons. Pseudo psychic healers or those 
who deny the existence of a disease do either effect a cure by 
faith or else they paralyze certain nerve centers and drive the 
disease inwards turning it into plegma or fat, or else into more 
dangerous material such as cancers, insanity or heart failure. 
Scientific psychic healers are doing wonderful work by means 
of the psychometer in the diagnose and treatment of psychic 
disorders. However, the cause and prevention of the disease 
for these unfortunate victims lies deeper. They are the 
product of modern and wrong methods of education, stimu- 
lated and forced by artificial feeding. They have rea 
that state of refinement, or culture of the flesh, and soul 
starvation where degeneration is at work. If the body is 
strongest, the result is mental derangement. If the body is 
the weakest, the result is cancer and tuberculosis in its acute 
or chronic form, and many other bodily disorders. A healthy 
person (even if born with a delicate body) who has ; i 
perfectly fed on natural foods which have not been deprived 
of their organic salts could not possibly be affected by slight 
shocks of unpleasant environment to such an extent as to 
produce diseases either mentally or physically. Sorrow and 
dissappointments in life are just as necessary for our develop- 
ment as rainy and unpleasant weather is. The weak brains 
and bodies of brittle bone and diseased flesh are the result 
of wrong feeding. Chronic food poisining and starvation is 
much more detrimental to the human race than wholesome 
natural foods with the addition of small quantities of alcohol. 
The person who is boasting of health and old age in spite of 
small quantities of whiskey taken is generally born with no 
weaknesses. The effects of alcohol have probably shortened 
his life of eighty or one hundred years, but his mental and 
physical capacities have been superior to that of many in- 
temperate drinkers as well as eaters. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 147 

CHAPTER V. 

SUGGESTIVE MENUS FOR ACUTE 
CONVALESCENTS. 

Allow the patient to return to simple solid foods gradually. 
If he tires easily of one thing, as much variety as possible 
should he introduced into the diet, but as a rule no more than 
three or four articles should be served at one meal. 

1. Breakfast. 

A cup of whey with or without lemon, or albumen water. 

10 to 11 A. M. 

b'ive to ten ounces of milk, diluted with gruel or lea. 

Dinner. 

Gelatine prepared from barley, or legumes and zwieback. 

3 to 4 P. M. 

Cocoa or milk. (5 to 10 ounces) with zwieback. 

Supper. 
Malt Coffee with hot cream and milk-sugar and zwieback. 

If food is required at 10 p. m. or during the night, give whey, 
blackberry juice, broth, apple water, orange juice, tea, coffee 
or lemonade. 

2. Breakfast. 

Water gruel prepared from barley, oats, wheat or rice. 

10 to ii A. M. 
Broth with the yolk of an egg or fresh milk with crackers. 

Dinner. 

Gelatine of wheat, or toast with sterilized cream and zwieback. 

3 to 4 P. M. 

Milk, coffee, cocoa or eggnog with zwieback or crackers. 

Supper. 
Broth with two tablespoonfuls of cream, ryenut or zwieback. 



148 VEGETARIAN SUPPLEMENT 

3. Breakfast 

Cereal gruel with one-third milk and one-fifth cream. 

10 to 11 A. M. 

Water, whey or tea of beans, peas, lentils or bran. 

Dinner. 

Spinach on toast, eggs, baked potato. 

3 to 4 P. M. 

Raw bran, oatmeal water, almond milk or hot or cold water. 

Supper. 
Baked apple with cream. Cream of celery soup with toast. 

4. Breakfast. 

Gruel of Cook's flaked rice or shredded wheat with hot cream. 

10 to 11 A. M. 

Milk or broth with yolk of egg, and crusts or zwieback. 

Dinner. 
Puree of dried green peas, zwieback with butter, celery. 

3 to 4 P. M. 

Cold water or malt coffee. 

Supper. 
Cream of tomato soup or broth with toast and celery. 



TO SCIENTIFIC FEEDING 149 



DIABETIC FOODS. 

Oil, butter, mayonnaise dressing, cream, cottage cheese, 
Swiss cheese, eggs, almonds, pecans, walnuts, nutcream, 
bacon, veal, lamb, pork, potato salad, berries and acid fruits 
n the form of salads asparagus, artichokes, raw greens, rye, 
buttermilk, gluten bread, legumes in moderate amounts with 
acids and greens, olives, bran, bran and legume gelatines. 



TABLE OF COMMONLY USED FOODS, GIVING 
CALORIC VALUE. 



Almonds. 10 large 100 

Apples, 1 medium 92 

Broth, 1 cup 100 

Bananas, 1 large 100 

Barley, 1 tablespoon, raw 90 

Beans, dried, Vz cup, raw 300 

Bran, 1 cup 220 

Butter, 1 tablespoon 105 

Carrots, 1 large 50 

Celery, 12 stalks 100 

Corn meal, 1 tablespoon 36 

Crackers, 1 Uneeda 25 

Cheese, 1 pound American 1800 

Cream, % cup from separator 230 

Cucumbers, 1 large 40 

Currants, 1 cup (dried) 700 

Dates, 10 260 

Eggs, 1 whole 60 

Eggs, 1 yolk 48 

Figs, 10 large white 600 

Rice-flaur, 1 tablespoon 55 

Wheat-flour, 1 tablespoon 30 

Mixed flour, 1 tablespoon 35 

Cornstarch, 1 tablespoon 40 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon 80 

Greens, 1 cup 40 

Grapenuts, 1 tablespoon 30 

Honey, 1 tablespoon 100 

Kou miss (or) Kumiss, 8 ounces 100 

Lemon, 1 whole 16 

Lettuce, 1 head 40 

Macaroni, 1 cup (raw) 300 

Milk, S ounces 165 

Oats, rolled. 1 cup (raw) 300 

Oats, steel cut, 1 cup (raw) 900 

Orange, 1 large 100 

Oil, 1 tablespoon 100 

Peanuts, 15 100 

Peaches, 1 50 

Peas, one-quarter pound (dried) 350 

Peas, green, 1 cup 150 

Prunes, 5 (dried) 100 

Potatoes, 1 large 100 

Raisins, 10 large 100 

Raspberries, 1 cup 60 

Rice, 1 tablespoon 50 

Syrup, 1 tablespoon 50 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon 60 

Tomatoes, 1 large 50 

Walnuts, 8 100 

Wheat, rolled, 1 cup (raw) 250 

Whey, 1 cup 100 



MEMORANDUM 



152 INDEX TO RECIPES 

Green Vegetables. 

Artichokes _ „ 18 

Asparagus 18 

Beets 19 

Carrots _ - _ _ __ _ - _ _ _ 19 

Carrot Puree 19 

Corn _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 22 

Cauliflower 21 

Cabbage _ - _ _ 23 

Kale 24 

Korabi , _ _ 23 

Mushrooms _ _ _ _ _ 22 

M ixed Vegetables 20 

Onions _ _ _ _ _ 22 

Peas _ 20 

Peppers _ _ _ _ _ 21 

Parsnips _ 21 

Potatoes _ _ _ _ _ „ 25 

Sauerkraut _ 24 

Squash _ _ _ _ 25 

Spinach _. 21 

String Beans 21 

Tomatoes - _ - _ _ _ _ 25 

Turnips 24 

Vegetable Oysters _ _ _ _ 24 

Legumes, Eggs and Cheese. 

Beans (baked) 28 

Beans, Lima 29 

Beans (raw) 30 

Bean and Lentil Puree _ _ 29 

Lentils or Peas (baked) 28 

Cottage Cheese 32 

Eggs, boiled ~ _ - - 30 

Eggs, scrambled 31 

Eggs, pickled 31 

Omelet _ - - - - 32 

Miscellaneous Dishes. 

Cabbage with Rice 36 

Cabbage Rolls 36 

Dumplings with Prunes _ _ - 33 

Green Peas with Dumplings 35 

Irish Stew _ - - - - 33 

Lima Beans with Carrots 34 

Lentils with Onions - - 35 



INDEX TO RECIPES 153 

Macaroni with Pea Sauce 37 

Macaroni with Cheese _ „ _ _ _ _ _. 37 

Mixed Vegetables 35 

Peas with Carrots _ _ „ _ 34 

Potato Stew _ _ _ 36 

Peas and Chestnuts _ _ _ _ _ 37 

Pea Loaf _ _ „ 38- 

Pea Cheese _ _ _ _ _ 38 

Rice with Pea Sauce 37 

Succotash _ _ _ 35 

Spanish Omelet _ „ 37 

Soups or Gruels. 

Asparagus Soup 40 

Apple Soup 48 

Arrowroot Gruel or Soup 51 

Bean Soup _ _ _ 39 

Buttermilk Soup 41 

Blackberry Soup _ „ _ _ _ 49 

Barley Soup 45 

Bread Soup 50 

Bread Gruel or Soup 50 

Barley Gruel or Soup _ _ 50 

Bran Gruel or Soup 50 

Corn Gruel or Soup 41 

Cornstarch Gruel or Soup 52 

Celery Gruel or Soup _ _ _ 46 

Cauliflower Gruel or Soup 47 

Knorrs Soup 39 

Cherry Soup 49 

Huckleberry Soup _ _ _. 48 

Milk Soups 41 to 44 

Nut Gruel or Soup 52 

Potato Soup _ 49 

Plum Soup 49 

Pea Soup _ _ _ _. 40 

Spinach Soup _ _ _ _ 47 

Tomato Soup 47 

Water Gruel or Soup 44 

Whey Gruel or Soup _ _ _ 45 

Wheat Gruel or Soup 51 

Raw Cereal Gruel or Soup 51 

Onion Gruel or Soup _ _ _ 53 

Oatmeal Gruel or Soup 53 

Rice Gruel or Soup _ _ 45 

String Bean Gruel or Soup 4" 

Sago Gruel or Soup „ 52 



154 INDEX TO RECIPES 

Cereals, Noodles, Dumplings. 

Almond Rice _ 59 

Apple Rice 59 

Brown Rice _ _ _ „ _ _ _ „ 60 

Bread and Milk 58 

Barley T + * «. ,. _ _... 57 

Bran Mush 56 

Bran and Rye Mush _ «. _ _ _ _... 56 

Buckwheat Groats 55 

Boiled Whole Wheat _ _ _ _ _ 57 

Baked Cornmeal Dumplings 62 

Bread Dumplings 62 

Cornmeal Mush _ _ _ _ _ _. 57 

Cherry Rice _ _ 59 

Currant Rice 60 

Carrot Rice 60 

Crackers and Milk _ _ _ _ 58 

Directions for Boiling Rice 58 

Dumplings _ _ _ _ _ _ 61 

Macaroni 60 

Noodles _ _ _ _ 61 

Polenta + ,. ,, _ „ _ _ _. 57 

Rice Cream 59 

Rice Flour _ _ 57 

Raw Wheat _ 56 

Rylax with Prune Jam „ * _ 55 

Rolled Wheat _ _ _ _ 55 

Rolled Oats (cooked) 55 

Rolled Oats (raw) _ 56 

Rhuharb Rice _ 60 

Steel Cut Oats _ _ _ _ _ 55 

Tomato Rice 60 

Breads, Cakes, and Puddings. 

Apple Pancakes _ 75 

Apple Bread Pudding 79 

Apple Fritters _ _ 72 

Bran Muffins 68 

Bread 64 

Bran Bread „ 69 

Black Bread Pudding _ _. 78 

Baked Bread Pudding 79 

Boston Brown Bread _ 69 

Biscuits _ _ 62 

Bread Omelet _ 73 

Buckwheat Cakes _ - 7<i 

Cherry Pancakes _ 76 



INDEX TO RECIPES 155 

Coffee Cake 65 

Cake 65 

Cereal Omelet _ _ _ _. 73 

Corn Bread 72 

Corn Fritters _ 74 

Corn Meal Pudding 78 

Crusts _ _ _ _ 72 

Doughnuts 73 

Egg Toast _ _ _ 74 

Fried Bread 72 

Frosting 70 

Flour Bread Pudding 78 

Fruit Cake ^ - _ _ _ 71 

German Pancakes 75 

Hominy Cakes _ „ 73 

Imperial Sticks 72 

Mixed Flour _ _ 71 

Matzoon Cake 77 

Matzoon Pudding *. _ _ _ 77 

Pop Overs 68 

Pompernickle _ 64 

Pastry 69 

Plum Pudding 69 

Potato Pudding _ 79 

Plum Pancakes 75 

Pie _ _ 78 

Plain Bread Pudding 77 

Rice Fritters _ _ 74 

Rye Nuts 71 

Raw Bread _ _ 59 

Rice Pudding _ _ 77 

Rice Flour Pudding 79 

Roman Meal Cakes - 76 

Steamed Bread Pudding 7S 

Sago Pudding _ _ „ _ 77 

Strawberry Short Cake 70 

Sand Tart 69 

Sun Dried Bread _ 66 

Snow Balls 74 

Toasts 66 

Vegetable Pudding _ _ 79 

White Muffins _ 69 

Sauces and Salad Dressing. 

Almond Sauce 83 

Butter Sauce _ 81 

Cream Sauce 83 

Caper Sauce 82 



156 INDEX TO RECIPES 

Cherry Sauce _ _ _ , _ _ 82 

Horse Raddish Sauce 82 

Lemon Sauce _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 82 

M ilk Sauce _ __ _ _ _ „ 82 

Mint Sauce 81 

Mustard Sauce _ _ ._ _ 82 

Mushroom Sauce „ 82 

Olive Sauce _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 83 

Tomato Sauce _._ 81 

French Dressing _ *. _ _ _ _. 94 

Honey Dressing _ 85 

Mayonnaise Dressing _ _ 84 and 85 

Syrup Dressing 85 

Saletds. 

Apple Salad 85 and 86 

Apple and Banana Salad - _ _ „ 91 

Apricot Salad 91 

Asparagus Salad _ _ _ _ _ _ _ „ 89 

Banana and Grape Salad _ 91 

Banana Salad _ _ _ _ _ 90 

Boiled Vegetable Salad 86 

Beet Salad _ _ 92 

Cereal Salad _ _ - _ _ - _ 88 

Celery Root Salad _ 90 

Carrot Salad _ 92 

Cranberry Salad - - - - _. 91 

Cranberry and Celery Salad _ 91 

Cranberry and Banana Salad _ 91 

Cranberry and Pear Salad 91 

Celery Salad - - _ _ _ 86 

Cabbage Salad _ _ _ 86 

Cheese Salad _ _ _ „ 87 

Cucumber Salad _ _ 86 

Corn Salad _ - _ - 89 

Dandelion Salad 87 

Dry Vegetable Salad - - 92 

Egg Salad _ _ _ _ 88 

Empire Salad 88 

Fruit Salad in Gelatine _ _ 91 

Lettuce Salad 87 

Mushroom Salad _ - , _ _ - 89 

Mixed Spinach Salad 87 

Nut Salad - _ - - 87 

Olive Salad _ - _ - 89 

Orange Salad 90 

Orange and Banana Salad - _ - 91 

Pine Apple Salad _ _ - _ 90 



INDEX TO RECIPES 157 

Pineapple and Apple Salad 90 

Pineapple and Orange Salad 91 

Peach Salad _ _ _ 91 

Plum Salad „ _ 92 

Potato Salad , 90 

Raddish Salad 89 and 92 

Rhubarb Salad _ _ 89 

Spinach Salad 87 

Stringbean Salad _ 89 

Tomato Salad 86 

Tomato and Water Cress Salad _ 87 

Yellow Dock Salad 87 

Fruits and Light Puddings. 

Apple Sauce 95 

Apple Snow _ _ % 

Apricot Sauce „ 96 

Apricot Snow _ ., 96 

Apple Tapioca 96 

Ambrosia _ 9S 

Apple Pudding 98 

Apple Sago _ _ „ _ _ 78 

Arrowroot Gruel : 78 

Banana Gelatine 95 

Boiled Custard _ _ _ 78 

Blackberry Sago 97 

Baked Apples 94 

Baked Apples in Gelatine 95 

Baked Peaches _ _ 94 

Berry Tapioca 98 

Baked Apples in Oil _ _. 97 

Buckthorn Bark Emulsion 94 

Chocolate Corn Starch 97 

Currant, Raspberry or Peach Pudding 98 

Cranberry Sauce, sterilized 99 

Dried Fruits _ 97 

Fig Butter - _. 93 

Fruit Tapioca 97 

Gooseberry Pudding % 

Gooseberry Compot _ _ _... 96 

Ground Dried Fruit 94 

Lemon Filling _ _. 99 

Peaches with Cream 97 

Pineapple Gelatine _ _ 95 

Plain Junket 99 

Rhubarb Pudding _ _ _ 98 

Rhubarb Wine 99 

Strawberries with Cream 97 

Stewed Blackberries _ _ 96 



158 I XDEX TO RECIPES 

Stewed Huckleberries 97 

Sterilized Dried Fruits 93 

Soaked Fruit _ _ 93 

Tomato Tapioca _ 97 

Fluids and Gelatines. 

Apple Barley Water 106 

Albumen Water _ 106 

Almond Milk _ 107 

Boiled Milk and Cream for Table Use 101 

Boiled Milk _ 102 

Barley Water 102 

Bran Tea - - 104 

Buckthorn Tea 105 

Bran Gelatine - 106 

Bean Tea or Broth - 109 

Clabber „ - + - - 103 

Camomile Tea 105 

Cocoa Shells 108 

Coffee - 10S 

Cocoa - - 109 

Eagle Brand Condensed Milk 103 

Fruit Lemonade - 107 

Fennel Tea 105 

Flaxseed Tea _ 106 

Irish Moss 106 

Kumiss - — 102 

Lemonade - - - 104 

Lemonade with Egg 107 

Legume Gelatine - - — 109 

Milk - 100 

Malted Miik 104 

M ilk Eggnog ^ 107 

Malt or Cereal Coffee 108 

Preparation of Modified Milk (raw) 100 

Pasteurized Milk 102 

Pea and Lentil Soup _ - - - 109 

Rice Water _ - 102 

Raw Green Pea Juice 106 

Rye Lemonade — 108 

Scalded Milk (Modified) 101 

Sterilized Milk (Modified) _ _ , 

Strawberry Milk 108 

Toast Water _ 104 

Toast and Apple Water - 104 

l*n fermented Beer 105 

Whipped Sour Milk - 103 

Whipped Sweet Cream - - _ - 103 

Whey - - 105 and lOo 

Water Eggnog - - 107 



IMPORTANT WORK 03" DIET XT/ST PUBUSHBD 

DESTRUCTIVE AND CONSTRUCTIVE 
FOOD MIXTURES 

By DR. AXEL EMIL GIBSON. 

In this vohrme Dr. Gibson has given to the health-seeking world a 
System of Diet by which palatableness of taste is combined with 
perfect safety to digestion. In this system the antagonism and affinities 
of the different foodstuffs are so scientifically ascertained and adjusted 
that the fermentation and generation of poisonous gases in stomach and 
intestines becomes impossible. 

The book, which is printed in beautiful Hercules binding, 6x9 — 159 
pages — costs $1.00. Address the author, 

DR. AXEL EMIL GIBSON" 

• 18-520 Chamber of Commerce LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



DR. DORA C. C. L. ROPER 

OAKLAND, CAL. 

MENTAL AND NERVOUS DISEASES. 

OBESITY A SPECIALTY 

Dietetic Instructions by Mail. 

Accommodations for Patients. 

For terms, state case, and enclose addressed stamped envelope. 



How to Become a Vegetarian! 

WITH. FOOD FOB THE TRAVELER. 



Send 25 cents in Stamps. 
Address the author of this book, 

DR. DORA C. C. L. ROPER 

R. F. D. No. 1, Box 188. 
Oakland, Calif. 



Kindly mention Vegetarian Supplement when Writing to Advertisers. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
I 




