LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 






3 S 




•D = 




It - ^ 




,2 »— ^_B^_ E 








0=- =n| 




>« 


;5^^r^ 




^=^ 








Q. tn 


J 


"5:==o 


£• 




2 


1 


c 


^ -"^ 




(C 


^ 


a>^^^=id- 


^S 






^^^^J05 


m 






CO 


g CO 


(O 


C ^"^""^^ 




08=^^^^ 


X 


£ 


t- 


< 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000405724 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 




"^ ( 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



GASTRONOMY 



(Physiologie du Gout) 



JEAN ANTHELME BRILLAT-SAVAKIN 



WITH IliiUSTRATIONS 




BOSTON AND NEW YORK 

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 

MDCCCCXV 






TKG31 HojuJdC 



THREE HUNDRED AND SEATENTT-FIVE 

COPIES OF THIS BOOK 

WEBB FEINTED AT THE 

ErVEBSIDE PRESS, JUNE, 1915 

THIS COPY IS 
NUMBER /yO 






CONTENTS 

Inthoduction, by Charles Monsblet .... xvii 

Aphobisms of the Professor xxvii 

Dialogue between the Author and a Friend . xxxi 

Biography xxxix 

Preface by the Author xlv 

MEDITATION I. — On the Senses 

1. Number of the Senses 1 

2. Action of the Senses 2 

3. Improvement of the Senses ....... 4 

4. Power of the Taste 7 

5. Object of the Action of the Senses 7 

MEDITATION II. — Op Taste 

6. Definition of Taste 9 

7. Mechanism of Taste 10 

8. Sensation of Taste 12 

9. Savours 14 

10. Influence of Smell on Taste 15 

11. Analysis of the Sensation of Taste 16 

12. Succession of the Divers Impressions of Taste ... 18 

13. Enjoyments due to the Taste 19 

14. Supremacy of Man 20 

15. Method adopted by the Author 23 

MEDITATION III. — On Gastronomy 

16. Origin of Sciences 25 

17. Origin of Gastronomy 26 

18. Definition of Gastronomy 27 

19. Various Objects treated on by Gastronomy ... 28 

20. Use of Gastronomic Knowledge .... i . 30 

(v) 



CONTENTS 

SI. Influence of Gastronomy on Business 31 

22. A Gastronomic Academy 32 

MEDITATION IV. — Appetite 

23. Definition of Appetite 33 

24. Anecdote 34 

25. Great Appetites 36 

MEDITATION V. — On Food in General 

26. Definition 41 

27. Analysis 41 

28. Osmazome 42 

The Composition of Foods 44 

29. The Vegetable Kingdom 45 

Difference between Fat and Lean 47 

30. Individual Instance 48 

MEDITATION VI. — Special Kinds of Food 

31. Specialities 50 

32. Pot-au-feu, Soup, etc 51 

33. Of Bouilli 51 

34. Poultry 52 

35. The Turkey 54 

36. Turkey-Lovers 55 

37. Influence of the. Turkey on the Money Market . . 56 

38. An Exploit of the Professor 57 

39. On Game 62 

40. Of Fish 66 

Anecdote 67 

41. Muria. Garum 68 

42. Philosophical Reflection 71 

43. Of Truffles 72 

44. Erotic Virtue of Truffles 73 

Are Truffles Indigestible? 77 

45. Sugar 80 

(vi) 



CONTENTS 

Indigenous Sugar 81 

Various Uses of Sugar 83 

46. Of Coffee — Origin of Coffee 86 

Various Modes of Making Coffee 88 

Effects of Coffee 89 

47. Of Chocolate — Origin of Chocolate 92 

Properties of Chocolate 95 

Difficulties in Making Good Chocolate .... 98 

The Best Way of Making Chocolate 101 

MEDITATION VII 

48. Theory of Frying 103 

Allocution 104 

Chemistry 104 

Application 105 

MEDITATION VIH 

49. Of Thirst 109 

Different Varieties of Thirst 109 

50. Causes of Thirst 112 

51. Example 113 

MEDITATION IX 

52. On Drinks 117 

Water 117 

Prompt Effect of Drinks 117 

53. Strong Drinks 119 

MEDITATION X 

54. Episodic on the End of the World .... 122 

MEDITATION XI 

55. On Gourmandise 125 

Definitions 125 

Advantages of Gourmandise 126 

(vii) 



CONTENTS 

56. Sequel 127 

57. Influence of Gourmandise 128 

58. Portrait of a Pretty Female Gourmand .... 131 

Anecdote 131 

Women are Gourmandes 132 

59. Effects of Gourmandise on Sociability 132 

Influence of Gourmandise on Conjugal Happiness . . 133 

MEDITATION XII. — Of Goubmands 

60. Every one who wishes it is not a Gourmand . . . 136 

Napoleon ... 136 

Gourmands by Predestination 136 

61. Sensual Predisposition 137 

62. Gourmands by Virtue of their Profession . . . .141 
The Moneyed Classes 141 

63. Doctors 142 

64. Objurgation 144 

65. Men of Letters 146 

66. Pious People 147 

67. Chevaliers and Abbes 149 

68. Longevity of Gourmands 150 

MEDITATION XIII 

69. Gastronomic Tests 153 

( First Series — 5000 francs — Mediocrity . 156 

Income J ^^^'^'^ Series — 15,000 francs — Comfort . 156 

( TMrd Series — 30,000 francs — Riches . 157 

General Observation 158 

MEDITATION XIV 

70. The Pi,easuhbs of the Table 160 

71. Origin of the Pleasures of the Table 161 

72. Difference between the Pleasures of Eating, and the Pleas- 

ures of the Table 162 

73. Effects 163 

74. Artificial Accessories 163 

( viii ) 



CONTENTS 

75. The Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries . . .165 
A Sketch 166 

MEDITATION XV 

76. Halts of a Shooting Pabty 174 

77. The Ladies 176 

MEDITATION XVI 

78. On Digestion 179 

79. Ingestion 179 

80. The Duty of the Stomach 181 

81. Influence of Digestion . . 185 

MEDITATION XVH 

82. On Eepose 190 

83. Time for Sleep 193 

MEDITATION XVIH 

84. Of Sleep 195 

85. Definition 195 

MEDITATION XIX 

86. Of Dbeams 198 

87. An Investigation to be Held 199 

88. Nature of Dreams 200 

89. System of Doctor Gall 201 

First Fact 201 

Second Fact 202 

Conclusion 204 

90. Influence of Age 204 

91. Phenomena of Dreams 205 

First Instance 205 

92. Second Instance 206 

93. Third Instance 207 

(ix) 



CONTENTS 

MEDITATION XX 

94. On the Influence op Diet on Befose, Sleep, and 

Dbeams 210 

95. Effects of Diet on Work 210 

96. Effects of Diet on Dreams 212 

97. Consequence 213 

98. Eesult 213 

MEDITATION XXI 

99. On Cokpulence 216 

100. Causes of Corpulence 220 

101. Continuation 222 

102. Continuation 222 

103. Anecdote 223 

104. Inconvenience of Corpulence 225 

105. Examples of Corpulence 226 

MEDITATION XXH 

106. A Pbesebvative ob Cuhative Treatment of Cohp- 

LENCE 229 

107. General Rules 230 

108. Continuation of the Begimen 234 

109. Danger of Acids 235 

110. Anti-Corpulence Belt 238 

111. Peruvian Bark 239 

MEDITATION XXm 

On Leanness 242 

112. Definition — £inds of Leanness 242 

113. Effects of Leanness 242 

114. Natural Predestination 243 

115. A Fattening Diet 244 

MEDITATION XXIV 

Of Fasting 247 

116. Definition — Origin of Fasting 247 

(x) 



CONTENTS 

117. How People used to Fast 248 

118. Origin of the Relaxation of Fasting 250 

MEDITATION XXV 

119. On Exhaustion 253 

120. Treatment 253 

131. A Cure performed by the Professor 254 

MEDITATION XXVI 

122. On Death 267 

MEDITATION XXVTI 

123. Philosophical Histoet of Cookehy .... 260 

124. Order of Foods 260 

125. Discovery of Fire 262 

126. Baking 263 

127. Feasts of the Orientals. — Of the Greeks . . . .266 

128. Banquets among the Bomans 269 

129. Resurrection of LucuUus 273 

130. Lectisternium and Incubitation 274 

131. Poetry 277 

132. Invasion of the Barbarians 277 

133. The Age of Louis XIV and Louis XV .... 282 

134. Louis XVI 287 

135. Ameliorations in Relation to Art 287 

136. Final Improvements 289 

MEDITATION XXVHI 

137. Of Parisian Restaurants and their Keepers . . 291 

138. The Restaurant 291 

139. Advantages of Restaurants 293 

140. A Glance round a Dining-Room in Paris .... 294 

141. Inconvenience of Restaurants 296 

142. Competition . 296 

143. Restaurants at Fixed Prices 297 

(xi) 



CONTENTS 

144. Beauvilliers ^^ 

145. The Gastronomer at the Restaurant SOI 



MEDITATION XXIX 

Classical Goubmandise put in Practice . . . 303 

146. History of M. de Borose 303 

147. The Eetinue of ah Heiress 316 

MEDITATION XXX. — Bouquet 

148. Gasteonomical Mythology 317 

Transition ^^ 

VARIETIES 

I. The Cure's Omelette 329 

Preparation of a Tunny Omelette .... 331 

Theoretical Notes on the Preparation of this Dish 331 

II. Eggs in Gravy 332 

III. A National Victory 333 

IV. Ablutions 336 

V. Mystification of the Professor and Defeat of the Gen- 
eral 338 

VI. The Dish of Eels 340 

VII. The Asparagus 342 

VIII. The Plot 343 

IX. The Turbot 346 

X. Various Restorative Preparations by the Professor 
Improvised for the Case mentioned in Meditation 

XXV 350 

XI. The Pullet of Bresse 353 

XII. The Pheasant 354 

Xin. Gastronomical Industry of the Emigres .... 357 
XIV. Other Recollections of the Emigration .... 360 

The Weaver 360 

The Famishing Man 361 

The Silver Lion 362 

(xii) 



CONTENTS 

Stay in America 362 

A Battle 363 

XV. A Bundle of Asparagus 365 

XVI. The Fondue 366 

Receipt for the Fondue 367 

XVII. Disappointment 368 

XVni. Marvellous Effects of a Classical Dinner - . .368 
XIX. Effects and Dangers of Strong Drinks . . .369 

XX. Chevaliers and Abb6s 370 

XXI. Miscellanea 372 

XXn. A Day with the Bernardines 373 

XXm. Happiness on a Journey 378 

XXIV. Poetry 382 

Song of Demochares at the Banquet of Dinias . 383 

Song of Motin 384 

Song of Bacan to Maynard 385 

The Choice of Sciences, a Song by the Professor. 386 
Impromptu, by M. Boscary de Ville-Plaine . . 387 
The Agony, a Physiological Romance, by the Pro- 
fessor 388 

XXV. M. Henrion de Pansey 388 

XXVI. Addresses 390 

XXVn. Privations, ffistorical Elegy 391 

Envoy to the Gastronomers of Both Worlds .... 394 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

Les Sens Frontispiece 

Les Aumens 42 

Les Boissons 118 

La Chasse et la PficHE 174 

Influences 210 

L'OBtsiT^ EX LA MaIGREUB 242 



From engravings, in the first French edi- 
tion, by Bertall {Charles Albert d'Armmx). 



INTRODUCTION 

Fob a long time I wished to say something about Brillat- 
Savarin. This figure, smiling rather than laughmg, this 
well-lined paimch, this stylish mind and stomach, tempted 
me. The opportunity could not be better, and I profit by it. 

Anthelme Brillat-Savarin, or Brillat de Savarin (for he 
signs himself thus in his Essay on Duels), was bom at 
Belley, in the Ain, on the 1st of April, 1755, and died at 
Paris, on the 2d of February, 1826. He, therefore, 
lived seventy-one years. He had time enough wherein to 
eat. Moreover, nature had predestined him for this im- 
portant function. She gave him a lofty figure, robust 
health, and an inexhaustible flow of good humour. Without 
ambition, inclined to study, and sufficiently rich, he seemed 
to lead the peaceable and happy life of a country lawyer, 
who has a knife and fork laid for him in all decent country 
houses. Until he was thirty-four years old, people Saw him 
often going to and fro in the fertile country of Bugey, 
sometimes sitting down in well-provisioned inns, where 
strings of poultry were roasting, sometimes opposite to 
some jovial cur6, sometimes coping with noisy himtsmen. 
From that time, there remained in his memory those pre- 
cious receipts that he was to leave to posterity — the fon- 
due, the omelette with tunny, the stuffed pheasant, etc. 

The Revolution came and cut short all these joyous 
parties. His fellow-citizens, who had learnt to appreciate 
his good qualities, sent him to the Constituent Assembly. 
There Brillat-Savarin made not a worse figure than any 

( xvii ) 



INTRODUCTION 

other; but he did not seem prepared for the great work 
that was going on. On returning to his department, he 
was named president of the civil tribimal. Nothing would 
serve but that he should occupy some position. What did 
they expect of him? I do not know. The year 1793 found 
him Mayor of Belley. He thought this work too heavy for 
his shoulders, and as Switzerland was only a few steps off, 
he went to seek there a refuge against a movement that 
he found it impossible to direct or to moderate. I do not 
know how far we have to believe in the persecutions which 
were said to have been directed against him; government 
had to occupy itself with many other things at that time. 
Certain it is, Brillat-Savarin went to the United States, 
where the repose he enjoyed during two years profited to 
his beloved studies. The pages which he has written about 
his stay in America are his best; among them are sketches 
of rustic glades and interiors, painted with a lightness and 
a charm that Chateaubriand himself might have envied. 

When he returned to France, the Directory was in full 
swing. Thrown on a sea of adventures, Brillat-Savarin, 
who had been deprived of his property at Bugey, accepted 
a post of secretary on the staff of the armies of the Re- 
public in Germany. Afterwards he was sent as commis- 
sary of the Government in the Department of Seine-et- 
Oise. Finally, after the 18th Brumaire, at which he was 
present, with a resignation that I can scarcely appreciate, 
the Senate housed him for life, and made him a counsellor 
in the Court of Cassation. 

It was in this haven that he passed the twenty-five last 
years of his life, scarcely troubled by the overthrow of the 
Hundred Days, maintained by all governments, which 
philosophically he refrained from disputing. It was on 

( xviii ) 



INTRODUCTION 

this magisterial seat that he elaborated his Handbook of 
Gastronomy, the work and epitome of his whole life. 

We find ourselves here in the presence of a well-known 
book that can only be mentioned with praise; of a book 
conceived soundly, proceeding by clever deductions, writ- 
ten in the most natural style in the world, which does 
not exclude liveliness and an originality peculiar to the 
temperament of its author. I only find a little stiffness 
here and there in the arrangement, which is even a mark of 
reverence to the reader, and a proof that the author seeks 
to please him by cutting up the pieces in small and attrac- 
tive mouthfuls. Where Brillat-Savarin excels most is in 
anecdote: he possesses its real secret, elegance, and tone. 

He has gained and gains many men every day to gas- 
tronomy solely by the perfect wisdom of his precepts and 
by his good and well-balanced common sense. Coming 
after Grimod de la Reyniere, he united in a body of doc- 
trine the teaching and the scattered information that he 
had gathered from him. He fixed them for ever. There 
was between Grimod de la Reyniere and Brillat-Savarin 
the difference that there is between a great eater and a 
delicate eater.' 

> We must make evetything enter into a biography, even a discordant 
note, on the condition that it comes from an authority. Now, this title 
of "delicate eater" has been denied to Brillat-Savarin. And by whom? 
By the Marquis de Cussy, to whom no one will deny authority. I am 
quite amused in transcribing the following lines from his Art Culinaire : 
"Brillat-Savarin ate copiously and ill; he chose little, talked dully, had 
no vivacity in his looks, and was absorbed at the end of a repast." In 
other respects, the Marquis de Cussy was willing to praise his rival. At 
the beginning of the Observations tiiat he has left on the Handbook of 
Gastronomy, he said: "To perceive some slight spots on the sun does not 
prevent us from recognising the brilliancy of its rays." This is right; but 
as a guest he is not less cruelly, and, I fear, tmjustly attacked. Brillat- 
Savarin was like the rest of the world — he had his good and his bad days. 

( xix ) 



INTRODUCTION 

Grimod de la Reyniere was a Rabelaisian, a perpetual 
starveling, with a number of preferences, nevertheless, and 
a man who could not be prevented from casting a tender 
regard on the junketing at Camacho's wedding. His en- 
thusiasm, which was unbridled, drove him to cry out some- 
where, "I would eat my own father with such a sauce." 
And he would have done it. Brillat-Savarin does not go 
so far. He would never have eaten anybody with any 
sauce whatever. 

The principal merit of Grimod de la Reyniere, and that 
one which endows him with sovereign claims to our grati- 
tude, is that of having been the historian of cookery. His 
eight years of the Almanack of Gourmands represent 
eight years of contest. He has, as all journalists have, a 
good many inevitable faults, compliances, injustices, and 
careless judgments, but one cannot deny him ardour, de- 
votion, and that faith which raises pie-crusts. We may say 
of him that he kept going the kitchen-stoves, after having 
saved them, perhaps, during the great shipwreck of the 
Revolution. At all events, he is the connecting link that 
unites the past to the future. 

Brillat-Savarin is more especially a legislator. In him 
there is something of Boileau. Yet he warms up now and 
then. His saying, "And you will see marvels," has become 
celebrated. The Handbook of Gastronomy has had many 
editions, but not in quick succession: its success was made 
slowly and surely. Nowadays it is what is called a library 
book. 

I have questioned many people who knew Brillat- 
Savarin, especially in the society of the Recamiers, of 
whom he was a relative. Their opinion was unanimous 
about him; he was amiable, delicate, highly fashionable. 

(xx) 



INTRODUCTION 

His hobbles were connected with his favourite passion, 
and it is thus that he upset the feelings of all his colleagues 
in the Court of Cassation by the smell of the game that he 
carried in his pockets to get high. A frequenter of the 
Cafe Lemblin, he came there with a dog who became legen- 
dary. He lived in the Rue des Filles-Saint-Thomas. His 
widow lived long after him. M. Lefeuve affirms that she 
was still living in 1859, in the Rue Vivienne. 

I have read nearly all that has been written about Bril- 
lat-Savarin. Can it be believed? The article about him in 
the Biographie Universelle is by Balzac, one of the least 
eating men that has ever existed in the literary world, a 
man who did not spend more time at table than Napoleon. 
But gastronomy is made up above all of lost time. We do 
not " take a snack " in the kingdom of Comus. The article 
of Balzac is none the less well composed, as all that has 
come from the pen of this writer, who has carried so far 
his gifts of intuition and assimilation.' 

Some other litterateurs, Alphonse Karr, Eugene Bareste, 
etc., have also published notices on Brillat-Savarin, but 
I can see nothing characteristic in any of them. 

The Physiologie du Gcy&t has had an imitator or rather 
a continuer in the anonymous author of a book which ap- 
peared in 1839, xmder the title, Neophysiology of Taste, or 
General Dictionary of French Cookery, Ancient and Mod- 
em etc., etc., dedicated to the author of the Memoirs of 
the Marchioness of CrSquy (Paris: one large octavo vol- 
viae of 635 pages). It is a very excellent repertory, very 
practical, filled with amusing digressions, and which de- 

* Balzac owed this compliment to Brillat-Savarin, for it is his Phy- 
sMogie du GoUt that inspired him with his Physiology of Marriage. He 
introduces also "Meditations" and "Aphorisms," and borrows the pro- 
fessorial accent. 

(xxi) 



INTRODUCTION 

serves to be better known. Its author, who is assuredly 
a bom gastronomer, teases often on several points his il- 
lustrious predecessor, which does not prevent him from 
rendering justice to his high competence. From indica- 
tions almost certain, and especially from the dedication, 
I believe that I am right in attributing the Neophysiohgy 
of Taste to the Count de Coiu-champs. This was also the 
opinion of Roger de Beauvoir. 

Has gastronomy progressed since the time of Brillat- 
Savarin? This is a question that I hear often put, and to 
which I would gladly reply in the affirmative; but I look 
in vain for the tables that are praised or the hosts that are 
renowned. Where are the great cooks? What names have 
we now to oppose to those of Carfime and Robert? 

Yet, nevertheless, we eat a great deal; restaurants are 
multiplied to infinity. What has cookery gained? I ought 
rather to say what it has lost. Nearly all the roasts are now 
done in the oven. An abomination! 

An old and worthy cook, finding himself without re- 
sources, went out one morning concealing as best he could 
under his overcoat something long and slender wrapped in 
paper. He turned towards the pawnshop of the Rue des 
Blancs-Manteaux, the central depot and mother-house of 
the French monts de jriMS. There he went before one of the 
windows and put his parcel before the clerk. 

*' What is this?" said the man. 

"It is Ernestine, the faithful companion of all my life." 

And in pronouncing these words, the cook wiped away 
a big tear. 

"Open the parcel," said the clerk. 

The cook did so; and exhibited a spit, sharp and shining. 

"The queen of spits!" he miu-mured. 
( xjdi ) 



INTRODUCTION 

"We don't lend anything on that here," replied the 
clerk. 

"Did you speak?" 

"I told you that we never take spits in pawn." 

"Unless they are set with diamonds," said another face- 
tious clerk. 

The cook remained immoveable, without understanding, 
while everybody laughed around him. 

"Now, be off," said the employ^; "you are in the way." 

"What do you want me to do with it?" sighed the poor 
man; "they don't cook more anywhere!" 

"Pack up and hook it, I tell you." 

"O Ernestine! what will become of us?" 

After this cry, which would have melted the heart of a 
wild beast, but which did not move the clerks of the pawn- 
shop, the unhappy man picked up his spit, which he did 
not take the trouble to wrap up, and ran out with quick 
steps. In the road everybody turned to look at this weep- 
ing man, brandishing this rod of iron. 

The solicitude of the practitioners of the present time — 
and there are many clever ones — is entirely devoted to 
the ornamental matters of the kitchen, to decorations, to 
the service of the table. They attend to the "aspics," 
"chartreuses," or any "set piece"; they merely work for 
show. 

A cook is now only an impresario of a theatre, whose 
whole mind is exclusively engrossed with decorations and 
costumes. Therefore, why not let Ch6ret paint meals for 
us? In all stages, and among all classes of society, I en- 
counter this invading mania of " keeping up appearances." 
Shall I speak of official cootery, of ministerial dinners, 
where a band plays at intervals; a theatrical invention, 

( xxiii ) 



INTRODUCTION 

injurious to the guests, and which destroys conversation. 
These are not the dinners to which people go to eat. There, 
especially, the cook is more proud of a Chinese kiosk on a 
rock in coloured and spun sugar, which no person dare 
touch, than of a carp h la Chambord treated in a masterly 
way. Since the days of Cambac6rSs, official cookery has 
ceased to exist. 

Another cause of the stationary state of gastronomy is, 
that all dinners are like each other. That which you ate 
yesterday in the Faubourg Saint-Germain, you will eat 
to-morrow in the Faubourg Saint-Honor6. At the end of 
the week you recognise that you have merely changed your 
knife and fork; the chief dishes of the menu have always 
been the same; a turbot with two different sauces, a " filet 
a la royale," fowls "k la Perigueux," a York ham, and a 
dish of crayfish. This poverty of imagination, this absence 
of research, are unworthy of a country such as ours. 

We must act. But how? Formerly there were groups, 
series of intelligent and special men, who met to eat. These 
groups were a perpetual stimulant for the cooks; they have 
disappeared and are not now replaced; but they may be. 
Without looking too far, we find, principally amongst cer- 
tain doctors, a few sparks of the sacred fire. The Renais- 
sance may also come from the clubs, which only have to 
show themselves more imperious in the matter of their 
dinners. One of the last good "chefs" of the Jockey Club 
of Paris was Jules Gouffe, whose style was pretty and easy, 
without too much show. 

Good female cooks have become more rare than the 
phenix, and are worth their weight in gold. Upon the 
whole, the situation should be more cheerful. French gas- 
tronomy lives on its past, and has lost nothing of its pres- 

( xxiv ) 



INTRODUCTION 

tige in the eyes of the stranger; but this is not enough. The 
pause is too marked. May the perusal of Brillat-Savarin 
excite ambitions and determine vocations. ^ 

CHAELES MONSELET 
Fabis, 30th November, 1879. 

' I add a last note to perpetuate one of my surprises. Neither Brillat- 
Savarin, nor Grimod de la ReyniSre, nor even the Marquis of Cussy, have 
given a great importance to wine. It seems that they only considered it 
as a, digestive element. Provided that it was good, they did not ask for 
more; and they did not make any distinctions between our innumerable 
brands of Burgundies and of clarets. Was the exquisite sense of this im- 
portant part of taste entirely wanting to them? In this respect, at least, 
we ore superior to them. 



APHORISMS OF THE PROFESSOR 

TO SERVE AS PROLEGOMENA TO HIS WORK, AND AS AN 
ETERNAL BASIS TO SCIENCE 



The world would have been merely nothing except for 
life. All that lives, feeds. 

n 

Animals feed, man eats; wise men alone know how to 
eat. 

m 

The destiny of nations depends on the manner wherein 
they take their food. 

IV 

Tell me what thou eatest, and I wUl tell thee what thou 
art. 

V 

The Creator, though condemning man to eat to live, 
invites him to do so by appetite, and rewards him by en- 
joyment. 

VI 

Good living is an act of our judgment by which we grant 
a preference to those things which are agreeable to the 
taste above those that have not that quality. 

( xxvii ) 



APHORISMS OF THE PROFESSOR 

vn 

The joys of the table belong equally to all ages, condi- 
tions, countries, and times; they mix with all other pleas- 
ures, and remain the last to console us for their loss. 

vm 

The table is the sole locality where no one during the 
first hour feels himself tired. 

IX 

The discovery of a new dish is more beneficial to hu- 
manity than the discovery of a new star. 

X 

The dyspeptic man and the drunkard are incapable of 
either eating or drinking. 

XI 

The order of food is from the most solid to the most 
light. 

xn 

The order of drink is from the mildest to the most heady 
and the most scented. 

xin 

To say that we should not mix our liquors is a heresy. 
The tongue becomes saturated, and after the third glass, 
the finest wine only gives an obtuse sensation. 

XIV 

Dessert without cheese, is like a pretty girl with only 
one eye. 

( xxviii ) 



APHORISMS OF THE PROFESSOR 

XV 

A cook may be educated, but a "roast cook" must be 
bom such. 

XVI 

The most indispensable quality in the cook is punctu- 
ality, and such ought to be the duty of the guests. 

XVII 

To wait too long for a late guest denotes a lack of con- 
sideration to all those who are present. 

xvm 

He who receives guests, and pays no personal care to the 
repast offered them, is not worthy to have friends. 

XIX 

The hostess should always assure herself that the coffee 
is good, and the host that the liqueurs are of the finest 
quality. 

XX 

To invite any one, implies that we charge ourselves with 
his happiness all the time that he is under oiu* roof. 



DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE AUTHOR AND 
A FRIEND 

{After the first compUmenis) 

Friend 

This morning, at breakfast, my wife and I decreed in 
our wisdom that you should print, as early as possible, 
your "Gastronomic Meditations." 

Author 

What women will, God wills. This is, in five words, the 
whole Parisian charter. But I do not belong to that parish, 
and a bachelor . . . 

FRiiasfD 

Good Heavens! Bachelors are as much broken in as 
the rest, and often to our great prejudice. But here celi- 
bacy will not help you, for my wife pretends that she has 
a right to commajid, because it was at her place in the 
country that you wrote your first pages. 

Author 

You know, dear doctor, my deference to ladies; you 
have more than once praised my submission to their orders; 
you were also amongst those who said that I should make 
an excellent husband, and nevertheless I cannot print. 

Friend 
Why? 

( xxxi ) 



DIALOGUE 

Author 

Because, devoted by the nature of my profession to seri- 
ous studies, I fear that those who merely know my book 
by the title-page will imagine that I only occupy myself 
with insignificant things. 

Friend 

A panic terror! Thirty-six years of work, public and 
continuous, have established for you a contrary reputa- 
tion. Besides, my wife and I think that all the world will 
be glad to read you. 

AUTHOB 

Really? 

Friend 
Educated men will read you, to divine and learn that 
which you have only sketched out. 

Author 
That may well be. 

Friend 
Women will read you, as they will see clearly that . . . 

Author 

Dear friend, I am old; I have acquired wisdom. Mis- 
erere mei. 

Friend 

Gourmands will read you, inasmuch as you do them 
justice, and give to them the exact rank they merit in 
Society. 

( xxxii ) 



DIALOGUE 

Author 

Now you are right. Poor gourmands; I cannot imagme 
they have been so long misunderstood. I have for them 
a fatherly love. They are so smart, and their eyes are so 
bright. 

Friend 

Moreover, have you not often said that your work 
would supply a lack in every library? 

Author 

I have said so; the fact is true, and I will be hanged 
rather than deny a letter of it. 

Friend 

But you speak as a man already convinced, and you 
will come with me to the . . . 

Author 

Oh no! If the profession of author has its pleasures, it 
has also its thorns, and I leave all this to my heirs. 

Friend 

But you disinherit your friends, your acquaintances, and 
your contemporaries. Have you the courage to act thus? 

Author 

My heirs! my heirs! 1 have heard it said that ghosts are 
singularly flattered by the praise of the living, and this is 
a sort of blessing I wish to reserve for myself in another 
world. 

( xxxiii ) 



DIALOGUE 

Friend 

But are you certain that these praises will all go to the 
right address? Are you equally certain of the punctuality 
of your heirs? 

AUTHOB 

I have no reason to think that they will neglect a duty 
in consideration of which I will excuse them from so many 
others. 

Fbiend 

Will or can they have for your production the paternal 
love, and the author's care, without which a work is al- 
ways given to the public with an awkward air? 

Author 

My manuscript will be corrected, neatly copied, quite 
prepared for the press; the printing is all that will have to 
be done. 

Fbiend 

And the chapter of accidents! Alas! similar unlucky 
circumstances have occasioned the loss of so many cele- 
brated works, like that of the famous Lecat on the state 
of the soul during sleep, the labour of his whole life. 

AUTHOB 

That was, no doubt, a great loss; but I am very far 
from aspiring to such regrets. 

Fbiend 

Believe me, your heirs will have enough to do to arrange 
with the Church, with law, medicine, and themselves, so 
( xxxiv ) 



DIALOGUE 

that the time, if not the will, must fail them to devote 
themselves to the various Cares which precede, accompany, 
and follow the issue of a work, however little the size 
may be. 

Author 

But the title, the subject, the good-natured friends? 

Friend 

The very word "gastronomy" makes every one prick 
up his ears. The subject is fashionable, and good-natured 
friends are as much gourmands as any one else. This 
should quiet you. Besides, do you not know that the 
gravest people have sometimes written light works: the 
President Montesquieu, for example? ' 

Author 

Yes, that is quite true. He has written the Temple of 
Gnidus, and it may be maintained that there is more real 
usefulness in thinking of what is at the same time a neces- 
sity, a pleasure, and an everyday occupation, than in say- 
ing that there were, more than two thousand years ago, a 
couple of dirty brats, one of whom ran through the bushes 
of Greece after the other, who had no desire to run away. 

Friend 
You surrender, then? 

Author 

I? Not at all; I have merely betrayed myself as an author. 
And this reminds me of a scene in English comedy that 

■ M. de Montucla, known by a very good history of mathematics, 
wrote a dictionary of gastronomic geography; he showed me some parts 

( XXXV ) 



DIALOGUE 

was very amusing; it is, I think, in a play which is called 
the Natural Daughter. You shall judge for yourself.* 

It is about the Quakers, and you know that those who 
are attached to this sect thee and thou the whole world, 
dress simply, never go to war, take no oaths, act deliber- 
ately, and, above all, never get in a rage. 

The hero of the piece is a young and handsome Quaker, 
who appears on the stage in a brown coat, broad-brimmed 
hat, and combed-down hair. This does not prevent him 
from falling in love. 

A fool, who is his rival, emboldened by his outward ap- 
pearance, and his supposed hidden feelings, ridicules and 
annoys him so much, that the young man, warming up 
little by little, falls into a rage, and thrashes with a master- 
hand the impertinent person who provokes him. The 
punishment executed, he at once resumes his habitual 
aspect, collects himself, and says in an afflicted tone, 
"Alas! the flesh is too mighty for the spirit." 

I act in the same manner; and after a very pardonable 
emotion, I fall back on my first opinion. 

Friend 

This is no longer possible. You have already, as you 
admit, betrayed yourself. I have captured you, and I take 
you to my bookseller. I will tell you that there is more than 
one person who has noised abroad your secret. 

of it whilst I was at Versailles. It is said that M. Berriat-Saint-Prix, who 
was a good consulting lawyer, has written a novel ia many volumes. 

1 The reader must have perceived that my friend lets himself be 
"thou'd" (ttdoyer) without his doing the same to me. This is because 
my age is to his like that of a father to a son, and that although he has 
become a man of importance in every respect, he would grieve if I spoke 
to him in another way, 

( xxxvi ) 



DIALOGUE 

Author 

Do not run the risk, for in my book I '11 speak of you, 
and who knows what I may say? 

Friend 

What can you say ? Do not imagine that you can frighten 
me. 

Author 

I shall not say that our common locality * is pleased with 
having given you birth, that at twenty-four years you al- 
ready published an elementary work which since then has 
become classical; that your deserved reputation already 
inspires confidence in you; that your outward appearance 
soothes your patients. Your skill revives invalids; your 
dexterity surprises them; your sensibility consoles them. 
Every one knows this; but I will reveal to all Paris — 
(rising) — to all France — (bridling up) — to the entire 
universe, the only fault I know in you. 

Friend (in a serious tone) 
And what is that fault, if you please? 

Author 

An habitual fault of which all my exhortations have not 
been able to correct you. 

' Belley, the capital of Bugey, a charming country, where we find 
lofty mountains, hills, rivers, limpid brooks, cascades, cataracts, abysses, 
a real English garden of a hundred square leagues, where before the Revo- 
lution the tiers Mat were able to put a veto on the acts of the two other 
orders by the constitution of the country. 

( xxxvii ) 



DIALOGUE 

Fbibnd (frightened) 
Speak out; it is too much to keep me in torture. 

AUTHOB 

You eat too fast.* 

{Here the friend takes his hat, and goes out smiling, 
thinking thai he has made a convert.) 

' Historical. 



BIOGRAPHY 

The doctor whom I have introduced into the dialogue 
which precedes is not a fantastic being, as the Chloris of 
former days, but a handsome doctor quite alive. Those 
who know me will divine that I speak of Dr. Richerand. 

Thinking of him, I was led back to those who were be- 
fore his time; and I saw with pride that my arrondissement 
of Belley, in the Department of the Ain, my native place, 
had for a long time the honour of giving to the world 
doctors of the highest distinction, and I could not resist the 
inducement of erecting a modest monument to them in a 
short notice. 

In the days of the Regency, Drs. Genin and Civoct were 
practitioners of the first class, and brought back to their 
country a wealth honourably acquired. The first was 
entirely Hippocratic, and proceeded in form; the second, 
amongst whose patients were many fair ladies, was more 
gentle and more accommodating: res novas molientem, as 
Tacitus expresses it. 

Towards 1750, Dr. La Chapelle distinguished himself 
in the perilous career of a military surgeon. We have 
several good works from his pen, and we owe to him the 
treatment of inflammation on the chest by fresh butter, 
a method which cures like a spell when it is used in the 
first thirty-six hours of the attack. 

Towards 1760, Dr. Dubois obtained the greatest success 
in the treatment of low spirits, which then was a fashion- 
able malady, and quite as common as the ailments of the 

( xxxix ) 



BIOGRAPHY 

nerves which have replaced it. The popularity which he 
obtained was so much the more remarkable, as he was far 
from being a handsome man. 

Unhappily he arrived too early at an independent for- 
tune, and fell into a career of laziness, contenting himself 
with being a good story-teller and an amiable companion. 
He was of a robust constitution, and lived more than 
eighty-eight years, in spite of dinners, or perhaps thanks 
to the dinners of the old and the new regime.' 

At the end of the reign of Louis XV, Dr. Coste, a na- 
tive of Chatillon, came to Paris. He was bearer of a letter 
of Voltaire for the Duke of Choiseul, whose goodwill he had 
the good fortune to gain during his first visit. 

Protected by this nobleman and by the Duchess of 
Grammont, his sister, young Coste made rapid progress; 
and after a few years Paris commenced to count him among 
the most hopeful doctors. 

The same protection which had brought him out tore 
him away from this tranquil and fruitful career to place 
him at the head of the medical department of the army that 
France sent to America to help the United States, which 
were fighting for their independence. After having ful- 
filled his mission, Dr. Coste returned to France, passed the 
unfortunate period of 1793 almost without being noticed, 
and was elected Mayor of Versailles, where even now the 
memory of his active, mild, and fatherly government is 
still preserved. 

' I smiled when I wrote this article, for it reminded me of a great 
academician, whose eulogy had to be delivered by Fontenelle. The de- 
funct only knew how to play at every game, and, nevertheless, the per- 
petual secretary had the talent of devising a very fair panegyric of the 
usual length. (See further, the Meditation on the " Pleasures of the 
Table," where the doctor is in active employment.) 

(xl) 



BIOGRAPHY 

Soon the Directory recalled him to the administration of 
military medicine. Bonaparte named him one of the three 
general inspectors of the Army .Medical Service, and the 
doctor was constantly the friend, the protector, and the 
father of those young men who were destined to this career. 
Finally, he was named doctor of the Royal Hospital of the 
Invalides, and discharged those duties until his death. 

Such long services could not remain without recompense 
by the Government of the Bourbons; and Louis XVIII 
did an act of justice in conferring on Dr. Coste the Order 
of St. Michael. 

Dr. Coste died some years ago, leaving a venerated 
memory, a fortune entirely of a philosophical extent, and 
an only daughter, the wife of M. Delalot, who has dis- 
tinguished himself in the Chamber of Deputies by his lively 
and deep eloquence, which did not prevent his failure. 

One day when we dined with M. Favre, the clergyman 
at St. Laurent, our townsman. Dr. Coste told me of the 
serious quarrel he had had that very day with the Comte 
de Cessac, then Minister and Director of the War Depart- 
ment, on the subject of an economy that the latter wished 
to propose in order to please Napoleon. This economy 
consisted in subtracting from the sick soldiers half of their 
portion of toast and water, and washing the lint which was 
taken away from their wounds to use it a second or a third 
time. 

The doctor protested with violence against a plan that 
he considered abominable, and he was so full of his subject 
that he fell into a rage, as if the object of his wrath had 
been still present. 

I <lo not know if the count was really converted, and if 
he left his plan in his portfolio, but what is certain is, that 

(xli) 



BIOGRAPHY 

the sick soldiers were ever after permitted to drink as much 
as they liked, and that all lint that had been used was 
thrown away. 

Towards 1780, Dr. Bordier, born in the environs of 
Amberieux, came to practise medicine in Paris. His prac- 
tice was gentle, his system expectant, and his diagnosis 
certain. 

He was named Professor in the Faculty of Medicine. 
His style was simple, but his lessons were fatherly and 
fruitful. Honours crowded on him unsought, and he was 
named physician to the Empress Marie-Louise. But he did 
not enjoy this place very long; the empire fell to pieces, 
and the doctor himself was carried away by a disease of the 
leg, against which he had fought all his life. 

Dr. Bordier was of a tranquil humour, a benevolent 
character, and thoroughly trustworthy. 

Towards the end of the eighteenth century Dr. Bichat 
appeared; Bichat, of whom all the writings bear the im- 
press of genius, who employed his life in works made to 
advance science, who united with the patience of sluggish 
minds outbursts of enthusiasm, and who, dying in his 
thirtieth year, merited that public honours should be given 
to his memory. 

Later, there came Dr. Montegre, who introduced into 
clinics a philosophical spirit. He edited with skill the 
Journal of Health, and died at the age of forty in the 
West Indies, where he had gone in order to complete the 
treatises which he had projected on the yellow fever and 
the black vomit. 

At the present time (1825) Dr. Richerand stands on the 
highest ladder of operative medicine, and his Elements 
of Physiology have been translated in all languages. 

(xlii) 



BIOGRAPHY 

Named when young a Professor of the Faculty of Paris, he 
is invested with the most august confidence. No one has 
a word more consoling, a hand more kind, or a sharper 
knife. 

Dr. RScamier, a professor in the same faculty, sits at the 
side of his compatriot. 

As useful as lucky a practitioner, he preserves notes of 
all the maladies of his patients, and is able at each new 
invasion to exhibit a table of all the variations of their 
sanitary state. Dr. Recamier does not consider any case 
hopeless, and unlooked-for success has often crowned his 
efforts. 

The present being thus certain, the future prepares 
itself, inasmuch as under the wings of these powerful pro- 
fessors young men of the same country are being trained, 
who promise to imitate such honourable examples. 

Now Drs. Janin and Manjot drive along Paris. Dr. 
Manjot (Rue du Bac, No. 39) devotes himself principally 
to maladies of children. His ideas are happy, and he ought 
soon to communicate them to the public. 

I hope that every well brought up reader will pardon 
this digression of an old man who resides thirty-five years 
in Paris, but who has not forgotten either his country or 
his compatriots. It costs me already much to pass sub 
sUentio so many doctors whose remembrance subsists 
venerated in their native country, and who, although they 
have not had the advantage of shining on a grand stage, 
are not less than the above gifted with science and merit. 



PREFACE 

To offer to the public the work that I leave to its kindness, is 
not a great labour for me. I have merely placed in order mate- 
rials I had collected long ago. This is an amusing occupation, 
which I reserved for my old age. 

Considering the pleasures of the table from, every point of 
view, I soon saw that something better than a cookery-book 
might have been made out of the subject, and that a great deal 
might be said about such essential and constant functions 
that have a direct influence on health, happiness, and even on 
bu^siness affairs. 

When once this dominant idea was seized by me, all the rest 
ran naturally; I looked around me, took notes, and often, in 
the middle of the most sumptuous festivals, I should have felt 
bored but for the pleasure of looking at the guests. 

To fulfil the task I proposed to myself, it was necessary to 
be a physician, a chemist, a physiologist, and even more or 
less of a classical scholar. But I pursued these studies without 
the slightest pretension to be an author; I was urged on by a 
praiseworthy curiosity; by the fear of lagging behind my cen- 
tury, and by the desire of being able to talk vnthout disad- 
vantage with learned men, in whose company I always had 
a desire to be. 

I am especially an amateur physician; and this has be- 
come to me almost a mania. I count amongst my brightest 
days the one when I went in by the professors' door, and with 
them, to the prize thesis of Dr. Cloquet. I had the pleasure of 
hearing a murmur of curiosity run through the amphitheatre, 

( xlv ) 



PREFACE 

each student asking his neighbour who the distinguished foreign 
professor was who honoured the company with his presence. 
There is also another day of which the remembrance is, I 
think, as dear to me; it is the day when I presented to the Ad- 
ministrative Council of the Society for the Encouragement of 
National Industry the irrorator, an instrument of my own 
invention, which is nothing mare than a fordng-pump with 
which any one can perfume rooms. 

I brought in my pocket my well-filled machine; I turned the 
cock, and there escaped with a hissing sound an odoriferous 
vapour that, rising even unto the ceiling, fell in little drops on 
individuals and papers. I saw then with an inexpressible 
pleasure the most learned heads of the capital bow dawn under 
my irroration, and I was thoroughly glad when I observed 
that the wettest were also the most happy. 

Thinking now and then of the grave lucubrations to which 
the extent of my subject has led me, I have had a sincere fear 
of being tiresome. For I also have sometimes yawned over the 
vmtings of others. 

I have done all that is in my power to avoid this reproach; 
I have only skimmed the various subjects that might lend them- 
selves to it; I have filled my book with anecdotes, of which some 
are personal to myself; I have left on one side a great number 
of facts both extraordinary and singular, that a wholesome 
criticism ought to have rejected; I have roused attention by mak- 
ing plain and popular a certain knowledge which the learned ' 
appear to have reserved for themselves. If, in spile of all my 
efforts, I have not presented to my readers a science easy of 
digestion, I shall be jvM as tranquil, very certain that the 
majority will absolve me on account of my intention. 

It may be said that I let my pen run on now and then too 
fast, and that when I narrate an anecdote, I rather fall into 

(xlvi) 



PREFACE 

garrulity. Is it my fault that I am an old man ? Is it my fault 
that, like Ulysses, I have seen the manners and towns of many 
nations f Am I, then, worthy of blame for having given a little 
of my biography ? 

Finally, the reader should consider that I spare him my 
political Memoirs, which deserve to be read as well as many 
others, inasmuch as for thirty-six years past I have been in 
the best places to see men and events pass. Above all, care 
should be taken not to assign me a place among compilers; if 
I had been reduced to this, my pen might have been quiet, and 
I should not have lived the less happy for it. I say, like 
Juvenal — 

Semper ego auditor tantum! nunquam ne reponam! 

and those who are acquainted with the subject will easily see 
that, equally accustomed to the turmoil of society as to the si- 
lence of the study, I have done well in making the most of both 
these positions. 

Firudly, I have done much for my own satisfaction. I have 
given the names of several of my friends, who did not expect it; 
I have recalled some pleasing recollections; I have settled others 
that might have escaped me, and as we say in familiar style, 
I took my coffee. Perhaps one solitary reader, in the cate- 
gory of the wearied, may call out, "I did not want to know 
if . . ." " What is he thinking about when he says that ..." 
etc., etc. But I am certain that all the others will tell him to be 
silent, and that an imposing majority will receive with pleas- 
ure such effuMons of a praiseworthy sentiment. It Only re- 
mains for me to say a word about my style, which, as Buff on 
says, "is all the man." 

Let none think that I come to ask a favour which is never 
granted to those who want it. I want merely to make a simple 

( xlvii ) 



PREFACE 

explanation. I ought to vyrite to -perfection; as Voltaire, Jean 
Jacques Rousseau, Finelon, Buffon, and later. Cochin and 
d'Aguesseau, have been my favourite authors. I know them by 
heart. Bui perhaps the gods have ordained it otherwise; and if 
so, this is the cause of the will of the gods. I know more or less 
well Jive living languages. This makes an enormous repertory 
of words of various patterns. 

When I have need of an expression, and I do not find it in 
the French compartment, I take it from the next one; and thus 
the reader has to translate me or divine my meaning; — it is 
his fate. 

I could have done otherwise, but I am prevented by a spirit 
of system, to which I hold in an invincible manner, 

I am perfectly convinced that the French language which I 
use is comparatively poor. What is to be done in this case? 
To borrow or steal. I do both, inasmuch as these borrourings 
are not subject to restitution, and as the robbery of words is not 
punishable by the penal code. 

An idea of my boldness may be imagined, when it is known 
that I call volante,/rowi the Spanish, any man I have ordered 
to go on an errand, and that I had determined to Frenchify the 
English word to sip, which signifies to drink in small portions. 
But I exhumed the French word siroter, to which nearly the 
same meaning is given. 

I know that stem critics will invoke BossuM, FSnelon, 
Racine, Boileau, Pascal, and other authors of the century of 
Louis XIV; I imagine that I hear them make a frightful dis- 
turbance. 

To which I reply calmly that I am far from denying the 
merit of these authors, either expressed or implied; but what 
then? . . . Nothing, except that, if they succeeded in their per- 
formance on an inferior instrument, they would have played 
( xlviii ) 



PREFACE 

much better on a superior one. We may conceive that Tartini 
would have played still better on the violin if his bow had 
equalled that of Baillot in length. 

I do belong to the neologists, and even to the romanticists; 
the latter find out many hidden treasures; the former are 
like sailors who go about to find afar the provender they 
want. 

The Northern peoples, and especially the English,have over 
us in this respect an enormous advantage. Genius is there 
never hampered by expressions; it either creates or borrows 
them. It is thus that in all subjects which admit depth and 
energy, our translators only produce pale and colourless 
copies. 

Once I heard at the Institute an amusing discourse on the 
danger of neology, and on the necessity of keeping our lan- 
guage as it was when the authors of the golden age fixed its 
limits. 

As a chemist, I passed this argument through the retort; but 
there only remained, "We have done so well that there is no 
way of doing better or otherwise." 

Now, I have lived long enough to know that each generation 
says the same thing, and that the following generation always 
laughs at it. 

Besides, we must change words when manners and ideas 
endure continual modifications. If we do things like the 
ancients, we do not do them in the same way; and there are 
entire pages in some French books that are intranslatable 
either into Latin or Greek. 

Each language has had its birth, its apogee, and its decline; 
and none of those which have been famous, from the time of 
Sesostris to that of Philip Augustus, exists except in monu- 
ments. The French language will have the same destiny, and 

( xlix ) 



PREFACE 

in the year 2825, if anybody reads me at all, he wUl only read 
me with the aid of a dictionary. 

I once had on this subject a discussion of a furious char- 
acter with the 'pleasant M. Andrieux, of the French Academy. 

I made my attack in good order; I charged vigorously, and 
I would have succeeded if he had not made a prompt retreat, 
to which I interposed no obstacle, as I remembered that 
happily for himself, he was entrusted with a letter in the new 
Dictionary. 

I shall conclude by an important observation, which I have 
kept until the last. 

When I write "I" or "me" in the singular, I am merely 
gossiping with the reader, who may examine, discuss, doubt, 
and even laugh; but when I am equipped rjoith ike redoubtable 
"we" I am a professor, and every one must give in. 

"I am Sir Oracle, 
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark." 

Sba££SP£!abe, Merchant qf Venice, Act i, Sc. i. 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

MEDITATION I 

ON THE SENSES 

The senses are organs by which man communicates with 
external objects. 

NUMBER OF THE SENSES 

1. We must coimt at least six. 

Sight, which embraces space, and instructs us, by the 
means of light, of the existence and the colours of the 
bodies around us. 

Hearing, which receives through the medium of the air 
the motion caused by vibrating or sonorous bodies. 

Smell, by means of which we become aware of the odours 
possessed by substances. 

Taste, by which we appreciate everything that has a 
flavour, or is eatable. 

Touch, of which the object is the consistence and the 
surface of bodies. 

Finally, genesic or physical love, which attracts one sex 
towards the other, and of which the object is the reproduc- 
tion of the species. 

It is surprising that, almost to the days of Buffon, such 
an important sense should have been unknown, and 
should have remained confoimded or rather annexed to 
touch. 

Nevertheless, the sensation of which it is the seat has 

(1) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

nothing in common with that of feeling; it resides in an 
apparatus as complete as the mouth or the eyes; and 
although it is singular that each sex has everything needful 
to experience the sensation, it is nevertheless necessary that 
the two should be in union to attain the object that Nature 
has proposed. And if taMe, which has for its object the 
preservation of the individual, is undoubtedly a sense, 
the same title must also be given to the organs destined 
for the preservation of the species. 

We must therefore give to the genesic sense the place in 
the senses which cannot be refused to it, and we may leave 
to posterity the task of assigning its particular rank. 

ACTION OF THE SENSES 

2. If we were permitted, even in imagination, to refer 
to the first moments of the existence of the hiunan genus, 
it is also permissible to believe that the first sensations were 
direct; that is to say, that each one saw dimly, heard 
vaguely, smelt indiscriminately, ate without taste, and 
enjoyed himself coarsely. 

But the soul being the centre of all these sensations, the 
special attribute of the human species and the ever active 
cause of perfectibility, they have been reflected in this soul, 
compared, and judged, and very soon all the senses have 
been brought to the aid of each other, for the utility and 
the happiness of the " percipient ego" or, what is the same 
thing, of the individual. 

Thus, touch rectifies the errors of vision; sound, by 
means of articulate speech, becomes the interpreter of 
every sentiment; taste is aided by sight and smell; hearing 
compares sounds, appreciates distances; and the genesic 
sense has invaded the organs of all the other senses. 

(2) 



ON THE SENSES 

The torrent of centuries rolling over the human race has 
continually brought new perfections, the cause of which, 
always active, though almost invisible, is found in the 
demands made by our senses, which always, and in turn, 
require to be agreeably occupied. 

Thus sight has given birth to painting, to sculpture, and 
to spectacles of every sort; 

Sound, to melody, harmony, dancing, and music, with all 
its branches and its means of execution; 

Smell, to the search for, the culture, and the use of 
perfumes; 

Taste, to the production, the selection, and the prepara- 
tion of all that can serve as food; 

Touch, to all the arts, all the capacities, and all the 
industries; 

The genesic sense, to all that can prepare or render beau- 
tiful the imion of the sexes, and, since Francis I, to ro- 
mantic love, coquetry, and fashion; above all to coquetry, 
which, born in France, has only a name in French, and of 
which the elite of nations come every day to take lessons in 
the capital of the universe. 

Strange as this proposition may appear, it is neverthe- 
less easily proved, for in no language used by the ancients 
can we express ourselves clearly about these three great 
motives of society as it exists at present. 

I wrote on this subject a dialogue that might not have 
beeh without attractions, but I suppressed it, to leave to 
my readers the pleasure of making it each in his own man- 
ner. Thus they can employ their mind, and even their 
learning, during a whole evening. 

We have said already that the genesic sense has invaded 
the organs of all the other senses; it has not less powerfully 

(3) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

influenced every science, and, regarding it closely, we may 
see that everything therein most delicate and ingenious is 
due to the desire, the hope, or the gratitude which is due to 
the imion of the sexes. 

The genealogy of sciences, even the most abstract, is 
such, that they are merely the immediate result of the con- 
tinuous efforts that we make to gratify our senses. 

IMPBOVEMENT OF THE SENSES 

3. These senses, our favourites, are nevertheless far 
from being perfect, and I shall not stop to prove this. I 
shall merely observe that sight, an ethereal sense, and 
touch, which is at the other end of the scale, have acquired, 
in time, a very remarkable additional power. 

By the means of spectacles, the eye escapes, so to say, 
from the senile obliteration which oppresses the majority 
of other organs. 

The telescope has discovered stars formerly unknown 
and inaccessible to all means of measurement; it has pene- 
trated distances so great that luminous and necessarily 
immense bodies present themselves to us only as nebulous 
and almost imperceptible spots. 

The microscope has made us acquainted with the interior 
configuration of bodies; it has shown us vegetation and 
plants of which hitherto we scarcely suspected the exist- 
ence. Finally, we have seen animals a hundred thousand 
times smaller than the smallest which are perceived by the 
naked eye; these little animals nevertheless move, feed, and 
multiply, which leads us to suppose that they have organs 
so minute that the imagination cannot conceive it. 

On the other side, mechanics have multiplied our power; 
man has executed all that he could imagine, and has re- 

(4) 



. ON THE SENSES 

moved burdens which nature itself had made inaccessible 
to his weakness. 

With the aid oiimplements and of the lever, man has sub- 
jugated all nature; he has made it submit to his pleasure, 
his wants, and his caprices. He has convulsed the surface 
of the globe, and a feeble biped has become the king of the 
creation. 

Sight and touch, thus increased in their capacity, might 
have belonged to some species much superior to man, or 
rather the human species would have been quite something 
else, if all the senses had been improved in this manner. 
We must remark, nevertheless, that though touch has 
acquired a great development as a muscular power, civilisa- 
tion has done almost nothing for it as a sensitive organ; but 
we must not despair, remembering that the human species 
is still very young, and that it is only after a long series of 
centuries that the senses can enlarge their domain. 

For example, it is only for about four centuries that 
harmony has been discovered, an altogether celestial 
science, which is to sound exactly what painting is to 
colour.^ 

Certainly, the ancients knew how to sing, accompanied 
by instruments in unison; but they limited their knowledge 
to this; they knew neither to decompose sounds, nor to 
appreciate their relations. 

It was only in the fifteenth century that time was 

• We know that people have maintained the contrary, but this idea 
is a worthless one. If the ancients had been acquainted with harmony, 
their writings would have preserved to us some precise notion on this 
matter, instead of a few obscure phrases, which may mean anjrthing. 
Besides, we can follow the birth and the progress of harmony in the 
monuments left to us. We are indebted for it to the Arabs, who gave 
us the organ, which, producing at the same time several continuous 
sounds, evoked the first idea of harmony. 

(5) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

reduced to system, accords made to agree, and that it was 
used to sustain the voice, and to reinforce the expression of 
ideas. 

That discovery, made so late and nevertheless so natural, 
has doubled the sense of hearing; it shows that it has two 
faculties in some sort independent of each other, of which 
one receives the sounds, and the other marks the resonance. 

Some German doctors say that persons sensible of 
harmony have one sense more than others. 

As for those to whom music is but a confused mass of 
sounds, we may remark that nearly every one of them 
sings in discord. And we must believe either that amongst 
them the auditory apparatus is made in such a manner as 
only to receive short vibrations without undulation, or 
rather, that the two ears not being of the same diapason, 
the difference in length and sensibility of their constituent 
parts makes them only transmit to the brain an obscure 
and undefined sensation, like two instruments which play 
neither in the same key nor in the same time, and do not 
produce any continuous melody. 

<^ The last centuries that have passed away have also given 
to the sphere of taste important extensions; the discovery 
of sugar and its diverse preparations, alcoholic liquors, ice, 
vanilla, tea and coffee, have given us flavoiu-s whereof the 
whole world was previously ignorant. 

Who knows if touch will not have some day its turn, and 
if some happy accident will not open to us in this quarter 
some source of new enjoyments? This is the more probable, 
as tactile sensibility exists over all the body, and may con- 
sequently be excited everywhere. 



(6) 



ON THE SENSES 

POWER OF THE TASTE 

4. We have seen that physical love has taken posses- 
sion of all the sciences; it acts in this case with that 
tyranny that always characterises it. 

Taste, that more prudent, more measured faculty, 
though not less active; taste, we say, has accomplished the 
same aim with a slowness which ensures its durable suc- 
cess. 

Elsewhere we shall consider its progress. We may, how- 
ever, already observe, that any person who has been 
present at a sumptuous repast, in a hall decorated with 
mirrors, paintings, sculpture, flowers, odoriferous with 
perfumes, adorned with pretty women, filled with the 
sounds of a delicious harmony, will not need a great mental 
effort to convince himself that all sciences have been laid 
under contribution to enhance and enshrine becomingly 
the pleasures of taste. 

OBJECT OF THE ACTION OF THE SENSES 

5. Let us now glance in a general manner at the sys- 
tem of our senses that we have taken in their entirety, and 
we shall see that the Author of Creation had two objects, 
of which one is the consequence of the other; the preserva- 
tion of the individual to assure the duration of the species. 
Such is the destiny of man, considered as a sensitive being; 
and it is towards this double object that all his actions are 
directed. 

The eye perceives external objects, reveals the marvels 
by which man is environed, and teaches him that he is a 
portion of a great whole. 

The sense of hearing receives soxmds not merely as 
(7) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

agreeable sensations, but also as wammgs of the move- 
ment of bodies likely to endanger us. 

The sense of touch watches to give us, by the means of 
pain, information of any immediate hurt. 

The hand, as a faithful servant, has not only prepared 
its defence, assured its steps, but has seized in preference 
those objects that instinct makes him think fit to repair 
the losses caused by the maintenance of life. 

Smell explores them, as deleterious substances have al- 
most always an unpleasant odour. 

Fmally, taste decides; the teeth are put in action, the 
tongue is imited to the palate to taste, and soon the stomach 
commences assimilation. 

In this state an unknown languor is felt, objects seem 
less vivid, the body bends, the eyes are closed, everything 
disappears, and the senses are in an absolute repose. 

At his waking, man sees that nothing has changed around 
him. Nevertheless, a secret fire ferments in his bosom, and 
a new organ is developed. He feels that his existence must 
be shared with some one. 

This active, unquiet, and imperious sentiment is com- 
mon to both sexes. It attracts them, unites them, and 
when the germ of a new existence is fecundated, each in- 
dividual may sleep in peace. They have fulfilled the most 
holy of their duties in assuring the duration of the species.^ 

Such are the general and philosophical principles I wish 
to place before my readers to bring them naturally to the 
more special examination of the organ of taste. 

• M. de BuSon paints with all the chanus of the most brilliant elo- 
quence the first moments of the existence of Eve. Called to treat nearly 
the same subject, we have merely drawn a simple sketch. But the readers 
will know how to complete the colouring. 



MEDITATION II 

OF TASTE 

DEFINITION OF TASTE 

6. Taste is the one of our senses which places us in 
relation with sapid bodies by means of the sensation they 
produce in the organ destined to appreciate them. 

Taste, which has for its excitants appetite, hunger, and 
thirst, is the base of many operations whereof the result is 
that the individual grows, develops, preserves himself, and 
repairs the losses caused by vital evaporations. 

Organised bodies are not all nourished in the same man- 
ner. The Author of Creation, equally varied in His 
methods as certain in His effects, has assigned them various 
modes of preservation. 

Vegetables, the lowest in the scale of living beings, are 
nourished by roots which, implanted into the native soil, 
select by the action of a peculiar mechanism different sub- 
stances which have the property of serving for their growth 
and their preservation. 

Going a little higher in the scale, we find bodies gifted 
with animal life, but deprived of locomotion. They are 
produced in a medium that favours their existence, and 
special organs extract all that is necessary to sustain the 
portion of life and of duration which has been given to 
them. They do not seek food, but, on the contrary, it 
comes to seek them. 

Another mode has been fixed for the preservation of 
animals which move everywhere in the universe, and of 

(9) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

which man is undoubtedly the most perfect. A particular 
instinct warns him when to eat; he seeks, he seizes the 
objects which he imagines possess the property of satisfy- 
ing his wants; he eats, is restored, and thus during his life 
goes through the career assigned to him. 

Taste itself may be considered imder three aspects. In 
physical man it is the mechanism by means of which he 
appreciates savours. Considered in moral man, it is the 
sensation which any organ impressed by a savoury body 
excites in the common centre. 

Finally, considered under its material aspect, taste is 
the property which a body possesses to impress an organ 
and to originate sensation. 

Taste appears to have two principal uses; — 

1°. It invites us, by pleasure, to repair the continual 
losses which we suffer by the action of life. 

2°. It aids us to select, among the various substances 
which Nature presents to us, those which are alimentary. 

In this choice, we shall see hereafter that taste is power- 
fully aided by the sense of smell; as a general principle, it 
may be laid down that nutritive substances are repulsive 
neither to smell nor to taste. 

MECHANISM OF TASTE 

7. It is not easy to determine exactly wherein the 
faculty of taste consists. It is more complicated than it ap- 
pears. Certainly the tongue plays a great part in the mech- 
anism of taste, for, considering it as gifted with rather 
strong muscular power, it enfolds, turns, presses, and swal- 
lows the food. 

Further, by means of the more or less numerous papillae 
with which it is covered, it is impregnated with sapid and 

(10) 



OF TASTE 

soluble particles from those bodies with which it comes in 
contact; but all this is not sufficient, and many other ad- 
jacent parts concur to complete the sensation, namely, the 
cheeks, the palate, and, above all, the nasal fossae, whereon 
physiologists have perhaps not sufficiently insisted. 

The cheeks, as well as the maxillary and sublingual 
glands, form the saliva, equally necessary for mastica- 
tion and the formation of the nourishing mass. They, as 
well as the palate, are gifted with a portion of the appre- 
ciative faculties; I do not know if even in certain cases the 
gums do not participate a little in it; and without the odora- 
tion which is preserved in the back part of the mouth, 
the sensation of taste would be obtuse and wholly im- 
perfect. 

The persons who have no tongue, or whose tongue has 
been cut out, possess the sensation of taste very fairly. 
Many books speak of the first case; the second has been 
sufficiently explained to me by a wretched man whose 
tongue the Algerians had cut out for having, with some of 
his comrades in captivity, formed a project of escaping and 
running away. 

This man, whom I met at Amsterdam, where he gained 
his living by running errands, had some education, and it 
was easy to communicate with him in writing. 

After having observed that all the fore part of the tongue 
down to the frenulum had been cut away, I asked him if 
he stUl recognised any taste in what he ate, and if the sensa- 
tion of taste had survived the cruel operation which he had 
undergone. 

He answered, that what was most troublesome to him 
was the act of swallowing, which was only done with great 
difficulty; that he had preserved taste pretty fairly; that 

(11) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

he appreciated, like others, what was little sapid or agree- 
able, but that anything which was very sour or bitter 
caused him intolerable pain. 

He also told me that cutting away the tongue was com- 
mon in some African kingdoms; that it was applied espe- 
cially to those who were thought to have been chiefs of a 
plot, and that special instruments were used for this opera- 
tion. I wanted him to describe them, but he exhibited on 
this topic such a sorrowful disinclination that I did not 
insist. 

I reflected on what he had said, and, carrying my 
thoughts back to those centuries of ignorance, when the 
tongues of blasphemers were pierced and cut, I came to the 
conclusion that these punishments were of African origin, 
and imported at the return of the Crusaders. 

We have seen already that the sensation of taste resides 
principally in the papillae of the tongue. But anatomy tells 
us that every tongue has not the same number of them, and 
that in some tongues there are three times as many papillae 
as in others. This circumstance will explain why of two 
guests sitting at the same table one should be deliciously 
affected, whereas the other seems to eat from constraint; 
it is because the latter has a tongue imperfectly provided 
with papillae, and that the empire of taste has also its 
blind and its deaf people. 

SENSATION OF TASTE 

8. Five or six different opinions have been broached 
as to the manner in which the sensation of taste operates; 
I have also mine, and it is as follows: — 

The sensation of taste is a chemical operation, made in 
the humid way, as we called it formerly; that is to say, 

(12) 



OF TASTE 

that it is necessary for the sapid molecules to be dissolved 
by some fluid to be finally absorbed by the nervous ganglia, 
papillse, or suckers which cover the interior of the organ 
of taste. 

This system, new or not, is based on physical proofs that 
are almost palpable. 

Pure water does not cause a sensation of taste, because 
it does not contain any sapid particle. Dissolve in it a 
grain of salt, or some drops of vinegar, the sensation will 
take place. 

Other drinks, on the contrary, impress us, because they 
are nothing else but liquids more or less charged with ap- 
preciable particles. 

The mouth would be uselessly filled with the divided 
particles of an insoluble body, for the tongue would ex- 
perience a sensation of touch alone, and not of taste. 

As to solid and tasty bodies, it is necessary that the 
teeth should divide them, that they should be impreg- 
nated with the saliva and other tasting fluids, and that the 
tongue should press them against the palate to express a 
juice, which, then sufficiently charged with sapidity, is 
appreciated by the gustatory papillse, which deliver to the 
substance thus triturated the passport it requires to be 
admitted into the stomach. 

This system, which will yet receive fiu-ther develop- 
ments, answers without effort the principal questions 
which may present themselves. 

For if we ask what is understood by a sapid body, we re- 
ceive the reply that it is any soluble body fit to be absorbed 
by the organ of taste. 

And if we ask how a sapid body acts, the answer is, that 
it acts every time that it is foimd in a state of solution so 

(13) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

that it can penetrate m the cavities charged with receivmg 
and transmitting the sensation. 

In a word, nothing is sapid but that which is already 
dissolved or easily soluble. 

SAVOXJES 

9. The number of savours is infinite, as each soluble 
body has a special savour, which does not entirely resemble 
that of any other. 

Savours are also modified by their simple, double, or 
multiple aggregation; so that it is impossible to classify 
them, from the most pleasant to the most disagreeable, 
from the strawberry to the colocynth. Thus every one who 
has yet tried to do this has almost failed. 

This result ought not to amaze us, for, it being granted 
that endless series of simple savours exist, which may be 
modified by their reciprocal union, in any number and in 
any quantity, a new language would be necessary to ex- 
plain all these results, mountains of folios to describe them, 
and as yet imknown numeric characters to label them. 

Now, as until to-day no circumstance has yet presented 
itself in which any savour could have been appreciated 
with perfect exactness, we have been obliged to be satisfied 
with a restricted number of general epithets, as sweet, 
sugary, acid, sharp, and similar ones, which are expressed 
in the final analysis by the words "agreeable" and "dis- 
agreeable," and which suflSLce to make us be understood, 
and to indicate more or less the gustatory properties of any 
sapid substance with which we are dealing. 

Those who come after us will know more about it, and it 
is no longer permitted to doubt that chemistry will reveal 
to them the causes or the primitive elements of savours. 

(14) 



OF TASTE 

INFLUENCE OF SMELL ON TASTE 

10. The order I have indicated for myself hg^ gradu- 
ally brought me to the moment when I shall render to 
smell the rights that belong to it, and the recognition of the 
important services it renders to us in the appreciation of 
savours; for, amongst the authors whom I have perused, 
I have not foimd one who appears to have done entire and 
complete justice to it. 

For myself, I am not only persuaded that without the 
participation of smell there is no perfect taste, but I am 
even tempted to believe that smell and taste only form one 
sense, of which the mouth is the laboratory and the nose 
the chimney; or to speak more exactly, that the tongue 
tastes tactile substances, and the nose gases. 

This theory may be rigorously defended. Nevertheless, 
as I do not pretend to found a sect of my own, I only ven- 
ture to expose it, to indicate to my readers a subject of 
thought, that they may see that I have carefully studied 
the subject I am treating. Now, I shall continue my dem- 
onstration on the subject of the importance of smell, if not 
as a constituent part of taste, at least as a necessary ad- 
junct. 

All sapid bodies must be necessarily odorous, which 
places them as well in the empire of smell as in the empire 
of taste. 

We eat nothing without smelling it with more or less 
consciousness; and for imknown foods, the nose acts al- 
ways as a sentinel, and cries, "Who goes there?" 

When smell is interrupted, taste is paralysed. This is 
proved by three experiments, which any one may make 
successfully. 

(15) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

First experiment. When the nasal mucous membrane 
is irritated by a violent cold in the head, taste is entirely 
obliterated. In anything we swallow, there is no taste. 
The tongue nevertheless remains in its normal state. 

Second experiment. If we eat whilst holding tight our 
nose, we are much astonished only to experience the 
sensation of taste in an obscure and imperfect manner. By 
this means, the most disgusting medicines are swallowed 
almost without tasting them. 

Third experiment. We see the same eflFect if, at the 
moment we have swallowed, instead of bringing back the 
tongue to its usual place, we keep it close to the palate. 
In this case, the circulation of the air is intercepted, the 
organs of smell are not affected, and taste does not occur. 

These different effects depend upon the same cause, the 
lack of cooperation of the smell, which makes the sapid 
body to be appreciated only on account of its juice, and 
not for the odoriferous gas that emanates from it. 

ANALYSIS OF THE SENSATION OF TASTE 

11. These principles being thus laid down, I regard it 
as certain that taste gives rise to sensations of three dif- 
ferent orders, namely: direct sensation, complete sensation, 
and reflex sensation. 

Direct sensation is that first perception which arises from 
the immediate operation of the organs of the mouth, whilst 
the appreciable body is yet found on the point of the tongue. 

Complete sensation is that which is composed of this first 
perception, and of the impression which originates when 
the food abandons this first position, passes into the back 
part of the mouth, and impresses the whole organ with 
both taste and perfume. 

(16) 



OF TASTE 

Finally, reflex sensation is the judgment of the mind upon 
the impressions transmitted to it by the organ. 

Let us apply this theory, and see what takes place in a 
mem who eats and drinks. 

He who eats a peach, for example, is at first agreeably 
struck by the odour which emanates from it; he puts it in 
his mouth, and feels a sensation of freshness and of sour- 
ness which induces him to continue; but it is only at the 
moment when he swallows it, and when the mouthful 
passes under the nasal fossa, that the perfume is revealed 
to him. This completes the sensation which a peach ought 
to produce. Finally, it is only when it has been swallowed 
that, considering what he has just experienced, the taster 
says to himself, "How delicious!" 

So also, when we drink, while the wine is in the mouth, 
we are agreeably but not perfectly impressed; it is only at 
the moment when we have ceased to swallow that we may 
truly taste, appreciate, and discover the particular bouquet 
of each sort; and a little interval of time is necessary before 
the connoisseur can say, "It is good, middling, or bad. 
By Jove! this is Chambertin! Good Heavens! this is 
Suresnes!" 

We see by this that it is according to principles, and on 
accoimt of a well understood practice, that real lovers of 
wine sip it, because at each mouthful, when they stop, they 
have the sum total of the pleasure which they would have 
experienced if they had drunk the whole glass up at one 
draught. The same thing also occurs, but with much more 
energy, whenever the taste is disagreeably aflFected. 

Look at this sick man, whom the faculty constrains to 
swallow an enormous glass of a black draught, such as wax 
drunk in the reign of Louis XIV. 

(17) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

The smell, a faithful adviser, warns him against the 
repulsive flavour of the deceitful liquid. His eyes expand, 
as if at the approach of danger: disgust is on his lips, and 
already his stomach begins to rise. Nevertheless he is ex- 
postulated with; he takes courage, gargles his throat with 
brandy, holds his nose, and drinks . . . 

So long as the detestable beverage fills the mouth and 
lines the organ, the sensation is confused and the condi- 
tion bearable, but at the last mouthful after-tastes begin 
to be developed, nauseous odours arise, and the features of 
the patient express a horror and a disgust which is only 
braved through fear of death. 

If the liquid be, on the contrary, merely insipid, as, for 
example, a glass of water, there is no taste or after-taste. 
Nothing is felt, nothing is thought of: we merely drink, and 
that is all. 

SUCCESSION OF THE DIVERS IMPEESSIONS OF TASTE 

12. Taste is not so richly endowed as hearing: the 
latter can appreciate and compare many sounds at the 
same time; but taste, on the other hand, is actually simple 
— that is to say, that two flavours at once are equally in- 
appreciable. 

But it may be doubled and multiplied in succession — 
that is to say, that in one act of deglutition we may ex- 
perience successively a second and even a third sensation, 
each of which gradually becomes more weak, and which 
are described by the words after-taste, bouquet, or fra- 
grance. So, when a chord is struck, a skilful ear may dis- 
tinguish one or many series of consonances, of which the 
number is as yet imperfectly known. 

Those who eat rapidly and without attention do not 
(18) 



OF TASTE 

discern secondary impressions. These are only the exclu- 
sive appanage of a small number of the elect, and it is by 
their means that the various substances submitted to their 
examination may be classified. 

These transient diversities vibrate yet for a long time in 
the organ of taste. Without havmg the least idea of it, 
gastronomes will assume an appropriate position, and their 
judgments are always pronounced with outstretched neck, 
and with the nose upon the larboard tack. 

ENJOYMENTS DUE TO THE TASTE 

13. Let us now philosophically examine the pleasure 
or pain occasionally caused by taste. 

We find, first of all, the application of this truth unfor- 
tunately too general, that man is much better organised 
for sorrow than for pleasiu-e. 

In fact, the injection of sharp, acrid, or bitter substances 
of the strongest character, can make us experience sensa- 
tions extremely painful or sorrowful. It is even maintained 
that hydrocyanic acid only kills so promptly because it 
produces an agony so keen that the vital forces cannot 
endure it without succumbing. 

Agreeable sensations, on the other hand, only run 
through a not very extensive scale, but as there is a very 
sensible difference between that which is insipid and that 
which flatters the taste, the interval is not so great be- 
tween that which is recognised as good and that which is 
reputed as excellent. This is proven by the following ex- 
amples: Firstly, a dry and hard piece of boiled beef; 
secondly, a piece of veal; thirdly, a pheasant done to a 
turn. 

Nevertheless, taste, such as Nature has given to us, is 

(19) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

yet one of our senses that, all things considered, procures 
to us the greatest number of enjoyments: — 

1°. Because the pleasure of eating is the only one that, 
taken in moderation, is never followed by fatigue; 

%°. Because it belongs to all times, all ages, and all con- 
ditions; 

3°. Because it occurs necessarily at least once a day, 
and may be repeated without inconvenience two or three 
times in this space of time; 

4°. Because it may be combined with all our other 
pleasures, and even console us for their absence; 

5°. Because the impressions it receives are at the same 
time more durable and more dependent on our will; 

6°. Finally, because in eating we receive a certain in- 
definable and special comfort, which arises from the intui- 
tive consciousness that we repair our losses and prolong 
our existence by the food we eat. 

This will be more amply developed in the chapter 
wherein we treat especially of the "Pleasures of the 
Table," taken from that point of view to which our present, 
civilisation has brought it. 

SUPEEMACT or MAN 

14. We have been brought up in the pleasant belief 
that amongst all the animals which walk, swim, creep, or 
fly, man is the one whose taste is most perfect. 

This belief is liable to be upset. 

Dr. Gall, relying on some examinations, says that there 
are many animals who have the organs of taste more de- 
veloped and, therefore, more perfect than those of man. 
This is a very unpleasant doctrine, and smacks of heresy. 

Man, by divine right king of all creation, and for whose 
(20) 



OF TASTE 

benefit the earth has been covered and peopled, must 
necessarily be provided with organs which can adequately 
appreciate all that is sapid amongst his subjects. 

The tongue of animals does not exceed the reach of their 
intelligence. In fishes, it is only a movable bone; in birds, it 
is generally a membranous cartilage; in quadrupeds, it is 
often covered with scales or asperities, and, moreover, has 
no circumflex motions. 

The tongue of man, on the other hand, by the delicacy 
of its texture and the various membranes with which it is 
environed and surroimded, sufficiently indicates the sub- 
limity of the operations for which it is destined. 

I have, besides, discovered at least three movements 
unknown to animals, and which I name spication, rotation, 
and verrition. The first is when the tongue, in a coivical 
shape, comes from between the lips that compress it; the 
second, when the tongue moves circularly in the space 
comprised between the interior of the cheeks and the 
palate; the third, when the tongue, curving upwards or 
downwards, gathers anything which remains in the semi- 
circular canal formed by the lips and the gums. 

Animals are limited in their tastes: some only live on 
vegetables; others only eat flesh; some nourish themselves 
exclusively on grain; none of them knows composite 
flavours. 

Man, on the contrary, is omnivorous. Everything which 
is eatable is subject to his enormous appetite; hence, as a 
consequence, his gustatory powers must be proportionate 
to the general use he has to make of them. In fact, the 
power of taste is of a rare perfection in man, and we have 
only to convince ourselves of this by seeing it in operation. 

The moment an esculent body is introduced into the 

(21) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

mouth, it is for ever confiscated, with all its gases and 
juices. 

The lips prevent its going back; the teeth take hold of it 
and crush it; the saliva imbibes it; the tongue mixes it and 
turns it over and over; an aspiratory motion pushes it 
towards the gullet; the tongue raises it up to let it slide 
down; the sense of smell perceives it as it goes along, and 
it is thrown into the stomach, to undergo ulterior trans- 
formations. But throughout this operation there is not 
a single particle, a drop, or an atom, which has not been 
submitted to the appreciative power. 

It is on account of this perfection that gourmandise 
belongs exclusively to man. 

This gourmandise is even contagious, and we impart it 
readily to the animals which we have appropriated to our 
use, and which, to a certain extent, have become our com- 
panions, such as elephants, dogs, cats, and even parrots. 

If some animals have the tongue larger, the palate more 
developed, the gullet wider, it is because this tongue, act- 
ing as a muscle, is destined to move great weights; the 
palate to press, the gullet to swallow larger portions; but 
any sound analogy is opposed to the inference that their 
sense of taste is more perfect. 

Besides, since taste can only be judged by the nature of 
the sensation which it carries to a common centre, the im- 
pression received by the animal cannot be compared with 
that experienced by man; this latter is clearer and more 
precise, and necessarily supposes a superior quality in the 
organ which transmits it. 

Finally, can we hope for any improvement in a faculty 
susceptible of such a point of perfection that the gour- 
mands of Rome distinguished, by taste alone, the fish 

(22) 



OF TASTE 

caught between the bridges from that which had been 
caught lower down. Do we not see some in our own days 
that can distinguish by its superior flavour the thigh on 
which the partridge leans while sleeping? And have we 
not plenty oi gourmets who are able to indicate the latitude 
under which a wine has ripened, as certainly as a pupil of 
Biot or Arago can foretell an eclipse? 

What follows from all this? That we should render to 
Caesar that which is Caesar's, proclaim man the great gour- 
mand of nature, and not be surprised if the good doctor 
nods sometimes like Homer — 

"... aliguaado bontis dormitat Homerus." 

METHOD ADOPTED BY THE AUTHOR 

15. Up to the present time we have only examined 
taste from a physical point of view, and, unless in some 
anatomical details which few will regret, we have kept to 
the level of science. But here does not finish the task which 
is imposed on us, because it is especially from its moral 
point of view that this reparative sense draws its impor- 
tance and glory. 

We have therefore arranged, in analytical order, the 
theories and the facts which compose the totality of this 
history, in such a manner that instruction without fatigue 
will be the result. 

Thus, in the chapters which are about to follow, we shall 
show how sensations of taste, by being repeated and re- 
flected, have perfected the organ and extended the sphere 
of its powers: how the desire for food, which was at first 
but an instinct, has become an important passion, which 
has a marked influence on all which relates to society. 

We shall also show how all the sciences that have to deal 
(23) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

with the composition of bodies classify and place in a 
separate category all those appreciable to taste, and how 
various travellers have followed in the same direction by 
placing before us substances that Nature never had des- 
tined to come together. 

We shall follow chemistry to the very moment when 
she has penetrated into our subterranean laboratories to 
enlighten our food-preparers, to lay down principles, to 
create methods, and to unveil causes which up till then had 
remained hidden. 

Finally, we shall see how, by the combined power of 
time and experience, a new science has suddenly appeared 
amongst us, which feeds, restores, preserves, persuades, 
consoles, and, not content with throwing, with an open 
hand, flowers over the career of each individual, contrib- 
utes also powerfully to the strength and the prosperity of 
kingdoms. 

If, in the midst of such grave lucubrations, a piquant 
anecdote, a pleasant remembrance, or some souvenir of a 
life of many ups and downs, should come on the tip of my 
pen, it may slip freely to relieve a little the attention of my 
readers. Their number will not affright us, and we shall 
be glad to talk with them; for, if they are men, we are cer- 
tain that they are as indulgent as well informed; and, if 
they are ladies, they, of course, are charming. 

Here the professor, full of his subject, lets his hand drop, and 
rises into the higher regions. He ascends the torrent of ages, 
and takes from their cradle the sciences which have for their 
object the gratification of taste; he follows their progress across 
the night of time, and, seeing that ia the pleasures they procure 
us, early centuries were less profitable than those which followed 
them, he seizes his lyre, and sings, in the Dorian mode, the his- 
torical melopoea which will be found among the " Varieties " at 
the end of this volume. 



MEDITATION III 
ON GASTRONOMY 

ORIGIN OF SCIENCES 

16. The sciences are not like Minerva, who sprang 
in full armour out of the brain of Jupiter; they are the 
daughters of Time, emd were matured insensibly, at first, by 
an accumulation of the methods indicated by experience, 
and later by the discovery of the principles which may be 
deduced from the combination of these methods. 

Thus the first old men who, on account of their discre- 
tion, were called to the bedside of invalids, whose com- 
passion induced them to dress wounds, were also the first 
physicians. 

The shepherds of Egypt, who observed that some stars, 
after a certain time, were always to be found in the same 
place in the heavens, were the first astronomers. 

He who first explained by symbols the simple proposi- 
tion "two and two make four," created mathematics, this 
powerful science which actually raises man on the throne 
of the universe. 

In the course of the last sixty years that have just passed 
away, many new sciences have taken their places in the 
system of oiu- knowledge, and among others, stereotomy, 
descriptive geometry, and the chemistry of gases. 

AU these sciences, cultivated during an infinite number 
of generations, will make so much the more progress, as 
printing frees an author from the danger of retrograding. 
Who knows, for example, if the chemistry of gases may 

(25) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

not ultimately overcome those elements which are as yet 
rebellious, whether they may not be mixed and combined 
in proportions yet unattempted; and, by these means, sub- 
stances and effects be obtained which would yet more 
extend the limit of our powers. 

ORIGIN OF GASTKONOMT 

17. Gastronomy has appeared, in her turn, and all 
the sister sciences have made way foi' it. 

What, indeed, can be refused to a science which sustains 
us from the cradle to the grave, which enhances the pleas- 
ures of love and the intimacy of friendship, which disarms 
hatred, renders business more easy, and offers us, in the 
short journey of life, the only recreation which, not being 
followed by fatigue, makes us yet find relief from all others ? 

Without doubt, as long as the food-preparations were 
entrusted to salaried servants, and the secrets of the craft 
remained underground, as long as cooks alone kept the 
matter to themselves, and books of directions alone were 
written, the results of such labours were merely the prod- 
ucts of an art. 

But finally, perhaps too late, learned men approached 
the subject. 

They examined, analysed, and classified alimentary sub- 
stances, and reduced them to their most simple constit- 
uents. ,,,, 

They fathomed the mysteries of assimilation, and, 
tracing inert matter through its metamorphoses, they saw 
how it became endowed with life. 

They studied food in its transitory or permanent effects 
for some days, some months, or even for a whole life- 
time. 

(26) 



ON GASTRONOMY 

They have estimated its influence even upon the faculty 
of thought, whether the soul is impressed by the senses, or 
whether it feels without the aid of these organs, and from 
all these labours they have deduced a lofty theory which 
embraces the whole man and the whole part of the creation 
which can become animalised. 

Whilst all these things were taking place in the studies 
of men of science, it was said aloud in the drawing-rooms 
that a science which nourishes men is probably worth at 
least as much as one which teaches them to kill each 
other; poets sang the praises of the table, and the books 
on good cheer displayed deeper views and maxims of a 
more general interest. 

Such are the circumstances which have preceded the 
advent of gastronomy. 

DEFINITION OF GASTRONOMY 

18. Gastronomy is the rational knowledge of all that 
relates to man as an eater. 

Its object is to watch over the preservation of men, by 
means of the best nourishment possible. 

It arrives thereat by laying down certain principles to 
direct those who look for, furnish, or prepare the things 
which may be converted into food. 

Thus it is gastronomy that sets in motion farmers, vine- 
growers, fishes, hunters, and the numerous family of 
cooks, whatever may be their title, or under whatever 
qualification they may disguise their occupation of pre- 
paring food. 

Gastronomy is connected — 

With natural history, by its classification of alimentary 
substances; 

(27) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

With physics, by the investigation of their composition 
and of their qualities; 

With chemistry, by the different analyses and decom- 
positions which it makes them imdergo; 

With cookery, by the art of preparing food and render- 
ing it more agreeable to taste; 

With commerce, by the search for means to buy at the 
cheapest rate possible what is consumed by it, and selling 
to the greatest advantage that which is presented for sale. 

Finally, with political economy, by the resources which 
it furnishes to the authorities for taxation, and by the 
means of exchange which it establishes among nations. 

Gastronomy rules the entire life; for the tears of the new- 
bom babe call for the breast of the nurse, and the dying 
man receives still with some pleasure the last cooling drink, 
which, alas! he can no longer digest. 

It has to do, also, with all the states of society; for it 
presides at the banquets of assembled kings, and also cal- 
culates the number of minutes of ebullition which a fresh 
egg requires to be properly boiled. 

The material subject belonging to gastronomy is every- 
thing which may be eaten; its direct object, the preserva- 
tion of individuals, and its means of execution; cultivation 
which produces, commerce which exchanges, industry 
which prepares, and experience which invents the means 
of turning everything to the best account. 

VABIOUS OBJECTS TBEATED ON BY GASTRONOMY 

19. Gastronomy considers taste in its pleasures as well 
as in its pains. It has discovered the gradual degrees of 
excitation of which it is susceptible; it has rendered their 
action more regular, and laid dowUj limits that a man who 

(28) 



ON GASTRONOMY 

respects himself should never overstep. It also considers 
the action of food on the morals of man, on his imagination, 
his mind, judgment, courage, and perceptions, either wak- 
ing, sleeping, working, or resting. 

It is gastronomy that determines the degree of esculence 
of every alimentary object, for all are not presentable at 
table under the same circumstances. 

Some should be eaten before they have arrived at their 
entire development, as capers, asparagus, sucking-pigs, 
pigeons, and other animals which are eaten when they are 
young; others, the moment they have attained all the per- 
fection destined for them, as melons, most fruits, mutton, 
beef, and all animals eaten when full grown; others, when 
they commence to be decomposed, as medlars, woodcocks, 
and especially pheasants; others, finally, after the opera- 
tions of art have taken from them their deleterious quali- 
ties, as the potato, the cassava root, and others. 

It is also gastronomy that classifies all these substances 
according to their diverse qualities, which indicates those 
that should go together, and which, taking into account 
the quantity of nourishment they contain, distinguishes 
those which ought to form the basis of our repasts from 
those that are mere accessories, and also from those which, 
though being no longer necessary, are nevertheless an 
agreeable distraction, and become the necessary accom- 
paniment of convivial gossip. 

Gastronomy takes no less interest in the drinks "which 
are destined for us, according to time, place, and climate. 
It teaches us to prepare them, preserve them, and, above 
all, to present them in such an order, that the pleasure con- 
tinually increases, until gratification ends and abuse begins. 

It is gastronomy which examines men and things for the 
(29) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

purpose of transporting from one country to another every- 
thing which merits to be known, and which orders that a 
feast skilfully arranged should be like the world in minia- 
ture, where each quarter of the world is typified by its 
representatives. 

USE OP GASTRONOMIC Kt^OWLEDGE 

20. Some knowledge of gastronomy is necessary to 
all men, inasmuch as it tends to augment the sum of hap- 
piness which is allotted to them. This utility augments in 
proportion as it is applied to the most comfortable classes 
of society; finally, it is indispensable to those who, en- 
joying a large income, receive much company, either be- 
cause in this respect they think they must keep up an ap- 
pearance, follow their own fancy, or yield to fashion. 

There is this special advantage that they take even a 
personal interest in the manner wherein their table is kept, 
that they are able to superintend, up to a certain point, the 
compulsory guardians of their confidence, and even on 
many occasions to direct them. 

The Prince de Soubise one day intended to give a feast 
which was to fiatiish with a supper, and he asked that the 
bill of fare should be shown to him. 

At his levSe came the steward with a beautifully orna- 
mented document, and the first article which caught the 
eye of the prince was "fifty hams." 

"Hullo, Bertrand!" said he, "you must be out of your 
senses. Fifty hams! Do you want to feed all my regi- 
ment?" 

"No, Your Highness, there will only appear one on the 
table; but the others are not the less necessary for my con- 
centrated gravy, my blonds, my trimmings, my . . ." 

(30) 



ON GASTRONOMY 

"Bertrand, you are cheating me, and I cannot let this 
item pass." 

"Ah, my lord," said the artist, scarcely able to retain 
his rage, "you do not know our resources. Give the order, 
and I will put these fifty hams that annoy you mto a glass 
phial not much larger than my thumb." 

What reply could be made to so positive an assertion? 
The prince smiled, nodded assent, and so the item was 
passed. 

mriiUBNCE OP GASTRONOMY ON BUSINESS 

21. We know that among the men who are still al- 
most primitive, no matter of importance is treated except 
at table; it is in the midst of banquets that savages decide 
on war or peace, and we need not go far to see that villagers 
do all their business at the public-house. 

This observation has not escaped those who frequently 
deal with the most weighty affairs. They saw that a man 
with a full stomach was very different from a man fasting; 
that a certain bond was formed at table between hosts and 
guests; that it made guests more apt to receive certain 
impressions and to submit to certain influences. Thus was 
bom political gastronomy. Dinners have become a means 
of government, and the fate of peoples are decided at a 
banquet. This is neither a paradox nor even a novelty, but 
a simple observation of facts. If we look at any historian, 
from the time of Herodotus up to our own days, it will be 
seen that, without even excepting conspiracies, no great 
event ever took place that was not previously concocted, 
planned, and determined upon at a banquet. 



(31) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

A GASTRONOMIC ACADEMY 

22. Such is, at the first glance, the domain of gas- 
tronomy — a domain fertile in results of every sort, and 
which cannot be extended except by the discoveries and 
inventions of those who cultivate it. Nay, in a few years 
gastronomy will have its academicians, its courses of lec- 
tures, its professors, and prizes. 

At first, some zealous and wealthy gastronomer will 
establish at his own home periodical assemblies, where the 
most learned theorists will unite with artists to discuss and 
investigate the various branches of alimentary science. 

Thereupon, for such is the history of all academies, the 
government will interfere, codify, protect, and establish 
some institution; it will take an opportunity to compensate 
the public for all orphans made in war, for all the Ariadnes 
who have been made to shed tears by the summons to 
combat. 

The man of influence will be happy to associate his name 
with so necessary an institution. This name will be re- 
peated from age to age with those of Noah, Bacchus, Trip- 
tolemus, and other benefactors of humanity; he will be 
among ministers what Henri IV is amongst kings; his 
praise will be in every mouth, though no statute will be 
required to enforce this. 



MEDITATION IV 

APPETITE 

DEFINITION OF APPETITE 

23. Motion and life occasion in the living body a 
constant loss of substance, and the human body, which is 
a complicated machine, would soon be unfit for use, if 
Providence did not provide it with a compensating bal- 
ance, which marks the very moment when its powers are 
no longer in equilibrium with its wants. 

This monitor is the appetite. We understand by this 
word the first impression of a desire to eat. 

Appetite is announced by a little languor in the stomach 
and a slight sensation of fatigue. 

At the same time the mind is occupied with objects 
analogous to its wants; memory remembers the things that 
flattered the taste; imagination fancies it sees them — in 
fact, it is something like a dream. This state is not with- 
out pleasure, and we have heard a thousand times skilful 
gastronomes exclaim with joyfulness, "What a comfort it 
is to have a good appetite, when we are certain of soon 
having a good meal!" 

However, the whole alimentary system is in motion. 
The stomach becomes sensitive, the gastric juices are 
excited and the internal gases are displaced with noise, the 
mouth becomes moist, and all the digestive powers are 
under arms, like soldiers ready for action who merely await 
the word of command. After a few moments there may 
be spasmodic motions, gaping and pain; one feels hungry. 

(33) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

We may see all these gradations, in their different stages, 
in every drawing-room when dinner is delayed. 

They are so inherent to man's nature that the most 
exqtiisite politeness cannot disguise these symptoms. 
Hence I have deduced the apophthegm: Of all the quali- 
ties of the cook the most indispensable is punctuality. 

ANECDOTE 

24. To support this grave maxim, I shall relate what 
I have observed myself at a party where I was, quorum 
pars magna fui, and where the pleasure of observing saved 
me from anguish and misery. 

I was one day invited to dine at the house of a high pub- 
lic fimctionary. The letter of invitation was for "five- 
thirty," and at the appointed moment everybody was 
there, for it was known that the minister liked punctuality, 
and sometimes scolded the dilatory. 

I was struck, when coming in, by the air of consterna- 
tion which I saw amongst the company. People whispered 
together and looked into the courtyard through the win- 
dow; some faces indicated stupefaction; certainly some- 
thing extraordinary had happened. 

I approached one of the guests whom I thought could 
most likely satisfy my curiosity, and asked him what was 
the matter. "Alas!" he answered, in tones of the deepest 
sorrow, "my lord has been summoned to the Council of 
State; he has just gone, and who knows when he will re- 
turn?" "Is that all?" said I, with a careless air that was 
very different from my real feelings. "At most, this is an 
affair of a quarter of an hour: they may have required some 
information; we know that to-day an official dinner is 
given here, and there can be no reason to make us fast." 

(34) 



APPETITE 

I spoke thus; but, in fact, I was not so easy, and wished 
that I were far away. 

The first hour passed well enough; those who were inti- 
mate sat near to each other; commonplace topics were worn 
out, and people amused themselves with conjectures as 
to the reason of our dear host being called to the Tuileries. 

At the second hour we began to perceive a few symptoms 
of impatience. People looked anxiously at each other, and 
the first to grumble were three or four guests who, having 
found no place to sit in, were not in a comfortable position 
to wait. 

At the third hour the discontent became general, and 
everybody complained. "When will he return?" said one. 
"What is he thinking about?" said another. "It will be 
the death of some of us!" said a third. Every one put to 
himself, without ever replying to it, the question, "Shall 
we go or not?" 

At the fourth hour all the symptoms became aggra- 
vated: people stretched their arms at the risk of knocking 
out their neighbours' eyes; loud yawning was heard from 
all parts of the room; all the faces bore the marks of con- 
centration, and no one listened to me when I said that his 
absence would probably grieve our Amphitryon more than 
any of us. 

Our attention was diverted for a moment by an appari- 
tion. One of the guests, better acquainted with the house 
than the others, had foimd his way to the kitchens, and 
now returned out of breath. His face announced that the 
end of the world was at hand and he cried out with a 
scarcely articulate voice, and in that muffled tone which 
signifies at the same time the fear of making a noise and 
the desire of being understood, "My lord has gone away 

(35) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

without giving any orders, and however long his absence 
may be, dinner will not be served till his return." The 
alarm caused by his speech will not be exceeded by the 
effect of the trumpet on the day of judgment. 

Among all those martyrs, the most imhappy was the 
good d'Aigrefeuille, well known to all Paris. His whole 
body seemed to suffer, and the agony of Laocoon was de- 
picted on his face. Pale, terrified, seeing nothing, he 
crouched in an easy chair, crossed his little hands on his 
big belly, and closed his eyes not to sleep, but to await 
death. 

It came not, however. Towards ten o'clock a carriage 
was heard to roll into the courtyard. Everybody arose 
with a spontaneous movement. Liveliness succeeded to 
dejection, and in five minutes we were at table. 

But the hour of appetite had gone. Every one was sur- 
prised at having to dine at such an unseasonable time; the 
jaws had none of that isochronous action which announces 
regular work; and I know that many guests were incon- 
venienced by this dinner. 

In similar cases, the proper course to be taken is not to 
eat immediately after the obstacle has ceased, but to drink 
a glass of eau sucr6e or a small basin of soup to sustain the 
stomach; and to wait then for twelve or fifteen minutes. 
Unless you do so, the irritated stomach will be oppressed 
by the weight of food with which it is overloaded. 

GEBAT APPETITES 

25. When we see in early books the preparations 
made to receive two or three persons, and the enormous 
portions served up to one single guest, we must conclude 
that the men who lived nearer than ourselves to the 

(36) 



APPETITE 

cradle of the world were also endowed with much greater 
appetites. 

This appetite was fancied to increase in direct propor- 
tion with the dignity of the personage, and he to whom 
nothing less than a whole baron of five-year-old beef would 
be served was destined to drink from a cup he could 
scarcely lift. 

Some individuals have existed more recently, as a testi- 
mony of what might have occurred long ago; and there are 
on record many examples of a voracity scarcely imagiu- 
able, and which included everything, even the foulest 
objects. 

I shall spare these unpleasant details to my readers, and 
I prefer to tell them two particular instances which I wit- 
nessed, and which do not require on their part a very 
implicit faith. 

Some forty years ago, I went to pay a flying visit to the 
vicar of Bregnier, a very tall man, and known throughout 
the district for his appetite. 

Although it was scarcely noon, I found him already at 
table. The soup and bouilli had been removed, and to 
these stock dishes had succeeded a leg of mutton a la royale, 
a rather fine capon, and a large bowl of salad. 

As soon as he saw me come in, he ordered another knife 
and fork, but I declined. And I was right; for alone, and 
without aid, he quite easily got rid of everything, leaving 
of the leg of mutton nothing but its shank, of the fowl 
nothmg but its bones, and of salad nothing but the dish. 

They brought him soon a rather large white cheese, in 
which he made an angular breach of ninety degrees; the 
whole being washed down with a bottle of wine and a de- 
canter of water, after which he lay down. 

(37) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

What pleased me most was to see that, during the whole 
of this performance, which lasted nearly three quarters of 
an hour, the venerable pastor never seemed busy. The 
huge pieces he threw into his capacious mouth did not 
prevent him either from speaking or talking, and he fin- 
ished all that was put before him as easily as if he had only 
eaten three larks. 

It was the same with General Bisson, who drank each 
day eight bottles of wine at his breakfast, without ever 
seeming to do anything of the kind. He had a larger 
glass than the others, and emptied it oftener; but you 
would have said that he did not care for it, for having 
thus imbibed sixteen pints of liquid, he was as able to 
jest and to give his orders as if he had only drunk a small 
decanter. 

This second instance recalls to me my townsman, the 
gallant General Prosper Sibuet, long chief aide-de-camp 
of Marshal Massena, who was killed on the field of battle 
in 1813 at the passage of the Bober. 

Prosper was eighteen years old, and had that happy 
appetite by which Nature announces her intention of com- 
pleting a well-formed man, when he entered one evening 
the kitchen of Genin, an innkeeper at whose place the 
worthies of Belley usually met to eat chestnuts and to 
drink some new white wine, which was called vin hourru, 
or "cross-grain" wine. 

There had been just taken from the spit a magnificent 
turkey, a fine bird, well made, beautifully browned, done 
to a turn, and of which the flavour would have tempted a 
saint. 

The worthies, who were no longer hungry, paid no at- 
tention; but the digestive powers of yoimg Prosper were 

(38) 



APPETITE 

stirred within him; his mouth watered, and he exclaimed, 
"I have only just left the table; but I 'II lay a bet to eat up 
that big turkey all by myself." 

"Sez vosu meze, z'u payo," replied Bouvier du Bouchet, 
a large farmer, who was present; "^ sez vos caca en rotaz, 
i-zet voket paire et may ket mezerai la restaz." "If you '11 
eat it, I shall pay for it; but if you stop eating, then you '11 
pay, and I '11 eat the rest." 

Instantly commencing, the yoimg athlete neatly cut off 
a wing, swallowed it in two mouthfuls, after which he kept 
his teeth in play by crunching the neck of the bird, and 
drank a glass of wine as an interlude. 

Soon he attacked the thigh, ate it up with the same self- 
possession, and despatched a second glass of wine to clear 
the way for the remainder. 

Immediately the second wing followed the same road; 
it disappeared, and the performer, even more animated, as 
keen as ever, was already taking hold of the only remain- 
ing limb, when the imhappy farmer cried out in a doleful 
tone: "Hai! ze vaie praou qu'izet fotu, m'ez, Monche Chi- 
bouet, poez kaet zu daive paiet, lesse m'en a men meziet 
on mocho." * 

Prosper was as good a fellow as he afterwards proved 
himself a good soldier; he conseinted to the request of his 
antagonist, who had for his share the carcass of the bird in 
rather good condition, but who paid cheerfully both for the 
turkey and for the usual accompaniments. 

General Sibuet was very fond of telling about this 
prowess of his youth, and used to say that his taking the 
farmer into partnership was an act of mere courtesy, and 

1 "Alas! I see that it is all over; but. Monsieur Sibuet, as I must pay 
for it, please let me have a little bit to myself." 

(39) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

that he was certain that, without this assistance, he would 
have been able to gain the wager. When he was forty 
years old there remained to him an appetite which did not 
permit us to doubt his assertion. 



MEDITATION V 

ON FOOD IN GENERAL 

SECTION I 

DEFINITION 

26. What is understood by food? 

The popular answer is: — Food is everything that nour- 
ishes us. 

The scientific answer is: — We understand by food the 
substances which, submitted to the stomach, can be as- 
similated by digestion, and repair the losses which the 
human body suffers by the wear and tear of life. 

Thus the distinctive quality of food consists in its capa- 
bility to be assimilated by an animal. 

ANALYSIS 

27. The animal and vegetable kingdoms are those 
which up to the present time have furnished the food of the 
human race. From minerals have been only taken medi- 
cines or poisons. 

Since analytical chemistry has become a certain sci- 
ence, we have gained greater insight into the double na- 
ture of the elements of which our body is composed, and 
of those substances which nature seems to have intended 
to repair its losses. 

These two branches of study have a close analogy, inas- 
much as man is composed in a great part of the same sub- 
stances as the animals he feeds upon, and as it is neces- 

(41) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

sary also to look amongst vegetables for the affinities which 
render them capable of being assimilated by animals. 

In these two branches the most praiseworthy, and at the 
same time the most minute, eflForts have been made to 
carry on the investigation, which extends either to the 
body of man or to the food whereby he repairs his losses. 
This examination is made at first into the secondary parti- 
cles, and finally in their elements, beyond which we are 
as yet not permitted to penetrate. 

Here I had intended to insert a little treatise on the 
chemistry of food, and to teach my readers how many 
thousandths parts of carbon, hydrogen, etc., may exist 
in them and in the meats on which they feed; but I have 
been stopped by the reflection that I could only fulfil this 
task by merely copying the excellent treatises on chemistry 
which are in the hands of everybody. Moreover, I feared 
to fall into dry details, and I have limited myself to a me- 
thodical nomenclature, — except, here and there, where 
some chemical results are mentioned in terms less bristling 
and more intelligible. 

OSMAZOMB 

28. The greatest service chemistry has rendered to 
the science of food is the discovery, or rather the exact 
definition, of osmazome. 

Osmazome is that eminently sapid part of meat which is 
soluble in cold water, and which is distinguished from the 
extractive part, because the latter is only soluble in boiling 
water. 

It is osmazome which constitutes the real merit of good 
soups. When it has passed into a state resembling caramel 
it forms the browning of meat, as well as the crisp-brown 

(42) 




LES ALIMEI'.S 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL 

c^ roast-meat; finally, from it the odour of venison and 
game arise. 

Osmazome is derived, above all, from full-grown ani- 
mals with dark reddish flesh, such as are called "meaty"; 
it is only found in very small quantity or is absent in lamb, 
sucking-pigs, fowls, or even in the white meat of the largest 
poultry: it is for this reason that real connoisseurs have 
always preferred the thick part of the thigh; their instinct 
of taste has anticipated science. 

The anticipated knowledge of the existence of osma- 
zome has also caused so many cooks to be dismissed for 
having appropriated the first soups. This has made the 
reputation of the sowpes de primes ; the use of some broth as 
a restorative after bathing, and which led Canon Chevrier 
to invent padlocks for his stockpots. This same canon 
would never have spinach served up on Fridays that had 
not been cooked the Sunday before, and put every day on 
the fire, with a new addition of fresh butter. 

Finally, it is to prevent any waste of this substance, al- 
though yet unknown, that the maxim was introduced 
which says that, to make good soup, the pot must only 
simmer or "smile," an expression very significant for the 
country that originated it. 

Osmazome, discovered after having been so long the 
pleasm-e of our forefathers, may be compared to alcohol, 
that had intoxicated many generations before it became 
known that it could be extracted by distillation. 

After osmazome comes, by meat being treated with boil- 
ing water, what is understood especially as "extractive 
matter"; this latter product, combined with osmazome, 
forms the gravy of the meat. 

(43) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 

Fibre is what composes the tissue of the meat, and what 
is apparent after cooking. Fibre resists boiling water, and 
keeps its form although deprived of a part of its envelopes. 
To carve meat properly, we should take care that the fibre 
is at a right angle, or nearly so, with the blade of the knife, 
because meat cut thus looks better, tastes nicer, and is 
more easily chewed. 

Bones consist principally of gelatine and of phosphate 
of lime. 

The quantity of gelatine diminishes as we grow older. 
At seventy years, bones are only a kind of imperfect 
marble. This is the reason why they are so easily broken; 
which should teach all old people to be careful, and to avoid 
occasions of falling. 

Albumen is found as well in flesh as in blood. It coagu- 
lates at a lower temperature than 104° Fahrenheit, and 
forms the scum on soups. 

Gelatine is also found in the bones, and in the soft and 
cartilaginous parts. Its distinctive quality is that of coag- 
ulating at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere; 
two and a half per cent., infused in warm water, suffices. 

Gelatine is the basis of all jellies, blanc-mange, and simi- 
lar preparations. 

Fat is a concrete oil, which is formed in the interstices of 
the cellular tissue, and is sometimes accumulated in masses 
in animals that are predisposed that way by Nature or art, 
as pigs, poultry, ortolans, and beccaficos. In some of these 
animals it loses its insipidity, and gives out a slight flavour, 
which renders it very agreeable. 

Blood is composed of albuminous serum, of fibrine, of 
(44) 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL 

a little gelatine, and a little osmazome. It coagulates in 
hot water, and becomes a very nourishing article of food, 
the black pudding. 

All the principles we have passed under review are com- 
mon to man, and to the animals on which he is accustomed 
to feed. It is therefore not surprising that an animal diet 
is eminently restorative and strengthening, because the 
particles whereof it is composed having with ours a great 
similitude, and being already animalised, may easily ani- 
malise themselves anew when they are submitted to the 
vital action of our digestive organs. 

THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM 

29. Nevertheless the vegetable kingdom presents for 
nutritive purposes as much variety and resources. 

Starch is essentially nutritious, and the more so as it is 
less mixed with foreign principles. 

We understand by starch the flour or dust that may be 
obtained from cereal grains, leguminous plants, and from 
many sorts of roots, amongst which the potato holds the 
first rank at the present day. 

Starch is the basis of bread, of pastry, and of puries 
of all kinds, and thus to a great degree enters into the nour- 
ishment of nearly every nation. 

It has been remarked that such a nourishment softens 
the fibre and diminishes the courage. We may refer to the 
Hindoos, who live almost exclusively on rice, and who have 
become subjugated by any one who chose to conquer them. 

Nearly all the domestic animals eat starch with avidity, 
and they are made by it, on the contrary, extremely strong, 
inasmuch as it is a more substantial nourishment than the 
dry or green vegetables which form their habitual food. 

(45) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Sugar is not less important, either as a food or as a medi- 
cine. 

This substance, once imported from the Indies or the 
colonies, became indigenous in France at the commence- 
ment of this century. It has been discovered and traced in 
grapes, turnips, chestnuts, and especially in beetroot; so 
that, strictly speaking, Eiu-ope might, in this respect, suf- 
fice for its own production and consumption, and dispense 
with America and the Indies. This is an important service 
which science has rendered to society, and an example that 
may have by and by greater results. (See the article on 
Sugar, § viii., 45.) 

Sugar, either in the solid state or in the various plants 
in which Nature has placed it, is extremely nourishing. 
Animals are fond of it, and the English give it frequently 
to their favourite horses, as they have remarked that thus 
they can stand better the various trials to which they have 
to submit. 

Sugar, which, in the days of Louis XIV, was only sold 
by apothecaries, has given birth to many lucrative profes- 
sions, such as pastry-cooks, confectioners, liqueur manu- 
facturers, and other dealers in sweet stuff. 

Sweet oils are also derived from the vegetable kingdom: 
they are only esculent as far as they are united with other 
substances, and ought principally to be regarded as a sea- 
soning. 

Gluten, which is found especially in com, contributes 
powerfully to the fermentation of the bread of which it 
forms a part. Some chemists assign to it somewhat of an 
animal nature. 

They make in Paris, for children and birds, and for men 
in some departments, a kind of pastry wherein gluten 

(46) 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL 

predominates, a part of the starch having been removed by 
water. 

Mucilage owes its nutritive quality to the various sub- 
stances to which it serves as a vehicle. 

Gum may, in need, be used as a food, which ought not 
to surprise us, inasmuch as it contains nearly the same ele- 
ments as sugar. 

Vegetable gelatine, which is extracted from many sorts 
of fruit, especially apples, gooseberries, quinces, and some 
others, may also serve as a food. It fulfils this function 
better combined with sugar, but much less than the animal 
jellies which a,re derived from bones, horns, calves' feet, 
and isinglass. It generally forms a light, mild, and healthy 
nourishment, and is much used both in the kitchen and in 
the pantry. 

DITFEEENCE BETWEEN PAT AND LEAN 

Excepting the gravy, which, as we have said, is composed 
of osmazome and an extractive basis, we find in fishes most 
of the substances which we have observed in land animals, 
such as fibrine, gelatine, albumen. So that we may truly 
say that it is the gravy which makes the diflference between 
an ordinary dinner and Lenten fare. 

Lenten fare is also characterized by another peculiarity. 
Fish contains a considerable quantity of phosphorus and 
hydrogen — that is to say, two of the most combustible 
elements in nature. It follows from this that fish diet is 
most heating, which may perhaps account for a certain 
reputation formerly enjoyed by some religious orders, 
whose manner of living was directly in contradiction with 
one of their vows, which was then already reputed to be 
the most fragile. 

(47) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

INDIVIDTrAL INSTANCE 

30. I shall not say more on this physiological question; 
but I ought not to omit a fact of which the truth can easily 
be verified. 

Some years ago I went to call at a country house, in a 
little hamlet near Paris, situated on the banks of the Seine, 
opposite the island of Saint-Denis, which hamlet consisted 
chiefly of eight fishing huts. I was struck with the quan- 
tity of children I saw swarming on the road. 

I expressed my astonishment to the boatman who was 
rowing me across. "Sir," he said, "we are only eight fami- 
lies here, and we have fifty-three children, of whom forty- 
nine are girls and only four boys ; one of these boys is mine." 
As he spoke, he held up his head with a triumphant air, 
and showed me a little scamp of five or six years old, lying 
in the bows of the boat, crunching some raw cray-fish. 

From this observation, made more than ten years ago, 
and from several others that I cannot as easily give, I have 
been led to think that the genetic properties produced by 
a fish diet appear to be rather excitant than plethoric or 
substantial. I am still more inclined to this opinion when I 
see that, quite lately. Dr. Bailly has proved, as the result 
of observations made for nearly a century, that whenever 
in the annual list of births the number of girls is much larger 
than that of boys, the excess of females is invariably due to 
debilitating circumstances, which may also explain to us 
why some jokes have been made at all times about a hus- 
band whose wife is brought to bed of a daughter. 

Many things might be said on foods considered as a whole, 
and on the diverse modifications that may arise when they 
are mixed. But I trust that what precedes will more than 

(48) 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL 

suffice for the greatest number of my readers. I refer the 
others to the professional treatises, and I shall conclude with 
two remarks which are not without some importance. 

The first is, that animalisation is produced nearly in the 
same manner as vegetation — that is to say, that the re- 
paratory current formed by the digestion is inhaled in 
various manners by the sieves or suckers with which our 
organs are provided, and becomes flesh, nails, bone, or 
hairs, as the same earth, watered by the same water, may 
produce a radish, a lettuce, or a dandelion, according to 
the seeds the gardener has planted in it. 

The second is, that we do not obtain in a living organ- 
ism the same products as in abstract chemistry, for the 
organs destined to produce life and movement act power- 
fully on the elementary substances that are submitted to 
them. 

But Nature, who likes to wrap herself in veils, and to 
stop us at the second or third step, has concealed the la- 
boratory wherein she performs her transformations, and it 
is really difficult to explain how, given a human body con- 
taining lime, sulphur, phosphorus, iron, and ten other sub- 
stances besides, the whole may nevertheless be sustained 
and renewed during several years with bread and water 
alone. 



MEDITATION VI 

SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

SECTION n 

31. When I commenced to write, my table of con- 
tents was already made out, and I had the whole plan of 
my book in my head; nevertheless, I only have progressed 
slowly, because a part of my time was devoted to graver 
occupations. 

In the meanwhile, some parts of the subject that I had 
thought to be my very own had been touched upon by 
others. Elementary works on chemistry and materia med- 
ica have been put into the hands of every one, and several 
things which I imagined I should teach for the first time 
have become already popular. For example, I have de- 
voted to the chemistry of the stock-pot some pages 
whereof the substance will be found in two or three re- 
cently published works. 

Consequently, I have been obliged to revise this portion 
of my work, and I have so condensed it that it is reduced 
to a few elementary principles, to some theories that can- 
not be too widely known, and to a few observations, the 
fruit of a long experience, and which I trust will be new to 
the great majority of my readers. 

§ I. POT-AU-PETT, SOirP, ETC. 

32. We call pot-aurfeu a piece of beef put into boiling 
water, with a little salt, to extract its soluble parts. 

(50) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

The bouillon is the fluid which remains after the opera- 
tion. 

Bouilli is the flesh deprived of its soluble parts. 

Water dissolves at first a part of the osmazome; then the 
albumen coagulates at about 104 degrees Fahrenheit, and 
forms the scum, which is usually skimmed off. The re- 
mainder of the osmazome, with the extractive part or juice, 
is next dissolved; and, finally, some part of the envelopes 
of the fibres, which are detached by the continuous boil- 
ing. 

To have good bouillon, the water must be heated gently, 
so that the albumen should not coagulate within the meat 
before being extracted; the boiling should be scarcely per- 
ceptible, so that the various parts which are successively 
dissolved may be mixed thoroughly and without trouble. 

Vegetables or roots are added to the stock to improve 
the flavour, and bread or pastes to render it more nourish- 
ing. This is what is called a potage or soup. 

Soup is a wholesome, light, and nutritious food, which 
suits everybody. It comforts the stomach, and disposes 
it to receive and to digest food. Persons inclined to be stout 
shoxild take only bouillon. 

It is generally admitted that soup is never made so well 
as in France, and I have observed in my travels the truth 
of this statement confirmed. This result ought not to sur- 
prise us, as soup is the basis of our French national diet, 
and the experience of centuries must necessarily have made 
it more and more perfect. 

§ II. OF BOtriLLI 

33. Bouilli is a wholesome food, which satisfies hun- 
ger readily, is easily enough digested, but which alone 

(51) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

does not give much strength, inasmuch as the meat has 
lost in the boiling a part of the animalisable juices. 

We may take it as a general rule in housekeeping, that 
beef loses half of its weight when boiled. 

We may group under four categories all persons who eat 
bouilli. 

1°. Men of routine, who eat it because their ancestors 
ate it, and who, following this practice implicitly, expect 
their children to imitate them. 

2°. Impatient men, who, detesting to be inactive even 
at table, have acquired the habit of throwing themselves 
at once upon whatever is first put before them {materiam 
subjectam). 

3°. Inattentive men, who, not having received from hea- 
ven the sacred fire, look upon dining as a period of forced 
laboiu", put on the same level anything which can nourish 
them, and are at table like an oyster on its bed. 

4°. Gluttons, who, gifted with an appetite of which they 
seek to conceal the capacity, hasten to throw into their 
stomach the first victim they can find to appease the gas- 
tric fire which devours them, and to serve as a basis for all 
the different things they wish to send the same way. 

Real gastronomes never eat bouilli on principle, and be- 
cause they have heard it authoritatively stated as an in- 
contestable truth that bouilli is meat without gravy. ^ 

§ HI. POITLTET 

34. I am a strong partisan of second causes, and I 
believe firmly that the entire gallinaceous order has been 

' This is a truth that is beginning to be understood, and bouilli has 
disappeared in first-class dinners. It b replaced by a piece of roast meat, 
a turbot, or a mateloUe. 

(52) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

merely created to furnish our larders and to enrich our 
banquets. 

In fact, from the quail to the turkey, wherever we meet 
an individual of this numerous family, we are certain of 
finding a light and savoury food, which is as suitable to 
a convalescent as to a man who enjoys the most robust 
health. 

For who is there amongst us, condemned by the medical 
faculty to the fare of the hermits in the desert, who has not 
smiled at seeing a neatly-carved wing of a chicken, announc- 
ing his return to social life? 

We are not satisfied with the qualities that Nature has 
given to the gallinaceous race. Art has taken possession 
of them, and, on the pretext of improving them, has made 
them into martyrs. They are not merely deprived of the 
means of reproduction, but they are kept in solitude, thrown 
into darkness, and forced to eat. They are thus brought to 
a size which Nature never intended for them. 

It is true that this preternatural fat is very nice, and that 
this infernal skill gives them that delicacy and juiciness 
which make them to be the chief dishes of our best tables. 

Thus improved, poultry is for the cook what canvas is 
for a painter, and the cap of Fortunatus for conjurors. It 
is served up boiled, roasted, fried, hot or cold, whole or in 
parts, with or without sauce, boned, grilled, stufi"ed, and 
always with the same success. 

Three districts of ancient France rival for the honour of 
furnishing the finest poultry: Caux, le Mans, and la Bresse. 

As to capons, there is always some doubt; the one a man 
has his fork in always appearing the best. But as regards 
chickens, we prefer those of Bresse, which are called pou- 
lardesfnes, and are as round as an apple. It is a great pity 

(53) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

that they are so rare in Paris, where they only arrive as 
occasional presents. 

§ IV. THE TURKEY 

35. The turkey is certainly one of the most beautiful 
presents which the New World has made to the Old. 

Those who always desire to be better informed than 
others, say that the turkey was known to the Romans, that 
it was served up at the weddiug-f east of Charlemagne, and 
that therefore it is an error to attribute this savoury im- 
portation to the Jesuits. 

To meet these paradoxes two objections may be made: 

1°. That in French the name of the bird, Coq d'Inde or 
Dindon, proves its origin, because at one time America was 
called the "West Indies." 

2°. The shape of the bird is evidently quite foreign. 
No man able to judge could make a mistake in this. 

But although I am already perfectly satisfied, I have 
made on this matter rather considerable researches, which 
I shall not inflict on my readers, but of which I shall only 
give the results: 

1°. The turkey first appeared in Europe towards the end 
of the seventeenth century. 

2°. It was imported by the Jesuits, who reared a large 
number especially on a farm which they possessed near 
Bourges. 

3°. They spread thence gradually over the whole of 
France, which is the reason that in many places, and in 
familiar speech, a turkey was formerly, and is to this day, 
called "a Jesuit." 

4°. Only in America has the turkey been found in a wild 
state, and in a state of nature; — it does not exist in Africa. 

(54) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

5°. In the farms of North America, where the turkey 
is very common, it is got either from eggs which have been 
found and hatched, or from young birds caught in the woods 
and tamed. The consequence is, that they are more like 
a wild turkey, and preserve their original plumage. 

Convinced by these arguments, I owe to the good fathers 
a double debt of gratitude, for they also imported the chin- 
chona, which is called in English "Jesuits' bark." 

The same researches taught me that the turkey is 
gradually becoming acclimatised in France. Well-informed 
observers have told me that towards the middle of the last 
century, out of twenty turkeys that were hatched, scarcely 
ten lived to maturity, while now, all things being equal, 
out of twenty fifteen are reared. Storms of rain are espe- 
cially fatal to them; large drops of rain driven onward by 
the wind and striking their tender and undefended heads 
destroy them. 

Turhey-Lovers 

36. The turkey is the largest, and, if not the finest, at 
least the most savoury of our domestic birds. 

It enjoys, moreover, the xmique advantage of uniting 
around it all classes of society. 

When our vine-dressers and our farmers wish to regale 
themselves in the long winter evenings, what do we see 
roasting at the brilliant fire of the kitchen where the table 
is spread? A turkey. 

When a useful mechanic, when a laborious artist, as- 
sembles a few friends to enjoy some relaxation, which is the 
more prized because it is so rare, what is the dish which, as 
a matter of course, he sets before them? A turkey stuffed 
with sausages or Lyons chestnuts. 

(55) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

And in our most gastronomical circles, in those select 
companies where politics is forced to give way to disser- 
tations on taste, what is expected, what is desired, what is 
always seen at the second course? A truffled turkey. A 
truffled turkey! . . . And my "Secret Memoirs" tell me 
that its restorative juices have more than once lighted up 
most diplomatic faces. 

Influence of the Turkey on the Money-Market 

37. The importation of turkeys has become the cause 
of an important increase to the public revenue, and gives 
rise to a pretty considerable trade. 

By means of the rearing of turkeys, the farmers get more 
easily the money for their rent, the young girls often save 
up a sufficient dowry, and the townsmen who wish to feast 
on their foreign flesh have to pay round prices. 

From a purely financial point of view, truffled turkeys 
demand particular attention. 

I have reason to believe that in Paris alone, from the 
beginning of November to the end of February, three him- 
dred truffled turkeys are daily consumed, which makes a 
total of thirty-six thousand turkeys. 

The price of such a turkey is at least twenty francs, so 
that for the whole is paid no less than 720,000 francs, which 
is a very fair sum to put in circulation. To that a similar 
sum should be added for chickens and poultry, pheasants 
or partridges, similarly truffled, which are to be seen every 
day displayed in the provision shops, torturing every 
looker-on who finds himself too short of cash to get hold 
of them. 



(56) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

An Exploit of the Professor 

38. During my stay at Hartford, in Connecticut, I had 
the good fortune to kill a wild turkey. This exploit de- 
serves to be transmitted to posterity, and I shall narrate it 
all the more complacently as I am the hero myself. 

An old American farmer had invited me to come and 
have some shooting; he lived in the backwoods, promised 
me partridges, grey squirrels, wild turkeys, and told me to 
bring a friend or two with me if I pleased. 

Accordingly, one fine day in October, 1794, Mr. King and 
I set out, mounted on two hacks, with the hope of arriving 
towards the evening at the farm of Mr. Bulow, situate 
about five mortal leagues from Hartford, in Connecticut. 

Mr. King was a sportsman of a peculiar kind. He was 
passionately fond of this exercise; but as soon as he had 
killed a piece of game, he looked upon himself as a mur- 
derer, making on the fate of the defunct moral reflections 
and elegiacs which, however, did not prevent him from 
beginning again. 

Although the road was a mere track, we arrived there 
without accident, and we were received with that cordial 
and imobtrusive hospitality which is shown by acts; in a 
few seconds every one of us, men, horses, and dogs, were 
examined, caressed, and lodged, according to their respec- 
tive requirements. 

About two hours were spent in looking over the farm 
and its dependencies. I should willingly describe it all, but 
I prefer to show the reader the four buxom daughters of 
Mr. Bulow, for whom our arrival was a great event. 

Their age was from sixteen to twenty; they were radiant 
with freshness and health, and they were altogether so 

(57) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

simple, lithe, and easy, that the most ordinary action 
seemed to lend them a thousand charms. 

Soon after returning from our walk, we sat down around 
a table abimdantly supplied. There was a superb piece of 
corned beef, a stewed goose, and a magnificent leg of mut- 
ton, with vegetables of every description, and at each end 
of the table two large jugs of cider, of which I never tired 
drinking. 

When we had proven to our host that we were genuine 
sportsmen, at least by our appetite, he occupied himself 
with the object of our journey; he indicated as best he could 
the places to find game, the landmarks that might guide 
us on our way back, and, above all, the farms where we 
might find something to refresh us. 

During this conversation, the ladies had made some 
excellent tea, of which we drank several cups; we were 
then shown to a double-bedded room, where exercise and 
fatigue gave us a sound sleep. 

The next day we went shooting a little late, and having 
arrived at the end of the clearings made by Mr. Bulow, I 
found myself for the first time in a virgin forest, where the 
sound of the axe had never been heard. 

I walked about with delight, observing the good and the 
ravages wrought by Time, the creator and destroyer, and 
I amused myself with following out all the phases of an 
oak's existence, from the moment when it springs out of the 
earth with two leaves, to that when nothing more remains 
of it than a long black line, which is the dust of its heart. 

Mr. King scolded me for my absence of mind, and we 
commenced our sport. We killed at first some of those 
pretty little grey partridges that are so plump and so ten- 
der; we knocked over afterwards six or seven grey squirrels, 

(58) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

which are thought of much in these parts; and finally, our 
lucky star brought us into the middle of a flock of turkeys. 

They rose one after another at short intervals, flying 
noisily and rapidly, and screaming loudly. Mr. King fired 
on the first and ran after it. The others were out of shot; 
finally, the most lazy rose at ten paces from me. It passed 
through a break in the wood; I fired, and it fell dead. 

A sportsman alone can conceive my extreme delight at 
such a good shot. I picked up the noble bird, and turned 
it over on every side for a quarter of an hour, when I heard 
Mr. King calling to me. I ran to him, and foimd that he 
had only called me to aid him in finding a turkey which he 
declared he had killed, and which nevertheless had dis- 
appeared. 

I put my dog on the scent, but he led us into thickets so 
thick and thorny that a snake could hardly have penetrated 
them; it was therefore necessary to abandon the search, 
which put my comrade in a fit of bad temper that lasted 
till we retmned. 

The rest of our sport is scarcely worthy of record. On 
our way back we lost ourselves in these infinite woods, and 
ran great risk of passing the night there, had it not been for 
the silvery tones of Mr. Bulow's daughters, and the deep 
bass voice of their father, who had come to meet us, and 
aided us to get out of our diSiculty. 

The four sisters were fully equipped with fresh dresses, 
new sashes, pretty hats, and dainty boots, and it was evi- 
dent that they had taken some pains on our account. I 
had, for my part, the intention of making myself agreeable 
to one of the young ladies, who took my arm as naturally 
as if she had been my wife. 

On arriving at the farm, we found the supper served, 
(59) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

but before attacking it, we sat down for a few minutes be- 
fore a blazing and cheerful fire which had been lighted for 
us, although the weather did not require this precaution. 
We found it very comfortable, and were refreshed as if by 
enchantment. 

This custom is undoubtedly derived from the Indians, 
who have always a fire in their wigwams. Perhaps it may 
be a tradition from St. Francis de Sales, who used to say 
that a fire is good during twelve months of the year; an 
opinion to which I do not subscribe. 

We ate like starving men; an ample bowl of punch was 
brought to enable us to finish the evening, and the con- 
versation of OUT host, who talked more ingenuously than 
on the previous evening, led us far into the night. 

We spoke of the War of Independence, in which Mr. 
Bulow had served as a superior officer; of M. de La Fay- 
ette, whose memory every day becomes dearer to the 
Americans, who always speak of him as "the Marquis"; of 
agriculture, which at that time was enriching the United 
States, and finally of my own dear France, which I loved 
all the more from being obliged to quit it. 

During the intervals of conversation, Mr. Bulow would 
from time to time ask his eldest daughter, Maria, to give 
us a song. And she sang us without being pressed, and with 
a charming hesitation, the national air, "Yankee Doodle," 
the "Lament of Queen Mary," and one on Major Andre, 
which are all very popular in that country. Maria had 
taken some lessons in singing, and in this solitary place 
was considered quite a "cantatrice"; but the great merit of 
her song was, above all, the quality of her voice, which was 
at the same time sweet, fresh, and unaffected. 

Next day we went away, though urged to stay, but I 
(60) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

could not, as I had also duties to fulfil in America. As they 
were getting the horses ready, Mr. Bulow took me aside, 
and said the following remarkable words: — 

"You behold in me, my dear sir, a happy man, if there 
is one on earth; everything you see around you, and what 
you have seen at my house, is produced on my farm. These 
stockings have been knitted by my daughters; my shoes 
and my clothes come from my herds; they, with my garden 
and my farmyard, supply me with plain and substantial 
food. The greatest praise of our government is that in 
Connecticut there are thousands of farmers quite as content 
as myself, and whose doors, like mine, are never locked. 

"Taxes here scarcely amount to anything, and, as long 
as they are paid, we can sleep calmly. Congress favours in 
every possible way our rising industry; agents from every 
quarter are always ready to rid us of all that we have to 
sell; and I have ready-money in hand for a long time, hav- 
ing just sold at twenty-four dollars the barrel of flour for 
which I usually get but eight. 

"All this is due to the liberty we have won by arms and 
established on good laws. I am master in my own house, 
and you will not be astonished to know that the sound 
of the drum is never heard there, and that, unless on the 
4th of July, the glorious anniversary of oiu- independence, 
we never see either soldiers, or uniforms, or bayonets." 

During the whole time of our return-journey I was 
absorbed in deep reflection. Perhaps it may be thought 
that I was meditating on the last allocution of Mr. Bulow; 
but I was thinking on something quite different, namely, 
how I should get my turkey cooked. I felt quite embar- 
rassed, being afraid that I should not find at Hartford 
all that I could have desired, because I wished to raise a 

(61) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

trophy to my skill in displaying my spolia opima to ad- 
vantage. 

I make a painful sacrifice in suppressing the details of 
the great work of which the purpose was to give a dinner 
in good style, to which I had invited several American 
friends. Suffice it to say, that the wings of the partridge 
were served en papillotte, and that the grey squirrels were 
stewed in Madeira. 

As for the turkey, which was the only roast we had, it 
was charming to look upon, delightful to smell, and deli- 
cious to taste; and so, until the last morsel was eaten, you 
could hear all around the table, "Very good! exceedingly 
good!" "Oh, my dear sir, what a glorious bit." * 

§ V. ON GAME 

39. We understand by game those animals good to eat 
which live free in the woods and fields in a state of nature. 

We say "good to eat," because some of these animals 
are not considered game, such as foxes, badgers, ravens, 
magpies, owls, and others. They are called in French 
betes fuantes. 

We classify game in three divisions. 

The first begins at the thrush, and goes down to all birds 
of smaller size. 

The second commences with the corn-crake, the wood- 

' The flesh of the wild turkey has more colour and more flavour than 
that of the domestic turkey. 

I have heard with pleasure that my estimable colleague, M. Bosc, has 
shot some in Carolina, which he found excellent, and, above all, much 
finer than those we rear in Europe. He recommends, therefore, that all 
turkeys that are reared should have as much liberty as possible, that they 
should be taken out into the fields, and even into the woods, to increase 
their flavour, and to bring them as much as possible nearer to the original 
species (" Annales d' Agriculture," part of 28th February 1821). 

(62) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

cock, the partridge, the pheasant, the rabbit, and the hare; 
it is game properly so-called; on lands or marshes, game 
with down or feathers. 

The third is better known under the name of venison, 
and comprises the wild boar, roebuck, and all other cloven- 
footed animals. 

Game is one of the luxuries of the diimer-table; it is a 
food healthy, heating, savoury, tasty, and easy of diges- 
tion to young stomachs. 

But these qualities are not so intrinsic as to be in a great 
measure independent of the skill of the cook. If we throw 
into a pot of water salt and a piece of beef, we will obtain 
some soup and some boiled meat. But if instead of beef 
we put wild boar or venison in the pot, we will have but 
poor fare; in this respect, butcher's meat has the advan- 
tage. 

Under the directions of a skilful cook, however, game 
undergoes a great number of scientific modifications and 
transformations, furnishing the majority of the highly 
flavoured dishes on which a transcendental gastronomic 
art is based. 

Game also owes much of its quality to the nature of the 
soil it is fed on. The taste of a red partridge of Perigord is 
not the same as that of a red partridge of Sologne; and al- 
though a hare killed in the neighbourhood of Paris is but 
a poor dish, a leveret from the sunburnt slopes of Val- 
romey or Upper Dauphine is perhaps the finest flavoured 
of all quadrupeds. 

Among the small birds, the first in order of excellence is, 
without doubt, the beccafico or fig-pecker. 

He becomes quite as fat as the redbreast or the ortolan, 
and Nature has, moreover, endowed him with a slight bitter 

(63) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

taste and a unique flavour so exquisite that, when they are 
eaten, all the organs of taste are brought into play, fully 
occupied, and wholly beatified. If a beccafico were of the 
size of a pheasant, it would certainly cost as much as an 
acre of land. ^ 

It is a pity that this privileged bird is seen so rarely in 
Paris; a few certainly do arrive, but they are lacking in the 
fat which is their chief merit; they scarcely resemble those 
of the departments of the east or of the south of France. ^ 

Few people know how to eat small birds. The following 
is the proper method, such as it has been confidentially en- 
trusted to me by Canon Charcot, a professional gourmand, 
and a perfect gastronome, thirty years before the word 
was known. 

Take the plump little bird by the beak, sprinkle over 
him a little salt, take out the gullet, pop him skilfully in 
your mouth, bite him oflF close to the fingers, and chew it 
with might and main: you will have enough juice to flood 
the whole organ, and you will taste a pleasure unknown to 
the vulgar. 

Odi profanura vulgus, et arceo. — Horace. 

* At Belley, in my youth, I have heard people speak of the Jesuit 
Father Fabri, who was bom in this diocese, and of his special predilec- 
tion for beccaficoes. 

As soon as they were cried in the streets, people would say, "There are 
the beccaficoes. Father Fabri is coming presently." And sure enough he 
never failed to arrive with a friend on the 1st September; they fed on these 
birds as long as they remained, for every one was delighted to invite them, 
and they went away about the 25th. 

As long as he was in France, he never omitted to make this omitho- 
philic voyage, which was only interrupted when he was sent to Rome, 
where he died as Penitentiary in 1788. 

Father Honor^ Fabri was a inan of great knowledge, and wrote several 
works of theology and physics; in one of them he attempted to prove 
that he had discovered the circulation of the blood before, or at least as 
soon as Harvey. 

(64) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

The quail is, amongst game properly so-called, the small- 
est and the most agreeable. A very plimip quail pleases as 
much by his taste as by his shape and his colour. It is 
very ignorant to serve it up in any other way than roasted 
or en papillotte, because its flavour is very evanescent, and 
because every time the animal comes in contact with any 
liquid, it dissolves, evaporates, and disappears. 

The woodcock is also a bird to be held in high esteem, 
but very few people know all its good points. A woodcock 
is in all its glory when it has been cooked under the eye of 
the sportsman, and, above all, of the sportsman who has 
killed it. Then the roasted bird is in perfection, according 
to all rules and regulations, and the mouth is flooded with 
delight. 

Above the preceding, and indeed, above all others, must 
be placed the pheasant, but only few mortals know how to 
serve it up to perfection. 

A pheasant eaten a week after being killed is not as good 
as a partridge or a fowl, for his merit consists in his aroma. 

Science has taken into consideration the merit of this 
aroma, experience has used it, and a pheasant ready for the 
spit is a morsel worthy of the greatest connoisseur among 
gourmands. 

In the "Varieties" I shall show how to roast a pheasant 
a la sainte alliance, for the moment has now come when this 
method, hitherto confined to a small circle of friends, shall 
be made known far and wide for the happiness of mankind. 

A pheasant with truffles is not so good as one would 
imagine it to be. The bird is too dry to flavour the tuber, 
and, moreover, the gamy odour of the one and the perfume 
of the other neutralise each other by their combination, and 
are not suited to one another. 

(65) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY, 

§ VI. OF FISH 

40. Some men of learning, but not very orthodox, 
have maintained that the ocean was the common cradle 
of evOTy living thing, that even the human race was 
born in the sea, and that it only owes its present state to 
the influence of the air and to the habits which it has 
been obliged to adopt in order to dwell in this new ele- 
ment. 

However this may be, it is at least certain that the em- 
pire of waters contains an immense number of beings of 
all forms and all dimensions, with vital qualities in very dif- 
ferent proportions, and according to ways which differ 
from those of warm-blooded animals. 

It is not less true that at all times and everywhere, an 
enormous mass of food is to be found in it; and that in the 
present state of science a most agreeable variety is intro- 
duced on our dinner-tables. 

Fish, being less nourishing than meat, and more succu- 
lent than vegetables, forms a "middle-term" which suits 
nearly all temperaments, and may be permitted even to 
convalescents. 

The Greeks and the Romans, although not so advanced 
as ourselves in the art of preparing fish, held them, never- 
theless, in great esteem, and pushed their refinement to 
such a point that they were able to tell, by tasting it, in 
what water it had been caught. 

They kept their fish in fish-ponds; and the cruelty of 
Vadius PoUio has come down to us, who fed his lampreys 
with the bodies of slaves he had ordered to be slain for the 
pmpose, a cruelty which the Emperor Domitian highly 
blamed, but which he should have punished. 

(66) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

A great discussion has been raised as to which is the best 
fish — sea fish or fresh-water fish. 

The question will probably never be decided, for, ac- 
cording to the Spanish proverb: "On matters of taste there 
can be no dispute." Every one feels in his own way; those 
fugitive sensations cannot be expressed by any known 
character; and there is no standard by which to compare 
a codfish, a sole, or a turbot, with a salmon-trout, a first- 
class pike, or even a tench of six or seven pounds. 

It is agreed on all hands that fish is much less nutritious 
than meat, either because it does not contain osmazome, 
or because, being lighter in weight, it is less substantial 
than the same bulk of meat. Shell-fish, especially oysters, 
furnish little nom-ishing substance; this is the reason why 
so many can be eaten without spoiling the appetite for a 
dinner which follows immediately. 

We remember that in former times a dinner of any im- 
portance used to begin with oysters, and that there was 
always a good number of guests who did not stop until 
they had swallowed a gross (12 dozen = 144). I was anx- 
ious to know what was the weight of this advance guard, 
and I ascertained that a dozen of oysters, including water, 
weigh four ounces, which gives for the gross 3 lbs. Now it 
is certain that the same persons did not eat a less quantity 
on account of the oysters they had swallowed; but that they 
would have completely satisfied their appetites if they had 
eaten the same quantity of meat, or even of chicken. 

Anecdote 

In 1798, I was at Versailles as a Commissary of the 
Directory, and I had frequently to meet the registrar, 
M. Laporte, of the tribimal department. He was very fond 

(67) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

of oysters, and used to complain that he never had eaten 
enough of them, or, as he said, " that he never had had a 
good bellyful." 

I resolved to procure him this satisfaction, and for this 
purpose I invited him a day beforehand to dine with me. 

He came; I kept up with him till the third dozen, after 
which I let him go on by himself. He went on till the 
thirty-second dozen, that it to say, for more than an hour, 
as the maid who opened them was not very skilful. 

As in the meantime I had nothing to do — at table this 
is really unbearable — I stopped my guest whilst in full 
career, and said: "My dear fellow, it is your destiny not 
to eat to-day your ' good bellyful ' of oysters ; let us now have 
some dinner." We did so, and he behaved as vigorously as 
a man who had been fasting. 

Muria. Garum 

41. The ancients made from fish two condiments of 
the highest flavour, muria and garum. 

The former was nothing but the brine of the tunny, or, 
to speak more exactly, the liquid which the mixture of salt 
caused to flow from the fish. 

Garum, which was dearer, is not so well known to us. We 
are told that it was extracted by pressure from the salted 
intestines of the scomber or mackerel; but this supposition 
leaves its high price unexplained. It seems likely that it was 
a foreign sauce; and perhaps it was nothing else than the 
"soy" which we get from India, and which we know to be 
got by the fermentation of a mixture of fish and mushrooms. 

Certain races, by their position, have been obliged to 
live almost entirely on fish; they also feed on it their beasts 
of burden, which from custom are satisfied with this ab- 

(68) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

normal food; they also manure the soil with it; and never- 
theless the sea that surrounds them does not cease to yield 
always the same quantity. 

It has been remarked that those races are less courageous 
than those which are fed on flesh; they are pale, which is 
not surprising, as the elements of which fish is composed 
must augment the lymph more than replenish the blood. 

Among ichthyophagi, many examples of longevity have 
also been observed, either because a food which is unsub- 
stantial and very light saves them from the inconveniences 
of fulness of blood, or because the juices it contains being 
oidy destined by Nature to form bones and cartilages 
which last never very long, the habitual use of it retards 
for a few years the solidification of all parts of the body, 
which is finally the necessary cause of natural death. 

However this may be, fish, under skilful hands, may 
become an inexhaustible resource of gustatory enjoyments. 
It is served up entire, sliced in pieces; done in water, in oil, 
in wine, hot or cold, and is always well received; but it 
never deserves a warmer welcome than when it is brought 
up en matelotte. 

This stew, though of necessity a dish often eaten by the 
sailors on our rivers, and made in perfection only by the 
inn-keepers on the banks of such rivers, owes to them, never- 
theless, a delicacy which is unsurpassed. Those who love 
fish never see it appear without expressing the highest de- 
light, either because of the freshness of its taste, or because 
it combines several good qualities, or because it may be 
eaten almost in unlimited quantities without fear either 
of satiety or of indigestion. 

Analytic gastronomy has attempted to ascertain what 
are the efiects of a fish diet on the animal economy, and 

(69) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

unanimous observations have demonstrated that it acts 
strongly on the genetic sense, and awakes in both sexes the 
instincts of reproduction. 

This result being once known, two immediate causes 
were assigned to it which anybody can understand. 

1°. Various manners of preparing the fish, of which the 
condiments are obviously irritating, such as caviar, red 
herring^, pickled tunny, salt codfish, stock-fish, and some 
others. 

2°. The various juices imbibed by the fish, which are 
highly inflammable, and oxygenate and turn sour during 
the progress of digestion. 

A more careful analysis had discovered a third and more 
active cause, which is the presence of phosphorus, which is 
found in the roes, and always shows itself when fish is in a 
state of decomposition. 

These physical truths were undoubtedly unknown to 
those ecclesiastical law-givers, who imposed a Lenten 
diet on different communities of monks, such as the Car- 
thusians, the Franciscans, the Trappists, and the bare- 
footed Carmelites, as reformed by Santa Theresa. For it 
cannot be supposed that they wished to render yet more 
difficult the observance of the vow of chastity, already 
so anti-social. 

Beyond doubt, in this state of affairs, glorious victories 
have been won, and rebellious senses have been conquered; 
but there were also many lapses and defeats! These latter 
must have been well authenticated, for they gave to certain 
religious orders a reputation like that of Hercules amongst 
the Danaids, or that of Marshal Saxe with Mademoiselle 
Lecouvreur. 

Moreover, they might have been enlightened by an 
(70) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 
anecdote pretty old, as it has come to us from tlie Cru- 



The Sultan Saladin, wishing to try how great could be 
the continence of some dervishes, took two of them into his 
palace, and fed them with the most nourishing food for a 
certain time. 

Soon all traces disappeared of the severity which they 
had exercised on themselves, and they began to get fat. Two 
odalisks of great beauty were then given to them as their 
companions, but they failed in their best directed attacks, 
and the two saints came out of so delicate an ordeal as pure 
as the diamond from Visapoor. 

The Sultan kept them for some time longer in his palace, 
and, to celebrate their triumph, he fed them for several 
weeks on fish as well cooked. After a few days, they were 
again submitted to the united power of youth and beauty; 
but this time Nature was the most powerful, and the too 
happy anchorites fell ... in a surprising manner. 

In the present state of our knowledge, it is probable that 
if at any future time monastic orders were to be revived, the 
superiors would adopt some manner of living more favour- 
able to the accomplishment of their duties. 

Philosophical Reflection 

42. Fish, to indicate by this term all species considered 
as one whole, is for the philosopher an inexhaustible 
source of meditation and surprise. 

The varied forms of these strange animals, the senses 
of which they are deprived, and the limited character of 
those they have, their various modes of existence, the in- 
fluence which must be exercised over them by the diflfer- 
ence of the medium wherein they are destined to live, 

(71) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

breathe, and move, extend the range of our ideas and the 
indefinite modifications which may result from matter, 
motion, and hfe. 

As for myself, I feel for these creatures a sentiment akin 
to respect, springing from a deep conviction that they are 
evidently antediluvian animals, because the great cata- 
clysm which drowned our ancestors about the eighteenth 
century of the world's history was for the fishes nothing 
but a time of joy, conquest, and festivity. 

§ VII. OF TRUFFLES 

43. Whoever says truffle, utters a grand word, which 
awakens erotic and gastronomic ideas both in the sex wear- 
ing petticoats and in the bearded portion of humanity. 

This honour of awaking two ideas results from the fact 
that this eminent tubercle is not only delicious to the taste, 
but also because we think that it excites a power of which 
the exercise is accompanied by the most delicious pleasures. 

The origin of the truffle is unknown; it is found, but we 
do not know how it is produced, or how it grows. Men of 
the greatest skill have studied this question; some thought 
they had discovered the seed, and thus could multiply the 
truffle at will. Useless efforts and deceitful promises! This 
planting produced no crop. This is perhaps not a great mis- 
fortune, for, as truffles are often sold at fancy prices, per- 
haps they would be less thought of if they were to be got 
in quantities and at a cheaper rate. 

"Rejoice, dear friend," said I one day to Madame de 
Ville-Plaine, "an invention for making lace has just been 
brought before the Society for the Encouragement of 
Science, whereby the most magnificent lace will be made at 
a cheap price, and sold for almost nothing." "Really!" 

(72) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

replied my fair friend, with a look of sovereign indifference, 

"if lace were so cheap, do you think any one would wear 

si^ch ragged-looking things." 

\ 

\ Erotic Virtue of Truffles 

44. The Romans were acquainted with the truffle, 
but it does not appear that they knew the French kiad. 
Those which they delighted in came from Greece, Africa, 
and principally from Lybia; they were white or reddish, 
and tlie truffles of Lybia were the most sought after, as 
they were more delicate and had more flavour. 

Gustus alimenia per omnia qucerunt. — Jitvenal. 

From the Romans to our time there has been a long 
interregnum, and the resurrection of truffles is an event 
of recent occurrence; for I have read many old pharma- 
copoeias that do not mention them. We may even say that 
the present geheiation has beheld this resiurection. 

Towards 1780, truffles were rare in Paris, and they were 
only to be had in small quantities at the H6tel des Am6ri- 
cains and at the Hotel de Provence. A truffled turkey was 
an object of luxury which was only seen at the dinner-table 
of the greatest lords, or at that of kept women. 

We owe their abundance to the provision dealers, of 
whom the number has much increased, and who, seeing 
that the truffles were becoming popular, had them sought 
for all over the kingdom. They paid well for them, and as 
they were despatched by the mail and by couriers, every- 
body went to search for them; for, as truffles cannot be 
planted, careful search alone can increase their consumption. 

At the time I write (1825), the glory of the truffle has now 
reached its culmination. Who would dare to say that he 

(73) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

has been at a dinner where there was not a piece truffeel. 
However good an entrSe may be, it should always be acconpi- 
panied by truffles to set it off to advantage. | 

Who has not felt his mouth water in hearing truffles dfla 
provengale spoken of? j 

A sautS of truffles is the dish reserved for the mistress of 
the house to do the honours. In fine, the truffle is the /very 
diamond of gastronomy. / 

I have looked for the reason of this preference, as/it ap- 
pears to me that many other substances had an equal right 
to this honour, and I think the reason is, because it is gen- 
erally believed that the truffle excites the genetic sense. 
Moreover, I have convinced myself that the grfiater part 
of our perfections, of our predilections, and of our admira- 
tions, are derived from the same cause: so powerful and 
general is the bondage in which this tyrannical and capri- 
cious sense holds us! 

This discovery led me to wish to knew if^^he supposed 
influence of the truffle v/as real,tind if this bpinion was 
founded on reality. v 

Such an inquiry is no doubt ticklish, and may make 
waggish people smile; but "Honi soit qui mal y pense!" 
No truth should be hidden. 

I at first addressed myself to the ladies, because they are 
clear-sighted, and possess delicate tact; but I soon ob- 
served that I ought to have commenced this inquiry forty 
years earlier, for I merely received ironical or evasive re- 
plies. One only was sincere, and she shall tell her own tale. 
She was a very clever woman, without any pretensions, 
virtuous without prudishness, and for whom love was 
nothing more than a pleasant recollection. 

"Sir," she said to me, "at a time when people were still 
(74) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

eating suppers, I supped one day at home with my hus- 
band and one of his friends, whose name was Verseuil, a 
handsome fellow, rather witty, and who often came to our 
house. But he had never told me anything that could make 
me think that he was in love with me, and if he paid me 
any attentions it was in such a delicate manner that only 
a silly woman could have taken offence at it. He appeared 
that day to be doomed to keep me company for the rest of 
the evening, for my husband had a business appointment, 
and was obliged to leave us early. The principal dish of our 
supper, sufficiently light in other respects, was nevertheless 
a magnificent truffled fowl. Some official at Perigueux had 
sent it to us, and at that time it was a present; and as you 
know where it came from, you can very well imagine that 
it was a beauty. The truffles above all were delicious, and 
you know that I am very fond of them. Nevertheless, I did 
not eat too much of them. I only drank one solitary glass 
of champagne, for I had a sort of feminine presentiment 
that the evening would not pass over without something 
happening. My husband went away early, and left me 
alone with Verseuil, whom he looked upon as one of our 
own. The conversation turned at first on indifferent sub- 
jects, but it was not long before it took a more concise 
and more interesting turn. Verseuil became in succession 
flattering, uiu-eserved, affectionate, caressing, and seeing 
that I only made fun of so many beautiful sayings, he be- 
came so pressing that I could no longer deceive myself as to 
his pretensions. I woke up then as if from a dream, and I 
defended myself so much the more strenuously as I felt no 
affection for him. He persisted with a gesture that might 
have become quite offensive, and I had some trouble in 
making him listen to reason. I admit to my shame that I 

(75) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

only succeeded because I was artful enough to make him 
believe that all hope was not forbidden to him. Finally, he 
left me. I went to lie down, and slept like a top. But the 
next day I sat in judgment on myself. I examined my con- 
duct of the evening before, and blamed myself. I ought to 
have stopped Verseuil as soon as he began to speak, and not 
have lent myself to a conversation that forebode nothing 
good. I should have taken offence earlier. I ought to have 
looked sternly at him, and should have rang the bell, 
raised my voice, made a noise, done in fact everything that 
I did not do. Need I say anything more, sir? I blame the 
truffles for this. I am really persuaded that they were the 
cause of some predisposition, which might have become 
dangerous; and if I still eat them — for to abstain wholly 
from them would have been too severe a punishment — at 
least I never eat any more of them without being a little 
careful in the midst of my enjojonent." 

However frank such a confession may be, it can never be 
accepted as applying to every one. I, therefore, looked for 
further information. I consulted men in whom profession- 
ally great confidence is placed; they formed with me a com- 
mittee, a tribunal, a senate, a sanhedrim, an areopagus, 
and we gave the following decision to be commented on by 
the literary men of the twenty-fifth century: — 

"The truffle is not a positive aphrodisiac, but it may 
under certain circumstances render women more affection- 
ate, and men more amiable." 

In Piedmont are to be found white truffles, which are 
highly esteemed. They have a slight garlic flavour that 
does not detract from their perfection, because it leaves no 
unpleasant after-taste. 

The finest truffles of France come from Perigord and from 
(76) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

Upper Provence; and it is about the month of January that 
they are in full flavoiw. 

Some truffles are also foimd at Bugey of a very fine qual- 
ity, but they do not keep well. I made four attempts to 
get some for a few of my friends on the banks of the Seine, 
but only one was successful, and then they enjoyed them 
very much, and saw the merit of a difficulty overcome. 

The truffles of Burgundy and Dauphine are of inferior 
quality. They are hard, and deficient in flavour. So there 
are truffles and truffles, as there are "faggots and faggots." * 

To find the truffles trained dogs and hogs are generally 
used, but there are men whose eye is so practised, that in 
looking over a piece of ground they can teU to a certainty 
whether it contains truffles, and what their size and quality 
will be. 

Are Truffles Indigestible ? 

It only remains for us to examine if truffles are indigest- 
ible. 

We deny it. 

This official decision is without appeal, and is based: 

1°. On the nature of the object examined. The truffle is 
easy to chew, light in weight, and is neither hard nor 
leathery. 

2°. On our personal observations, extending over a 
period of more than fifty years. During all this time we 
have never seen any eater of truffles sufi'er from indiges- 
tion. 

3°. On the certificates of the most celebrated physicians 

' In MoliSre's Le Midecin Malgri lui (act i., sc. 6), Sganarelle wants 
to show that his faggots are better than those of any other person, and 
exclaims, "H y a fagots et fagots." — Te. 

(77) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

of Paris, a city to be admired for its many gourmands, who 
are especially fond of truffles. 

4°. On the daily practice of these self-same doctors, who, 
all things being equal, consume more truffles than any 
other class of persons. For example. Dr. Malouet used to 
swallow enough to give an indigestion to an elephant; yet 
nevertheless he lived till eighty-sLx. 

We may therefore regard as certain that truffles are both 
wholesome and agreeable, and, when taken in moderation, 
are easily digested. 

A man can become indisposed after a heavy dinner, 
where, among other things, truffles have been eaten; 
but such accidents only happen to those who, having 
stuffed themselves too much during the first course, cram 
in still more at the second course, and allow none of the 
good things to pass by which are offered them. 

Thus, it is not the fault of the truffles; and one may be 
sure such people would have been worse if, under similar 
circumstances, they had swallowed, instead of truffles, the 
same quantity of potatoes. 

Let us conclude with an anecdote that will show how 
easy it is to be deceived when one does not observe any- 
thing carefully. 

One day I had invited M. Simonard to dine with me; he 
was a very agreeable old man, and a first-rate gastronome. 
I knew his taste, and, to prove to all my guests that I wished 
them to enjoy themselves, I did not spare the truffles, so 
they appeared most carefully stuffed in a young hen-turkey. 

M. Simonard ate heartily; and as I knew that up to that 
time he had not died of eating truffles, I left him alone, 
and only told him not to hurry himself, as nobody wished to 
infringe on the property he had acquired. 

(78) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

Everything passed off very well, and the company went 
away rather late; but when M. Simonard got home, he 
was seized with a violent pain in the stomach, felt inclined 
to discharge his food, coughed violently, and was in general 
very^ uncomfortable. 

This condition lasted some time, and produced some 
anxiety; everybody already believed that he suffered from 
an indigestion caused by the truffles, when nature came 
to the assistance of the patient. M. Simonard opened his 
big mouth, and eructated with a tremendous effort a large 
bit of truffle, which struck the wall and rebounded with 
force, not without danger to those who were taking care 
of him. 

At the very moment all unpleasant symptoms disap- 
peared; tranquillity was restored, the digestive powers 
acted again, the patient went to sleep, and awoke the next 
morning perfectly well and without bearing me any grudge. 

The cause of the mischief was soon found out. M. Simon- 
ard had been eating for many years, so his teeth could no 
longer do the work which they ought to have done, for 
several of them were gone, and the remaining ones were 
not as firm as he could have wished them to be. 

In such a state of things, one truffle had not been mas- 
ticated, and had almost whole gone down into the stomach; 
the action of digestion had carried it towards the pylorus, 
where it had momentarily stuck; this mechanical detention 
had caused all the mischief, and expulsion cured it. 

Thus, there had never been any indigestion, but merely 
the interposition of a foreign body. 

This was decided on by the consulting committee, which 
saw the corpus delicti, and selected me as its reporter. 

M. Simonard, nevertheless, is not a whit less fond of 
(79) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

trufHes; he still attacks them with the same boldness, but 
takes care to masticate them more carefully and to take 
heed to swallow them; and he thanks Heaven, from the 
bottom of his heart, that this salutary precaution procures 
him a prolongation of enjoyment. 

§ VIII. STJGAB 

45. In the present state of science we understand by 
"sugar "a substance sweet to the taste, which can be crys- 
tallised, and by fermentation yields carbonic acid and 
alcohol. 

Formerly we understood by "sugar" the thickened ajid 
crystallised juice of the cane (Arundo saccharifera) . 

This cane came from the Indies; nevertheless, it is cer- 
tain that the Romans did not know sugar as a common 
substance, and could not crystallise it. 

Some passages in ancient writers may well lead us to 
believe that it had been observed that from some reeds a 
sweet juice could be extracted. Thus Lucan says: 

Quique bibunt tenerd dulces ab arundine succos. 

But between a sugar extracted from such canes and the 
sugar of modern times there is a great difference; and in 
Rome science was not yet sufficiently advanced to manu- 
facture the latter. It is in the colonies of the New World 
that sugar really originated. The sugar-cane was imported 
there about two centuries ago, and prospered. The sweet 
juice that flows from it was made use of, and after various 
attempts people succeeded in extracting from it cane- juice, 
molasses, raw sugar, loaf sugar, and refined sugar of various 
qualities. 

The culture of the sugar-cane has become an object of 
(80) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

the highest importance, for it is a source of riches both for 
those who cultivate it, for those who deal in its produce, 
for those who retail it, and finally for those governments 
who tax it. 

Indigenous Sugar 

For a long while it was believed that a tropical heat was 
required to grow sugar. But about 1740, Margraflf ^ dis- 
covered it in some plants of the temperate zone, and, 
amongst others, in the beet-root. The truth of this dis- 
covery was clearly demonstrated by the experiments made 
at Berlin by Professor Achard.^ 

At the commencement of the nineteenth century, cir- 
cumstances having rendered sugar rare in France, and con- 
sequently very expensive, the government encouraged 
scientific investigation into its manufacture. 

This encouragement met with abundant success; for it 
became certain that sugar was widely dispersed throughout 
the vegetable kingdom; it was found in the grape, the chest- 
nut, the potato, and especially in the beet-root. 

This last-mentioned plant was now extensively cultivated, 
and a mass of experiments were made which prove that the 
Old World, so far as sugar is concerned, might do without 
the New World. France became covered with manufac- 
tories, which worked with various success. Sugar-making 
became naturalised; and a new art was called into existence, 
which may some day become again useful to us. 

Am^ong the various sugar manufactories, the most promi- 
nent was that established at Passy, near Paris, by M. Ben- 

1 MaxgrafiE (1709-1782), a celebrated Gennan chemist, born at Berlin, 
who wrote nearly all his works in French. — Tb. 

2 Achard (1754-1821) was another well-known German chemist, who, 
though of French extraction, was also born at Berlin. — Tb. 

(81) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

jamin Delessert, a respectable citizen, whose name is 
always connected with everything that is good and 
useful.' 

In consequence of many well conducted experiments, 
he succeeded in freeing the manufactory of sugar from any 
uncertainty, made no secret of his discoveries even to those 
who might have been tempted to become his rivals, received 
the visit of the head of the government, and became manu- 
facturer to the Court at the Tuileries. 

The course of events, the Restoration and Peace,^ hav- 
ing reduced colonial sugar to a very low price, the manu- 
facturers of beet-root sugar lost the greater part of their 
advantages. There are nevertheless still a few who prosper; 
and M. Benjamin Delessert produces every year some 
thousands of pounds, on which he does not lose, and which 
furnish him with an opportunity for preserving the art of 
making it, to which at a future time it may be useful to 
have recourse.' 

When beet-root sugar was in the market, some men who 

^ Baron Benjamin Delessert (1773-1847) was one of the originators of 
the savings banks in France, and took a great interest in the welfare of 
the working classes. — Te. 

" This refers probably to the Treaty of Peace, signed May 13, 1814, 
between England, Prance, Austria, Russia, and Prussia. — Tk. 

' At the general meeting of the "Society for the Encouragement of 
National Industry," a gold medal was given to M. Crespel, a manu- 
facturer at Arras, who makes each year more than 150,000 beet-root 
sugar loaves, which he sells at a profit, even when cane sugar is as low 
as two francs twenty centimes the kilogramme. This may be accounted 
for by the fact that the refuse is sold for distillation, and subsequently 
used as food for cattle. — Bbiuat Savarin. The Physiologie du G6ut 
was first published in 1826, when beet-root sugar was yet in its infancy. 
At present (1884) the French and other foreign governments pay their 
sugar-manufacturers an export-bounty, to enable them to compete with 
colonial-grown sugar, so that people in England buy beet-root sugar at 
threepence a pound, which is much cheaper than they could get it in for- 
eign countries. — Tb. 

(82) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

had made up their minds, some men of routine, and some 
silly fellows, thought it had an unpleasant taste, and a few 
even pretended that it was unhealthy. 

Careful and oft-repeated experiments have proved the 
contrary, and Count Chaptal * has inserted their results 
in his excellent work, "Chemistry Applied to Agriculture," 
volume II, page 13 (1st edition). 

"The sugars that are obtained from various plants," says 
this celebrated chemist, "are in fact all of the same nature, 
and are not different from one another if they are refined 
in the same manner. Taste, crystallisation, colour, specific 
gravity, are absolutely identical; and therefore we chal- 
lenge any man, however experienced a judge or taster of 
these products, to distinguish between one another." 

We have a striking example of the force of prejudice, 
and of the difficulty of establishing a fact, when we men- 
tion that out of a hundred British subjects taken indis- 
criminately, there are not ten who believe that sugar can 
be made from the beet-root.^ 

Various Uses of Sugar 

Sugar was introduced to the world by the apothecaries. 
It must have played an important part with them, for if 
we wish to mention any one who is in need of something 
essential, we say of him, "He is like an apothecary without 
sugar." 

It was sufficient for sugar to come from apothecaries' 
shops to be received with disfavour. Some said that it was 

1 Jean Chaptal (1756-1832), a celebrated French chemist, created a 
Count by Napoleon I, had been Director of Public Instruction for several 
years, when he was appointed Minister of the Interior, a post which he 
filled for more than four years. — Tk. 

2 This is no longer the case. See Translator's observation, page 82. 

(83) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

heating, others that it injured the chest, and a few that it 
predisposed to apoplexy. But calumny was obliged to flee 
before truth, and for more than eighty years the following 
remarkable adage has been enunciated: "Sugar only hurts 
the purse." 

Protected by this almost uncontrovertible aphorism, 
the use of sugar has become every day more common and 
more general, and no alimentary substance has undergone 
more combinations or more transformations. 

Many persons like to eat sugar by itself, and in some 
cases, chiefly the more desperate ones, the medical faculty 
has prescribed it under this form, as a remedy that can do 
no harm, and is at least not repulsive. 

Mixed with water, it gives eau sucrie, a refreshing, whole- 
some, and pleasant drink, and sometimes beneficial as a 
remedy. 

Mixed in larger proportions with water, and concen- 
trated by fire, it produces syrups which can be impregnated 
with all sorts of flavours, and which present at all times 
refreshing beverages, pleasing to everybody by their 
variety. 

Mixed with water, from which the caloric has been ex- 
tracted scientifically, it produces ices which are of Italian 
origin, and which seem to have been introduced in France 
by Catherine de Medici. 

Mixed with wine, it forms a cordial, a restorative so well 
known that in some countries the toast that is taken to 
young married people the first night of their wedding is 
soaked in it, just as in Persia, on a similar occasion, they 
bring to the newly-wedded couple sheep's trotters in 
vinegar. 

Mixed with flour and eggs, it gives biscuits, macaroons, 
(84) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

cracknels, sponge-cakes, and a quantity of light pastry, 
which constitutes the not very ancient art of the pastry 
cook and confectioner. 

Mixed with milk, it gives creams, blancmanges, and 
other culinary preparations that form so agreeable a termi- 
nation to the second course, by substituting for the sub- 
stantial taste of the viands a flavour more refined and more 
ethereal. 

Mixed with coffee, it develops the flavour. 

Mixed with coffee and milk, it gives a light, agreeable 
food, easy to be obtained, and which is perfectly suited for 
those who leave the breakfast-table immediately to enter 
their study. Coffee with milk is also an especial favourite 
of the ladies, but the keen eye of science has discovered 
that its too frequent use might be hurtful to what they 
value most highly. 

Mixed with fruits and the essence of flowers, it produces 
jams, marmalades, preserves, pastes, and candied fruits, a 
process which enables us to enjoy the flavour of these fruits 
and flowers long after the time Nature has fixed as their 
limit. Considered from this last point of view, sugar might 
perhaps be used with advantage in the art of embalming, 
which is as yet very little understood among us. 

Finally, sugar mixed with alcohol, gives spirituous 
liqueurs, invented, it is said, to stimulate the old age of 
Louis XIV, and which, forcibly la3Tiig hold of the palate as 
well as of the organs of smell by the flavour added to them, 
form at the present time the most perfect enjoyments of 
taste. 

The use of sugar is not limited to this alone. We may 
say that it is a universal condiment, and that it never 
spoils anything. Some use it with meat, some with vege- 

(85) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

tables, and often with fruit. It is an essential element in the 
most fashionable drinks, such as punch, negus, syllabub, 
and others of foreign origin; and in its application it varies 
very much, as different nations and individuals modify it 
to suit their own tastes. 

Such is this substance which was hardly known even by 
name to Frenchmen at the time of Louis XIII, and which 
has become an article of the first necessity for those of the 
nineteenth century; for there is no housewife, especially 
among those well to do, who does not spend more money in 
sugar than she does in bread. 

M. Delacroix, an author whose works are as popular as 
they are numerous,^ used to complain at Versailles about 
the price of sugar, which at that time cost more than five 
francs a pound . " Ah ! " he would say, in his gentle and ten- 
der way, "if ever sugar should come to be sold at a shilling 
a pound, I would never drink water unless there was plenty 
of sugar in it." His prayers have been heard; he is still 
alive, and I trust he has kept his word. 

§ IX. OF COFFEE 

Origin of Coffee 

46. The first coffee tree was found in Arabia, and, in 
spite of the various transplantations that this shrub has 
undergone, the best coffee still comes from there. 

An ancient tradition states that coffee was discovered by 
a shepherd, who noticed that his flock was in a particular 
state of excitement and gaiety whenever they browsed on 

' Jacques-Vincent Delacroix (1743-1832) was a voluminous author 
and a celebrated lawyer. He was the editor of the Spectateur Fransais, in 
which he defended Louis XVI, and attacked torture and many other 
legal abuses. He was for twenty-seven years a judge at the tribunal of 
Versailles. — Tb. 

(86) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

the berries of the coffee tree. Whatever may be thought of 
this old legend, only half of the honour of the discovery 
belongs to the shrewd goat-herd; the other half unquestion- 
ably belongs to whoever first thought of roasting the coffee 
beans. 

Indeed, a decoction of raw coffee is a very insignificant 
drink; but when it is carbonised, it develops an aroma and 
forms an oil which characterises coffee as we take it, and 
which would for ever and aye have remained unknown if 
heat had not been applied. 

The Turks, who axe our masters in this particular, do not 
employ a mill for grinding coffee, but they crush it in 
wooden mortars and pestles; and when these have been 
used for a long time they become costly, and are sold at a 
high price. 

It was my duty, in virtue of my oflS.ce, to find out if there 
was really any difference between the two methods, and 
which of the two was preferable. 

Accordingly, I carefully roasted a pound of good Mocha; 
I divided it into two equal portions, of which one was 
groimd, and the other crushed in the Turkish manner. 

I made coffee with each of these powders. I took of each 
precisely the same quantity, poured upon it an equal quan- 
tity of boiling water, acting in everything exactly in the 
same way. 

I tasted this coffee, and caused it also to be tasted by 
several bigwigs. The unanimous verdict was that the 
coffee beaten in a mortar was imdoubtedly superior to that 
made of the ground bean. 

Every one can repeat the experiment. Meanwhile, I 
shall give a very singular example of the influence that one 
way or another of treating a certain substance can produce. 

(87) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

"Sir," said Napoleon one day to the Senator Laplace,' 
"how does it happen that a glass of water into which I 
melt a lump of loaf sugar seems much better than that into 
which I put the same quantity of crushed sugar?" "Sire," 
answered the man of science, " there are three substances 
of which the principles are exactly the same, namely, sugar, 
gum, and starch; they only differ in certain conditions, of 
which Nature reserves to herself the secret; I believe it to 
be possible that in the crushing with the pestle, some of the 
sugary particles may pass to a state of gum or of starch, and 
so cause the difference which exists in this case." 

This remark has become publicly known, and further 
observations have confirmed the first impression. 

Various Modes of making Cofee 

Some years since every one directed his attention at 
the same time to the best manner of making coffee, which 
was due, almost unwittingly, to the fact that the head of 
the government. Napoleon I, took it in large quantities. 

People proposed to make it without burning it, without 
reducing it to powder, to infuse it in cold water, to let it 
boil for three-quarters of an hour, to put it in a digester, 
and so forth. 

I have made all these experiments in my time, as well as 
those that have been proposed to this day, and, having a 
thorough knowledge of the matter, I decide in favour of the 
method called d, la Dubelloy, which consists in pouring boil- 
ing water on coffee placed in a porcelain or silver vase, 
pierced with very little holes. Then let this first decoction 

1 Pierre Simon Laplace (1749-1827), a celebrated mathematician and 
natiural philosopher, made a count by Napoleon I, and a marquis and 
peer by the Restoration, was a man of great talent, but of a very servile 
character. 

(88) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

be heated again almost to a boiling point, let it be strained 
anew, and then you'll have a coffee as clear and as good as 
it is possible to get.^ 

I tried, among various other methods, to make coffee in 
a coffee-pot, with high pressure; but the result was a liquid 
full of extractive and bitter matters, good at the best to 
tickle the throat of a Cossack. 

Effects of Coffee 

Doctors have pronounced various opinions on the sani- 
tary properties of coffee, and do not always agree with each 
other. We shall take no part in this contest, and only de- 
vote ourselves to that more important point — What is its 
influence on the organs of thought? 

It is beyond doubt that coffee greatly excites the fimc- 
tions of the brain. Thus any one who drinks it for the first 
time is sure to be deprived of a part of his sleep. 

Sometimes this effect is mitigated or modified by habit; 
but there are many individuals who never can take it with- 
out getting excited, and who consequently are obliged to 
give up drinking coffee. 

I have said that this effect was mitigated by custom, but 
this does not prevent its being produced in another manner; 
for I have observed that persons who can take coffee with 
impunity and yet sleep during the night, are obliged to 
take it in order to keep awake during the day, and always 
fall asleep during the evening when they have not taken 
any after dinner. 

There are several other persons who are sleepy all day if 
they do not take their habitual cup of coffee in the morning. 

1 If M. Brillat-Savarin were alive now, he woiild find another and 
better method for making coffee. — Tb. 

(89) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Voltaire and Buffon drank a great deal of coffee; perhaps 
it is to this custom that we may ascribe the admirable 
lucidity which is found in the works of the former, as well 
as the harmony and enthusiasm which pervade the style of 
the latter. Several pages of the latter on man, on the dog, 
the tiger, the lion, and the horse, were evidently written in 
a state of extraordinary cerebral excitement. 

The sleeplessness produced by coffee is not painful: one 
has very clear mental perceptions, and no desire for sleep; 
that is all. There is no agitation or feeling of unhappiness 
as when sleeplessness proceeds from any other cause, and 
yet this artificial excitement may in the long run become 
very injurious. 

Formerly only persons of more or less mature age took 
coffee; but now every one drinks it, and perhaps it is owing 
to this stimulus of the mind that a great number of people 
are set in motion, and besiege all the avenues of Olympus 
and of the Temple of Memory. 

The cobbler who wrote the tragedy of the "Queen of 
Palmyra," which all Parisians heard him read a few years 
ago, drank a great deal of coffee; for this reason he rose 
higher than the "joiner of Nevers," who was a mere 
drunkard.* 

Coffee is a drink far more powerful than people com- 
monly think. A man of good constitution may drink two 
bottles of wine every day and live a long time, but that 
same man would not stand the same quantity of coffee 
so long; he would become an idiot or die of consump- 
tion. 

I have seen in London, in Leicester Square, a man whom 

' The names of the literary cobbler and joiner have not come down 
to posterity. — Te. 

(90) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

the immoderate use of coffee had reduced to the state of 
a helpless cripple; he no longer suffered any pain, had 
become accustomed to his condition, and limited himself 
to five or six cups of coffee a day. 

Every father and every mother should strictly forbid 
their children to take any coffee, unless they wish to see 
them shrivelled up, puny, and withered little things before 
they are twenty years old. This advice should be of especial 
use to Parisians, whose children are not always as strong 
and healthy as those who are bom in certain departments, 
that of the Ain, for example. 

I am one of those who have been obliged to give up the 
use of coffee, and I shall finish this section by relating how 
I was one day completely under its influence. 

One day the Duke of Massa,^ then Minister of Justice, 
asked me to do some important work for him, for which 
he gave me very little time, as he wished to have it early 
the next morning. 

I made up my mind to sit up all night, and, in order not 
to fall asleep, I drank after dinner two large cups of nicely- 
smelling strong coffee. 

On returning home at seven o'clock, expecting to find 
the necessary papers, I only found a letter to say that, on 
account of some official formality, I could not receive them 
until next day. 

Thus disappointed in every respect, I went back to the 
house where I had dined and played a game of piquet, 
without feeling so absent-minded as I usually feel. 

I attributed this to the coffee; but while profiting by it I 

> C. A. Regnier (1736-1814), a celebrated lawyer, was created by 
Napoleon I, in 1809, Duke of Massa, and became Minister and President 
of the legislative body one year before his death, when the scene de- 
scribed by Brillat-Savarin probably took place. — Tb. 

(91) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

was not without some uneasiness as to how I should pass 
the night. 

However, I went to bed at my usual hour, thinking that 
if I did not pass a very good night, I should at least have 
four or five hours sleep, which would gradually bring me 
to the next morning. 

I was mistaken. After being two hours in bed I felt more 
wide-awake than ever; I was in a very lively state of mental 
excitation, and I pictured to myself my brain as a mill of 
which the wheels were constantly going without having 
anything to grind. 

I felt I might utilise this disposition as I could not com- 
pose myself to sleep, and I occupied myself in making a 
poetical version of a little tale I had recently read in an 
English book. 

I did this pretty easily, but as sleep came no nearer I 
began a second one, but in vain. A dozen verses exhausted 
my poetic vein, and I had to give up the attempt. 

I therefore passed the night without sleeping, and with- 
out even feeling sleepy for a single moment; I arose next 
morning and passed the whole day in the same state, with- 
out any change being produced either by my meals or by 
my occupations. Finally, on retiring to rest the second 
day at my accustomed hour, I calculated that I had been 
forty hours without closing my eyes. 

§ X. OF CHOCOLATE 

Origin of Chocolate 
47. The first settlers in America were impelled by the 
lust of gold. At that epoch, almost the only things of any 
value that were appreciated were mineral products. Agri- 
culture and commerce were in their infancy, and political 

(92) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

economy was as yet unknown. The Spaniards found there 
precious metab; now an almost worthless discovery, inas- 
much as they diminish in value by becoming more abun- 
dant, and because we possess far more powerful means for 
increasing the mass of our riches. 

These countries, where a very warm sun produces in the 
groimd an extreme fecundity, have been found suited for 
the cultivation of sugar and coffee: other real treasures, 
such as the potato, indigo, vanilla, cinchona, cocoa, have 
also been discovered there. 

If these discoveries have taken place in spite of the 
barriers that a jealous nation has erected to prevent in- 
quiries, we may reasonably hope that they will be tenfold 
increased during the following years, and that the re- 
searches of the scientific men of old Europe in so many 
unexplored countries will enrich the three kingdoms of 
Nature with a great many substances which will procure 
us new sensations, as the vanilla bean has done, or will 
increase our alimentary resources, as the cacao bean has 
done. 

When the cacao bean has been roasted, is mixed with 
sugar and flavoured with cinnamon, it is technically called 
"chocolate." Sugar forms an essential part of it, for, 
mixed with cacao beans alone, it is called "cocoa" and not 
chocolate. When, to sugar, to cinnamon, and to cocoa, the 
delicious aroma of vanilla is added, we obtain the highest 
state of perfection of this preparation. 

It is to this small number of substances that taste and 
experience reduce the munerous ingredients which have 
been attempted to be mixed with cocoa, such as pepper, 
allspice, aniseed, ginger, and many others which have been 
tried in succession. 

(93) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

The cacao tree is indigenous to South America, being 
found both in the islands and on the continent. But it is 
now generally admitted that the best beans are produced 
by the trees growing on the shores of the Maracaybo, in the 
valleys of Caraccas, and in the rich province of Soco- 
nusco.^ Their beans are larger, their juice less acrid, and 
their aroma more developed. Since these countries have 
become more accessible, comparisons have been made 
every day, and people who are accustomed to use it are no 
longer deceived. 

The Spanish ladies of the New World are passionately 
fond of chocolate; and not satisfied with taking it several 
times a day, they even have brought it to church. This 
indulgence has often brought on them the censure of their 
bishops, who at last shut their eyes to it. The Spanish 
casuist, Escobar y Mendoza,^ whose metaphysic was as 
subtle as his morals were accommodating, declares for- 
mally that chocolate with water does not break a fast, 
stretching thus for the use of his fair penitents the old 
adage: Idquidum non frangit jejunium. 

Chocolate was introduced into Spain about the seven- 
teenth century; and it became at once popular, as the 
ladies, and especially the monks, strongly patronised this 
aromatic beverage. Manners have not changed in this 
respect, and even at the present day, on all occasions when 

' Maracaybo is now called San Carlos, a city in Venezuela, the capital 
of the State of Zulia. The lake of Maracaybo, a hundred miles long, 
communicates by a long channel with the gulf of the same name, an 
inlet of the Caribbean Sea. Caraccas is the capital of the South Ameri- 
can Republic Venezuela, and Soconusco is a district of Central America. 

* Antonio Escobar y Mendoza (1389-1669), a Spanish casuist and 
Jesuit, an orator and author of more than forty volumes, is chiefly known 
by the maxim, "Good intentions justify actions considered blameable by 
morality and human laws." — Tb. 

(94) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

it is considered polite to hand some refreshment, chocolate 
is offered to guests in Spain. 

Chocolate crossed the Pyrenees with Anne of Austria,^ 
daughter of Philip III, king of Spain,^ and wife of Louis 
XIII.' Spanish monks also made it known by giving it as 
a present to their brethren in France. The various Spanish 
ambassadors contributed to make it fashionable, and at 
the commencement of the Regency ^ it was more univer- 
sally in use than coffee, because it was then drunk as an 
agreeable nourishment, whilst coffee was as yet merely 
considered a drink of luxury and curiosity. 

Linnaeus named the cacao, Cacao theobroma, or "divine 
food." Some people have endeavoured to find out the 
reason for this emphatic qualification, which some attrib- 
ute to the learned man's excessive fondness for chocolate, 
others to his desire to please his pastor, and others again to 
his gallantry because a queen was the first to introduce it. 

Properties cf Chocolate 

Chocolate has been the cause of some very scientific 
dissertations of which the object was to determine its nature 
and its properties, and to place it in the category of either 
hot, cold, or temperate foods; but we must own that all 
these learned writings have served but little the promulga- 
tion of truth. 

However, time and experience, these two great masters, 
have proved that chocolate, when properly prepared, is a 
food as wholesome as it is agreeable; that it is nourishing, 
easily digested, and has not those inconveniences for the 
fair sex which are ascribed to coffee, and to which it is, on 
the contrary, an antidote; that it is most suitable for per- 

1 1602-66. > 1578-1621. ' 1601-13. « 1715-23. 

(95) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

sons who have much brain work to do, such as clergymen 
and lawyers, and especially for travellers; in short, that it 
suits the weakest stomachs; has produced some beneficial 
results in chronic diseases, and is the last resource in affec- 
tions of the pylorus. 

Chocolate owes these various properties to its being 
nothing but elmosaccharum, so that there are few other 
substances which contain in the same dimensions more 
nutrition or more alimentary particles, in such a manner 
that nearly everything can be assimilated. 

During the late wars (1793-1815) cacao was rare, and 
above all very dear. People tried to find substitutes, but 
every effort was in vain. One of the blessings of peace has 
been to rid us of all those brews that we were forced to 
taste, out of politeness, and which were no more like choco- 
late than an infusion of chicory is like that of the Mocha 
bean. 

Some persons complain that they cannot digest choco- 
late; others, on the contrary, pretend that it does not 
nourish them enough, and that it digests too quickly. 

It is very probable that the first have only themselves 
to blame, and that the chocolate they use is of an inferior 
quality or badly made; because good and well-made choco- 
late ought to agree with every stomach that has still some 
digestive power left. 

As for the others, the remedy is easy. They should eat 
a heavier breakfast and take a slice of a meat-pie, a chop, 
or a broiled kidney; let them then drink a good bowl of 
Soconusco chocolate, and thank Heaven for having given 
them a stomach of superior activity. 

I '11 take the opportunity of making a remark, of which 
the correctness may be relied on. 

(96) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

If any one, after having breakfasted well, amply and 
copiously, drinks a large cup of good chocolate, every- 
thing will have perfectly digested three hours afterwards, 
and one will be able to dine notwithstanding. . . . For 
science' sake and by dint of eloquence, I induced several 
ladies to try this experiment, who one and all assured me 
that it would make them ill. They always felt themselves 
the better for it, and were loud in their praises of the pro- 
fessor. 

Persons who take chocolate commonly enjoy pretty 
good health, and are less subject than other people to many 
trifling complaints which make life miserable; they also 
do not increase in corpulence. These two observations any 
man can make among his acquaintances whose manner of 
living is well known. 

I ought here to speak of the properties of chocolate 
d I'ambre, which I have tested by a great many experi- 
ments, the result of which I am delighted to bring before 
my readers.^ 

Let, then, every man who has indulged too deeply of the 
cup of pleasure; every man who has devoted to work a con- 
siderable part of the time which he ought to have employed 
in sleep; every man of intelligence who feels his faculties 
temporarily dulled; every one who finds the air damp, 
time hanging heavily on his hands, and the weather unen- 
durable; every man who is tormented by a fixed idea which 
deprives him of the liberty of thinking; — let all such 
people, we say, indulge in a pint at least of chocolate mixed 
with amber, in the proportion of from sixty to seventy-two 
grains to the half kilogramme, and they will see wonders. 

In my particular way of distinguishing things, I have 
' See the chapter "Varieties," x. B. 
(97) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

called chocolate with amber the "chocolate for the af- 
flicted," because in each of those cases I have mentioned, 
persons experience some sentiment that is common to them 
all, and which resembles affliction. 

DifficvMes in making Oood Chocolate 

In. Spain they have very good chocolate, but people are 
scarcely disposed to send such a distance for it, for all 
persons are not equally clever in making it; moreover, 
when they have received from Spain an inferior quality 
they are obliged to drink it as it is. 

Italian chocolates do not suit the French palate; the bean 
is generally too much burnt, which gives the chocolate a 
bitter taste and makes it less nutritious, because a part of 
the bean has been reduced to carbon. 

The use of chocolate has become quite common in 
France, and everybody thinks they can make it; but very 
few have arrived at perfection, as the art is far from being 
an easy one. 

In the first place, it is necessary to recognise good cocoa 
and to be willing to use it in all its purity, for even in a box 
of the best sort inferior samples may be fovmd, and a manu- 
facturer who does not understand his own interest, often 
allows damaged beans to be put in that should have been 
rejected, if he really wished to produce a superior article. 

The roasting of the cocoa bean is also a delicate opera- 
tion; it requires a certain tact which is akin to inspiration. 
Some men have this faculty naturally, and never make 
mistakes. 

A peculiar talent is also necessary to regulate the quan- 
tity of sugar that ought to enter into the mixture. This 
quantity is not invariable and a matter of course, but must 

(98) 



SPECIAL KINDS OP FOOD 

be determined partly by the more or less aromatic proper- 
ties of the bean and partly by the more or less roasting 
which it has imdergone. 

Grinding and mixing also require the same amount of 
care, inasmuch as it is on their absolute perfection the 
greater or lesser digestibility of chocolate depends. 

Other considerations ought to preside at the choice and 
the quantity of spices, which should not be the same for 
chocolates destined to be taken as foods and those taken 
as luxuries; they should also vary when the mass should 
or should not be mixed with vanilla; so that to make ex- 
quisite chocolate a number of very subtle equations must 
be resolved, by which we profit without suspecting that 
they ever took place. 

For a long time machines have been employed to manu- 
facture chocolate. We do not think that this method adds 
anything to its perfection; but the cost of producing it is 
thereby much lessened, and those who have adopted this 
method might be able to sell chocolate much cheaper. 
They usually, however, sell it at a higher price, and this 
fact proves to us that the true spirit of commerce has not 
yet become naturalised in France; for, it is but right that 
the greater facility of machines should be as advantageous 
to the consumer as to the dealer. 

As a lover of chocolate, we have tried samples of nearly 
all the manufacturers, and we are of opinion that M. 
Debauve's, rue des Saints Peres 26, Paris, is the best. 

We ought not to be surprised at this; M. Debauve is a 
most distinguished chemist, who employed in the manu- 
facture of chocolate a knowledge which he intended to use 
in a much larger way. 

Those who have not been engaged in this manufacture 
(99) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

can scarcely imagine the difficulties that have to be over- 
come in order to arrive at perfection in any matter, nor the 
attention, tact, and experience that are requisite to pro- 
duce a chocolate svireet without being insipid, firm without 
being bitter, aromatic without being unwholesome, and 
close in texture without being feculent. 

Such are the chocolates of M. Debauve. They owe their 
superiority to a choice of good materials, to a resolution to 
let no inferior article leave his manufactory, and to the in- 
fluence of the master's superintendence over all the little 
details of the manufacture. 

In accordance with the principles of science M. Debauve, 
moreover, offers to his numerous customers medicated 
chocolates of pleasant taste for different complaints. 

Thus to people who are not corpulent, he offers analeptic 
chocolate with salop; to those who have delicate nerves, 
antispasmodic chocolate mixed with orange-flower water; 
to irritable temperaments, chocolate mixed with almond 
milk; to which he will imdoubtedly add the "chocolate of 
the afflicted," a I'anibre, and prepared scientifically. 

But his principal merit is above all, that for a moderate 
price we can obtain an excellent chocolate for daily use, 
which in the morning is to us sufficient as breakfast, which 
at dinner pleases us in creams, and at the end of the even- 
ing rejoices us anew in ices, "croquettes," and other delica- 
cies, without counting the agreeable amusement of pastiles 
or crackers, with or without mottoes. 

We only know M. Debauve by his preparations. We 
have never seen him; but we are aware that he most power- 
fully contributes to free France from the tribute she for- 
merly paid to Spain, in providing for Paris and the provinces 
a chocolate of which the reputation increases continually. 

(100) 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD 

We also know that he receives every day fresh orders from 
foreign countries; it is, therefore, for this reason, and as 
one of the men who founded the Society for the Encourage- 
ment of National Industry, that we speak of him here with 
approval, and bestow on him that praise of which it will be 
seen that we are not too lavish.' 

The Best Way of making Chocolate 

The Americans prepare their cocoa paste without sugar. 
When they wish to take chocolate they have some boiling 
water brought; each one scrapes into his cup as much 
cacao as he likes, pours hot water on it, and adds sugar and 
spices just as it suits him. 

This way of making chocolate neither agrees with our 
manners nor with our tastes, and we like our chocolate 
manufactured for consumption. 

Thus prepared, transcendental chemistry teaches us that 
chocolate should not be scraped with a knife or bruised 
with a pestle, because the dry friction which takes place in 
both these cases converts some portions of the sugar into 
starch, and renders this beverage more insipid. 

Thus, to make chocolate, that is to say, to render it fit 
for immediate consumption, about one ounce and a half 
should be taken for each cup, which should be dissolved 
gradually in water, as it gets hotter, stirring it all the while 
with a wooden spatula. Then let it boil for a quarter of an 
hour until the solution becomes thick, and serve it up quite 
hot. 

1 M. Brillat-Savarin sang the praises of M. Debauve in 1825. This firm 
still exists, at least we find its name in the Paris Directory (Bottin) for 
this year (1884), established in the same street it was in in 1825, but at 
No. 30. Many other manufactories of excellent chocolate have sprung up 
in England, France, and other countries since that time. — Tb. 

(101) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

More than fifty years ago Madame d'Arestrel, Superior 
of the Convent of the Visitation at Belley, said to me : " Sir, 
when you wish to have good chocolate, get it made over- 
night in an earthenware coffee-pot and leave it in it. By re- 
maining there through the night it becomes concentrated 
and acquires a softness that greatly improves it. The good 
God carmot be offended at this trifling nicety, for He Him- 
self is all perfection." 



MEDITATION VH 
THEORY OF FRYING 

48. It was a beautiful day m the month of May; the 
sun shed its most pleasant rays on the smoky roofs of the 
City of Pleasure, and the streets, for a wonder, showed 
neither mud nor dust. 

The heavy "diligences" had for a long time ceased to 
shake the streets, the huge rubbish-carts were at rest, and 
only open carriages were to be seen, full of indigenous 
and exotic fair ladies, shaded under most elegant hats, 
and casting disdainful looks on the pitiful creatures who 
passed, and coquettish glances on the good-looking young 
men. 

It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when the 
professor sat down in his arm-chair to meditate. 

His right leg rested vertically on the floor, his left 
stretched diagonally across it; he had his back comfort- 
ably supported, and his hands rested on the lion's heads 
which terminate the arms of this venerable piece of furni- 
ture. 

His lofty brow indicated a love for serious studies, and 
his mouth a taste for agreeable recreation. His air was 
collected, and his attitude such that any person who could 
have seen him would have exclaimed : " This man of ancient 
days must be a sage!" 

When thus settled, the professor sent for his head cook, 
and immediately that servitor arrived, ready to receive 
advice, lessons, or orders. 

(103) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

ALLOCUTION 

"Well, M. La Planche!" said the professor with that 
grave tone which penetrates to the very bottom of one's 
heart, "every one who dines at my table proclaims you a 
soup-maker of the first class. This is very well, for soup is 
the first consolation of a hungry stomach; but I am sorry 
to see that you are uncertain as a * fryer.' 

"I heard you yesterday groan when that magnificent 
sole was served up to us, pale, flabby, and discoloured. 
My friend Revenaz ^ threw on you a glance of disapproval; 
M. Henri Roux turned his gnomonic nose to the west, and 
President Sibuet deplored this failure as a public calamity. 

"This misfortune has befallen you because you neglected 
a theory of which you do not feel the full importance. You 
are a little obstinate, and I have had some difficulty in 
making you understand that all the operations of your 
laboratory are naught but the execution of the eternal laws 
of nature, and that certain things that you do without at- 
tention, and merely because you have seen others do them, 
can nevertheless be traced to the highest abstractions of 
science. 

"Listen then to me attentively, and learn, so that you 
may not have again to blush for your workmanship. 

§ I. CHEMISTET 

"The liquids that you expose to the action of fire cannot 
all be charged with the same quantity of heat; nature has 
given them all various properties; this is an order of things 

' Alexis Revenaz, born at Seisset, in the district of Belley, about 1757. 
An elector of the grand college, we may propose his career to any one as an 
example of prudent conduct, joined to inflexible probity. 

(104) 



THEORY OF FRYING 

of which nature alone has the secret, and which is called 
'capacity for caloric' 

"Thus you might with impunity dip your finger in boil- 
ing spirits of wine, but you would take it out quickly 
enough from boiling brandy, and quicker still if it were 
water, whilst a hasty immersion in boiling oil would hurt 
you cruelly, as the capacity of oil for heat is at least three 
times that of water. 

"It is in consequence of this disposition that we see that 
hot liquids act in a different manner on the sapid sub- 
stances that are plunged in them. Those which we treat 
by water are softened, dissolve and are reduced to rags; and 
soup or extracts are thus made. Those, on the contrary, 
which are treated with oil become contracted, are coloured 
in a more or less deep manner, and finally are carbonised. 

"In the former case, water dissolves and draws out the 
interior juices of the alimentary substances placed in it; 
in the second case, these juices are preserved, because 
oil cannot dissolve them; and if these substances dry up, 
it is because a continuous heat vaporises the humid parts. 

"The two methods have different names, and boiling 
in oil or grease substances intended to be eaten, is called 
'frying.' I think I have told you already that oil or fat, 
from a culinary point of view, are almost synonymous 
words, fat being merely a concrete oil, or oil a liquid fat. 

§ n. APPLICATION 

"Fried foods are always welcome in entertainments; 
they introduce a pleasing variety, they are agreeable to 
look at, they keep their original savour, and can be eaten 
by the hand, which always pleases ladies. 

"Frying also gives to cooks a number of means to con- 
(105) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

ceal what has appeared the day before, and at a pinch is an 
aid for unexpected demands, for it takes not much more 
time to fry a four-pound carp than to boil an egg. 

" All the merit of a good fry is derived from the ' surprise ' ; 
thus they term the invasion of the boiling liquid which at 
the very instant of the immersion carbonises or browns the 
external surface of the body placed in it. 

"By means of the 'surprise' a sort of vault is formed 
which encloses the substance, prevents the fat from reach- 
ing it, and concentrates the juices, which thus undergo a 
kind of interior boiling that gives to the food all the taste 
of which it is susceptible. 

"In order that the 'surprise' may take place, the boiling 
liquid should have acquired heat enough for its action to 
be sharp and instantaneous; but it only reaches that point 
when it has been a considerable time on a brisk and blaz- 
ing fire. 

"We know by the following method if the frying matter 
is sufficiently hot: we cut a long and narrow slice of bread, 
and put it in the frying-pan for five or six seconds; if, when 
it is withdrawn, it is firm and brownish, immerse at once 
whatever you want to fry; if not, you must put on more 
fire, and try again. 

"The 'surprise' once effected, moderate the fire, so that 
the heat be not too quick, and in order that the juices you 
have enclosed may undergo by means of a more prolonged 
warmth the alteration which unites them and improves 
their taste. 

"You have without doubt observed that the surface of 
well-fried objects cannot dissolve either salt or sugar, which 
they may nevertheless need according to their respective 
natures. Thus, you will not fail to reduce these two sub- 

(106) 



THEORY OF FEYING 

stances into very fine powder that they may adhere very 
easily, so that with a dredge the fry may be seasoned by 
juxtaposition. 

"I say nothing about choosing oils and fats; because the 
various cookery books which I have put in your library 
will give you sufficient information on that head. 

"Nevertheless, do not forget when you get one of those 
trouts which scarcely weigh more than a quarter of a pound, 
and which are fetched from brooks of running water that 
murmur far from the capital, do not forget, I beg you, to 
fry these in the very finest olive oil you have. This dish, so 
simple, properly sprinkled and served up with slices of 
lemon, is worthy to be ofi'ered to a cardinal.^ 

"Treat in exactly the same way smelts, of which adepts 
think so much. The smelt is among fishes what the becca- 
fico is amongst birds. It is the same in size, the same in 
flavour, and the same in excellence. 

"These two prescriptions are founded on the very na- 
ture of things. Experience has taught us that we ought 
only to use olive oil for frying that must be quickly done, 
or that does not require a great heat, because prolonged 
heat develops an empyreumatic and disagreeable taste, 
produced by some parts of the parenchyma, of which it is 
difficult to get rid, and which become carbonised. 

"You have the charge of my lower regions, and you were 
the first person who had the glory of presenting to an as- 

1 M. Aulissio, a Neapolitan lawyer, a very well-iBformed man and a 
very fair amateur violoncello player, dining one day with me, and eating 
something that was quite to his taste, exclaimed: "Quesio i un vera boccone 
di cardinalel" "Why," I replied in the same language, "don't you say as 
we say, 'fit for a king'?" "My dear sir," answered the amateur, "we 
Italians think that kings cannot be gourmands, because their meals are 
too hturied and too formal; but the cardinals — ah ! " and with that slight 
chuckle which is peculiar to him, "Hou hou! hou hou! hou hou!" 

(107) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

tonished and surprised universe a huge turbot fried. That 
day there was, among the elect, great jubilation. 

" Go, continue to bestow pains on whatever you attempt, 
never forgetting that from the moment the guests have put 
their feet in my drawing-room, it is we who are responsible 
for their happiness." 



MEDITATION VIII 
OF THmST 

49. Thirst is the internal feeling of the desire to drink. 

A heat of about 104 degrees Fahrenheit constantly va- 
pourising the different fluids of which the circulation keeps 
up life, the loss which results from this would soon have 
made these fluids imfit to fulfil their destiny if they were 
not often renewed and refreshed: this desire causes us to 
experience thirst. 

We believe that the seat of the feeling of thirst is in the 
whole of the digestive system. When any one is thirsty, 
as we have often been when out shooting, there is a well- 
defined feeling that all the inhaling portions of the mouth, 
the gullet, and the stomach are parched up and cauterised; 
and if sometimes we appease thirst by the application of 
liquid elsewhere than to these organs, as, for example, by 
a bath, it is because as soon as they are immediately intro- 
duced into the circulation, they are drawn rapidly to the 
seat of evU, and become remedies. 

DIFFERENT VARIETIES OF THIRST 

Looking at the subject in all its bearings, we may descry 
three varieties of thirst; latent, factitious, and burning. 

Latent or habitual thirst is the insensible equilibrium 
which is estabUshed between transpiratory vaporisation 
and the necessity of supplying what is lost. It is this which, 
although we experience no pain, invites us to drink while 
we eat, and enables us to drink at nearly every minute of 

(109) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

the day. This thirst always accompanies us, and forms to 
some extent a part of our existence. 

Factitious thirst, which is peculiar to the human species, 
is derived from that innate instinct that induces us to seek 
in liquids a force that Nature has not placed there, and 
which is only arrived at by fermentation. It constitutes 
an artificial enjoyment rather than a natural desire. This 
thirst is in reality unextinguishable, inasmuch as the liquids 
that are taken to appease it have the invariable faculty of 
reviving it. This thirst, which ends by becoming habitual, 
makes drunkards in all countries; it happens almost al- 
ways that the desire to drink only ceases when liquor falls 
short, or when the drinker is so entirely finished up that he 
is completely disabled. 

When, on the other hand, thirst is only appeased by 
cold water, which appears to be its natural antidote, a 
mouthful more than what is actually necessary is never 
dnmk. 

Burning thirst is that which is caused by the augmenta- 
tion of the desire and by the impossibility of satisfying 
latent thirst. 

It is called "burning" because it is accompanied by heat 
of the tongue, dryness of the palate, and extreme heat in 
the whole body. 

The sensation of thirst is so keen that the word is used, 
in nearly every language, to express an excessive longing 
and an eager desire. Thus, there is a thirst for gold, for 
riches, power, vengeance, etc., expressions which would 
never have obtained currency if any one who had once 
been thristy did not feel the correctness of this applica- 
tion. 

Appetite is accompanied by a sensation which is pleas- 
(110) 



OF THIRST 

ant so long as it does not become hunger; thirst has no 
medium, and the moment when it is felt there is uneasiness 
and anxiety; and this anxiety becomes terrible when there 
is no expectation of quenching one's thirst. 

By a just compensation, drinking may, under certain 
circiunstances, procure us very keen enjoyments; thus, 
when we quench extreme thirst, or when we are moder- 
ately thirsty and imbibe a delicious beverage, the whole 
papillary system is aroused from the top of the tongue to 
the depth of the stomach. 

We die much more quickly of thirst than of hunger. 
There are examples of men who have lived for eight days 
without eating bread, because they drank water, ^ whilst 
those who are absolutely deprived of anything to drink 
never pass the fifth day. 

The reason of this difference is, that the latter die simply 
of exhaustion and weakness, whilst the former are seized 
by a fever that burns them up, and that always keeps in- 
creasing in its violence. 

People are not even always able to resist thirst for a 
comparatively short time. Thus, in 1789, one of the Swiss 
bodyguard of Louis XVI died from remaining only 
twenty-four hours without liquids. 

He had been drinking with some of his comrades, and one 
of them blamed him for emptying his glass oftener than 
the others, and said he could not do for a single moment 
without drinking. 

He then laid a wager of ten bottles of wine that he would 
remain for twenty-four hours without drinking anything. 

1 We have improved on this since our author wrote. It is said that Dr. 
Tanner in the United States lived without food and only on water for 
more than forty days. — Tb. 

(Ill) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

From that moment the soldier ceased to drink, though 
he remained for more than two hours before going away 
and saw his comrades drink. 

The night passed quietly, as we may imagine; but at 
daybreak he found it rather hard to do without his usual 
small glass of brandy. 

Throughout the forenoon he was weary and restless; he 
rose and sat down again without any purpose, and seemed 
not to know what he was about. 

About one o'clock he lay down, fancying he would be 
more calm; he felt in pain and was really ill, but those 
about him in vain tried to induce him to drink something; 
he declared he could get on quite well till evening. He 
wished to win his wager, and it is probable that some 
soldierly pride also prevented him from giving way to 
pain. 

He kept up in this way until seven o'clock; but at half- 
past seven he found himself getting worse, became mori- 
bund, and died without being able to taste a glass of wine 
which was offered him. 

All these details were told me that very evening by M. 
Schneider, a fifer in the company of the Swiss bodyguard, 
at whose house I lived when in Versailles. 

CAUSES OF THIHST 

50. Many circumstances united or separated contribute 
to increase thirst. We shall indicate a few, which have not 
been without influence on our usages. 

Heat increases thirst; hence the inclination men al- 
ways have to go and live in hot weather on the banks of 
rivers. 

Bodily exertion increases thirst; thus, when a proprietor 
(112) 



OF THIRST 

employs workmen he always provides for them some drink; 
hence the proverb: "The wine which is given to the la- 
bourers always fetches the best price." 

Dancing increases thirst; for this reason there always are 
in ball-rooms plenty of invigorating or refreshing drinks. 

Public speaking increases thirst; hence the glass of water 
that lecturers study to drink with grace, and which we 
shall soon see on the edge of each pulpit, side by side with 
the white handkerchief.^ 

Genetic pleasure increases thirst; hence the poetical de- 
scriptions of Cyprus, Amathonte, Gnidos, and other 
places inhabited by Venus, where we always find cooling 
shades and brooks which wind along, flow, and babble. 

Singing increases thirst; this accounts for the universal 
reputation all musicians have of being indefatigable 
drinkers. A musician myself, I oppose this prejudiced 
statement, which is at the present time as devoid of wit as 
of truth. 

The artists who frequent our drawing-rooms are dis- 
creet and careful in what they take to drink; but what 
they have lost in one way they gain in another; and if they 
no longer love the cup, they are such superhuman gour- 
mands that I have been told the celebration of the feeist of 
St. Cecilia lasted for more than twenty hours at the Club 
of Transcendental Harmony. 

EXAMPLE 

51. Exposure to a rapid current of air is a very active 

cause of an increase of thirst, and I think that the follow- 

' Canon Delestra, a very agreeable preacher, never failed to swallow a 
candied walnut whenever he made a pause between each point of his dis' 
course, so that his audience might then, if they chose, cough, expectorate, 
or blow their noses. 

(113) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

ing incident will be read with pleasure, especially by 
sportsmen. 

We know that quails take a great delight in dwelling on 
the loftiest hills, where their broods may be more easily 
hatched, because the harvest is gathered much later there. 

When the rye is cut they migrate to the barley and oats; 
and when these are garnered, they go into those parts 
where the less ripe corn stands. 

It is then the time to shoot them, because a small num- 
ber of acres of land abound with quails, which a month 
previously were flying about over the whole parish; more- 
over, as the season is drawiug to an end, they are as large 
and fat as can be desired. 

It is for the purpose of shooting quails that I found my- 
self one day with some friends on a hill in the arrondisse- 
ment of Nantua,^ in the canton known under the name of 
"Plan d'Hotonne," and we were just beginning to shoot 
on one of the finest days of the month of September, il- 
lumed by a brilliant sunshine imknown to Cockneys.^ 

Whilst we were breakfasting a very violent northerly 
wind sprang up, which was rather against our pleasures, 
but did not prevent our starting. 

We had scarcely been shooting for a quarter of an hour 
when the weakest man of our party said he was thirsty; 
we should doubtless have made fun of him, but we all felt 
the same sensation. 

We all took a drink, for a donkey laden with refresh- 
ments followed us, but the relief offered was of brief dura- 
tion. Our thirst came quickly back again, and that so 

* A small town in the Department of the Ain. — Tb. 
' A name given to those inhabitants of London who never left their 
native city. It is equivalent to the French badauds. 

( 114 ) 



OF THIRST 

violently, that some of us thought we were ill, and others 
ready to become so. Every one talked of going back, which 
would have given us a walk of ten leagues to no purpose. 

I had had time to collect my ideas, and I discovered the 
reason of this strange thirst. I told my companions that 
we suffered from the effects of four causes: the notable 
diminution of the column of air which weighed on our body, 
and which rendered the circulation more rapid; the action 
of the sun, which warmed us directly; walking, that in- 
creased perspiration; and more than all this, the action of 
the wind, which, piercing us through and through, re- 
moved all perspiration and fluid, and prevented all mois- 
ture of our skin. 

I added that, taking all in all, there was no danger; that 
the enemy being known, it was necessary to combat him; 
and that he could make no advance if we were to take 
something to drink every half hour. 

The precaution was nevertheless insufficient, as our 
thirst was not to be quenched. Water, brandy, wine and 
water, and brandy and water, were not of the slightest 
use; we were thirsty even while drinking, and we were 
uncomfortable throughout the whole day. 

This day finished, nevertheless, like any other day; the 
proprietor of the estate of Latour entertained us, and we 
added our provisions to his. 

We dined very well, and soon we got up and buried our- 
selves in the hay, where we slept soundly. 

Next day my theory received the sanction of experience. 
The wind had fallen entirely during the night, and though 
the sun was as brilliant, and even felt hotter than on the 
previous day, we went shooting for a great part of the day 
without feeling inconvenienced by the thirst. 

(115) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

But the worst of it was, that, though the day before, we 
had very prudently filled our flasks before we left home, 
they had not been able to resist the repeated charges we 
had made on them; they were now nothing more than 
bodies without souls, and we had to fall back upon the 
wine-casks ef the country innkeepers. 

It had come to this, but we grumbled at it, and I 
anathematised the parching wind in an allocution full of 
invectives when I saw that dish fit to be set before kings, 
"spinach with quail fat," about to be washed down with 
a wine scarcely as good as that of Suresnes.' 

' Suresnes, a very pretty village two leagues from Paris, and well known 
for its bad wine. The proverbial saying is, that it needs three men to 
drink a glass of Suresnes wine, namely, one to swallow the wine, and two 
supporters to hold him up and prevent his courage from oozing away. 
The same thing is said of the wine of P6rieux, which does not prevent its 
being drunk. Our author has already spoken of Suresnes wine in the 
Second Meditation, § xi, and contrasted it with Chambertin. 



MEDITATION IX 
ON DRINKS' 

52. We ought to understand by the term "drink" any 
liquid which can be used with our food. 

Water appears to be the most natural beverage. It is 
found everywhere where there are animals, replaces milk 
for adults, and is as necessary to us as air. 

WATER 

Water is the sole beverage which really appeases thirst, 
and for this reason it can only be drunk in small quantities. 
The greatest portion of the other beverages which men 
drink are nothing but palUatives, and if man had always 
kept to water, it never would have been said of him that 
one of his privileges was to drink without being thirsty. 

PROMPT EFFECT OF DRINKS 

Whatever is drunk is absorbed by the animal economy 
with an extreme facility; it is prompt in its effects, and the 
relief it affords i^ almost instantaneous. Give to an ex- 
hausted man the most substantial food, he will eat it with 
difficulty, and will at first not feel any great benefit. But 
give him a glass of wine or brandy, and that same instant 
he will feel better, and revive. 

I can support this theory by a rather remarkable in- 

* This chapter is purely philosophical. The details of the various known 
beverages cannot enter into the plan I have formed; such an enumeration 
would have been endless. 

(117) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

stance which was told me by my nephew, Colonel Guigard, 
a man naturally not disposed to tell stories, and whose 
veracity may be relied on. 

He was at the head of a detachment which was return- 
ing from the siege of Jaffa, ^ and was only about a quarter of 
a mile from the place where they were to halt and expected 
to find water, when they found by the roadside the bodies 
of some soldiers who had preceded them by a day's march, 
and who were killed by the heat. 

Amongst the victims of this burning climate was a cara- 
bineer well known to several soldiers of the detachment. 

He must have been dead for more than twenty-four 
hours, and the sun, which had been beating on him the 
whole day, had made his face as black as that of a crow. 

Some of the soldiers went up to him, either to take a last 
look at him or to act as his heirs, if he had left anything; 
but they were surprised to see that his limbs were not 
stiffened, and that there was still some warmth round the 
region of the heart. 

"Give him a drop of the real stuff" {sacri chien), cried 
a facetious fellow amongst the bystanders: "I '11 bet that 
if he's not very far gone into the next world, the taste of 
it will bring him back!" 

In fact, at the first spoonful of spirits the dead man 
opened his eyes; they then rubbed his temples, whilst 
uttering expressions of astonishment, made him swallow 
a little more, and in a quarter of an hour he was able, with 
some assistance, to sit on the back of a donkey. 

He was thus led to a well, and watched over during the 
night; then they gave him a few dates to eat, fed him with 

' Jaffa, a Syrian town and harbour on the Mediterranean. In 1799 
Bonaparte took it after a long siege and a desperate resistance. 

(118) 



■m 







lES B01S50N5 



ON DRINKS 

precaution; and the next day, having remounted his ass, 
he arrived at Cairo along with the others. 

STRONG DEINKS 

53. This species of instinct, as general as it is imperi- 
ous, is very remarkable, and leads men to discover strong 
drinks. 

Wine, the most pleasant of drinks, whether we owe it to 
Noah, who planted the vine, or whether it is due to Bac- 
chus, who squeezed out the juice of the grape, dates from 
the infancy of the world; and beer, said to have been in- 
vented by Osiris,' goes back to those times beyond which 
everything is uncertain. 

All men, even those whom we agree to call savages, have 
been so tormented by a passion for strong drinks, that they 
have succeeded in finding some, however limited their 
capacities were. 

They caused the milk of their domestic animals to turn 
sour; they extracted the juice of various fruits and roots 
which they thought contained a fermentative principle. 
Wherever men are holding social intercourse, they are 
foimd to be provided with spirituous liquors, which they 
make use of at their banquets, their sacrifices, their mar- 
riages, their funeral rites; in short, whenever there is any 
feasting or solemnity going on. 

For many centuries wine was dnmk and sung without 
any one imagining the possibility of extracting from it the 
spirituous part that makes its strength. But the Arabs 
having taught us the art of distillation, which they had 

1 Bacchus was the god of wine, according to the Soman mythology; 
Osiris, in Egyptian mythology, the judge of the dead, and brother and 
husband of Isis. — Te. 

(119) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

invented to extract the perfume of flowers, and especially 
of the rose, so celebrated in their writings, some com- 
menced to think it possible that the cause of this extremely 
delicate flavour, which stimulates taste in such a special 
manner, might be ascertained; and so, after one experi- 
ment and after another, they discovered alcohol, spirits 
of wine, brandy, etc. 

Alcohol is the monarch of liquids, and carries the exalta- 
tion of the palate to the highest degree; its various prep- 
arations have opened new sources of enjoyments; ^ it 
communicates to certain medicines ^ an energy which they 
would never have possessed without this vehicle; it has 
even become in our hands a formidable weapon, for the 
natives of the New World have been almost as much over- 
come and slain by brandy as by gunpowder. 

The discovery of how to extract alcohol has also led to 
other important results; for as this method consists in 
separating and exposing those parts which constitute a 
body and distinguish it from all others, it has served as 
a model for those who devote themselves to analogous 
researches, and who have made known to us substances 
previously unknown, such as quinine, morphine, strych- 
nine, and others of the same sort, which they have dis- 
covered, or which are still to be discovered. 

Be this as it may, this thirst for a kind of liquid which 
Nature has wrapt up in mystery, this extraordinary desire, 
influencing all races of men, under all climates and in all 
latitudes, is well worthy of attracting the attention of the 
philosophical observer. 

I, too, have considered this matter as others have done, 
and I feel tempted to place the desire for fermented liquors, 
* Table liqueurs. 2 Elixirs. 

(120) 



ON DRINKS 

which is unknown amongst animals, side by side with the 
anxiety about a future state, which is also foreign to those 
animals, and to regard them both as two distinctive attri- 
butes of man — the masterpiece of the last sublxmary 
revolution. 



MEDITATION X 
AND EPISODIC ON THE END OF THE WORLD 

54. I SAID "the last sublunary revolution," and this 
thought, thus expressed, has led me far, very far away 
from my subject. 

Undoubted proofs teach us that our globe has already 
undergone many absolute changes, which have been, so to 
speak, so many "ends of the world," and I do not know 
what instinct warns us that there are other revolutions yet 
to follow. 

Already, men have often thought that such revolutions 
were on the eve of taking place, and many people are still 
alive whom the watery comet predicted by the good 
J6r6me Lalande,' sent to the confessional. 

The effect of all this has been that not a few persons 
seem inclined to surround such a catastrophe with venge- 
ances, destroying angels, trumpets, and similar dreadful 
accessories. 

Alas! such a deal of noise is not necessary to destroy us; 
we are not worth so much pomp, and if it be the Lord's 
will, the whole face of the globe can be changed without 
so much ostentation. 

Let us suppose, for example, that one of these wandering 

stars of which no one knows either the route or why they 

exist, and whose appearance has always been accompanied 

^ "The good" Joaepli-J6r6me le Prangais de Lalande (1732-1807), an 
astronomer as celebrated for his scientific knowledge as for his eccentrici- 
ties and his open adherence to Atheism, was a countryman of Biillat- 
Savarin, and born in the Department of the Ain. — Tr. 

(122) 



EPISODIC ON THE END OF THE WORLD 

by a traditional terror; let us suppose, I say, that such a 
comet should pass sufficiently near to the sun to become 
charged with a superabimdance of caloric, and then should 
come near enough to the earth to produce six months of 
simimer everywhere, or a heat of 167 degrees Fahrenheit, 
which is a heat twice as great as that of the comet of 
1811. 

At the end of that doleful season every living or growing 
thing would have perished; all soimds would have ceased. 
The earth would revolve silently until other circumstances 
should have developed other germs; and nevertheless, the 
cause of this disaster would remain lost in the vast fields 
of space, and would never have come nearer to us than a 
few hundred millions of leagues. 

This event, quite as possible as any other, has always 
appeared to me an interesting subject for contemplation, 
and I never cease to dwell on it. 

It is curious to follow in our minds this heat increasing 
in intensity, to foresee its effects, its development and its 
action, and to ask ourselves: 

Quid during the first day, during the second day, and 
so on until the last? 

Quid about air, earth, and water, the formation, com- 
bination, and explosion of gases? 

Quid about mankind, considered with regard to age, 
sex, strength, and weakness? 

Quid about the obedience to the laws, submission to 
authority, respect of persons and property? 

Quid about the means sought, or attempts made, to 
escape the danger? 

Quid as to the ties of love, friendship, kindred, and as 
to selfishness and disinterestedness? 

(123) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Quid as to religious sentiments, faith, resignation, hope, 
and so on? 

History can supply us with some information as to the 
moral influences, for already the end of the world has been 
predicted several times, even a particular day being some- 
times specified. 

I am truly sorry I am unable to inform my readers how 
wisely I regulated all these things in my own mind; but 
I will not deprive them of the pleasure of applying them- 
selves to it. This may perhaps shorten some of their sleep- 
less hours at night, and give them a few hours doze during 
the day. 

Great danger dissolves all ties. In the great yellow fever 
epidemic, which took place in Philadelphia about the year 
1792, husbands were seen shutting the doors of their con- 
nubial homes on their wives, children deserting their 
fathers, and many similar phenomena. 

Quod a nobis Deua avertat I 



MEDITATION XI 
ON GOUEMANDISE 

55. I HAVE consulted the dictionaries under the word 
gourmandise, and I am not at all satisfied with what I find. 
There is a perpetual confusion between gourmandise, prop- 
eriy so called, and "gluttony" and "voracity," whence 
I infer that lexicographers, however otherwise very esti- 
mable, do not belong to those amiable scientific men who 
can eat gracefully a wing of a partridge au supreme, and 
then, by raising the little finger, wash it down with a glass 
of Lafitte or Clos-Vougeot. 

They have forgotten, they were entirely oblivious of the 
social gourmandise, which includes Athenian elegance, 
Roman luxury, and French refinement; which arranges 
wisely, orders dishes to be prepared skilfully, appreciates 
energetically, and judges profoundly. This precious quality 
might almost rank as a virtue, and is very certainly the 
source of our purest enjoyments. 

DEFINITIONS 

Let us define in order that we shall understand each 
other. 

Gourmandise is an impassioned, rational, and habitual 
preference for all objects which flatter the sense of taste. 

Gourmandise is opposed to excess; any person who eats 
more than he can digest or who gets intoxicated, runs the 
risk of being struck out from the list of its votaries. 

Gourmandise also comprises a love for tit-bits which is 
(125) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

merely an analogous preference for light, delicate, small 
dishes, pastry, sweets, and so forth. This is a modifica- 
tion introduced in favour of ladies and men of feminine 
tastes. 

From whatever point of view gourmandise is examined, 
it deserves nothing but praise and encouragement. 

Physically, it is the result and the proof of the whole- 
some and perfect state of the organs destined to nutrition. 

Morally, it shows implicit resignation to the commands 
of the Creator, who, in ordering man to eat that he may 
live, invites him to do so by appetite, encourages him by 
flavour, and rewards him by pleasure. 

ADVANTAGES OF GOURMANDISE 

Considered from the point of view of political economy, 
gourmandise is the common tie which imites nations by the 
reciprocal exchange of various articles which are daily 
consumed. 

It is the cause why wines, brandies, sugars, groceries, 
pickled and salted viands, and provisions of every kind, 
even eggs and melons, are sent from pole to pole. 

It gives a proportionate price to things which are mid- 
dling, good, or excellent, whether these qualities are arti- 
ficial, or have been given to them by Nature. 

It sustains the hope and emulation of a crowd of fisher- 
men, sportsmen, gardeners, and others who every day 
stock the most wealthy larders with the result of their 
labour and their skill. 

Finally, it supports an industrious multitude of cooks, 
pastry-cooks, confectioners, and other food-preparers, who, 
under diiFerent titles, all in their turn employ for their 
wants other and various workmen, which gives rise, at all 

(126) 



ON GOURMANDISE 

times and at all hours, to a circulation of capital the most 
practised mind cannot reckon up, or calculate its quo- 
tient. 

Let us also remark that this branch of industry which has 
gourmandise for its object, presents so much the more ad- 
vantages, as on the one hand it derives its support from 
the largest incomes, and on the other from wants that 
spring up afresh every day. 

In the state of society which we have now reached, it is 
difficult to imagine a race living solely on bread and vege- 
tables. If such a nation existed, it would undoubtedly have 
been conquered by carnivorous armies, — like the Hindoos, 
who have been successively the prey of all those who cared 
to attack them, — or else it would be converted by the 
cooking of their neighbours, as the Bceotians have been 
who became gourmands after the battle of Leuctra.* 

SEQUEL 

56. Gourmandise offers great resources for levying taxes, 
for it brings contributions to town dues, to custom-houses, 
to indirect taxation. Everything we eat pays a tax, and 
there is no exchequer of which the lovers of good living are 
not the firmest supports. 

Shall we speak of that swarm of cooks who for many 
centuries past annually leave France to instruct foreign 
nations in gourmandise. The majority succeed, and then, 
in obedience to an instinct which never dies in a French- 
man's heart, bring back to their country the fruits of their 
economy. This contribution is far greater than might be 

> Leuctra, a village in Boeotia, to the south of Thebes, where Epam- 
inondas and the Thebans defeated Cleombrotes and the Spartans 
B.C. 371, and overthrew their supremacy. — Tb. 

(127) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

supposed, and therefore these people will be honoured by 
posterity as others have been. 

But if nations are grateful, then Frenchmen, above all 
other nations, ought to erect a temple and altars to gowr- 
mandise. 

INFLUENCE OF GOURMANDISE 

57. By the treaty of the month of November, 1815, 
France was compelled to pay to the allies seven hundred 
and fifty million francs, or about thirty millions sterling, 
in three years. 

To this sum should be added the amount required to 
satisfy the demands for compensation of the inhabitants of 
various countries, of which the allied sovereigns had stipu- 
lated the interests to be paid, amounting to more than 
three hundred million francs, or about twelve millions 
sterling. 

Finally, to this should be added the various requisitions 
in kind of the enemies' generals, who filled whole waggons, 
which they sent towards the frontiers, and for which the 
public treasury had eventually to pay — in all, more than 
fifteen hundred million francs, or about sixty millions 
sterling.^ 

We ought to have felt some apprehension that such large 
payments daily made in hard cash would have produced a 
deficiency in the treasury, would have depreciated all ficti- 
tious values, and finally have brought on us all those evils 
which menace a country without cash and without means 
of procuring it. 

' Our author seems to forget that Napoleon I, his marshals, generals, 
and officers, had also levied requisitions and contributions in foreign 
countries, and that pretty freely. — Tb. 

(128) 



ON GOURMANDISE 

"Alas!" said all who had anything to lose, when they 
saw the fatal tumbril coming for its load in the Rue Vivi- 
enne; ^ "alas! there is aU our money emigrating in a lump! 
Next year, we shall go down on our knees before a crown- 
piece; we shall fall into the deplorable condition of a ruined 
man; speculations of every kind will be unsuccessful; it will 
be impossible to borrow; there will be nothing but con- 
sumption, exhaustion, and civil death." 

The result contradicted all these fears; all payments were 
made with ease, to the great astonishment of every finan- 
cier; our credit rose, loans were eagerly caught at, and dur- 
ing all the time this "superpurgation" lasted, the rate of 
exchange, this infallible gauge of monetary circulation, was 
in our favour — that is to say, it was arithmetically proved 
that more money came into France than ever went out of it. 

What power came to our aid? What divinity worked this 
miracle? . . . Gourmandise. 

When the Britons, Germans, Teutons, Cimmerians, and 
Scythians made their irruption into France, they brought 
with them a rare voracity and stomachs of no common 
capacity. 

They did not long remain satisfied with the official cheer 
which a forced hospitality had to supply them with; but 
they aspired to more refined enjoyments, and soon the 
Queen City became nothing but an enormous refectory. 

Those invaders ate in restaurants, eating-houses, inns, 
taverns, at open-air stalls, and even in the streets. 

They gorged themselves with meat, fish, game, truffles, 
pastry, and especially with our fruit. 

They drank with an avidity equal to their appetite, and 
always ordered the dearest wines, in the hope of finding in 
' At that time the Bank of France was in that street. — Th. 
( 129 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

them some enjoyments they had not before known, and 
which they were afterwards quite astonished they did not 
meet with. 

Superficial observers did not know what to think of all 
this eating without end or limit, but your genuine French- 
man laughed and rubbed his hands, saying, "We have 
them now under the spell, and they will pay us back this 
evening more crowns than was counted out to them this 
morning from the public treasury." 

It was a favourable time for all those who contribute to 
the enjoyments of the sense taste. Vexy made his fortune; 
Achard laid the foundation of his; BeauvilKers made a 
third; and Madame SuUot,* whose shop in the Palais Royal 
was a mere pigeon-hole, sold every day as many as twelve 
thousand tarts. ^ 

The eflfect still lasts. Foreigners flow in from every part 
of Europe to renew during peace those delightful habits 
they have contracted during war. They must come to Paris; 
and when they are there, they must be regaled at any price; 
and if French funds are in favour, it is perhaps less due to 
the higher interest they pay than to the instinctive con- 
fidence that foreigners can scarcely prevent placing in a 
people amongst whom the gourmands find so much happi- 
ness.' 

^ The names of MM. Vfiry, Achard, Beauvilliers, and Sullot are, I am 
sorry to say, no longer foimd in the Paris Directory (Bottin) for this year 
(1884). — Th. 

' When the army of invasion traversed Champagne, it took six hun- 
dred thousand bottles of wine from the cellars of M. Moet, of Epemay, 
well known for his excellent cellars. He consoled himself for this tremen- 
dous loss when he found that the thieves had retained a taste for his wines, 
and because he receives now from the North twice as many orders as be- 
fore their visit. 

• The calculations whereon this article is based have been communi- 
cated to me by M. Jean-Marie Boscary, an aspiring gastronome, and who 

(130) 



ON GOURMANDISE 

PORTRAIT OP A PRETTY FEMALE GOURMAND 

58. Gourmandise is not unbecoming to women; it agrees 
with the delicacy of their organisation, and serves them as 
compensation for some of the pleasures they cannot enjoy, 
and for some hardships to which Nature seems to have con- 
demned them. 

Nothing is more pleasant to see than a pretty female 
gourmand imder arms; her napkin is nicely adjusted ; one of 
her hands rests on the table, the other carries to her mouth 
little morsels, beautifully carved, or the wing of a partridge 
that must be picked. Her eyes sparkle, her lips are glossy, 
her conversation is agreeable, and all her movements are 
graceful; she does not lack some spice of the coquetry 
which accompanies all that women do. With so many 
advantages she is irresistible, and Cato the Censor him- 
self would feel moved by her influence. 

ANECDOTE 

Here I '11 record what is for me a far from pleasing re- 
flection. 

One day I was most comfortably seated at the table be- 
side a very pretty woman, and I was inwardly rejoicing at 
having so good a place, when turning suddenly towards me 
she said, "Your very good health, sir!" I commenced at 
once to thank her in most eloquent phraseology, but I did 
not finish my speech, as the coquette turning to her neigh- 
bour on the left said, "Let us clink glasses." They touched 
each other's glasses, and this abrupt transition seemed to 
me a perjury, and gave me a pang, which after many years 
is not yet cured. 

is not in want of sufficient titles for this denomination, for he is a financier 
and a musical amateur. 

(131) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

WOMEN ABE GOUBMANDES 

The desire of the fair sex for gourmandise is in some sort 
instinctive, because it is favourable to beauty. 

A series of strictly exact observations has demonstrated 
that a succulent, delicate, and choice diet delays for a long 
time and keeps aloof the external appearances of old age. 

It gives more brilliancy to the eye, more freshness to the 
skin, more support to the muscles; and as it is certain in 
physiology that it is the depression of muscles that causes 
wrinkles, these formidable enemies of beauty, it is equally 
true that, all things being equal, those who know how to 
eat are comparatively ten years younger than those igno- 
rant of that science. 

Painters and sculptors are deeply penetrated with this 
truth, for they never represent those who practise absti- 
nence by choice or by duty, such as misers and anchorites, 
without giving to them the pathos of sickness, the leanness 
of misery, and the wrinkles of decrepitude. 

EFFECTS OF GOUKMANDISE ON SOCIABILITY 

59. Gourmandise is one of the principal links of society; 
it extends gradually that spirit of conviviality which unites 
every day different classes, welds them into one whole, an- 
imates conversation, and softens the angles of conventional 
inequality. 

It also justifies all the trouble the host takes to receive 
his guests properly, as well as their gratitude when they 
see he has so ably occupied himself with them. Now is the 
time to stigmatise for ever those senseless feeders who 
swallow with culpable indifference the nicest tit-bits, or 
who with sacrilegious carelessness inhale the "bouquet" of 

(132) 



ON GOURMANDISE 

an odoriferous and clear wine. As a general maxim, every 
lofty and intelligent guest requires to be specially praised, 
and delicate compliments should always be paid wherever 
a desire to please has been shown. 

DfFLTIENCB OF GOITRMANDISE ON CONJUGAL HAPPINESS 

Finally, gourmandise, when it is shared, has a most 
marked influence on the happiness which may be found in 
the conjugal state. 

A married pair of gourmands have at least once a day a 
pleasant opportunity of meeting, for even those who have 
separate bedrooms — and in France there are a great 
number who have — eat at least at the same table, and 
have a subject of conversation which is always new; they 
speak not only of what they eat, but also of what they have 
eaten, what they will eat, what they have seen elsewhere, 
of fashionable dishes, new inventions, and so forth. Every 
one knows that such a familiar chit-chat is delightful. 

Music, no 'doubt, has powerful attractions for those 
who love it; but one must set about it: — it is an exertion. 

Besides, sometimes one has a cold, our music is mislaid, 
the instruments are out of tune, we may have a headache: 
— there is a strike. 

On the other hand, a common want brings the couple to 
table; the same inclination retains them there; they natu- 
rally show each other those trifling attentions which denote 
a wish to oblige, and their behaviour at meal-time has a 
great share in the happiness of their lives. 

This observation, though new in France, has not escaped 
the English moralist Richardson,' and he has worked out 

1 M. Brilkt-Savarin says Fielding, but Fielding did not write Pamela. 
The mistake is the more astonishing as Richardson is well known in 
France. — Th. 

(133) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

the idea by painting in his novel of "Pamela" the different 
manner in which two married couples finish their day. 

The first husband is a lord, the eldest son, and conse- 
quently possesses all the property of the family. 

The second is his yoimger brother, the husband of Pam- 
ela, disinherited on account of his marriage, and being on 
half-pay, in straitened circumstances but little removed 
from abject poverty. 

The lord and his lady enter the drawing-room by differ- 
ent doors and salute each other coldly, although they have 
not seen each other all day. They sit down at a table 
splendidly laid, surrounded by footmen in liveries resplend- 
ent with gold, help themselves in silence and eat without 
pleasure. Nevertheless, after the domestics have retired 
a sort of conversation is begun between them. This soon 
becomes bitter, degenerates into a quarrel, and they rise 
from the table in a rage, each to enter their own apartment, 
to meditate on the pleasures of widowhood. 

The younger brother, on the other hand, on reaching his 
modest home is received with the most tender cordiality 
and the fondest caresses. He sits down to a frugal meal, 
but the fare placed before him could scarcely have been 
more excellent, for Pamela herself has prepared it. They 
eat with pleasure whilst conversing of their affairs, their 
projects, their love for each other. Half a bottle of Madeira 
serves to prolong their repast and conversation, and soon 
the same bed receives them; and after the transports of 
united love they forget in gentle slumber the present, and 
dream of a better future. 

All honour, then, to gourmandise such as we describe it 
to our readers, so long as it does not divert men from their 
occupations or duties! For, as all the depravity of Sarda- 

(134) 



ON GOURMANDISE 

napalus cannot induce us to abhor womankind, so the 
excesses of Vitellius will not make us turn our backs on a 
well-appointed banquet. 

When gourmandise becomes gluttony, voracity, or de- 
bauchery, it loses its name and its advantages, escapes from 
our jurisdiction, and falls into that of the moralist, to be 
treated with advice, or of the physician, who will cure it by 
his remedies. 

Gourmandise, such as the professor has characterised it 
in this article, has only a name in French; the Latin word 
gvla, or the English gluttony, or the German liistelei, do not 
describe it. We therefore advise those who are tempted to 
translate this instructive book to preserve this noim, and 
merely to change the article. This is what all nations have 
done with the word "coquetry" and with everything that 
refers to it. 

NOTE OF A PATRIOTIC GASTEONOMER 

I observe with pride that "coquetry" and gourmandise, by 
which good society has greatly modified our most imperious 
wants, are both of French origin. 



MEDITATION XII 
OF GOURMANDS 

EVEEY ONE WHO WISHES IT IS NOT A GOUKMAND 

60. There are individuals to whom Nature has refused 
that delicacy of organs, or that degree of attention, with- 
out which the most succulent dishes pass unobserved. 

Physiology has already recognised the first of these vari- 
eties by showing us the tongue of these unfortunate beings 
badly provided with the nervous papillse destined to in- 
hale and to appreciate flavours; they only incite in them 
obtuse sensations; such persons are, with regard to taste, 
what the blind are with regard to light. 

The second of these varieties is composed of absent- 
minded men, chatterboxes, persons engrossed in business 
or ambition, and others who want to occupy themselves 
with two things at the same time, and eat only to be filled. 

NAPOLEON 

Such, for example, was Napoleon; he was irregular in his 
meals, and ate fast and badly; but there also was to be dis- 
cerned that absolute will which he carried into everything. 
The moment he felt hungry, it was necessary that he should 
be fed, and his establishment was so arranged that in any 
place and at any hour a chicken, cutlets, and coffee had to 
be served him as soon as wanted. 

GOUEMANDS BY PREDESTINATION 

But there is a privileged class whom a material and 
organic predisposition summons to the enjoyments of taste. 

(136) 



OF GOURMANDS 

I have always been a disciple of Lavater and Gall, and I 
believe in innate tendencies. 

Since there are some persons who have evidently come 
into the world to see badly, walk badly, and hear badly, 
because they are born near-sighted, cripples or deaf, why 
should there not be others who have been predisposed to 
feel more especially a certain series of sensations? 

Moreover, the most ordinary observer may recognise 
every moment in society faces that bear the unmistakeable 
imprint of a ruling passion, such as supercilious imperti- 
nence, self-satisfaction, misanthropy, sensuality, and many 
others. Truly, a very expressionless face may indicate all 
this; but when the physiognomy is characteristic of resolu- 
tion, it is very rarely delusive. 

The passions act on the muscles, and very often, al- 
though a man is perfectly silent, the various sentiments 
that agitate him can be read in his face. This tension, if in 
the slightest degree habitual, leaves at last perceptible 
traces, and stamps thus the countenance with permanent 
and recognisable characteristics. 

SENSUAL PREDISPOSITION 

61. Those persons predisposed to gourmandise are gener- 
ally of middling height. They have a round or broad face, 
bright eyes, a small forehead, a short nose, thick lips, and 
a rounded chin. The women are plump, pretty rather than 
beautiful, with a slight tendency to corpulence. 

Chiefly those who are fond of tit-bits and dainties have 
refined features and a very delicate appearance; they are 
more graceful, and above all, are distinguished by a pecul- 
iar motion of the tongue. 

It is especially amongst such persons that we must look 
(137) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTEONOMY 

for the most agreeable guests. They accept everything that 
is offered them, eat slowly and taste with discrimination. 
They never make any haste to leave those houses where 
they have been treated hospitably, but they stay the whole 
evening, because they know all the games and pastimes 
which are the ordinary accessories of a gastronomical gath- 
ering. 

Those, on the contrary, to whom Nature has refused an 
aptitude for the gratifications of taste, are long-faced, long- 
eyed, and long-nosed; whatever may be their height, they 
appear somewhat lanky. They have dark and straight hair, 
and look always out of condition; they also have invented 
pantaloons. 

The women whom Nature has afflicted with the same 
misfortune, are angular, feel themselves wearied at a 
dinner-table, and only live on cards and scandal. 

This physiognomical theory will only, I trust, find few of 
my readers to contradict it, inasmuch as each can verify 
it from his own observations. I shall nevertheless give an 
instance to prove the truth of it. 

One day I was present at a grand banquet, and opposite 
to me sat a pretty young lady who had a very sensuous 
countenance. I turned towards my neighbour, and whis- 
pered to him that with such features it was impossible for 
this lady to be anything else but a gourmande. "How 
absurd!" he replied; "she is scarcely fifteen years old, and 
has not yet reached the age of gourmandise. . . . How- 
ever, let us watch." 

The beginning was not in my favour, I was afraid of hav- 
ing compromised myself, for during the two first courses 
the yoimg lady ate with a discretion that astonished me; 
and I thought we had fallen upon an exception, as there are 

(138) 



OF GOURMANDS 

some for every rule. But, finally, the dessert came, a dessert 
both magnificent and copious, and this revived my spirits. 
Nor did I hope in vain; not only did she eat of everything 
offered her, but she even had dishes brought to her that 
were at the other end of the table. In a word, she tasted 
everything, and my neighbour was surprised that so little 
a stomach should hold so many things. Thus my diagnosis 
was verified, and science triumphed once again. 

A couple of years later I met the very same lady, a week 
after her marriage. She had become far more beautiful; 
showed a little coquetry, and displayed those charms per- 
mitted by fashion; she was delightful. Her husband was a 
sight to see, and resembled one of those ventriloquists who 
can laugh on one side of the face and cry on the other; that 
is to say, that he appeared very content to see his wife ad- 
mired by every one, but was seized with a tremor of jeal- 
ousy that was very apparent as soon as any one engaged in 
a serious fiirtation with her. This last sentiment prevailed; 
he took his wife with him into a far-off department, and 
here, for me, ends her biography. 

I made a similar observation on the Duke Decres,' who 
for so long a time was Minister of Marine. 

He was stout, short, of a dark complexion, had curly hair, 
and was broad-shouldered; he had a visage at least round, a 
protruding chin, thick lips, and the mouth of a giant. Thus 
I proclaimed him at once predestined to be a lover of good 
cheer and of the fair sex. 

I whispered this physiognomical observation to a lady 
I thought very pretty, and whom I believed could keep a 

1 The Duke Decr^ (1761-1820) managed the naval affairs of France 
from 1801 mitil the year 1815. After the battle of Aboukir he was for 
some time a prisoner of the English. — Tr. 

(139) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

secret. Alas! I was wrong; she was a daughter of Eve, and 
my secret soon leaked out. That very evenmg, the scien- 
tific induction I had drawn from his features was told to 
the duke. 

The next day I received a very nice letter from the 
minister, in which he modestly declined the two very ex- 
cellent qualities I had discovered in him. 

I did not consider myself beaten. I replied that Nature 
had made nothing in vain; that she had evidently created 
him to perform certain duties, and that if he did not do so, 
he would be acting contrary to his destiny; that anyhow, I 
had no right to expect such confidence, and so on. 

Our correspondence was not continued; but a short time 
afterwards the newspapers told the whole of Paris that a 
furious battle had taken place between the minister and 
his cook, a battle which lasted for a long time, and was 
doubtful in its results, as the statesman had not always the 
best of it. Now, if after such an adventure the cook was 
not sent away — which he was not — I may, I think, draw 
the conclusion that the duke was absolutely overcome by 
the talents of such an artist, and that he despaired of find- 
ing another who knew so well how to flatter his taste; other- 
wise he would never have been able to conquer the very 
natural repugnance he must have felt at being attended 
on by so bellicose a servant.* 

Whilst I was writing the above, on a fine winter's evening, 
M. Cartier, formerly first violin at the Opera, and an able 
teacher, paid me a visit, and sate down at my fireside. I 
was full of my subject, and looked at him with attention. 
Then I said, "My dear professor, how does it happen that 
you are not a gourmand, when you have all the features of 

1 The history of this battle has not come down to posterity. — Tb. 
( 140) 



OF GOURMANDS 

one?" "I was once one of the best," he answered, "but 
now I abstain." "On principle?" I asked. He did not re- 
ply, but heaved a sigh after the manner of some of the 
heroes of Walter Scott — that is to say, almost a groan. 

GOtlRMANDS BY VIRTUE OF THEIH PEOFESSION 

62. If there are gourmands by predestination, there are 
also others who become so by virtue of their calling. These 
latter can be divided into four grand categories: the 
moneyed classes, the doctors, the men of letters, and the 
pious people. 

THE MONEYED CLASSES 

The moneyed classes are the heroes of gourmandise. 
"Hero" is here the proper name, because some contests 
have been fought, and the high-born aristocracy would 
haved crushed the moneyed classes beneath their titles and 
their escutcheons, if these latter had not opposed to them a 
sumptuous table and their strong boxes. The cooks fought 
the genealogists, and although some dukes made fun of 
their host even before they had left his house, they did 
come all the same, and their defeat was proved by their 
presence. 

Besides, nearly all those who make much money with 
ease, are of necessity obliged to become gourmands. 

Inequality of conditions implies inequality of riches, but 
inequality of riches does not imply inequality of wants, for 
he who can afford every day a dinner enough for a hundred 
persons, is often satisfied with eating the leg of a chicken. 
Hence, it is necessary for art to employ all its resources to 
reanimate that ghost of an appetite by dishes which main- 
tain it without damaging it, and caress it without stifling 

(141) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

it. Thus Mondor' became a gourmand, and thus gour- 
mands have followed his example everywhere. 

Therefore, in the whole series of dishes that are given in 
elementary cookery-books, there is always one or many 
that are called h lafinanciere; it is also well known that 
formerly the first plate of green peas, of which the price 
was invariably eight himdred francs, or thirty-two pounds, 
was not eaten by the king, but by the farmers-general.^ 

Things have not much changed at the present day. On 
the tables of moneyed men is still to be found everything 
that is most perfect in nature, all that is early grown iu hot- 
houses, and whatever is most exquisite in art; and people 
with historical names do not disdain to come to these 
banquets. 

DOCTORS 

63. Causes of a very different nature, although not less 
powerful, act on doctors; they become gourmands in spite 
of themselves, and must be made of cast iron to resist the 
force of circumstances. 

The "dear doctors" are all the more warmly welcomed 
because health, which is under their patronage, is the 
most precious of all boons: thus they are "spoilt children" 
in every sense of the word. 

Always waited for with impatience, they are received 
with eagerness; now, it is a pretty patient who invites them; 
then it is a young lady who caresses them; again, it is a 

* Mondor, formerly a lackey, and then a purse-proud financier, a sort 
of French " Sir Gorgius Midas," is the hero of Colnet's (1768-1832) poem, 
L'art de diner en viUe. — Tb. 

' The fermiers-gSrUravs were capitalists who paid a large sum to the 
Erench king for the right of collecting for him the taxes and various duties, 
on which they received a heavy percentage. — Tb. 

(142) 



OF GOURMANDS 

father or a husband who recommends to them what they 
hold most dear. Hope attacks them on the right, gratitude 
on the left; they are fed like pet doves; they let things take 
their chance, and in six months the habit is confirmed, and 
they are gourmands past redemption. 

I ventured one day to express this opinion at a banquet, 
in which I took part with eight others, and with Dr. Cor- 
visart' as chairman. This was about the year 1806. 

"With the inspired tone of a Puritan preacher I cried, 
"Gentlemen, you are the last remnant of a body that for- 
merly covered the whole of France. Alas! its members are 
destroyed or dispersed. There are no more farmers-general, 
abbis, chevaliers, Carmelite monks. The entire gastro- 
nomic body is now only to be found in the members of your 
profession. Support with firmness so great a responsibility, 
even if you were to share the fate of the three hundred 
Spartans at the pass of Thermopylse." 

Thus I spoke, no one made any complaint, and, to state 
the truth, we acted in accordance with my advice. 

I observed at this dinner a fact that deserves to be 
known. 

Dr. Corvisart, who could be very agreeable when he 
liked, only drank iced champagne. For this reason at the 
commencement of the dinner, while the other guests only 
occupied themselves in eating, he kept talking loudly and 
telling stories. At dessert, on the contrary, when the con- 
versation began to be animated, he became serious, taci- 
turn, and sometimes morose. 

From this observation, confirmed by many others, I 
have deduced the following theorem: Champagne, which 

1 Jean Nicolas Corvisart-Desmarest (1766-1821), a celebrated physician, 
and doctor to the First Consul, who created him a baron. 

(143) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Is exhilarating in its first effects, db initio, is stupefying in 
those which follow, in recessu, a result, moreover, which is 
a well-known characteristic of the carbonic acid gas it con- 
tains. 

OBJURGATION 

64. Whilst I have hold of the regular practitioners, I 
must, before I die, reproach them with the extreme severity 
they use towards their patients. 

As soon as any one has the misfortune to fall into their 
hands, he must listen to a long string of prohibitions, and 
renounce everything that is agreeable to his habits. 

I protest against such interdictions as being for the 
greatest part useless. 

I say "useless," because patients never long for what can 
hurt them. 

A sensible doctor should never lose sight of the natural 
tendency of our inclinations, or forget that if painful sensa- 
tions are fraught with danger by their very nature, those 
which are pleasant have a healthy tendency. We have seen 
a little wine, a cup of coffee, or a few drops of liqueur, call 
up a smile on the most Hippocratic faces. 

Further, these severe prescribers must know very well 
that their prescriptions remain almost always without re- 
sult; the patient attempts to escape taking them, and those 
about him find plenty of reasons for humouring him, and 
he does not die a minute sooner or later for it. 

The medical allowance of a sick Russian in 1815 would 
have made a French market-porter drunk, and that of an 
Englishman would have satisfied a "Limousin"; ^ nor was 

' According to Rabelais's Pantagrue the Lunousins or natives of Limdges 
had the reputation of being great drinkers. — Tr. 

(144) 



OF GOURMANDS 

any diminution possible, for the military inspectors were 
constantly going the round of our hospitals to examine the 
arrangements and the consumption of food. 

I am the more confident in giving my opinion, as it is 
based on numerous facts, and as the most successful prac- 
titioners use every day a system which is something like it. 

Canon RoUet, who died about fifty years ago, was a hard 
drinker according to the custom of those ancient times. 

He fell ill, and the first words the doctor said were to for- 
bid him to take wine in any form. 

Nevertheless, at the very next visit, the doctor found the 
patient lying down, and at his bedside nearly complete 
evidence of his guilt, to wit, a table covered with a very 
white cloth, a crystal goblet, a handsome-looking bottle, 
and a napkin to wipe his lips. 

At this sight he flew into a violent rage, and threatened 
to leave the house, when the wretched canon cried with a 
lamentable voice, "Ah, doctor, remember that when you 
forbade me to drink you did not forbid me the pleasure of 
looking at the bottle." 

The doctor who attended M. Montlusin, of Pont-de- 
Veyle,^ was even more cruel, for not only did he forbid the 
use of wine to his patient, but he also prescribed him to 
drink water in large doses. 

A short time after the doctor's departure, Madame de 
Montlusin, anxious to obey medical orders, and to con- 
tribute to the recovery of her husband's health, offered him 
a large glass of the finest and clearest water. 

The patient took it quietly, and began to drink it with 
resignation; but he stopped short at the first mouthful, and 

* Pont-de-Veyle is a small town in the Department of the Ain, which 
department had the honour of giving birth to our author. — Te. 

(145) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

handed back the glass to his wife, saying, "Take it, my 
dear, and keep it for another time; I have always heard it 
said one should never trifle with remedies." 

MEN OF LETTERS 

65. In the gastronomic dominions, the district of men 
of letters is very near that of the doctors. 

In the reign of Louis XIV, men of letters were always 
hard drinkers; they conformed to the fashion of the day, 
and the memoirs of the period are very edifying on this 
subject. They are now gourmands, and this is really a great 
improvement. 

I am far from being of the opinion of the cynic Geoffroy,^ 
who used to say that modem works are deficient in power 
because authors only drink now eau sucrie. 

On the contrary, I believe he made two mistakes, both in 
the fact and in its consequences. 

The present age is rich in talents; they even harm one 
another because there is an excess of them, but posterity, 
which judges with more calmness, will see amongst them 
much to admire, just as we ourselves have done justice to 
the masterpieces of Racine and Moli^re, which were coldly 
received by their contemporaries. 

The position of men of letters in society has never been 
more pleasant than at present. 

They no longer live in the garrets in which they formerly 
were said to lodge; the fields of literature have become more 
fertile, and the stream of Hippocrene* rolls also over gold 

' Julien Louis Geoffrey (1745-1814), a celebrated French writer and 
man of letters, who made himself known and feared by his theatrical criti- 
cisms in the Journal des Dffiats. — Tb. 

' The fountain of the Muses, produced by a stroke of the hoof of 
Pegasus. — Tb. 

(146) 



OF GOURMANDS 

dust. They are the equals of any one; they no longer hear 
the language of patronage, and to crown all, gourmandise 
bestows upon them her dearest favours. 

Men of letters are invited because their talents are highly 
valued; because their conversation has, generally speaking, 
something piquant in it; and also because, for some time, it 
has been a rule for every dinner-party to have its literary 
man. 

Those gentlemen always arrive a little late, but they are 
only received more cordially, as they have been long ex- 
pected; they are petted so as to induce them to come again; 
and as they find all this extremely natural, they grow ac- 
customed to it, and become and remain gourmands. 

Things have gone so far that they have even caused a 
little scandal. Some prying people imagined that certain 
men of letters allowed themselves to be bribed by a break- 
fast, that some laudations were the result of a few pdtis, 
and that the doors of the Temple of Immortality could be 
opened with a fork. 

But this was mere slander; these rumours have died out 
as many others have; what is done is well done, and I only 
mention it here to show that I am thoroughly acquainted 
with all that relates to my subject. 

PIOUS PEOPLE 

66. Finally, gourmandise counts many pious people 
among its most faithful followers. 

By "pious people," dSvots in French, we understand 
this word as it was used by Louis XIV and Moliere, that is 
to say, those people whose sole religion consists in outward 
practices; real pious and charitable people have nothing to 
do with those. 

(147) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Let us consider how the vocation of gourmands comes to 
them. 

Among persons who wish to work out their own salva- 
tion, the greatest number try to find the smoothest way. 
Those who flee from men, sleep on the bare ground, and 
wear hair-cloth next the skin, have always been and must 
ever be exceptions. 

Now there are certain things which ought to be con- 
demned without doubt, and never to be indulged ia, such 
as balls, theatres, gambling, and other similar pastimes. 

While these are considered abominable, as well as those 
who practise them, gourmandise presents itself and slips in 
in an entirely theological guise. 

By right divine, man is the king of nature, and every- 
thing that the earth produces was created for him. It is for 
men that the quail is fattened, that Mocha has so agreeable 
an aroma, that sugar has such wholesome qualities. 

Why should we not, then, use in moderation, and as it 
suits us, the goods that Providence offers us, especially if 
we continue to regard them as perishable objects, espe- 
cially as they raise our gratitude towards the Author of all 
things. 

Reasons not less weighty come to strengthen these. Per- 
haps we can scarcely receive too kindly those who have 
charge of our souls, and keep us in the way of salvation. 
Should we not make such meetings with so excellent an 
object as pleasant and, therefore, as frequent as we 
can? 

Sometimes, also, the gifts of Comus arrive unexpectedly, 
perhaps sent by a former college chum, by an old friend, by 
a penitent who humbles himself, by a kinsman who wishes 
to be remembered by you, or by a person who is under some 

(148) 



OF GOURMANDS 

obligations to us, and wishes to be grateful. How can we 
refuse such offerings, or why should we not classify them? 
It is a mere matter of necessity. 

Besides things did always happen in this way. The con- 
vents were real storehouses of the most charming delicacies, 
and this is one reason why certain connoisseurs regret them 
so bitterly.^ 

Many monastic orders, especially the Bemardines, made 
a profession of good cheer. The cooks of the clergy attained 
the very limits of the art, and when M. de Pressigny, who 
died Archbishop of Besangon, returned from the conclave 
at the election of Pius VI," he said that the best dirmer he 
had had in Rome was with the head of the Capuchins. 

CHEVALIEHS AND ABBES 

67. We cannot finish this article better than by honour- 
ably mentioning two classes of men whom we have seen in 
all their glory, and whom the Revolution has eclipsed — 
the chevaliers and the obMs. 

What perfect gourmands these dear fellows were! It was 
impossible to make a mistake on casting a glance at their 
open nostrils, their wide-staring eyes, their moist Ups, and 
their mobile tongues; nevertheless, each class ate in its own 
peculiar manner. 

The chevaliers had something military in their attitude; 
they brought with a certain dignity their morsels to the 
lips, worked at them calmly, and looked straight at the 

' The best French liqueurs were made at La C6te by the Visitandine 
nuns; those of Niort invented Angelica preserves; the orange-flower 
cakes of the sisters of Ch4teau-Tliierry have been highly extolled; and 
at the tjrsuline nunnery of Belley they had a receipt for wahiuts pre- 
served in sugar, which was a treasure of enjoyment and delicacy. I fear, 
alas! that this receipt is now lost to us. 

2 Pius VI (1717-99) was elected Pope in 1775. — Tr. 

(149) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

master and at the mistress of the house with an approving 
glance. 

The dbMs, on the other hand, gathered themselves to- 
gether to be nearer their plates; their right hands curved 
inwards Hke the claws of a cat who draws the chestnuts 
from the fire, whilst their faces beamed with enjoyment, 
and bore looks of concentration easier to conceive than to 
describe. 

As three-fourths of the present generation have never 
seen anybody resembling the chevaliers and the abbis we 
have mentioned, and as it is nevertheless indispensable to 
know them to understand clearly many books written in 
the eighteenth century, we shall borrow from the author of 
the "Historic Treatise on the Duel" some pages that will 
fully explain this subject.^ 

LONGEVITY OF GOURMANDS 

68. To conclude; I am happy, and no one more so, at be- 
ing able to give my readers some good news, namely, that 
good living is very far from being injurious to health, and 
that, all things being equal, gourmands live much longer 
than others. 

This has been statistically proved in a very well-prepared 
paper, read recently before the Academy of Sciences, by 
Dr. Vulliermet. 

He compares those ranks of society where they live well 
with those where people feed badly, and goes over the 
whole subject; he also compares with one another the vari- 
ous arrondissements of Paris, in some of which, generally, 
wealthy people live, whilst in the other the contrary takes 
place; for every one knows that there exists, in this respect, 
1 See "Varieties," no. xx. 
(150) 



OF GOURMANDS 

an enormous difference, as, for example, between the Fau- 
bourg Saint-Marceau and the Chaussee d'Antin.i 

Finally the doctor carries his researches to the depart- 
ments of France, and compares with one another those that 
are more or less fertile. Everywhere the general result is 
that mortality diminishes in that same proportion as the 
means of subsistence improve; and, therefore, those who 
are unfortunate enough not to be able to feed well, may, at 
least, be sure that death will free them sooner from all their 
troubles. 

The two extremes of this progression are that under the 
most favourable conditions of life only one individual in 
fifty dies in one year, whilst among those who are the most 
exposed to privations and misery, one at least among four 
dies in the same time. 

Not those who always have excellent cheer are never ill. 
Alas ! they also fall sometimes under the sway of the faculty, 
which usually qualifies them as "good patients"; but as 
they have a much larger dose of vitality, and as all parts of 
the organism are in better condition. Nature has more re- 
sources, and the body resists incomparably better the proc- 
ess of destruction. 

This physiological truth is also supported by history, 
which informs us that whenever imperious circumstances, 
such as war, a siege, a bad season, have diminished the 
means of nourishment, that state of distress has always 
been accompanied by contagious diseases and a large in- 
crease of the death-rate. 

The Lafarge Bank, so well known by Parisians, would 
undoubtedly have succeeded, if those who established it had 

' When our author wrote, the Faubourg Saint-Marceau was the sub- 
urb where the generality of workmen dwelt, whilst the nobles and the 
rich inhabited the Chauss^ d'Antin. — Te. 

(151) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

made to enter into their calculations the truth of the facts 
developed by Dr. VuUiermet. 

They calculated mortality according to the tables of 
BufiFon, Deparcieux,' and others, which are based on num- 
bers taken from all classes and from all ages of the popula- 
tion. But as those who put their capital out at interest to 
keep something for the future have in general escaped the 
dangers of childhood, and as they are accustomed to a regu- 
lar diet, well prepared and often nutritious, the death-rate 
was lower than was expected, their hopes were frustrated, 
and the Tontine completely failed. 

Without doubt this has not been the only reason of the 
failure of the house of Lafarge, but it was an elementary 
one.^ 

For this last observation we are indebted to Professor 
Pardessus.' 

M. de Belloy, Archbishop of Paris, who lived nearly a 
century,* had a remarkable appetiter He loved good living, 
and I have seen many times his patriarchal countenance 
brighten up when any important dish was served. Napo- 
leon showed him on all occasions marked deference and 
respect. 

• Jean-Louis Leclerc, Count de BuSon (1707-88), a celebrated natural- 
ist; Antoine Deparcieux (1703-68), a well-known mathematician. — Tb. 

^ Joachim Lafarge was the creator of a savings bank known^by the 
name of Tontine viaghe et d'amortissement, based on the lives of the 
depositors, which, established in 1791, began its liquidation in 1^09, 
and which, I believe, is not yet (1884) finished. — Tb. \ 

3 Jean-Marie Pardessus (1772-1853), one of the best lawyers of 
France, and a good scholar, was professor of conmiercial law at the\ 
Paris faculty in 1810, one year after the collapse of Lafarge, and made 
probably then the above observation to our author. — Tb. 

* The Cardinal Jean Baptiste de Belloy, with the "patriarchal coim- 
tenance," was born in 1709, and died in 1808, at the age of ninety- 
nine, — Tb. 



MEDITATION XIH 

GASTRONOMIC TESTS 

69. We have seen in the preceding chapter that the dis- 
tinctive characteristic of those who have more pretensions 
than right to the honours of gourmandise consists in this: 
that, with the best cheer before them, their eyes remain 
dull and their faces inanimate. 

Such men are not worthy to have treasures lavished on 
them, of whose value they are unconscious. It, however, 
seemed very interesting to us to be able to discover them, 
point them out, and we have sought everywhere for infor- 
mation on a matter so important, as to how to classify your 
men and how to know your guests. 

We set to work to find this out with an energy which 
ensures success, and it is to our perseverance we owe the 
advantage of presenting to the honourable body of hosts 
the discovery of "gastronomic tests," a discovery which 
will reflect credit on the nineteenth century. We under- 
stand by "gastronomic tests" dishes of acknowledged 
flavour, and of an excellence so undoubted that the mere 
sight of them ought to move, in a well-organised man, every 
faculty of taste; so that all those men whose faces, under 
such circumstances, neither flash with desire nor beam with 
ecstasy, may justly be noted as imworthy of the honours 
of the banquet, and its attending pleasures. 

The method of tests carefully examined and deliberated 
in Grand Council, has been inscribed in a golden book in 

(153) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

the following words, taken from a language that never 
changes: — 

Ulcumgue fercuium, eximii et bene noti saporis, appositum 
fuerit, fiat autopsia convivw, et nisi fades ejus ac oculi vertantur 
cd extasim, notetur vt indignus. 

This has been translated as follows by the sworn trans- 
lator of the Grand Council: — 

"Each time, when a dish is served of a special and well-known 
flavour, the guests ought carefully to be observed, and those 
whose countenance does not beam with ecstasy, ought to be 
noted down as unworthy." 

The criterion of the power of such tests is relative, and 
ought to be suited to the faculties and the habits of the 
various classes of society. All circumstances being appreci- 
ated, they ought to be calculated to excite admiration and 
surprise; a test is a dynamometer of which the power ought 
to increase in proportion as we rise higher in the strata of 
society. Thus, a test destined for a man of limited means 
would not do for one of the principal clerks, and will be 
scarcely perceived when a select few dine together at a 
capitalist's or at a minister's. 

In the enumeration we are about to make of the dishes 
that have been raised to the dignity of tests, we shall com- 
mence at the lowest grade, and afterwards gradually as- 
cend to elucidate the theory, so that not only every one 
may use it with benefit, but that it may yet be possible to 
invent new ones based on the same principle, to bestow 
one's name on them, and to employ them in that sphere in 
which the inventor is fated to dwell. 

We felt for a moment inclined to give here, as proofs and 
illustrations, the receipts for concocting the various prepa- 
rations we indicate as tests, but we have abstained. We 

(154) 



GASTRONOMIC TESTS 

thought it would be doing injustice to the several cookery- 
books that have appeared, including that of Beauvilliers, 
and quite recently "Le Cuisinier des Cuisiniers." ^ We will 
simply refer our readers to these works as well as to those 
of Viard and Appert, observing that in the last mentioned 
are to be found various scientific informations previously 
unknown in works of this sort. 

We regret that the public has not been able to appreciate 
a short-hand account of all that was said at the Coxmcil, 
when they deliberated on the tests. These deliberations 
will remain for ever secret and veiled; but there is, at least, 
one circumstance I am allowed to reveal. 

Some members * suggested negative tests, or tests by 
privation. 

Thus, for example, let us suppose an accident, real or 
feigned, completely spoiling a dish of high flavour, or a 
hamper with game that has been sent by the carrier and 
has not come to hand. On the receipt of such disastrous 
news, we might observe and note the different degrees of 
sadness gradually stealing over the countenances of our 
guests, and thus we might acquire a good criterion of their 
gastronomic sensibility. 

But this proposal, although seductive at the first glance, 
could not stand a thorough examination. The president 
observed, and observed rightly, that similar events, which 

1 All these cookery-books, including Beauvilliers' L'Art du Cuisinier, 
are now superseded, except Le Cuisinier des Cuisiniers, which is still in 
general use in Prance. — Tb. 

2 M. Felix Sibuet, who, by his classical physiognomy, the delicacy 
of his taste, and his administrative talents, possesses all that is required 
to become a perfect financier. — BRrLLAT-SAVABiw. 

This gentleman, who has such peculiar requirements for a financier, 
was also a native of the department where our author was bom, and had 
two brothers, of whom one was in his time a well-known journalist, the 
other a baron, and general of the first Empire. — Tb. 

(155) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

might only superficially aflfect the incomplete organs of 
people who do not care for good living, might exercise a 
fatal influence on true believers, and perhaps might give 
them a mortal fright. And thus, though the member still 
persisted in his proposal, it was unanimously rejected. 

We proceed now to give a list of the dishes we think suit- 
able to be used as gastronomic tests. We have divided 
them into three series, arranged gradually, according to the 
order and method indicated before. 

GASTRONOMIC TESTS 

First Series 
For a presumed income cf SOOO francs a year. (Medioeriiy.) 

A large fillet of veal, well larded with bacon, done in its 
own gravy. 

A country-fed turkey stuffed with Lyons chestnuts. 

Fattened pigeons larded and cooked to a turn. 

Eggs dressed & la ndge. 

A dish of sauerhraui bristling with sausages and crowned 
with smoked Strasburg bacon. 

Remarks: "Bless me! that looks all right! Come on! let us 
do honour to it!" 

Second Series 
For a presumed income of 16,000 francs. ^Comfort.) 

A fillet of beef underdone in the middle, larded and done 

in its own gravy.' 

A haimch of venison, accompanied by a gherkin sauce. 

A boiled turbot. 

A leg of mutton prSsali, done d, la provengale.^ 

* They have to lard beef in Prance, as it is generally very lean. — Tb. 
' The legs of mutton prSsaU, in Prance, are simply delicious; they 

(156) 



GASTRONOMIC TESTS 

A truffled turkey. 
Early green peas. 

Remarks: "Ah, my dear friend, what a delightful sight. 
This is truly a wedding feast."* 

Third Series 
For a presumed incorae of 30,000 francs or more. (Riches.) 

A fowl of about seven pounds, stuffed with truffles till it 
becomes almost round. 

An enormous Strasburg pate defoie-gras, in the shape of 
a bastion. 

A large Rhine carp d la Chambord, richly dressed and 
decorated. 

Truffled quails with marrow, spread on buttered toast 
au basilic. 

A river pike, larded, stuffed, and smothered in a cream of 
crayfish, secundum ariem. 

A pheasant done to perfection, with his tail-feathers 
stuck in, lying on toast d la Sainte-Alliance. 

A hxmdred early asparagus, each half-an-inch thick, 
with sauce a I'osmazome. 

Two dozen ortolans a la provengale, as described in some 
of the cookery-books already mentioned. 

A pyramid of vanilla and rose meringues. This dish has 
only some effect on ladies and on men with abbes' calves, 
etc. 

Remarks: "Ah! sir (or, my lord), what a genius that cook 

are very expensive, very small, and come from the Brittany sheep, who 
feed on pastm'es near the sea, covered with brine; hence the name. 
— Tr. 

' The original has the old French expression, nopces ei festins, ale 
ready used by Rabelais, and our author states that in order to pronounce 
the first word correctly the p should be soxmded. — Tb. 

(157) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

of yours is! It is only at your table that we meet such 
dishes." 

GENERAL OBSERVATION 

In order that any test should produce its full effect, it 
should be served up in abundance. Experience, founded 
on a knowledge of human nature, has taught us that the 
rarest of savoury dishes loses its influence when not in ex- 
cessive proportion, as the first impression which it pro- 
duces on the guests is naturally checked by the fear of be- 
ing stingily served, or, in certain cases, of being obliged to 
refuse out of politeness; such niggardliness often happens 
amongst people who wish to be extravagant and are miserly 
at heart. 

I have many times had occasion to verify the effects of 
gastronomic tests. I shall quote one example, which, I 
trust, will be deemed sufficient. 

I was present at a dinner of gourmands, all "pious 
people," where there were only two laymen, my friend J. R. 
and myself, and where amongst other things, an enormous 
virgin cock^ of Barbezieux, stuffed with truffles almost to 
bursting, and a Strasburg p&t^ defoie-gras, looking like the 
fortress of Gibraltar, was brought to table. 

* Men whose opinions are worth having, have assured me that the 
flesh of a virgin cock, if not more tender, has at least a more decided and 
better taste than that of a capon. I have too many duties to attend to 
in this lower world to try the experiment, which I leave to my readers; 
but I think that we may beforehand embrace their opinion, inasmuch as 
in the first of these meats is an element of sapidity which is wanting in 
the second. 

A very clever lady told me that she knows gourmands by the way 
in which they pronounce the word "good" in such phrases as: "That's 
good! that's very good!" and some others like them. She assures me 
that the initiated give to this short monosyllable "good" an intonation 
of truth, of gentleness, and of enthusiasm which persons with palates 
incompletely organised can never attain. 

(158) 



GASTRONOMIC TESTS 

This appearance produced on the company a marked 
e£Fect difficult to describe, but somewhat like the "silent 
laugh" depicted in some of Cooper's novels, and I per- 
ceived that I should have something to observe. In fact, 
all conversation ceased through the fulness of their hearts. 
Every one was paying attention to the skUful operations of 
the carvers, and as soon as everybody had been served, I 
saw beam on the countenances of each, and in succession, the 
fire of desire, an ecstasy of enjoyment, and the repose of 
perfect bliss. 



MEDITATION XIV 
THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

70. Man is, without doubt, amongst the sentient beings 
that people our globe, the one who undergoes the most 
suffering. 

Nature has originally condemned him to sorrow by the 
bareness of his skin, the form of his feet, and the instinct 
of war and destruction that accompanies the human race 
wherever it has been met. 

Animals have not been stricken with this curse; and ex- 
cepting some combats caused by the instinct of reproduc- 
tion, pain would be absolutely unknown to the majority of 
animals in a state of nature; whilst man, who can only ex- 
perience pleasure transiently and by a small number of 
organs, can at all times, and in every part of his body, 
suffer intense agony. 

This decree of destiny has been aggravated in its fulfil- 
ment by a host of maladies, which are produced by the 
habits of social life; so that the most keen and the best regu- 
lated pleasure than can be imagined cannot either in inten- 
sity or duration make up for the atrocious pains that ac- 
company certain disorders, such as gout, toothache, acute 
rheumatism, strangury, or that caused by the severe pun- 
ishments amongst certain peoples. 

This practical dread of pain has forced man, without be- 
ing aware of it, to throw himself impulsively in an opposite 
direction, and to attach himself ingenuously to the small 
number of pleasures allotted to him by nature. 

(160) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

For this same reason he has increased, extended, fash- 
ioned, and finally worshipped them; for, in the idolatrous 
ages, for many centuries, all the pleasures were secondary 
deities, presided over by superior gods. 

The severity of modern religions has destroyed all 
those patrons: Bacchus, Love, Comus, Diana, no longer 
exist except in poetical tradition; but the thing still exists, 
and, under the most serious of all forms of belief, men feast 
occasionally at a marriage, a baptism, and even a funeral. 

ORIGIN OF THE PLBIABUEES OF THE TABLE 

71. Meals, in the sense that we give to this word, com- 
menced in the second era of the human race, that is to say, 
when it ceased to live on fruits. The preparation and the 
distribution of foods rendered necessary a meeting of the 
family, when the heads distributed to their children the 
product of the chase, and adult children rendered in their 
turn the same service to their aged parents. 

These meetings, limited at first to the nearest relations, 
little by little have been extended to neighbours and friends. 

Later, and when the human race had spread, the weary 
traveller came and sate himself down at these primitive 
repasts, and related what had happened in distant coun- 
tries. Thus hospitality was bom, with its rights held sacred 
among all peoples; for there is no one, however savage, who 
does not consider it a duty to respect the life of him with 
whom he has consented to share bread and salt. 

It was during such meak that languages were bom or 
improved, either because it was an occasion for meeting one 
another which took place often, or because the leisure dur- 
ing and after repasts disposes naturally to confidence and to 
loquacity. 

(161) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE PLEASURE OF EATING, AND 
THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

72. Such must have been, from the nature of things, the 
mainsprings of the pleasures of the table, which we must 
distinguish from the pleasures of eating, its necessary ante- 
cedent. 

The pleasure of eating is the actual and direct sensation 
of a want which is satisfied. 

The pleasure of the table is a reflex sensation that arises 
from the various circumstances of facts, places, things, and 
persons present during the repast. 

The pleasure of eating we have in common with ani- 
mals; it only supposes hunger, and what is necessary to 
satisfy it. 

The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human species; 
it supposes care bestowed beforehand on the preparations 
of the repast, on the choice of the place and the assemblage 
of guests. 

The pleasure of eating requires, if not hunger, at least 
appetite; the pleasure of the table is most often independ- 
ent of both. 

These two different kinds of pleasure can always be 
observed in our banquets. 

At the first course, at the commencement of the meal, 
every one eats eagerly without speaking, without paying 
attention to what is said ; and whatever the rank may be the 
guest occupies in society, everything is forgotten, and he 
becomes merely a workman in the grand manufactory. 
But when the natural wants are satisfied, reflection arises, 
conversation begins, another order of things is inaugurated, 
and he who has hitherto been merely a consmner becomes 

(162) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

a more or less agreeable gi'est, according to the means 
which the Master of all tbngs has bestowed upon him. 

EFFECTS 

73. The pleasures of the table do not consist in ravish- 
ing delight, ecstasies, or transports; but they gain in dura- 
tion what they lose in intensity, and are especially distin- 
guished by the particular privilege they enjoy of disposing 
us to aU others, or at least of consoling us for their loss. 

In fact, at the end of a good dinner, both body and soul 
enjoy a particular happiness. 

Physically, whilst the brain is enlivened, the physiog- 
nomy brightens, the colour rises, the eyes sparkle, and a 
pleasant warmth is diffused in every limb. 

Morally, the intelligence becomes sharpened, the im- 
agination warms, and witticisms arise and circulate; and if 
La Fare and Sainte-Aulaire^ descend to posterity with a 
reputation of being authors brimful of wit, they owe it 
above all to the fact that they were pleasant guests. 

Moreover, we often find assembled round the same table 
all the modifications that a highly developed sociability 
has introduced amongst us — love, friendship, business, 
speculation, influence, solicitations, patronage, ambition, 
intrigue. This is why conviviality affects everything: this 
is why it produces fruits of every savour. 

AKTIFICIAL ACCESSOKIES 

74. An immediate consequence of these antecedents is 
that the concentration of the whole himian industry tends 

* Charles Auguste, Marquis de la Fare (1614-1712), wrote some 
fugitive pieces of poetry and several memoirs. Frangois-Joseph de 
Beaupoil, Marquis de Sainte-Aulaire (1643-1742), is known by a few 

(163) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

to augment the duration and the intensity of the pleas- 
ures of the table. «j 

Poets complain that the neck is ; oo short, and therefore, 
a hindrance to the duration of the pleasure of taste; others 
deplore the small capacity of the stomach, and some even 
have spared it the duty of digesting the first meal, in order 
to have the pleasure of swallowing a second. 

This was the supreme eflFort attempted in order to in- 
crease the enjoyments of taste; but if, in that direction, 
men were unable to cross the limits fixed by Nature, they 
devoted themselves to the accessories which at least offered 
us more scope. 

Vases and glasses were ornamented with flowers, which 
flowers also crowned the guests : they ate under the vault of 
Heaven in gardens, in groves, in the presence of all the 
marvels of Nature. 

To the pleasure of the table were joined the charms of 
music and the sound of instruments. Thus, while the 
courtiers of the king of the Phseacians regaled themselves, 
the singer PhsBemius celebrated the deeds of the warriors 
of past times.i 

Often, too, dancers, acrobats, and mimes of both sexes 
and in every costume, came to occupy the eyes without 
lessening the pleasures of taste; the most exquisite per- 
fimies were spread around. Guests were even waited upon 
by beauty unveiled, so that every sense was appealed to, 
and enjoyment became universal. 

I might fill many pages to prove what I advance. Greek 

madrigals and other poetic trifles, and, on the strength of these, was 
elected a member of the French Academy, in his sixtieth year. — Te. 

' In Homer's Odyssey, the inhabitants of Corcyros are called Phsea- 
cians, after their king AlcinoOs, the son of Fhseax. Phseemius was an 
Ionian poet, and one of Penelope's suitors. — Tb. 

(164) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

and Roman authors as well as our old chronicles are at 
hand to copy from; but these researches have been already 
made, and my easy erudition would have little merit. I 
therefore give as facts what other authors have proved: it 
is a right that I shall use often, and for which the reader 
will thank me. 

THE EIGHTEENTH AND NINETEENTH CENTtTBIES 

75. We have adopted, more or less according to circum- 
stances, various methods of enjoyment, and by new dis- 
coveries we have somewhat increased their number. No 
doubt the delicacy of our manners could not permit the 
" vomitoria " of the Romans; but we have done better, and 
have accomplished the same object by a method allowed 
by good taste. 

Dishes of such attractive flavours have been invented that 
they unceasingly renew the appetite; they are at the same 
time so light, that they flatter the palate without loading the 
stomach. Seneca would have called them nubes esculentas. 

We have, indeed, arrived to such a point in cookery, that 
if the calls of business did not force us to rise from the table, 
or if the want of sleep did not so frequently interpose, the 
duration of repasts would be almost unlimited, and there 
would be no certain evidence for finding out what time 
might elapse between the first glass of Madeira and the 
last glass of punch. 

Besides, it must not be thought that all these accessories 
are indispensably necessary to constitute the pleasures of 
the table. We may enjoy this pleasure in nearly all its ex- 
tent, every time when the four following conditions are 
combined: cheer, at least passable, good wine, pleasant 
guests, and plenty of time. 

(165) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Thus, I often wished I had been present at the frugal re- 
past that Horace destined for the neighbour he would have 
invited, or for the guest whom bad weather had obliged to 
seek shelter under his roof; namely, a fine fowl, a kid, prob- 
ably fat, and a dessert of raisins, figs, and walnuts. With 
these dishes, some wine of the Manlius vintage (nata mecwm 
consvle Manlio), and the conversation of this voluptuous 
poet, methinks I should have enjoyed a most comfortable 
supper. 

"But when some neighbour, after long delay, 
Came to me idle on a rainy day, 
A grateful guest, we feasted, well content 
With chicken and a kid, and never sent 
For fish to town, but dined, and often tried 
A nut, a double fig, and grape well dried." '■ 

It is thus that at any time, yesterday or to-morrow, half 
a dozen friends may regale on a boiled leg of mutton and 
kidneys of Pontoise," washed down with some limpid wine 
of Orleans and Mddoc, and spend the evening in talk, full 
of freedom and enjoyment, and in entire forgetfulness of 
more elegant dishes and more skilful cooks. 

On the contrary, however choice may be the good cheer, 
however sumptuous may be its accessories, there can be no 
pleasure at the table if the wines are bad, the guests brought 
together without discrimination, the faces sad, and the 
dinner eaten hurriedly. 

A SESTCH 

"But," the impatient reader will probably exclaim, 
"how then, in this year of grace 1825, is any feast to be 

' Horace, Satires, bk. n, sat. 2. — Tb. 

' One of the largest cattle-markets of Prance was held at Fontoise, a 
town in the department of Seine-et-Oise. — Tr. 

(166) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

spread so as to unite all the conditions necessary to the 
highest pleasures of the table?" 

I will answer this question. Readers, please be attentive: 
Gasterea,' the fairest of the muses, inspire me; I shall be as 
clear as an oracle, and my precepts will live for centuries : — 

Let the number of guests not exceed twelve, so that the con- 
versation may be constantly general. 

Let them be so chosen that their occupations are various, their 
tastes analogous, and with such points of contact that one need 
not have recourse to that odious formahty of introductions. 

Let the dining-room be briUiantly hghted, the cloth as white as 
snow, and the temperature of the room from sixty to sixty-eight 
degrees of Fahrenheit. 

Let the men be witty and not pedantic, and the women amiable 
without being too coquettish.' 

Let the dishes be exquisitely choice, but small in number, and 
the wines of the first quality, each in its degree. 

Let the dishes be served from the more substantial to the Ughter; 
and from the simpler wines to those of finer bouquet. 

Let the eating proceed slowly, the dinner being the last busi- 
ness of the day, and let the guests look upon themselves as travel- 
lers who journey together towards a common object. 

Let the coffee be hot, and the Uqueurs be specially chosen. 

Let the drawing-room to which the guests retire, be large 
enough to permit those who cannot do without it, to have a game 
of cards, while leaving, however, ample scope for post-prandial 
conversation. 

Let the guests be detained by social attraction, and animated 
with expectation that before the evening is over, there will be 
some further enjoyment. 

Let the tea not be too strong, the toast artistically buttered, 
and the punch made with care. 

Let the signal for departure not be given before eleven o'clock. 

Let every one be in bed at midnight. 

If any man has ever been a guest at a repast uniting all 
these conditions, he can boast of having been present at his 

* An invocation to this Muse is found in Meditation xxx. — Tr. 
' I write this in Paris, between the Palais-Royal and the Chaussle 
d'Antin. 

(167) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

own apotheosis; and he will have enjoyed it the less in 
proportion as these conditions have been forgotten or 
neglected. 

I have already said that the pleasure of the table, as I 
have described it, is susceptible of rather a long duration; 
I am about to prove this by giving a true and circumstan- 
tial account of the longest repast I ever made in my life. 
This is a sweetmeat I present to the reader to recompense 
him for the courteous attention he devotes to my Hand- 
book. 

Here it is: — 

At the bottom of the Rue de Bac in Paris there lived a 
family, of which the members, relatives of mine, were: Dr. 
Dubois, seventy-eight years old; the captain, seventy-six 
years; and their sister Jeannette, seventy-four. I often 
went to visit them, and they always received me most 
kindly. 

"By Jove," said the doctor one day, rising on tip-toe to 
tap me on the shoulder, "you have for a long time been 
bragging about your fondues, or eggs beaten up with cheese; 
you continually made our mouths water; it is time to put 
a stop to all this. We will come, the captain and myself, 
and breakfast with you some day, and we shall see what 
sort of thing this dish is." (It was about the year 1801, I 
think, that he thus teased me.) "I shall be most happy," 
I replied, "and you shall have one in all its glory, for I 
shall make it myself. Your proposal delights me. So to- 
morrow at ten, military punctuality." 

At the hour appointed, I saw both my guests arrive, 
clean shaven, their hair nicely arranged and well pow- 
dered ; two little old men still hale and hearty. They smiled 
with pleasure on seeing the table laid, with a snow-white 

(168) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

tablecloth, and in each one's place two dozen oysters with 
a bright golden lemon. At each end of the table stood a 
bottle of Sauteme, carefully wiped, excepting the cork, 
which showed distinctly that it had been in the cellar 
for a long while. Alas! I have seen disappear, or nearly so, 
those breakfasts, formerly so common and so cheerful, 
where oysters were swallowed by tliousands. They have 
disappeared with the abbes who never ate less than a gross, 
and with the chevaliers who never stopped. I regret them 
but as a philosopher: for time modifies governments, and, 
therefore, must greatly influence simple social usages. 

After the oysters, which were quite fresh, came some 
broiled kidneys, a terrine of faie-gras, a pie with truffles, 
and finally the fondue. 

The difi'erent ingredients had all been assembled in a 
stewpan, which was placed on the table over a chafing- 
dish, heated with spirits of wine. I commenced operations 
on the field of battle, and my cousins did not lose a single 
one of my movements. 

They were loud in the praise of this preparation, and 
asked me to let them have the receipt, which I promised 
them, telling them at the same time two anecdotes which 
the reader will probably read farther on. 

After the fondv£ came the fruits in season and sweets, a 
cup of genuine Mocha, made d, la Dubelloy — a way of 
preparing coffee which begins to be known — and finally 
two sorts of liqueurs, one a spirit for cleansing, and the 
other an oil for softening. 

The breakfast over, I proposed to my guests to take a 
little exercise, and to take a turn round my room, a room 
which, without being sumptuous is pretty large and com- 
fortable, and where my friends would find themselves so 

(169) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

much the more at home, as ceilings and gildings date from 
the reign of Louis XV. 

I showed them the original bust of my handsome cousin, 
Madame Recamier,^ by Chinard, and her portrait in minia- 
ture by Augustin. They were so delighted with it that the 
doctor, with his thick lips, kissed the portrait, and the 
captain took on the bust a somewhat similar liberty for 
which I boxed his ears, for, if every admirer of the original 
were to do the same, this bosom, so voluptuously rounded, 
would soon be in the same state as the big toe of St. Peter's 
at Rome which the pilgrims have kissed so much that they 
have shortened it. 

I afterwards showed them casts of the best ancient sculp- 
tures, some paintings not without merit, my guns, my 
musical instruments, and several beautiful editions of 
French and foreign works. 

In this polymathic voyage they did not forget the 
kitchen, where I showed them my economical stock-pot, 
my roasting apparatus, my clock-work turn-spit and my 
vapouriser. They examined everything with minute curi- 
osity, being the more astonished as, at their own homes, 
everything was still done as it used to be in the time of the 
Regency.* 

At the moment when we were about to enter the draw- 
ing-room it struck two o'clock. "Confound it!" cried the 
doctor, "this is our dinner hour, and our sister Jeannette 
will be waiting for us; we must go; I do not feel very hun- 

' Madame Rficamier (1777-1849), a celebrated beauty in French 
society, is well known by the illustrious friends, such as Chateau- 
briand, Ballanche, and others, who used to visit her at her seat at the 
Abbaye-au-Bois. — Th. 

' The Regency, the time when the dissolute Duke, Philip of Orleans, 
governed France during the minority of Louis XV, is from 2d September, 
1715, tiU 16th February, 1723. — Tr. 

(170) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

gry, but I always like to have a plate of soup about this 
time. This is such an old habit, that if a day passes with- 
out taking it, I say with Titus: Diem perdidil" "My dear 
doctor," I answered him, "why go so far to find that which 
you have close at hand? I shall send some one to my 
cousin to tell her that you are staying a little longer with 
me, and that you do me the honour of sharing my dinner, 
for which, I trust, you will make some allowances, as it 
will not have all the merits of an impromptu got up in 
plenty of leisure-time." 

Then an ocular consultation was held by the two broth- 
ers, followed by formal consent. I at once sent a messenger 
to the Faubourg Saint-Germain; I gave a hint to my cook, 
and after a very reasonable interval, what with his own re- 
sources, and what with those of the neighbouring restau- 
rants, he served us up a little dinner very well prepared, 
and very nice. 

It gave me great gratification to see the self-possession 
and coolness with which my two friends sat down, un- 
folded their napkins, and made ready to begin. 

They met with two surprises, which I myself did not 
anticipate, Parmesan served with the soup, and a glass of 
dry Madeira afterwards. These two novelties had recently 
been imported by Prince Talleyrand,^ the first of our di- 
plomatists, to whom we owe so many delicate, witty, and 
profound sayings, and to whom the public always looked 
with special interest, whether he was in power or in 
retirement. 

' Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-PSrigord, Prince of Benevent 
(1754-1838), began life as Bishop of Autun, became a celebrated diplo- 
matist, and was for a long period French Minister of Foreign Affairs. 
He was married to Mrs. Grant, the widow of an Englishman, and a lieu- 
tenant in the service of the former East India Company. — Te. 

(171) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Dinner passed very comfortably, as well in its substan- 
tial part as in the accessories, and my friends were both 
agreeable and merry. 

After dinner I proposed a game of cards which my guests 
refused, preferring the far niente of the Italians, as the 
captain said; so we seated ourselves around the fire- 
place. 

In spite of the charms of the far niente, I have always 
thought that nothing enhances more the pleasures of con- 
versation than any occupation that does not engross the 
attention, so I proposed a cup of tea. 

Tea was then a novelty to French people of the old 
school. Nevertheless, it was accepted. I made it in their 
presence, and they took several cups with all the more 
pleasure, as they had always considered it a kind of medi- 
cine. 

A long experience has taught me that one indulgence 
begets another, and that as soon as a man has once entered 
this path, he loses the power of refusing. Thus it was in an 
almost imperative tone that I proposed to finish with a 
bowl of punch. "You will kill me," said the doctor. "You 
will make us drimk," said the captain. To which I only re- 
plied by shouting for lemons, sugar, and rum. 

I then made the punch, and while I was so occupied, I 
ordered some very thin slices of toast with some nice salt 
butter to be got ready. This time my cousins made some 
objections. They assured me that they had already eaten 
enough, that they could not touch them; but as I knew well 
enough the attraction of this simple dish, I replied that I 
only hoped there would be enough. And, in fact, a short 
time after the captain took the last slice of toast, and I 
observed him look to see whether there was not some toast 

(172) 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 

left, or if no more were forthcoming, so I sent immediately 
for another supply. 

Meanwhile time had not stood still, and my clock 
showed that it was past eight. "We really must go," said 
my guests; "we really must go, and take a little salad with 
our poor sister, who has not seen us all day," 

To that I made no objection, and faithful to the duties 
of hospitality towards two such agreeable old gentlemen, I 
accompanied them to their carriage and saw them leave. 

Some one will ask whether one did not feel bored at any 
time during so long a sitting. I answer in the negative; the 
attention of my guests was kept up by the preparation of 
the fondue, by the walk through my room, by some novel- 
ties in the dinner, by the tea, and, above all, by the punch, 
which they had never before tasted. 

Besides, the doctor knew the pedigrees of all the Pari- 
sians and several anecdotes about them. The captain had 
spent part of his life in Italy, both as a military man and 
as an envoy at the Court of Parma; and I myself have 
travelled much. We talked without pretence, and listened 
to each other with pleasure. No more is needed to make 
time pass pleasantly and quickly. 

Next morning I received a note from the doctor, to tell 
me that the little debauch of the previous day had done his 
brother and him no harm, but, on the contrary, that after 
a pleasant sleep they had risen fresh, hearty, and quite 
willing to begin anew. 



MEDITATION XV 
HALTS OF A SHOOTING PAETY 

76. Amid all the circumstances of life, when eating is con- 
sidered as something important, one of the most delight- 
ful is undoubtedly halts for luncheon at a shooting-party. 
Of all known pauses, this is the only one that can be pro- 
longed to any extent without becoming tiresome. 

After some hours of exercise, the most vigorous sports- 
man feels a want of rest. His face has been caressed by the 
morning breeze; he has shown his skill as opportunity 
offered, the sun is near the loftiest point of its course, there- 
fore the sportsman is going to halt for several hours, not 
from excess of fatigue, but from that instinctive impulse 
that teaches him that all human activity has its limits. 

Shade attracts him; he reclines on the turf, and the mur- 
mur of a neighbouring source invites him to dip in it the 
flask intended to quench his thirst.* 

Thus placed, he takes out with a tranquil pleasure the 
little golden-crusted rolls, uncovers the cold fowl some 
friendly hand has stowed in his bag, and puts quite near it 
the piece of Gruyere or Roquefort cheese, which is to repre- 
sent the dessert. 

While the sportsman makes these preparations he is not 
alone; he is accompanied by the faithful animal that 
Heaven has created for his use. His crouching dog looks 
affectionately at his master. A joint labour has filled up 

' I advise my fellow-sportsmen to drink white wine; it resists better 
the shaking and the heat, and quenches thirst more pleasantly. 

(174) 








> ~^; 



. - tCir ^ ,1 






LA CHASSE ET LA PECHE 



HALTS OF A SHOOTING PARTY 

the gap which separated them; they are two friends, and 
the servant is both happy and proud to become his master's 
guest. 

Theirs is an appetite equally unknown to worldlings 
and pious people: to the first, because they do not allow 
hunger time to come, to the latter, because they never give 
themselves up to the exercises which produce it. 

The meal has been taken with delight; each has had his 
share, and everything has gone on in order and peace. 
Why should one not take a nap for a short while? Noon 
is also an hour of rest for the whole creation. 

These simple pleasures are increased tenfold if shared by 
many friends, for, in that case, a more copious repast has 
been brought into those military canteen-boxes, now em- 
ployed in a more pleasant manner, and people talk gaily 
of the prowess of one, the blunders of another, and their 
expectations for the afternoon. 

What would it be, then, if attentive servants should ar- 
rive laden with those vases consecrated to Bacchus, in 
which an artificial cold freezes at one and the same time 
Madeira, the juice of the strawberry and of pineapples; 
these delicious drinks, these divine preparations, which 
send through the veins a delightful freshness, and carry in 
every direction a luxury unknown to the profane.* 

1 My friend Alexandre Delessert was the first who put into use this 
practice, full of pleasiure. 

We were shooting at Villeneuve under a burning sun, the thermometer 
was about 7iS° Fahrenheit in the shade. 

Thus transported to the torrid zone, he took care to let his servants 
meet us with leather bags full of ice, in which was everything that could 
be desired, either to refresh or comfort us. We made our choice and 
felt ourselves revive. 

I am tempted to believe that the application of so fresh a liquid to 
thirsty tongues and parched throats causes the most delicious sensation 
that may be tasted without committing any sin. 

(175) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

'Bu% even this is not the limit of the ascending series of 
enchantments. 

THE LADIES 

77. There are days when our wives, our sisters, our 
cousins, and their lady friends, are invited to take part in 
our amusements. 

At the appointed hour we see arrive light carriages and 
prancing horses, loaded with the fair, all feathers and 
flowers. The style in which these ladies are dressed is 
somewhat military and coquettish, and the eye of the pro- 
fessor can from time to time catch a glimpse of things 
which was not left to chance alone. 

Soon the doors of the carriages are opened, and disclose 
the treasures of Perigord, the marvels of Strasburg, the 
dainties of Achard, and all that could be transported from 
the most skilled culinary laboratories. 

Nor is the impetuous Champagne forgotten, which is 
held by the hand of the fair. Seated on the green turf they 
eat, the corks fly; they gossip, laugh, and are merry in per- 
fect freedom, for the universe is their drawing-room, and 
the sun their lamp. Besides, appetite, this emanation from 
Heaven, lends to this repast a vivacity unknown indoors, 
however prettily adorned such homes may be. 

Everything, however, must have an end; the oldest per- 
son gives the signal; all rise, the men take up again their 
guns, and the ladies their hats; good-bye has been said, 
the carriages drive up, and the ladies fly away not to be 
seen again until the close of day. 

This is what I have seen in the higher classes of society, 
where Pactolus * rolls along; but all this is not indispensa- 
ble. 

' The Pactolus was a river of Lydia in Asia Minor, in which Midas, 
(176) 



HALTS OF A SHOOTING PARTY 

I have been out shooting in the centre of France and in 
the most remote parts of certain departments, and seen 
arrive at the halt charming women, young girls redolent 
with freshness, some in cabriolets, others in simple country- 
carts or even on a humble donkey, an animal to which the 
inhabitants of Montmorency * owe both fame and fortune; 
I have seen them the first in laughing at the inconveniences 
of their conveyance; I have seen them display on the lawn 
a turkey in clear jelly, a pie made at home, a salad quite 
ready for mixing; I have seen them dancing with a light foot 
around the bivouac-fire lighted on this occasion; I have 
taken part in the games and the merriment that accom- 
pany such a gipsy-feast, and I feel thoroughly convinced 
that with less luxury than in the first case people are just 
as delighted, as gay, and have as much pleasure. 

Why, when they take their leave, should not some kisses 
be interchanged with the best sportsman, who is in his 
glory; with the worst shot, because he is most unlucky, 
with the others, so as not to make them jealous? All are 
about to separate, custom has authorised it; and it is per- 
missible, and even commanded, to take advantage of such 
an opportunity. 

Fellow-sportsmen, ye who are prudent and look after 
solid things, fire straight, and bag as much as you can be- 
fore the ladies arrive, for experience teaches us that after 
their departure sportsmen seem very rarely in luck. 

Plenty of conjectures have been brought forward to ex- 
King of Phrygia, who turned to gold everything he touched, was ordered 
to bathe so that he might get rid of his fatal gift. Ever after, according 
to Greek mjrthology, this river rolled over golden sands. — Tb. 

' A village in the neighborhood of Paris, well known for its donkey- 
rides at the time our author wrote. There are now hardly any quadru- 
peds left.— Tb. 

(177) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

plain this fact. Some attribute it to digestion going on, 
which always renders the body more or less heavy; others 
to the attention of the sportsmen being so diverted that 
they cannot easily collect their thoughts ; some again to 
some confidential communications which may have in- 
spired a desire of coming back very quickly. 

As for us, "who can read the innermost thoughts," we 
think that when the ladies are young and fair, and the 
sportsmen inflammable, there may possibly, through the 
meeting of diflFerent sexes, be generated some genetic spark 
which scares away the chaste Diana, so that in her dis- 
pleasure she withdraws for the rest of the day her favours 
from those who have offended her. 

We say "for the rest of the day," for the history of 
Endymion ^ has taught us that the goddess is far from be- 
ing so stern after the sun has set. (See the picture by 
Gerard.) "^ 

Halts during shooting, whilst luncheon is going on, are 
a virgin soil we have only touched upon. They may be- 
come the subject of a treatise as amusing as instructive. 
We leave it to the intelligent reader who wishes to occupy 
himself therewith. 

' Diana, the goddess of the chase, was inexorable to those who fell in 
love with her; but when represented by the moon, as Silene, she "sleeps 
with Endymion, and would not be awaked;" Endymion, according to 
Greek mythology, was the sunset, condemned to everlasting youth, with 
whom the moon is in love. — Tr. 

^ Frangois G§rard (1770-1837), a celebrated painter, and one of the 
best pupils of David, the well-known French artist, was created a baron 
in 1819. One of his best paintings b Diana and Endymion. — Tb. 



MEDITATION XVI 
ON DIGESTION 

78. " We do not live by what we eat," says an old prov- 
erb, "but by what we digest." We must then digest in 
order to live, and this necessity is a law which makes its 
power be felt by rich and poor, by the shepherd and the 
king. 

But how few people know what is going on when they 
digest. Most men are like M. Jourdain,^ who spoke in 
prose without being aware of it, and it is on their account 
that I shall give a popular account of digestion, as I feel 
certain that M. Jourdain was much more satisfied when 
assured by the philosopher that what he spoke was cer- 
tainly prose. 

To understand digestion in its entirety, we must con- 
nect it with its antecedents and its consequences. 

INGESTIGN 

79. Appetite, hunger, and thirst, warn us that the body 
needs to be restored, and pain, that universal monitor, is 
not slow in tormenting us if we do not wish or cannot 
obey it. 

Hence eating and drinking, which constitute ingestion, 
an operation that commences at the moment when liquids 

' M. Jourdain is the chief character in Moli6re's Bourgeois Gentil- 
homme. He is an elderly tradesman who has suddenly become a£9uent, 
and who, in order to educate himself, engages dancing-masters, fencing- 
masters, teachers of philosophy, etc. When one of the latter tells him 
the difference between poetry and prose, M. Jourdain says he never 
knew he had been talking prose all his life till his professor told him. — Tb. 

(179) 



.A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

arrive in the mouth, and finishes when they enter the oeso- 
phagus. "^ 

During this passage, which is only a few inches long, 
many things occur. 

The teeth divide and comminute the soHd food; the vari- 
ous glands that cover the inner mouth moisten it; the 
tongue turns about the food to mix it, and presses it then 
against the palate to express the juice and to relish its 
savour. In performing this function, the tongue unites the 
food in a pulpy mass in the middle of the mouth; and then, 
supporting itself against the lower jaw, it lifts up its cen- 
tral portion, so that it forms at its root a declivity through 
which the food slips into the back part of the mouth, where 
it is received by the pharynx, which, contracting in its 
turn, propels it into the oesophagus, of which the peristaltic 
motion conducts it into the stomach. 

One mouthful being thus treated, a second follows in the 
same manner; the Uquids swallowed in the moments of 
rest take the same route, and deglutition continues until 
the same instinct that we have called ingestion warns us 
that it is time to conclude. But it is rare that one obeys the 
first injunction, for one of the privileges of the human 
species is that of drinking without being thirsty. In the 
existing state of the culinary art, cooks make us eat without 
being hungry. 

Every bit which arrives at the stomach has escaped, 
through a very remarkable contrivance, two dangers. 

The first is, that it should pass into the nasal fossa; but 
happily the hanging down velum palaii and the construc- 
tion of the pharynx oppose this. 

' The oesophagus is the canal that commences behind the windpipe 
and leads from the gullet to the stomach; the upper end is termed pharynx. 

(180) 



ON DIGESTION 

The second danger is, that it should fall into the wind- 
pipe, over which all our food passes. This would be much 
more serious, for, as soon as any foreign body enters the 
windpipe, a convulsive cough sets in, which does not end 
till it is thrown out. 

But by an admirable mechanism, the glottis is closed 
when we swallow. It is defended by the epiglottis, which 
covers it, and we possess a certain instinct which leads us 
to refrain from breathing while we swallow. So that gener- 
ally we may say that, in spite of this strange conformation, 
food arrives rapidly in the stomach, which is not swayed 
by the will, and where digestion properly so-called com- 
mences. 

THE DUTY OF THE STOMACH 

80. Digestion is a purely mechanical operation, and the 
digestive apparatus may be considered as a mill furnished 
with its sieves, in order to extract from the food all that 
can be of use to repair our body, and to reject the residue 
deprived of its animalisable parts. 

Long and vigorous disputes have been going on as to the 
manner in which digestion takes place in the stomach, and 
whether it is by coction, maturation, fermentation, by 
chemical, vital or gastric dissolution, etc. 

A little of all these operations takes place, and the error 
was in attributing to one agent what was the result of sev- 
eral causes necessarily combined. 

In fact, foods, impregnated by the various fluids sup- 
plied by the mouth and the oesophagus, arrive in the stom- 
ach, where they are impregnated by the gastric juice which 
is always there; they are submitted for several hours to a 
temperature of about 100° of Fahrenheit; then they are 

(181) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

triturated and mixed by the organic motion of the stomach, 
which is stimulated by their being there; they react on one 
another through this juxtaposition, and it is impossible 
that then fermentation should not take place, as every kind 
of food ferments. 

In consequence of all these operations, chyme is elabo- 
rated, the alimentary layer immediately above is the first 
that is appropriated; it passes along the pylorus and falls 
into the intestines; another layer succeeds it, and so on, 
until there is nothing more in the stomach, which empties 
itself as it were by mouthfuls, and in the same manner in 
which it was filled. 

The pylorus is a sort of fleshy funnel which serves as a 
communication between the stomach and the intestines; 
it is formed in such a manner that food cannot reascend it 
without great difficulty. This important viscus is some- 
times subject to obstruction, and then people die of hunger 
after a long and frightful agony. 

The intestine which receives the food that leaves the 
pylorus is called the duodenum; it is so called because it is 
about twelve fingers' breadth in length. 

The chyme, arrived in the duodenum, receives a new 
elaboration by the mixture of intestinal juice, bile and pan- 
creatic juice; it loses its greyish colour and the acidity it 
formerly possessed, becomes yellowish, and begins to 
assume a stercoraceous odour, which increases the more it 
moves towards the rectum. The various principles of this 
combination act reciprocally on each other; the chyle is 
prepared, and many analogous gases are formed. 

The organic movement of impulsion which drives the 
chyle out of the stomach, continues and propels it towards 
the smaJler bowels, where the chyle is set free, is absorbed 

(182) 



ON DIGESTION 

by the organs destined for this use, and is carried towards 
the liver to be mixed with the blood, which it refreshes by 
repairing the losses caused by the absorption of vital 
organs, and by transpiratory exhalation. 

It is very difficult to explain how chyle, which is a white 
liquor almost without taste or smell, can be extracted from 
a mass of which the colour, smell, and taste, are very 
marked. 

However, the extraction of chyle appears to be the real 
object of digestion, and as soon as it enters the circulation, 
the individual becomes aware of it by the conscious increase 
of vital force and an intimate conviction that his bodily 
losses are repaired. 

After this operation, the chyme, deprived of its humours, 
and almost reduced to excrementitious substance, journeys 
on towards the outside; it is propelled by the organic, peri- 
staltic and vermicular motion common to the whole diges- 
tive system, which makes it move by an oblique movement 
from one wall of the intestines to another — a process 
favoured by the various Hquids that lubricate it. 

It goes successively from the jejunum to the ileum, from 
the ileum to the caecum, from the caecum to the colon, and 
from the colon to the rectum, thus going over a route that 
sometimes is more than thirty feet long, that is to say, 
nearly six times the height of a human being. 

In this downward journey, the chyme, although always 
rather liquid, gradually takes a yellowish brown colour. 
Arrived in the caecum, it becomes more or less stercora- 
ceous and increases in consistency, either through the tem- 
perature of the intestines, or through their recrementitial 
absorption. 

The excrementitious substance arrives at the end of the 
(183) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

rectum, and is stopped there by the resistance of the 
sphincter, a circular muscle that closes the entry, almost 
like the string of a bag-purse. There it is obliged to stop 
several hours more or less, according to the particular dis- 
position of the individual. 

Nevertheless two causes soon concur to eject it; it is pro- 
pelled by other excrementitious substances that take the 
same route, and the excitation its presence produces makes 
those intestines constringe which can be moved by the 
action of will. The caput mortuum obeys these movements, 
forces the sphincter, moulds itself on its opening, is expelled 
and does not leave us without a sensation of pleasure, 
bestowed by Nature on the satisfaction of any want. 

The intestines are the home of tempests; in them is 
formed gas, as in the clouds; oxygen is found in them, 
whilst the fat produces hydrogen and carbon. The foods 
of the animal kingdom give nitrogen; an unknown process 
generates sulphur and phosphorus, and hence those emis- 
sions of sulphuretted hydrogen of which the eflfects are 
known by every one, but of which the author is never 
known. 

The digestion of liquids is much less complicated than 
that of solid foods, and may be explained in a very few 
words. 

The alimentary part which is found in suspension is 
joined to the chyme, and undergoes all its vicissitudes. 

Liquid substances are absorbed by the vessels of the 
stomach, and thrown into circulation. Thence they are 
carried by the emulgent arteries towards the kidneys, 
which filter and elaborate them by means of the ureters,' 
which take them into the bladder in the form of urine. 

1 The ureters are two canals as thick as a goose quill that issue from 
(184) 



ON DIGESTION 

Arrived at the last stage, and though also kept back by 
a sphincter, urine does not stop there long; its existing 
action makes a want to be felt, and a voluntary constric- 
tion ejects it by well-known canals of irrigation which are 
never named. 

Digestion is of a longer or shorter duration, according to 
the particular disposition of the individual. Nevertheless 
the average time may be given at about seven hours, 
namely, a little more than three hours in the stomach, and 
the other time for the journey as far as the rectum. 

After they have read this chapter, which I have culled 
from the best authors, and of which I have omitted all dry 
anatomical and abstract scientific terms, my readers will 
pretty well be able to judge of the place where the last 
repast they have taken should be — namely: during the 
three first hours in the stomach; later on in the intestinal 
canal, and after seven or eight hours in the recttmi, waiting 
to be ejected. 

nSTFLUBNCE OP DIGESTION 

81. Digestion is of all the bodily functions the one which 
affects most the moral state of the individual. 

This assertion should not astonish any one, as it is im- 
possible it could be otherwise. 

The most elementary principles of psychology tell us 
that the mind is only impressed by means of the organs 
which are subjected to it, and put it in communication with 
external objects; hence it follows that when these organs 
are in bad condition, out of order or irritated, this change 
must exercise an influence on the sensations, which are the 

each of the kidneys, and end in the posterior part of the neck of the 
bladder. 

(185) 



• A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

intermediary and occasional means of intellectual opera- 
tions. 

Thus, the habitual manner ia which digestion is per- 
formed, and especially ia its later stages, makes us habit- 
ually sad, gay, taciturn, talkative, morose or melancholy, 
without our even suspecting it, and above all without our 
being able to prevent it. 

Thus, all civilised human beings, with regard to this, 
are divided into three great categories, the regulars, the 
confined, and the loose ones. 

Experience has proved that every one of those beings, 
in those diflFerent series, not only has the same innate char- 
acteristics and propensities as the others, but also that 
there is something analogous and similar in the way in 
which they fulfil the missions Fate has allotted to them in 
their career of life. 

In order to be better imderstood I shall take an example 
from the vast field of literature. I believe that men of let- 
ters are most generally indebted to their stomach for the 
kind of literature they have adopted. 

Considered from this point of view, comic poets ought to 
be amongst the regulars, tragic poets amongst the confined, 
and elegiac and pastoral poets amongst the loose: hence the 
most lachrymose poet is only separated from the most 
comic writer by some degree of digestive coction. 

At the time when Prince Eugene of Savoy^ did so much 
harm to France, some one of the court of Louis XIV, applied 
this principle to courage, and exclaimed, "Oh, if I could 
only loosen the Prince's bowels for eight days, he would 
soon be the greatest coward in Europe." 

1 Francois Eugfene, Prince de Savoie-Carignan (1663-1736). His 
principal victories over the French were between 1701 and 1714. — Tb. 

(186) 



ON DIGESTION 

"Make haste," said an English general, "and send our 
soldiers quickly to the fight, while they still have a piece of 
beef in their stomachs." 

Digestion in young people is often accompanied by a 
slight shiver, and in the old by a rather strong desire to 
sleep. 

In the former case it is Nature that withdraws the caloric 
from the surfaces to employ it in her laboratory; and in the 
second, it is the same power, which, already enfeebled by 
age, cannot suffice, both for the work of digestion and for 
the exaltation of the senses. 

During the beginning of digestion it is dangerous to 
abandon ourselves to mental efforts, and more dangerous 
still to give ourselves up to genetic enjoyments. Our 
graveyards are filled every year with hundreds of men who, 
after having dined, and often after having dined too well, 
neither closed their eyes nor stopped their ears. 

This is a bit of advice, even for young men, who are very 
careless; a warning for grown-up men who forget that time 
never stops, and a question of life or death for those men 
who are on the wrong side of fifty. 

Some persons always show temper while digestion is 
going on; and nobody should at that time propose plans to 
them or ask them any favour. 

To such men belonged, especially. Marshal Augereau;^ 
during the first hour after dinner, he would have killed 
friends and enemies indiscriminately. 

One day I heard him say that there were in the army 
two persons whom the commander-in-chief could at any 

1 Pierre-Prangois-Charles Augereau (1757-1816), Marshal of Prance 
and Duke of Castiglione, was one of the ablest of Napoleon's generals, 
but played a double part in 1814, and died despised by all parties. — Tb. 

(187) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

time order to be shot, namely, the chief paymaster and the 
chief of the staff. Both were present. General Cherin, the 
chief of the staff, made some reply in a cajoling tone, but 
cleverly; the paymaster, though he said nothing, probably 
did not think the less. 

I was at that time on the marshal's staff, and a knife and 
fork were always laid for me at his table; but I rarely went, 
being afraid of those periodical squalls; I dreaded lest for 
one single word he should send me to finish my digestion 
under arrest. 

I often met him afterwards in Paris, and as he expressed 
his regret at not having seen me more frequently, I did not 
conceal the cause. We both laughed over it, but he almost 
admitted that I was not altogether Avrong. 

We were then on service at Offenburg,^ and complaints 
were received by the staff that we neither had game nor 
fish at dinner. This complaint was not imreasonable, for 
it is a maxim of public law that the conquerors should 
live well at the expense of the conquered. Thus, that very 
day I wrote a polite note to the head forester, pointing 
out the complaint, and prescribing the remedy. 

The head forester was an old trooper, tall, thin, and dark, 
who could not endure us, and who no doubt treated us 
badly for fear we should take root in his territory. 

His reply, therefore, was almost a refusal and full of 
evasions; the gamekeepers, from fear of our soldiers, had 
fled; the fishermen were in open rebellion; the rivers were 
swollen, and so on. To such excellent reasons I did not 
reply, but sent him ten grenadiers to be billeted upon him 
until further orders. 

' Offenburg, a town in the Grand Duchy of Baden, taken by the 
French in 1797. — Ta. 

(188) 



ON DIGESTION 

The remedy was effective; very early next morning there 
arrived a heavily laden cart. The gamekeepers had no 
doubt come back, and the fishermen had given in, for they 
brought us game and fish enough to regale us for more than 
a week; venison^ woodcocks, carp, and pike — everything 
in abimdance! 

On receiving this expiatory offering, I freed the unlucky 
head-forester of his guests. He came to see us, and I soon 
made him understand common sense; so that, during the 
rest of our stay in Baden, we could only congratulate our- 
selves on his excellent way of treating us.^ 

^ What would OUT author have said if he had lived until the late 
Franco-German War, when such treatment, as he describes, but this 
time practised by the Germans on the French, was bitterly complained 
of by the latter? — Tb. 



MEDITATION XVII 
ON REPOSE 

82. Man is not organised to enjoy activity for an indefi- 
nite time; Nature has only destined him to an interrupted 
existence, and after a certain time his perceptions cease. 
This time of activity may be prolonged by varying the sort 
as well as the nature of the sensations he experiences; but 
this continuity of existence induces him to seek repose. 
Repose leads to sleep, and sleep produces dreams. 

Here we find ourselves at the final hmits of humanity; 
for a man who sleeps is already no longer a member of 
society, — the law still protects, but does not command 
him. 

A singular instance of this was told me by Dom Duhaget, 
formerly prior of the Carthusian convent of Pierre-ChS,tel.' 

Dom Duhaget was a member of a good Gascon family, 
and had served with distinction, for twenty years, as a cap- 
tain in an infantry regiment; he was also a knight of the 
order of Saint Louis. I have never known any one of more 
gentle and devout piety, and who could converse more 
agreeably. 

"At . . . where I was prior before coming to Pierre- 
ChS,tel," he told me, "there was a monk of a very melan- 
choly disposition, and of a gloomy character, who was 
known to walk in his sleep. 

' Pierre-Chdtel is the name of a Carthusian convent in the diocese of 
Belley, where our author was born. This convent still exists, and its 
prior is even now ex officio governor of a fort built there, but chooses an 
officer as his deputy. — Te. 

(190) 



ON REPOSE 

"Sometimes, when he had one of his attacks, he left his 
cell, and came back alone; at other times he lost his way, 
and people were obliged to bring him back again. Several 
attempts had been made to cure him, but in vain; and, 
finally, the attacks having become less frequent, no one 
troubled himself more about them. 

"One evening, not having gone to bed at my usual hour, 
I was at my writing-desk, examining some papers, when I 
heard open the door of my room, of which I always left the 
key inside, and soon I saw enter this monk in a complete 
state of somnambulism. 

"His eyes were wide open and staring; his only garment 
was the tunic in which he had gone to bed; and he held a 
big knife in his hand. 

"He went straight to my bed, for he knew where it was, 
and, feeling with his hand, seemed to satisfy himself that I 
was really in it. Then he struck three heavy blows with so 
much force that the blade penetrated the blankets, and 
went a good way into the mattress, or, to speak more 
correctly, into the matting which served for that pur- 
pose. 

"On passing me, his countenance was disturbed, and his 
brows were knit; but after he had struck the blows, he 
turned back, and I observed that he looked calmer and 
seemed satisfied. 

"The light of two lamps on my desk made no impression 
on his eyes, and he returned as he came, opening and clos- 
ing carefully the two doors that led to my cell, and I soon 
convinced myself that he had gone straight and quietly to 
his own. 

"You can imagine," continued the prior, "the state I was 
in whilst this terrible apparition lasted. I trembled and 

(191 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

was horrified at the danger I had escaped, for which I 
thanked Providence; but my emotion was such that I could 
not by any possibility close my eyes for the remainder of 
the night. 

"Next day I sent for the monk, and asked him curtly 
what he had been dreaming about the night before. 

"He seemed greatly moved when I asked him this. 
'Reverend father,' he replied, 'I have had so strange a 
dream that I really feel some difficulty in telling you all 
about it; perhaps it may be the work of the devil, and ..." 
'I order you to tell it,' I replied; 'a dream is always invol- 
untary, and is only an illusion. Speak without reserve.' 
'Reverend father, I had scarcely lain down, when I dreamt 
that you had killed my mother, tiiat her ghost appeared to 
me, covered with blood, to demand vengeance, and that 
at this sight I was transported with such fury that I ran 
like a madman to your room, and, finding you in bed, 
stabbed you. A little time after, I awoke, bathed in per- 
spiration, detesting my crime, and immediately thanked 
God that I had not committed the great crime which was 
in my thoughts.' . . . 'You almost committed it, though 
you do not think so,' said I earnestly but calmly. 

"I then told him what had taken place, and showed him 
the marks of the blows he had aimed at me. 

"At this sight he threw himself at my feet, bathed in 
tears, deploring the involuntary misfortune which had so 
nearly taken place, and entreating me to inflict on him any 
penance that I thought fit. 

"'No, no,' I said, 'I will not punish you for an involun- 
tary action; but I exempt you henceforth from attending 
evening service, and warn you that your cell will be locked 
in future from the outside after the evening meal, and will 

(192) 



ON REPOSE 

only be opened in time to enable you to come to the com- 
mon mass at the break of day.' " 

If in this instance, from which a miracle only saved him, 
the prior had been killed, the somnambulist monk would 
not have been punished, as his was an involuntary murder. 

TIME FOR SLEEP 

83. The general laws imposed on the globe which we 
inhabit have an influence on the human race. The alterna- 
tion of day and night is felt with certain varieties over the 
whole earth, but nevertheless in such a manner that after 
all the one compensates for the other, and it naturally indi- 
cates the time for activity as well as that for repose; prob- 
ably the wear and tear of our life would not be the same 
if we hved without a change of day or night. 

However, when man has enjoyed his existence fully for 
a certain length of time, there comes a moment when he 
can enjoy nothing more; his impressions diminish gradu- 
ally, the best made attempts on his senses are ineffectual, 
the organs refuse to perform those functions formally so 
ardently desired, the mind is saturated with sensations; the 
time for rest has arrived. 

It is easy to see that we have considered man as a mem- 
ber of society, environed with all the resources and the 
comfort of the higher civilisation; for this desire for repose 
is felt much sooner and much more regularly by those who 
have fatigued themselves by assiduous work in their study, 
in the workshop, in travelling, in war, at the chase, or in 
any other manner. 

To repose, as to every other art for the preservation of 
life. Nature, that excellent mother, has added a feeling of 
pleasure. 

(193) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

The man who takes rest experiences a happiness which 
is as general as it is undefinable; he feels his arms he down 
by their own weight, his muscles relax, his brain refreshed; 
his senses are calm, and his sensations less keen; he wishes 
for nothing, he no longer thinks; a thin veil is drawn over 
his eyes. A few moments more and he sleeps. 



MEDITATION XVIH 
OF SLEEP 

84. Although there are some men so organised that it 
may be ahnost said that they do not sleep, nevertheless, it 
is generally admitted that the want of sleep is as imperious 
as hunger and thirst. The outposts of an army often fall 
asleep, even though they throw snuflf into their eyes; and 
Pichegru,* when tracked by the police of Buonaparte, gave 
thirty thousand francs for one night's sleep, during which 
he was betrayed and given up. 

DEFINITION 

85. Sleep is that state of torpor in which man, separated 
from external objects by the forced inactivity of his senses, 
only leads a mechanical life. 

Sleep, Uke night, is preceded and followed by two twi- 
lights, of which the first leads to absolute inertness, and the 
second brings us back to active life. 

Let us endeavour to elucidate these phenomena. 

At the moment when sleep commences, the organs of the 
senses sink little by little into inaction: taste first disap- 
pears, and afterwards sight and smell; hearing is still on 
the alert, and touch always; for it has to warn us by pain of 
the dangers that the body may run. 

1 Charles Pichegru (1761-1804), a celebrated French general, was 
implicated in royalist plots, condemned and sent to Cayenne, whence 
he escaped in 1798, and went to England and to Germany. He came 
secretly to Paris to arrange a new plot, when he was betrayed by one 
of his friends and put in prison, where one morning he was found strangled 
in his room. — Tb. 

(195) 



OF SLEEP 

Sleep is always preceded by a more or less voluptuous 
sensation; the body sinks with pleasure into it, being cer- 
tain of a prompt restoration, and the mind gives itself up 
to it in confidence, in the hope that its means of activity 
will be revived. 

It is because this sensation, which, nevertheless, is so 
well defined, has not been rightly appreciated, that some 
men of science of the highest order compare sleep with 
death, which all living beings resist with all their might, 
and which has such special symptoms that they horrify 
even animals. 

Like all other pleasures, sleep may become a passion, 
for some persons have been sleeping away three-fourths of 
their Kfe; and as in all other passions, its eflfects, indolence, 
weakness, stupidity, and death, are then detrimental. 

The school of Salerno only allowed seven hours sleep, 
without distinction of age or sex.* This rule is too severe; 
we must grant something more to children, who require it, 
and to women from courtesy; but whenever any one spends 
more than ten hours in bed, it is certain, that he errs in 
excess. 

In the first moments of dawning sleep, the will still lasts; 
one can waken up, but the eye has not lost all its power. 
Non omnibus dormio, said Maecenas;^ and in this state more 

' Salerno, a town on the west coast of Italy, about thirty-four miles 
from Naples by rail, had, until the fifteenth centiuy, the most famous 
medical school in Europe. George III used to say when speaking of 
sleep, "Six hours are enough for a man, seven for a woman or child, and 
eight for a fool." — Tr. 

' Cains Cilnius Maecenas, a Roman statesman of an equestrian family, 
the friend of the Emperor Augustus, and a patron of the learned men 
and poets of his time. It is said that one day, whilst Augustus was 
visiting him, he fell asleep, whereupon the emperor kissed his wife; but 
when one of the coiutiers tried to imitate his master's example, Maecenas 
awoke and exclaimed: "I do not sleep for all." 

(196) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

than one husband has acquired far from pleasant certainty. 
Some ideas may be originated in the mind, but they are 
incoherent; doubtful glimpses of light spring up wherein 
indefinite objects are thought to be hovering around us. 
This condition does not last long; soon everything disap- 
pears, all sensation is over, and we fall into an absolute 
sleep. 

What does the mind do during this time? It lives within 
itself, it is like a pilot during a calm, like a mirror during 
the night, like a lute that no person ever touches, it awaits 
new sensations. 

But some psychologists, and amongst others Count von 
Redern,' maintain that the mind never ceases to act; and 
he gives as a proof the fact that any man who is forcibly 
aroused from his first sleep experiences a sensation as if he 
were disturbed in some occupation in which he had been 
zealously engaged. 

There is really something in this observation which 
deserves to be verified attentively. 

Moreover, this state of absolute annihilation is of brief 
duration, and never exceeds more than five or six hours. 
Little by little the losses are repaired, a vague sentiment 
of existence begins to spring up again, and the sleeper 
passes into the realm of dreams. 

1 Sigismund Ehrenreich, Count von Redem (1755-1836), a Parisian 
diplomatist, as well as an author and a manufacturer, was the partner 
of Saint-Simon, with whom he quarrelled. He became a naturalised 
Frenchman in 1811. The work Brillat-Savarin refers to is the Examen 
Sommaire, etc. — Tb. 



MEDITATION XIX 
OF DEEAMS 

86. Dreams are the unilateral impressions which reach 
the mind without the assistance of external objects. 

These phenomena, so common, and at the same time so 
extraordinary, are nevertheless still little known. 

Our scientific men are to blame for this, for they have 
not yet given us a sufficient number of observations. This 
indispensable help will come in time, and the double na- 
ture of man will be better known. In the present state of 
science, it must be taken for granted that there exists a 
fluid, as subtle as powerful, which transmits to the brain 
the impressions received by the senses, and that ideas arise, 
stimulated by such impressions. 

Absolute sleep is caused by the loss or inertness of this 
fluid. Digestion and assimilation do not cease during sleep, 
but repair such losses, so that there comes a time when man, 
possessing already all the means of action, is not yet ex- 
cited by external objects. 

Then the nervous fluid, moveable by its nature, is carried 
to the brain by the nerves in the same places, and manner, 
and by the same route as when awake; it ought therefore 
to produce the same efi"ects, but nevertheless with less 
intensity. 

The reason of this difference appears not difficult to find 
out. When a man who is awake is impressed by an external 
object, the sensation is precise, quick, and requisite; the 
entire organ is called into play. When, on the other hand, 

(198) 



OF DREAMS 

this same impression is transmitted to the mind during 
sleep, it is only the hinder part of the nerves which is set in 
motion, and the sensation must necessarily be less vivid 
and less positive. 

To make ourselves better understood, we say that in a 
man awake the whole organ is impressed, whilst in a man 
asleep only that part nearest the brain is affected. 

Nevertheless, we know that in voluptuous dreams, Na- 
ture is almost as much gratified as when a person is awake, 
but the difference lies in the organs, for the genetic sense 
only needs one stimulus, and each sex has the requisite 
organs to accomplish the act for which it has been created. 

AN INVESTIGATION TO BE HELD 

87. When the nervous fluid is thus transported to the 
brain, it always reaches it by channels intended for the use 
of one of oiu- senses, and this is the reason why certain sen- 
sations are then aroused, or certain series of ideas in prefer- 
ence to others. Thus we think we see, when the optic nerve 
is excited; we think we hear, when the auditory nerves are 
affected, and so on; but we may remark as a singularity, 
that it is very rare that the sensations experienced in dreams 
refer to taste or smell. When we dream of a flower-bed or a 
field, we see the flowers without smelling their odours, and 
when we think we are present at a banquet, we see the 
dishes, but do not taste them. 

It would be a task worthy of our scientific men to inves- 
tigate why two of our senses do not impress the mind dur- 
ing sleep, whilst the four others possess nearly their full 
power. I do not know any psychologist who has considered 
this fact. 

Let us also remark that the more deeply we experience 
(199) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

affections in sleep, the more intense they become. Thus 
ideas of the most sensual character are nothing compared 
to the anguish we feel if we dream of having lost a dear 
child, or of going to be hanged. For in such a case we 
awake to find ourselves covered with perspiration or bathed 
in tears. ' 

NATURE OF DREAMS 

88. However incongruous the ideas are that sometimes 
agitate us during sleep, nevertheless, when closely exam- 
ined, they will be found to be only recollections, or com- 
binations of recollections. 

Thus I am tempted to say that dreams are but the mem- 
ory of sensations. 

Their strangeness only consists therefore in this, that the 
association of those ideas is unusual, because freed from 
the laws of chronology, propriety, and time; so that, as a 
final analysis, no one ever dreamt of anything that was 
previously entirely unknown to him. 

We shall not be surprised at the peculiarity of our dreams, 
when we reflect that in a man awake foiu: faculties direct 
and reciprocally correct each other, namely, sight, hearing, 
touch, and memory; whereas, in the case of any one who 
is asleep, each sense is abandoned to its own resources. 

I am inclined to compare these two conditions of the 
brain to a piano, before which is seated a musician, who, 
passing carelessly his fingers over the keys, by mere remi- 
niscence creates some melody, with which he could combine 
a complete harmony, if he used all his faculties. This com- 
parison might be carried out much farther, by considering 
that reflection is to ideas what harmony is to soimds, and 
that certain ideas contain others, just as a principal note 

(200) 



OF DREAMS 

in a chord contains others which are secondary to it, and 
so on. 

SYSTEM OP DE. GALL 

89. Having thus far quietly followed a system that is not 
without interest, I have come to the confines of the system 
of Dr. Gall, who teaches and maintains the multiformity of 
organs in the brain. 

I therefore carmot go farther, or transgress the limits I 
have fixed; nevertheless, for the love of science to which it 
may be seen that I am no stranger, I will state here two 
facts which came to my own personal knowledge, and 
which can be safely relied on, as there are among my read- 
ers many persons who can testify to their truth. 

FIKST FACT 

About 1790, there lived in a village called Gevrin, in the 
arrondissement of Belley, a very shrewd merchant, called 
Landot, who had scraped together a pretty good fortune. 

He was suddenly seized with a severe paralytic stroke, 
so that he was thought to be dead. The faculty came to 
his aid and preserved his life, not however without loss, for 
he left behind him nearly all his intellectual faculties, and 
especially memory. 

Nevertheless, as he was still crawling along as well as he 
could, and had recovered his appetite, he continued to 
manage his own property. 

Those people who formerly had done business with him, 
and who saw him in this state, believed that now the time 
had come to take their revenge, and, on the pretext of 
keeping him company, they came from all parts to propose 
to him bargains, purchases, sales, exchanges, and other 

(201) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

such transactions which formerly had been his chief occu- 
pation. 

But the assailants were greatly astonished, and soon 
found out that they had reckoned without their host. 

The cunning old fellow had lost none of his commercial 
capacities; and the same man who sometimes did not rec- 
ognise his servants, and forgot even his own name, knew 
everything about the price of all kinds of goods, and the 
value of every acre of land, vineyard, or wood, within a 
radius of three leagues. 

In those various business relations, his judgment had 
remained intact; and as the people did not distrust him, 
the most of those who came to try the invalid merchant 
were themselves caught in the snare they had been en- 
deavouring to spread for him. 

SECOND FACT 

At Belley there lived a certain M. Chirol, who served 
for a long time in the body-guard, under Louis XV, as well 
as under Louis XVI. 

He had just sense enough for the service in which his 
whole life had been engaged; but he possessed in a super- 
lative degree a knowledge of all sorts of games, so that not 
alone he played well all games formerly in vogue, such as 
ombre, piquet, whist, and so on; but when any new game 
was introduced he knew it well, after having played it 
twice. 

Now this M. Chirol was also struck by paralysis, and the 
attack was so severe that he fell into a state of nearly ab- 
solute insensibility; but two faculties were however spared, 
the power of digestion and his skill at cards. 

He used to go every day to a house where he was ac- 
( 202 ) 



OF DREAMS 

customed to play, and sit in a corner, motionless and 
drowsy, without occupying himself with anything that 
took place aroimd him. Just before they began to play, 
he was asked to take a hand, and always accepted it; he 
crawled to the card-table, and there one could perceive 
that the disease which had paralysed the greatest part of 
his faculties had not made him lose one atom of his skill 
at cards. A little time before his death, M. Chirol gave 
us a convincing proof of his undiminished ability as a 
player. 

One day there came to Belley a banker from Paris, whose 
name, I think, was M. Delins. He brought several letters 
of introduction, and as he was a stranger and a Parisian, 
it was more than enough for every one in this small town to 
do his best to make him as happy as possible. 

M. Delins was a gourmand, and fond of card-playing. 
The first passion he could satisfy easily enough, for he was 
kept at table for five or six hours every day. It was more 
difficult to satisfy his second passion, for he was very fond 
of piquet, and spoke of playing for six francs the point, 
which exceeded, by a great deal, the highest sum for which 
we had ever played. 

To overcome this obstacle, a company was formed, in 
which every one took or did not take a share, according as 
he felt inclined; for some said that the Parisian knew more 
than we provincials did; others, on the contrary, maintained 
that the inhabitants of that great town are always too 
flighty to show great skill at cards. 

However, the company was formed, and the task of de- 
fending the collective funds was entrusted to M. Chirol. 

When the Parisian banker saw this tall figure, pale, 
ghastly, and walking sideways, sit down opposite to him, 

(203) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

he thought at first that it was a joke; but when he saw the 
spectre take the cards, and use them like a proficient, he 
began to think that his opponent might formerly have been 
worthy of him. 

It did not take long to convince him that he was still 
worthy of him; for not only in this game, but also in many 
others which followed, M. Delins was beaten, punished, 
and so plucked, that at his departure he had to count 
out more than six hundred francs, which were carefully 
divided among the shareholders of the company. 

Before leaving, M. Delins came to thank us for the kind 
manner in which we had received him; nevertheless, he 
protested against the broken-down adversary we had 
opposed to him, and assured us that he never could console 
himself for having contended so unprofitably with a corpse. 

CONCLUSION 

The consequence of these two facts is easy to deduce; it 
appears to me evident that the paralytic stroke which in 
both these cases disturbed the brain, respected that part of 
the organ which had so long been employed in problems of 
commerce and of cards; and that, doubtless, that part only 
resisted because continual exercise had given it greater 
strength, or, also, because those same impressions, for so 
long a time repeated, left deeper traces. 

INFLUENCE OF AGE 

90. Age has a marked influence on the nature of dreams. 

In infancy, we dream of games, gardens, flowers, ver- 
dure, and other pleasing objects; in later life, of pleasures, 
love, battles, marriages; later still, of households, voyages, 
favours of a prince or of his representatives; last of all, of 

(204) 



OF DREAMS 

business, embarrassments, treasures, former amusements, 
and friends dead a long while ago. 

PHENOMENA OF DREAMS 

91. Certain uncommon phenomena accompany some- 
times sleep and dreams; their examination may serve to 
advance the progress of anthroponomy;' and it is for this 
rccLson that I shall record here three instances taken 
amongst many others which, during the course of a rather 
long life, I have had occasion to experience myself in the 
silence of the night. 

First Instance 

I dreamt one night that I had discovered the secret of 
dispensing with the laws of gravity, so that my body hav- 
ing no tendency to ascend or to descend, I could effect 
either the one or the other with an equal facility according 
to my will. 

This state seemed delicious to me, and perhaps many 
persons have dreamt something Uke it; but the most re- 
markable part of my dream is that I remember that I 
explained to myself very clearly (at least it appeared so) 
the means that had led to this result. These means seemed 
so simple that I was surprised that they had not been dis- 
covered earlier. 

On awaking, this explanatory part entirely escaped me, 
but the conclusion remained; and ever since that time, I 
am thoroughly convinced that sooner or later some enlight- 
ened genius will make this discovery, and at all events, I 
claim priority. 

* One of the words coined by our author, meaning "the knowledge 
of man." — Tb. 

(205) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Second Instance 

92. Not many months ago, when asleep, I experienced a 
sensation of pleasure quite extraordinary. 

It consisted in a sort of delicious quivering of all the 
particles which composed my body. It was a kind of titil- 
lation most delightful, which, beginning at the epidermis, 
extended from head to foot, and vibrated through me to 
the very marrow of my bones. I thought I saw a violet 
flame play about my forehead. 

Lambere flamma comas et circum tempora pasei.^ 

1 think that the condition, which I felt physically, lasted 
at least thirty seconds, and I awoke filled with a surprise 
that was not immixed with terror. 

From this sensation, which is yet present to my memory, 
and from several observations made on people in a trance 
and others very excitable, I have come to the conclusion 
that the limits of pleasure are not yet known or defined, 
and that we are ignorant of the state of beatitude our body 
may reach. I hope that in a few centuries the physiology 
of the future will get hold of these extraordinary sensations, 
to produce them at will, and that as sleep is procured by 
opium, our great-grandchildren may, in that way, have 
compensations for the atrocious pains we have sometimes 
to suffer. 

The theory I have just advanced may be supported in 
some way by analogy, for I have already remarked that 
the power of harmony, which procures for us an enjoyment 
so keen, so pure, and so eagerly sought after, was entirely 
unknown to the Romans, as it is a discovery which is not 
more than five hundred years old. 

1 This is a quotation from Virgil's Mneid. — Te. 
(206) 



OF DREAMS 

Third Instance 

93. In the year VIII of the Republic (1800), I went to 
bed as usual, and nothing remarkable happened during the 
day: I woke up at about one o'clock in the morning, the 
usual time of the end of my first sleep, and found myself in 
a quite extraordinary state of cerebral excitement; my con- 
ceptions were bright, my thoughts profound; the sphere of 
my intelUgence appeared to have become enlarged. I sat 
up in bed; and my eyes were a£Fected by the sensation of a 
pale, vaporous, and uncertain hght, which, however, did 
not at all enable me to distinguish objects. 

The crowd o^ ideas which succeeded each other so rap- 
idly made me fancy that this state lasted for several hours; 
but, according to the time-piece in my bedroom, I am cer- 
tain that it did not last more than half an hour. 

An external accident, quite independent of my will, and 
which thus recalled me to things terrestrial, drove away 
this feeling. At the very moment the luminous sensation 
disappeared I felt my faculties declining, the limits of my 
intelligence grow narrower; in a word, I became what I was 
before I went to bed. 

But as I was thoroughly awake, my memory retained 
very faintly a part of the ideas that passed through my 
mind. 

The first ideas had time as their subject. It appeared to 
me that the past, the present, and the future were of the 
same nature, and merely made one point, in such a manner 
that it was as easy to predict the future as to remember 
the past. 

This is all that I remember of this first intuition, which 
was partly efi'aced by those that followed. 

(207) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

My attention was afterwards directed to the senses; I 
classified them in their order of perfection, and having 
come to think that there were as many within us as there 
were external ones, I occupied myself in looking for them. 

I had already discovered three, and almost four, when I 
fell back again on the earth. These three are as follows: — 

1. Compassion, which is a sensation we feel about the 
heart when we see a fellow creature suflFer. 

2. Predilection, which is a feeling of preference not merely 
for one object, but for all that is connected with it or re- 
calls it to our memory. 

3. Sympathy, which is also a feeling of preference that 
attracts two objects, the one towards the other. 

At first we might imagine that these two sentiments were 
merely one and the same thing; but what prevents them 
from being confounded is that predilection is not always 
reciprocal, and that sympathy is so, as a matter of course. 

Finally, occupying myself with compassion, I was led to 
an induction I think very correct, and which I would not 
have perceived at any other moment, namely, that com- 
passion is the origin of that beautiful theorem, the first 
base of all legislation: 

Do not unto others that which you would not wish 
others to do to you : — 

Alteri ne facias, quod tibi fieri non vis. 
Moreover, my idea of the state in which I was then, and 
what I felt on that occasion, is such, that I would willingly 
give, if it were possible, all the time which remains to me 
to live, for a month of such an existence. 

Men of letters will comprehend this much better than 
others, for there are few of them to whom a similar experi- 
ence has not occurred, though in an inferior degree. 

(208) 



OF DREAMS 

In bed we lie comfortably in a horizontal position, the 
head well covered up. We think of the work we have on 
hand, the imagination gets excited, ideas abound, expres- 
sions follow each other; and as we must get up to write, 
we dress ourself, take off our nightcap, and sit down at the 
writing-table. But we feel in a moment that we are no 
longer the same. The imagination has become chilled, the 
thread of ideas is broken, expressions are lacking; we are 
obliged to hunt up with difficulty what before we found so 
easily, and very often we are forced to put off our work till 
a more promising day. 

All this is easily explained by the effect which is produced 
on the brain by the changes of position and temperature. 
We here find again another proof of its influence on the 
body and on our mind. 

Following out this observation, I have perhaps been led 
too far, but, after all, I am inclined to believe that the 
excitability of the Orientals is due partly to the fact that, 
being of the religion of Mohammed, they always have the 
head warmly covered, and that it is to obtain a contrary 
effect that all legislators for monastic orders have imposed 
on the monks the obligation of keeping that part of the 
body uncovered and shaven. 



MEDITATION XX 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET ON REPOSE, SLEEP. 
AND DREAMS 

94. When man rests, whether he sleeps or dreams, he 
never ceases to be under the power of the laws of nutrition, 
and does not quit the domain of gastronomy. 

Theory and experience combine to prove that the quality 
and quantity of food have a powerful influence on work, 
repose, sleep, and dreams. 

EFFECTS OF DIET ON WORK 

95. A man who is badly fed cannot bear the fatigues of a 
prolonged labour for a long time; his body becomes cov- 
ered with perspiration, his strength soon abandons him, 
and for him sleep is merely the utter impossibility of 
action. 

If his labours be mental, his ideas are crude and without 
precision. His reflection refuses to combine them, or his 
judgment to analyse them. The brain exhausts itself in 
such vain efibrts, and the soldier falls asleep on the field of 
battle. 

I have always thought that the suppers of Auteuil, and 
of the hotels of Rambouillet and Soissons,^ did a great deal 

I BoUeau (1663-1711) and MoliSre (1622-73) had their country houses 
at Auteuil, where they often received their friends to supper. The Hdtel 
de Rambouillet, where Catherine de Vivonne-Pisani (1658-1665), the wife 
of the Marquis de Rambouillet, dwelt, was, from 1645 until 1665, the 
place where all celebrated men of letters and all noblemen of intelligence 
met; it was, however, more renowned for its "feast of reason and its flow 
of soul" than for its suppers. In the Hdtel de Soissons lived Olympia 

(210) 




INFLUENCES 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET 

of good to the authors of the time of Louis XIV; and the 
witty critic GeoflFroy was not altogether so very wrong 
when he made fun of the eau sucrie of the poets of the end 
of the eighteenth century, a beverage which he thought 
they habitually drank, though this was far from true. 

According to those principles, I have examined the works 
of some authors known to have been poor and wretched, 
and I only found them possessed of real energy when they 
were stimulated by an habitual sentiment of their sorrows, 
or by envy, often very badly concealed. 

On the contrary, a man who eats well, and who repairs 
his forces with prudence and discernment, may perform an 
amount of work that no living being can do. 

On the eve of his departure for Boulogne, the Emperor 
Napoleon I was at work for more than thirty hours, with 
his Council of State and the various depositories of his 
power, without any other refreshment than two very short 
meals and a few cups of coflFee. 

Dr. Thomas Brown* tells us of an English clerk of the 
Admiralty who, having accidentally lost some papers 
which could only be prepared by himself, was employed 
fifty-two consecutive hours in writing them a second time. 
Without a suitable diet, he never could have borne such 
an enormous waste of energy. He kept himself up in the 
following manner: first, by 'drinking water, then by tak- 
ing fight food, then wine, then strong soup, and finally 
opium. 

Mancini (1640-1708), a niece of Cardinal Mazarin, and the wife of the 
Count de Soissdns, who was banished from Prance, and died an exile. — 
Tr. 

' Dr. Thomas Brown (1778-1820), the successor of Dugald Stewart 
in the Edinburgh Chair of Moral Philosophy, is above all known by 
his Lectures on the Philosophy of the Human Mind. — Te. 

(211 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

I met one day a courier whom I had known in the army, 
and who came from Spain, where he had been sent with 
despatches from the Government, — such a courier is 
called in Spanish, correo ganando horas; — and who had 
made the journey in twelve days, having only halted at 
Madrid for four hours. Some glasses of wine and a few 
basons of soup were all that he had taken during this pro- 
longed series of joltings and sleepless nights; and he added, 
that any food more solid would have infallibly prevented 
him from continuing his journey. 

ON DBKAMS 

96. Food has more than a slight influence on sleep and 
dreams. 

He who wants to eat cannot sleep. The pangs of hunger 
keep him in a state of irksome excitement, and if feebleness 
and exhaustion compel him to drop asleep, his slumber is 
light, weary, and broken. 

He, on the contrary, who in his eating exceeds the bounds 
of discretion sinks to sleep at once. If he dreams, he re- 
members nothing of it, because the nervous fluid has been 
passing in every direction through the nerves. For the 
same reason, he awakes suddenly, comes back with diffi- 
culty to social life, and when sleep is entirely gone, still feels 
for a long while the fatigue of digestion. 

We may lay down as a general maxim, that coff'ee drives 
away sleep. Custom weakens that inconvenience, and even 
makes it entirely disappear; but it is invariably experienced 
by all Europeans when they conrnaence to take it. 

Some kinds of food, on the other hand, gently provoke 
sleep; such as those in which milk forms the chief part, the 
entire family of lettuce-plants, poultry, purslain, orange- 

(212) 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET 

flower, and especially the rennet-apple, when eaten imme- 
diately before retiring to rest. 

CONSEQUENCE 

97. Experience, founded on millions of observations, 
has taught us that food determines dreams. 

Generally, all the foods that are slightly exciting, cause 
people to dream; such as brown meat, pigeons, ducks, game, 
and above all, hare. 

This property is also recognised in asparagus, celery, 
truffles, scented sweetmeats, and especially in vanilla. 

It would be a great error to believe that we should banish 
from our tables such somniferous substances, for the 
dreams that result from eating them are in general of a 
light and agreeable nature, and prolong our existence, even 
during the time when it appears to be suspended. 

There are persons for whom sleep is a separate life, a sort 
of prolonged romance; that is to say, that all their dreams 
follow each other, that they end the second night a dream 
begun the night before, and that when asleep, they see 
certain faces which they recognise, and have seen already, 
but which, nevertheless, they have never met with in the 
real world. 

RESULT 

98. A person who reflects on his physical life, and who 
conducts it according to the principles we have indicated, 
will prepare with sagacity his repose, his sleep, and his 
dreams. 

He distributes his work in such a way as never to wear 
himself out; he lightens it by varying it with discernment, 
and refreshes his intelligence by short intervals of repose, 

(213) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

which reUeve him without interrupting the continuity which 
is sometimes compulsory. 

If during the daytime he needs a longer rest, he indulges 
in it only in a sitting attitude, refraining from sleep, unless 
irresistibly forced to give way to it, and is especially careful 
not to do so habitually. 

When night brings the hour for his daily repose, he 
retires to an airy room, does not surround himself with 
curtains that compel him to breathe the same air over and 
over again, and takes good care not to close the shutters, 
so that whenever his eyes half open he will be cheered by a 
remnant of light. 

He lies down in a bed slightly raised towards the head, 
his pillow is stuffed with horse-hair, his night-cap made of 
linen, and his chest unencumbered by a weight of blankets; 
but he is careful to keep his feet warmly covered. 

He eats with discrimination, and never refuses good and 
excellent food; he drinks the best wines, and with precau- 
tion even the most heady. During dessert, he talks more 
about the ladies than about politics, and composes more 
madrigals than epigrams. He takes a cup of coffee if it 
suits his constitution, and after a few moments a thimble- 
ful of excellent liqueur, merely to sweeten his mouth. In 
everything he shows himself an amiable guest, a distin- 
guished connoisseur, and nevertheless exceeds but in a 
trifling degree the limits of his natural wants. 

Then he goes to bed satisfied with himself and others, 
his eyes close, he passes through the twilight of conscious- 
ness, and falls, for several hours, into absolute slumber. 

Soon Nature has levied her tribute, and assimilation has 
replaced all losses. Then pleasant dreams descend and 
give him a mysterious existence; he sees the persons whom 

(214) 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET 

he loves, occupies himself again with his favourite occupa- 
tions, and transports himself to the places he is fond of. 

Finally, he feels sleep gradually pass away, and enters 
again upon social life without having to regret any time 
lost, because, even in his sleep, he has enjoyed activity 
without fatigue, and pleasure without alloy. 



MEDITATION XXI 
ON COEPULENCE 

99. If I had been a physician with a degree, I should, 
in the first place, have written a monograph on corpulence; 
I would then have founded an empire in that comer of the 
field of science, and I should have had the double advan- 
tage of having as patients people who are as well as can be, 
and of being every day besieged by the fairest portion of 
the human race. For to be exactly stout enough, neither 
too much nor too Uttle, is for women the study of their 
Ufe. 

That which I have left undone, another doctor will ac- 
complish; and if he is learned, discreet, and handsome, I 
prophesy he will have a wonderful success. 

Exoriare aliquis nostria ex ossibus hwres.^ 

Meanwhile I intend to prepare the way for him, for an 
article on corpulence is indispensable in a work that has 
for its object man as a feeding animal. 

I understand by corpulence that state of fatty congestion 
in which, without the individual being ill, the lines grad- 
ually increase in size, and lose their form and their original 
symmetry. 

There is a sort of corpulence of the stomach only which 
I have never observed in females, for, as their fibre is gen- 
erally softer, their whole body becomes stout, when cor- 
pulence attacks them. I call this sort of stomach-corpu- 

' "There may arise some heir out of our bones." An alteration of 
a line in Virgil's Mrmd, rv, 625, which has "avenger" instead of "heir." 
— Tb. 

(216) 



ON CORPULENCE 

lence gastrophoria, and gastrophori * those people who are 
attacked by it. I am myself among their number, but al- 
though bearer of a stomach sufficiently prominent, the 
lower part of my legs is spare, and I am as sinewy as an 
Arab horse. 

I have, nevertheless, regarded my stomach as a formid- 
able antagonist. I vanquished it, and only made it look 
majestic; but to do so it was necessary to fight against it, 
and it is to this contest of thirty years that this essay owes 
any merit there may be in it. 

I shall commence by giving a sample of more than five 
hundred conversations I formerly kept up at table with 
persons menaced with corpulence or suffering from it. 

Corpulent man. — Good Heavens! what delicious bread! 
where do you get it? 

I. — At M. Limet's in the Rue de Richelieu;^ he supplies 
the Duke of Orleans, and the Prince de Conde; I send there 
because it is quite near me, and I continue to deal with him 
as he makes the best bread in the world. 

Corpulent man. — I will take a note of his address; I eat 
a good deal of bread, and with such rolls as those I could 
abstain from everything else. 

Another corpulent man. — What are you doing! You eat 
only the liquid portion of your soup, and you leave that 
beautiful Carolina rice in your plate! 

/. — I nourish myself in a very special way. 

Corpulent man. — It is a bad one, then! I am fond of 
rice, and also of flour, pastry, and things of that sort. Noth- 
ing is more nourishing, cheaper, and takes less trouble. 

^ Another word invented by our author, equivalent to "paunch- 
bellied," or "bearer of a corporation." — Te. 

2 M. Limet's name and address are no longer found in the Paris 
Directory (Bottin) for this year (1884). — Tb. 

(217) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

An enormously corpulent man. — Do me the favour, sir, 
of passing the potatoes in front of you; at the rate they go 
oflF, I am afraid I shall not be in time. 

I. — There they are, sir. 

Corpulent man. — But won't you take any? There is 
enough for two, and those who come after us must do as 
they can.i 

7. — I don't take any. I look on potatoes as a great pre- 
servative against famine; but, except that, they seem to 
me thoroughly insipid. 

Corpulent man. — A gastronomic heresy! There is noth- 
ing finer than potatoes. I eat them prepared in every way; 
and if they appear in the second course, either a la lyonnaise 
or in a souffle, I hereby enter a protest for the preservation 
of my rights. 

A corpulent lady. — Will you be so kind as to order some 
of those Soissons haricots to be brought to me which I see 
at the bottom of the table? 

I. — After having given the order, I sang in a low voice to a 
weH-knoum tune: — 

"At Soissons they're a happy lot. 
They've haricots in plenty got." 

Corpulent man. — Do not joke; they are a real treasure 
for that country; and Paris pays a considerable amount to 
be supplied with them. I must also ask you not to make 
fun of those little common beans, they call English beans; 
when still green they are food for the Gods. 

/. — Hang those haricot beans! Woe betide those com- 
mon beans! 

Corpulent man {defiantly). — I laugh at your impreca- 

• The original has apris nous le diluge (after us the deluge), a saying 
attributed to Louis XV when he was warned that France was getting 
from better to worse. — Tb. 

(218) 



ON CORPULENCE 

tions ! You talk as if you were a whole council all by your- 
self. 

I {to corpulent lady). — I must congratulate you on your 
good health; it appears, madam, that you have grown a 
little stouter since I last had the honour of seeing you. 

Corpulent lady. — I owe this, most Ukely, to my new way 
of Uving. 

/.— What is that? 

Corpulent lady. — For some time I have breakfasted on 
a basin of first-rate rich soup, big enough for two. And 
what soup, too! The spoon can stand upright in it. 

I {to another corpulent lady). — Madam, if your glances 
do not deceive me, you will accept a small piece of this 
charlotte, and I will make an attack upon it in your be- 
half? 

Corpulent lady. — Well, sir, you have made a mistake; I 
see here dishes which I like above all things, and they are 
both of the masculine gender; I mean that rice-cake with 
its golden sides, and this gigantic Savoy cake,* for allow 
me to hint to you that I dote upon sweet pastry. 

I {to another corpulent lady). — While they discuss poli- 
tics at the other end of the table, madam, will you permit 
me to examine for you this frangipani tart? 

Corpuleni lady. — With pleasure; there is nothing I like 
better than pastry. We have a pastry-cook in our house 
as a tenant, and my daughter and I, between us, eat up 
the whole of the rent, I think, and perhaps more. 

/ {after having looked at the young lady). — It seems to 
have done you both a great deal of good; your daughter is 
a fine-looking girl, and very attractive. 

1 Odteau de viz and biscuit de Savoie are of the masculine gender in 
French. — Tb. 

(219) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Corpulent Lady. — Well! do you know that her friends 
sometimes tell her that she is too fat. 

I. — That is probably mere envy. 

Corpulent lady. — Very likely; moreover, she'll soon be 
married, and the first child will make it all straight. 

It is by such conversations as these that a light was 
thrown on a theory which, in its elementary form, I had 
observed in other species besides the human one, — to wit, 
that fatty corpulence is always principally due to food too 
much charged with starchy, farinaceous matter; and thus, 
I became convinced that the same regimen is always fol- 
lowed by the same effect. As a matter of fact carnivorous 
animals never become fat; for example, wolves, jaguars, 
birds of prey, ravens, etc. 

Herbivorous animals do not fatten much, at least until 
age has brought them to take rest: on the other hand, they 
fatten quickly as soon as they are fed on potatoes, grain, 
and any kind of flour. 

Corpulence is never found either amongst the savages 
or among those classes of society who work to eat, and 
only eat to live. 

CAUSES OF COBPULENCE 

100. From the preceding observations, of which any one 
can verify the accuracy for himself, it it easy to assign the 
principal causes of corpulence. 

The first is the natural disposition of the individual. 
Nearly all men are bom with certain predispositions, which 
their physiognomy indicates. Of every hundred persons 
who die of pulmonary diseases, ninety have brown hair, 
a long face, and a sharp nose. Out of a hundred corpulent 
people ninety have a short face, round eyes, and a flat nose. 

(220) 



ON CORPULENCE 

There exist, therefore, persons in some degree predes- 
tined to corpulence, and whose digestive powers elaborate 
a greater proportion of fat, all other things being equal. 

This physical truth, of which I am profoundly convinced, 
influences in a deplorable manner the observations I make 
on certain occasions. 

When we meet in society with a young lady, not too tall, 
lively, with a rosy complexion, a roguish nose, a rounded 
form, plump hands and short plump feet, everybody is de- 
lighted with her, and finds her charming. But I, taught by 
experience, think of what she will be ten years hence; I see 
the ravages that corpulence will have made on those youth- 
ful charms, and I groan over evils not yet existing. 

Such anticipated compassion is a painful sentiment, and 
furnishes a proof, among a thousand others, that man 
would be more unhappy if he could foresee the future. 

The second and principal cause of corpulence, is because 
farinaceous and starchy substances form the basis of man's 
daily food. We have already remarked, that all animals 
who live on farinaceous food become fat, and man follows 
the common law. 

Starchy food produces more quickly and surely its effect 
when combined with sugar. Sugar and fat contain hydro- 
gen, which is common to them; thus both are combustible. 
These two substances mixed are also more active in pro- 
portion as they please the taste, and because sweet dishes 
are scarcely ever eaten until after the natural appetite is 
already satisfied, and when there remains nothing more 
than this other and luxurious appetite, which must be 
tempted by the most refined art, and the most alluring 
variety. 

Starchy food is not less fattening when it is conveyed 
(221) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

in liquids, such as beer, and other drinks of the kind. Peo- 
ple who drink them habitually are also those where the 
most wonderful paunches can be seen. Some Parisian fami- 
lies who in 1817 drank beer for economy's sake, because 
wine was then very dear, have been recompensed for it by 
a corpulence they would be glad to get rid of. 

Continuation 

101. Another cause of corpulence is the result of taking 
too much sleep, as well as the lack of exercise. 

The human body is much repaired during sleep, and in 
that time it loses little, as the muscular action is suspended. 
Hence the necessity for exercise to evaporate the plethora; 
but by the very fact of sleeping a great deal, the amount of 
the time for action is so much the more limited. 

Another consequence is that great sleepers refuse to do 
anything that would give them the slightest fatigue; the 
excess of assimilation is thus conveyed by the current of 
circulation; and by a process of which Nature has kept the 
secret, a small percentage of hydrogen is added and fat is 
formed, which is deposited by that same current in the cells 
of the celluar tissue. 

Continuation 

102. Finally, another cause of corpulence is an excess 
in eating and drinking. 

There is some truth in the saying that one of the privi- 
leges of the human species is to eat without being hungry, 
and to drink without being thirsty; and, as a matter of fact, 
animals could not do this, for it springs from reflection on 
the pleasures of the table, and from the desire to prolong 
their duration. 

(222) 



ON CORPULENCE 

This twofold inclination exists wherever men are found; 
and we know that savages eat to excess and drink till they 
are stupefied every time they have an opportunity. 

As for ourselves, whether citizens of the Old or the New 
World, we think we are at the height of civilisation, and 
yet we certainly eat too much. 

I do not allude to that small number of men who, from 
avarice or incapacity, live alone and by themselves: the 
former are delighted to know that they are heaping up 
wealth; the latter groaning because they cannot do 
better. 

But I affirm for all those who, living around us, are by 
turns hosts or guests, who politely ask people to dinner or 
accept invitations courteously, who, having no longer any 
wants, eat of a dish because it is attractive, or drink some 
wine because it is of foreign growth — I say it of those peo- 
ple, whether they frequent every day a drawing-room, or 
whether they only have a treat on Sundays and sometimes 
on Mondays, the great majority of all these eat and drink 
too much, and enormous quantities of eatables are every 
day absorbed without need. 

This nearly always present cause acts differently, accord- 
ing to the constitution of different persons; and for those 
people who have a weak stomach, its effect is not corpu- 
lence, but indigestion. 

Anecdote 

103. We have had before us an example, known to the 
half of Paris. 

M. Lang kept one of the best houses of this town; his 
table, above all, was excellent, but his stomach was as weak 
as his love for good living was strong. He did the honours 

(223) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

as a host to perfection, and, above all, ate with a courage 
worthy of a better fate. 

All went well enough till the coffee was brought in; but 
then the stomach speedily refused the work imposed on it; 
pains commenced, and the unhappy gastronomer was 
obliged to throw himself on a sofa, where he lay until the 
morning, expiating by protracted agony the short pleas- 
ure he had enjoyed. 

It is very curious that he never corrected this fatilt. As 
long as he lived, he had to submit to this strange alterna- 
tive, and the sufferings of the day before did never influ- 
ence his conduct during meal-time the next day. 

Among men of an active digestion, the excess of nutrition 
acts as indicated in the preceding article. All the food is 
digested, and that which is not necessary for the reparation 
of the body is appropriated, and turns into fat. 

Other men suffer from perpetual indigestion; food passes 
along without doing any good, and those who do not know 
the cause are surprised that so many good things have not 
produced a better result. 

The reader will perceive that I do not go minutely into 
details, for there is a number of secondary causes arising 
from our habits, from our condition in life, from our hob- 
bies and our pleasures, that second and promote those 
which I have just pointed out. 

I leave those minute details to the successor whom I 
have mentioned at the commencement of this Meditation, 
and shall be content with a handsel, which is the right of 
the first-comer in every case. 

For a long time intemperance has attracted the atten- 
tion of observers. Philosophers have extolled temperance, 
princes have made sumptuary laws, rehgion has preached 

(224) 



ON CORPULENCE 

at gourmandise. AJas! nobody eats a mouthful the less for 
all that, and the art of eating too much becomes every day 
more flourishing. 

I shall be perhaps more happy in striking out a new path. 
I shall show the physical inconveniences of corpulence; 
self-preservation will perhaps have a greater influence thaji 
morality, be more persuasive than sermons, and more 
powerful than laws. I think that the fair sex will at any 
rate be disposed to open their eyes to the light. 

INCONVENIENCE OF CORPULENCE 

104. Corpulence has a lamentable influence on the two 
sexes, inasmuch as it most injuriously affects strength and 
beauty. It lessens strength because it increases the weight 
to be moved, whilst it does not increase the motive power; 
and again, by impeding the respiration, which renders 
impossible all work requiring a prolonged use of muscular 
power. 

Corpulence injures beauty by destroying the harmony of 
proportion established at first, because all the parts of the 
body do not enlarge equally. It also harms it by filling up 
cavities that Nature had destined to be in the shade; and 
so nothing is more common than to meet with faces for- 
merly very iuteresting, and which fat has made almost 
insignificant. 

The chief of the last govenmient. Napoleon I, did not 
escape this law. He had grown very corpulent in his last 
campaign; from pale he had become quite wan, and his 
eyes had lost part of their brilliancy. 

Corpulence brings with it a distaste for dancing, walking, 
riding, and an unfitness for all the occupations or amuse- 
ments that require a little agility or skill. 

(225) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

It also predisposes to various maladies, such as apoplexy, 
dropsy, ulcers on the legs, and renders all other illnesses 
much more difficult to cure. 

EXAMPLES OF COBPULENCE 

105. I do not recollect the names of any other corpulent 
heroes except those of Marius"^ and John Sobieski.^ 

Marius, who was of small stature, had become almost as 
broad as he was high, and it was perhaps his enormous size 
that frightened the Cimbrian soldier who was ordered to 
kill him. As for the King of Poland, his corpulence very 
nearly was fatal to him, for, having fallen amidst a troop of 
Turkish cavalry, before whom he had to flee, he soon be- 
came short of breath, and would have been undoubtedly 
slaughtered if some of his aides-de-camp had not held him 
up, almost fainting, on his horse, whilst others generously 
sacrificed themselves to delay the enemy. 

If I do not mistake, the Duke of Vendome,' that worthy 
son of the great Henri IV,^ was also remarkably corpulent. 
He died in an inn, abandoned by every one, and preserved 
consciousness long enough to see the last of his followers 
snatch away the pillow from under his head when about to 
yield his last breath. 

Many other examples of monstrous corpulence will be 
found in various books; I shall not quote them here, and 

^ Caius Marius (b.c. 150-b.c. 86), seven times Consul of Rome, and 
the great rival of Sulla, was the leader of the democratic party. — Tb. 

« John Sobieski (1624-96), King of Poland, defeated the Turks before 
Vienna, 12th September, 1683. — Tb. 

' Louis-Joseph, Due de Venddme (1654-1712), grandson of a natural 
son of Henry IV, a man of dissolute character, but a great general, as 
proved by his winning the battle of Villa- Viciosa, 9th December, 1710. 
— Tb. 

* Henri IV (1553-1613), a great and good king of France, signed the 
Edict of Nantes in 1598, and was murdered by Bavaillac. — Te. 

(226) 



ON CORPULENCE 

confine myself to give a few instances of those I have per- 
sonally observed. M. Bameau, one of my school-fellows, 
afterwards mayor of La Chaleur in Burgundy, was only 
five feet six inches high, and yet he weighed five hundred 
pounds; so that each section of his body was a foot thick 
and about a hundredweight. 

The Due de Luynes,i with whom I have often sat in the 
same assembly, became enormous. Fat had disfigured his 
handsome countenance, and he passed the last years of his 
life in a nearly continual sleep. 

But the most extraordinary instance I have met was an 
inhabitant of New York, whom many Frenchmen, now in 
Paris, may remember having seen in Broadway, sitting in 
an enormous armchair, of which the legs were strong enough 
to support a church. Edward was at least sis feet four in 
height, and as his fat had puffed him out in every direction, 
he was almost nine feet round the waist. His fingers were 
like those of the Roman emperor^ who used his wife's 
bracelets as rings; his arms and his thighs were tubular, 
and as thick as the waist of a man of ordinary stature, and 
he had feet like an elephant, covered with the thick fat of 
his legs. The weight of fat kept down his lower eyelids and 
made them gape; but what was hideous to behold were 
three round chins hanging on his breast, and more than a 
foot long, so that his face appeared to be the capital of a 
truncated column. 

Thus Edward passed his life, sitting at a window on the 
ground floor looking out on the street, drinking from time 
to time a glass of ale, of which a pitcher of huge capacity 

' Louis-Joseph-Charles-Amable, Due de Luynea (1748-1807), one of 
the few nobles who did not emigrate during the first French Revolution, 
was a member of the Constitutent Assembly as well as our author. — Tb. 

2 This Roman emperor was Maximin. — Te. 

(227) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

stood always near him. So extraordinary an appearance 
could scarcely fail to arrest the attention of the passers by; 
but they had to take care not to stop too long, as Edward 
quickly put them to flight by saying to them in a sepulchral 
voice: "What are you staring at hke wild cats? Go your 
way, you lazy bodies ! Begone, you good-for-nothing dogs ! " 
and other similar amenities. 

I often bowed to him and called him by name, and even 
several times conversed with him. He assured me that he 
did not at all feel dull or unhappy, and that if death did 
not intervene, he would willingly remain as he was to the 
end of the world. 

From all that precedes we can see that if corpulence is 
not a malady, it is at least an untoward disposition which 
is almost always caused by our own fault. Another result is 
this, that every one should do his best to guard against 
corpulence when one does not suffer from it, and get rid of 
it when one does suffer from it; and it is in the interest of all 
persons that we investigate the researches which science, 
aided by observation, presents to us. 



MEDITATION XXII 

A PRESERVATIVE OR CURATIVE TREATMENT OF 
CORPULENCE » 

106. I COMMENCE with a fact which proves that we must 
have determination either to preserve ourselves from cor- 
pulence, or to be cured from it. 

M. Louis Greffulhe, whom His Majesty afterwards made 
a count, came to see me one morning, and told me that 
having learnt I had paid attention to the subject of corpu- 
lence, with which he was threatened, he came to ask my 
advice. 

"Sir," I said to him, "not having a doctor's degree, I am 
free to refuse you as a patient. Nevertheless, I am at your 
orders, but on one condition, namely, that you will pledge 
me your word of honour to follow, for one month, the rule 
of conduct which I prescribe, with the strictest accuracy." 

M. Greffulhe made the required promise, shook me by 
the hand, and the next day I gave him the rules I wished 
him to observe, of which the first was to have himself 
weighed at the beginning and end of the treatment, so as 
to have a mathematical basis to ascertain the result. 

One month afterwards, M. Greffulhe came to see me 

again, and spoke to me nearly in these words: — 

* About twenty years ago I undertook a formal treatise on Corpu- 
lence. My readers should, above all, regret the preface; it was written 
in a dramatic form, and in it I proved to a physician that a fever was 
much less dangerous than a law suit; for the latter, after having made 
the client run about, wait, lie, and swear, after having indefinitely de- 
prived him of rest, pleasure, and money, yet finishes by making him ill, 
and brings him to a bad end; a truth which is as good to propagate as 
any other. 

(229) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

"Sir, I have followed your prescription as if my life 
depended on it, and I have ascertained that during the 
month I have lost three pounds and even a little more; but 
in order to arrive at this result, I have been obliged to do 
such violence to all my tastes and all my habits, and in one 
word I have suffered so much, that, whilst offering you my 
best thanks for your good advice, I renounce any advan- 
tage resulting from it, and await for the future the fate 
Providence has ordained for me." 

After this resolution, which I did not hear without pain, 
the result was as might have been anticipated. M. Greffulhe 
became more corpulent, suffered all the inconveniences of 
extreme obesity, and scarcely had reached forty when he 
died of the consequences of a disease of the respiratory 
organs, of which he had had some attacks before. 

GENERAL RULES 

107. Every cure of corpulence must commence with these 
three rules, which are absolute in their theory : Discretion 
in eating, moderation in sleep, exercise on-foot or on horse- 
back. 

These are the first resources that science presents to us; 
nevertheless, I do not count much on them, for I know men 
and things, and also that any prescription not literally fol- 
lowed, cannot produce any effect. I know also that: — 

1. Much resolution is needed to be able to leave the 
dinner-table with an appetite, for as long as this craving 
is felt, one morsel calls forth another with an irresistible 
attraction, and, as a general rule, men eat as long as they 
feel hungry, in spite of doctors, and even by the example of 
doctors. 

2. To propose to any of our stout friends to get up early 

(230) 



TREATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

in the morning, is to stab him to the heart; they will tell 
you that their health cannot stand it; that, when they get 
up early of a morning, they are good for nothing nearly the 
whole day; the ladies will complain that they will be black 
under the eyes. They one and all are willing to sit up late, 
but they will stick to he late in bed in the morning; and 
thus my second resource is lost. 

3. Exercise on horseback is an expensive remedy, which 
neither suits aJI incomes nor all conditions of life. 

Propose to a pretty corpulent lady to go out for a ride, 
and she will gladly consent, but on three conditions; 
firstly, that she shall have a horse, handsome, spirited, and 
gentle; secondly, that she shall have a new riding-habit, 
and cut in the latest feishion; and thirdly, that she shall 
have a gentleman to accompany her, who is young, good- 
tempered, and handsome. It is rather rare to find all these 
three things, and riding is thus given up. 

Exercise on foot meets with several other objections. It 
tires one to death; it produces perspiration, and one is apt 
to catch pleurisy; the dust ruins the stockings, the stones 
come in the little shoes, and it is impossible to continue it. 

Finally, if after these various attempts the slightest 
touch of headache is felt; if a little pimple as large as the 
head of a pin comes on the skin, it is attributed to the diet; 
it is abandoned, and the doctor gets in a rage. 

Thus, it being agreed that all persons who wish to see 
their corpulence decrease should eat in moderation, sleep 
little, and take as much exercise as possible, we must, there- 
fore, seek another road to attain the same object. 

Now, there exists an infallible method for preventing 
corpulence from becoming excessive, or for diminishing it 
when it has become so. 

(231) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

This method, which is founded on everything that is 
most certain in physics and chemistry, consists in a dietetic 
regimen suited to the effect sought to be obtained. 

Of all medical resources, a fixed diet is the first, because 
it acts continually by day or night, awake or asleep, be- 
cause the effect is renewed at every meal, and gradually 
exerts its influence on every portion of the individual. 

Now the anti-corpulent diet is indicated by the most 
common and the most active cause of the disease, and as it 
has already been shown that starchy and farinaceous foods 
form fatty matter both in men and animals; since, with 
regard to the latter, this effect is produced every day before 
our eyes, and gives rise to the trade of fattening animals, 
we may deduce from this, as an exact consequence, that 
more or less strict abstinence from all that is feculent tends 
to the diminution of corpulence. " Good Heavens ! " all my 
male and female readers will exclaim; "Good Heavens, 
how cruel the professor is! In a few words he forbids every- 
thing we like, those white rolls of Limet, those biscuits of 
Achard, those cakes of . . . and so many good things 
which are made with flour and butter, with flour and sugar, 
and with flour, sugar, and eggs! He has no mercy either on 
potatoes or on macaroni! Could we have expected this 
from a lover of good living who appeared so kind?" 

"What do I hear?" I reply, assuming that stern coun- 
tenance I only put on once a year. " Well, eat and grow fat ; 
become ugly, heavy, asthmatic, and die choked by your 
own fat; I'll make a note of it, and you shall figure in the 
second edition of this work. . . . But what do I see? a 
single phrase has conquered you; you are afraid, and you 
entreat me not to launch my thunderbolt. Reassure your- 
self, I am going to prescribe your diet, and will prove to you 

(232) 



TREATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

how much pleasure you may still expect on this earth where 
one lives to eat. 

"You like bread? well, eat rye bread. The estimable 
Cadet de Vaux* has long ago extolled its virtues. It is not 
so nourishing and not so agreeable as ordinary bread, 
which makes it the easier for you to comply with my rule. 
For to make certain of oneself, one ought above all to flee 
temptation. Remember this well; this is a moral law. 

"You like soup? Then eat julienne, with green vegeta- 
bles, cabbage, and things that grow under ground.^ I for- 
bid soup made with bread, with all kinds of macaroni, and 
also paries. 

"At the first course, everything is at your service, with a 
few exceptions, such as poultry stewed with rice, and the 
crust of hot pastry. Eat, but be circumspect, so as not to 
satisfy later a want which does no longer exist. 

"The second course appears, and now all your philoso- 
phy will be needed. Avoid farinaceous food, whatever 
form it assumes, and stick to roast meat, salads, and her- 
baceous vegetables; and, if a few sweets must be allowed to 
you, take in preference chocolate creams, and jellies fla- 
voured with rum, oranges, and other things of the same 
sort. 

"Now comes the dessert, and with it a fresh danger; but 
if up to the present time you have behaved well, you must 
still keep up your courage. Avoid the comers of the table, 
for there cakes more or less ornamented make their appear- 
ance: do not look at sweet biscuits nor at the macaroons; 
there remain to you all kinds of fruit, preserves, and many 

1 Cadet-de-Vaux (1743-18888), a celebrated chemist, of undoubted 
honesty, who studied, above all, sanitary laws, and wrote several books 
on them. — Tb. 

2 All things growing under ground axe now considered fattening. — Tb. 

(233) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

things that you may safely pick out, according to my 
principles. 

"After dinner, I prescribe coffee, allow you a liqueur,' 
and advise you to take tea and punch when opportunity 
offers. 

"At breakfast take rye bread as a matter of course, and 
chocolate rather than coffee. Nevertheless, I allow coffee 
rather strong, with milk, and other things at discretion, 
but no eggs. But you cannot breakfast too early. When 
you breakfast late, the dinner comes before the digestion 
is finished; you do not eat less, and this eating without 
appetite is a very active cause of corpulence, because it 
occurs so frequently." 

CONTINUATION OF THE EEGIMEN 

108. Up to the present time I have in a fatherly, tender, 
and rather kind maimer, given you all the details of a 
regimen which will drive away the corpulence which threat- 
ens you. A few more prescriptions must be added for those 
who are already attacked by it. 

Drink, every summer, thirty bottles of Seltzer water, 
one large tumbler in the morning, two others before lunch, 
and as many at bed-time. Drink commonly light, acid, 
white wines, like those of Anjou, and avoid beer as you 
would the plague. Ask often for radishes, artichokes with 
oil and vinegar, asparagus, celery, and cardoons. Among 
meats choose veal and poultry, and only eat the crust of 
bread. In doubtful cases, take the advice of a doctor who 
follows my principles, and whatever may be the time when 
you began to adopt these directions, you will speedily 

* Preserves and liqueurs are absolutely forbidden at the present time 
to corpulent people. — Tk. 

(234) 



TREATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

become renovated, pretty, lithesome, in good health, and 
ready for anything. 

After having thus put you on your way, I must also show 
you the shoals, lest in excess of zeal against corpulency, 
you overstep the limit. 

The shoal that I wish to point out is the habitual use of 
acids, which ignorant people sometimes covmsel to take, 
and of which experience has always demonstrated the evil 
eflFects. 

DANGER OF ACIDS 

109. Amongst women an unhappy doctrine prevails, 
which kills every year many young girls, namely, that 
acids, and especially vinegar, are preservatives against 
corpulence. 

Without doubt the continual use of acids causes leanness, 
but it also destroys the freshness of youth, health, and life; 
and though lemonade is the most pleasant of these acids, 
there are few stomachs that can stand it for any length of 
time. 

The truth I have just stated cannot be too well known, 
for there are few of my readers who could not give me some 
examples to support it, and amongst them I choose the 
following, which came under my own personal observation. 

In 1776 I lived at Dijon, and studied law there; I also 
attended a course of chemistry imder M. Guyton Morveau, 
then advocate-general,^ ajid a course of domestic medicine 
under M. Maret, perpetual secretary of the Academy of 
Dijon, and father of the Duke of Bassano.^ 

' Guyton Morveau (1737-1816), at first advocate-general at the 
parlement of Dijon, abandoned the law to study chemistry, in which 
he became very eminent, and was made a baron by Napoleon I. — Tb. 

' Hugues Maret was a medical man at Dijon. His son, the Duke of 

( 2.35 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

I became very great friends with one of the prettiest girls 
of whom my memory has preserved the recollection. 

We were only "very great friends," which is strictly true 
and rather surprising, for I was at that time very much 
inclined to form closer and dearer links. 

This friendship, which must really be taken for what it 
was, and not for what it might have become, was charac- 
terised by a familiarity that, from the very first day, be- 
came a confidence, appearing to us qmte natural; and we 
had no end of private chats, which did not alarm her 
mother, as they were innocent, and worthy of the primitive 
ages. 

Louise was, as I'have said, very pretty, and, above all, 
in a just proportion, possessed that classical fulness of 
form which charms our eyes, and is one of the glories of the 
imitative arts. 

Although I was only her friend, I was very far from being 
blind to the attractions she displayed, or which I thought 
she had; and perhaps they added, without my suspecting 
it, to the pure sentiment that attached me to her. 

However, one evening, when I had looked at Louise with 
more attention than usual, I said to her, "My dear girl, 
you are ill; you appear to be getting thinner." "Oh, no," 
she replied with a sort of melancholy smile, "I am quite 
well; and if I am somewhat thinner, I can very well afford 
to lose a little fat without impoverishing myself." "Lose 
fat!" I replied energetically to her; "there is no need for 
your losing nor gaining any; keep as you are, you look 
'scrumptious,' " and other expressions of that sort which a 
yoimg fellow of twenty always has at his fingers' ends. 

Bassano (1763-1839), the intimate confidant of Napoleon I, was Secre- 
tary of State, and for some time Minister of Foreign Affairs. — Te. 

(236) 



TREATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

After this conversation, I watched this young girl with 
an interest not free from uneasiness; and soon I saw her 
complexion grow more pale, her cheeks become hollow, and 
her charms fading. . . . Alas! what a fragile and transient 
thing beauty is! 

Finally, I met her at a ball, where she still went as usual. 
I asked her to sit down and rest a little, and, making the 
best of my time, she confessed to me that, feeling annoyed 
by the jokes of some of her companions, who were saying 
to her that in two years she would be as stout as St. 
Christopher,^ and listening to the advice of a few others, 
she had tried to make herself thinner, and to succeed in this, 
had been drinking, for the past month, a glass of vinegar 
every morning; she told me also up till now no one had been 
let into her confidence. 

I shuddered at this confession; I felt the whole extent of 
the danger, and told it next day to Louise's mother, who 
was as much alarmed as I was, for she doted upon her 
daughter. 

No time was lost; the doctors were called in, consul- 
tations were held, and remedies were prescribed; but it 
was useless! The sources of life had been attacked to 
their very foundations; and that same moment, when it 
was supposed there was danger, the case was already 
hopeless. 

Thus, for having followed imprudent advice, the charm- 
ing Louise, reduced to that frightful state which accompa- 
nies consumption, fell asleep forevermore, scarcely eighteen 
years old. 

She died casting longing looks towards a future that for 

' A colossal statue, supposed to be of this saint, stood, until 1784, 
before the Church of Notre Dame in Paris; hence the allusion. — Ts. 

(237) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

her did not exist; and the thought of having attempted her 
own hfe, although involuntarily, rendered her end more 
unhappy, and accelerated it. 

She was the first person I saw die; and she breathed her 
last in my arms, at the moment when she wished me to lift 
her up to let her see the dawn. Some hours after her death, 
her disconsolate mother begged me to accompany her in 
paying a last visit to what remained of her daughter; and 
we observed with surprise that her countenance had 
assumed a sort of radiance and ecstasy which previously 
had not been there. I was astonished, and the mother drew 
from it a consolatory augury. Such a change is, however, 
not rare, and Lavater mentions it in his "Treatise on 
Physiognomy." 

ANTI-COBPXJLENCE BELT 

110. Every treatment for the reduction of corpulence 
ought to be accompanied by a precaution I had forgotten, 
and which I should have mentioned sooner, namely, by 
wearing day and night a belt compressing the stomach 
sufficiently. 

The necessity for this is obvious, for the vertebral col- 
umn, which forms one of the walls of the intestinal cavity, 
is firm and inflexible; hence the greater weight of the intes- 
tines, when corpulence makes them deviate from the ver- 
tical line, causes them to press against the various coats 
of the stomach.* These coats can be stretched to almost 
any extent, and have not always sufficient elasticity to 
go back to their former place when the eflFort diminishes, 

' Mirabeau, referring to a man excessively corpulent, said that he 
had only been created to show to what extent the human skin could be 
stretched without bursting. 

(238) 



TR.EATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

so that any contrivance supported by the dorsal column, 
keeps the stomach within boimds, and restores the equih- 
brium. 

Thus, this belt prevents the stomach from yielding fin- 
ally to the actual weight of the intestines, and gives it the 
necessary force to contract gradually, when this weight 
diminishes. 

This belt should always be worn, otherwise the advan- 
tage gained in the day will be destroyed when it is left off 
during the night; but it is not inconvenient, and one gets 
soon accustomed to it. 

The belt, which also serves as a monitor to show when 
emy one has eaten enough, should be carefully made; for 
the pressure ought always to be moderate as well as always 
the same, so that it should contract when corpulence 
decreases. 

A person is not obliged to wear it all his life; it may be 
laid aside without inconvenience when he has reached the 
desired limit, and when the stomach has not increased in 
size for some weeks, though, of course, he must observe a 
proper diet. Let me finally mention that for the last six 
years I myself have not worn any belt. 

PEHTTVIAN BARK 

111. I think one substance is decidedly anticorpulent; 
several observations have led me to think so; nevertheless, 
I still have my doubts, and I triist the doctors will try it, 
and commimicate the results. 

This substance is Peruvian bark. 

Ten or twelve of my acquaintances suffered from inter- 
mittent fever for a long time; some were cured by old 
women's remedies, powders, and so on; others by the 

(239) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

continual use of Peruvian bark, which never fails in its 
eflfect. 

All those who took powders, etc., and were stout, recov- 
ered their former corpulence; all those who took bark did 
not again become corpulent; which leads me to think that 
it produced this last result, for there was no difference be- 
tween them except in the method of their cure. 

This inference is not contrary to reason. For, on the one 
hand, Peruvian bark, increasing the force of all vital 
powers, gives to circulation an activity which troubles and 
disperses the gases which develop fat. And, on the other 
hand, it is proved that there is in bark some tannine which 
may close the capsules, which in ordinary cases contain fat. 
It is even probable that these two effects combine and 
strengthen each other. 

It is after these experiments, of which every person can 
appreciate the value, that I think I may advise the use of 
bark to all those who desire to get rid of a corpulence that 
has become imcomfortable. Therefore, dummodo annuerint 
in omni medicationes genere doctissimifacultatis professores; 
or in English, so long as the most learned professors of the 
faculty agree in every kind of medicine, I think that, after 
the first month of a suitable regimen, the person who wishes 
to get thiimer, would do well to take for a month, every 
other day, at seven o'clock in the morning, two hours before 
breakfast, a glass of dry white wine, in which has been 
mixed a teaspoonful of the best Peruvian bark, and good 
results will follow. Such are the means with which I pro- 
pose to combat an inconvenience as troublesome as it is 
common; I have adapted them to human weakness, such as 
we find it in the present state of society. 

For that purpose I have acted on this truism: that the 
(240) 



TREATMENT OF CORPULENCE 

more severe any system of treatment is, the less is the effect 
produced, because it is badly followed, or is not followed at 
all. 

Great efforts are rare; and if we wish our advice to be 
followed, we must only prescribe to men what is easy for 
them, and even, if we can, what is pleasant. 



MEDITATION XXHI 
ON LEANNESS 

DEFINITION 

112. Leanness is that condition when a person's muscles 
are not filled up by fat, and when he shows the outline of 
the bony framework in all its angularity. 

KINDS OF LEANNESS 

There are two kinds of leanness, the first, the result of 
the primitive disposition of the body, is accompanied by 
health, and the complete exercise of all organic functions; 
the second has for its cause the feebleness of certain organs, 
and the defective action of some others, and gives to the 
person attacked by it a wretched and mean appearance. 
I knew a young woman of average height who only weighed 
sixty-five pounds. 

EFFECTS OF LEANNESS 

113. Leanness is no great disadvantage for men; they are 
quite as strong and far more active. Thus, the father of 
the young lady just mentioned, although almost as lean as 
she was, was strong enough to lift with his teeth a heavy 
chair, and to throw it behind him, over his head. 

But it is a frightful evil for women, for with them 
beauty is more than life, and beauty consists above all in 
the roundness of limb, and in gracefully curved outlines. 
The choicest of toilettes, the most sublime of dressmakers, 
cannot disguise certain deficiencies, or conceal certain 

(242) 











'I. 



L OBESITE ET LA MAlGRtUR 



ON LEANNESS 

angles; and it is said commonly that a lean lady, however 
beautiful she appears, loses something of her charms when- 
ever she takes a pin out of her dress. 

For skinny people there is no remedy, except to consult 
a member of the medical profession, and the regimen re- 
quires so much time, that it will be long before they are 
cured. 

Women who Eire born lean, and have a good digestion, 
cannot be more difficult to fatten than poultry is; and if 
we take a little more time, it is because women have a com- 
paratively smaller stomach, ajid cannot bear as rigorous 
ajid as punctual a diet as those devoted animals. 

This comparison is the prettiest I could find; I wanted 
one, and ladies will pardon me, I trust, on account of the 
praiseworthy intentions with which this chapter is written. 

NATURAL PREDESTINATION 

114. Nature, varied in its work, has models for leanness 
as well as for corpulency. 

Those who are destined to be lean have an elongated 
shape. Their hands and feet are small, their legs slender, 
the back and lower part of the body are not filled out, 
their ribs are prominent, the nose is aquiline, the eyes 
almond-shaped, the mouth large, the chin pointed, and the 
hair is brown. 

Such is the general type; some parts of the body may not 
be what I have described, but this is rarely the case. 

We see sometimes lean persons eat a great deal. All 
whom I have asked acknowledged that they digested their 
food badly, and this is why they always remain in the same 
state. 

There are thin people of every complexion and of every 
(243) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

shape; and we can distinguish them, as they have nothing 
striking, either by their features or in their gait; their eyes 
are very dull, their lips pale, and their whole countenance 
indicates want of energy, weakness, and something that re- 
sembles suffering. One might almost say that they look as 
if they had not been completely finished, and as if the 
lamp of life within them had not yet been properly lighted. 

A FATTENING DIET 

115. Every woman who is thin likes to be stouter. It is a 
wish we have heard a thousand times; and it is for this 
reason and to render homage to this all-powerful sex that 
we will endeavour to show them how to replace by a 
natural figure those silk or cotton shapes which are seen 
exposed profusely in fashionable linen-draper's shops, to 
the great scandal of the passers-by, who are quite horrified, 
and turn away from those deceptive chimeras with as much 
or more care than if the reality itself were presented to their 
eyes. 

The whole secret of becoming stout consists in a proper 
diet. We have only to eat and to choose our foods. 

With this regimen the positive prescriptions as regards 
rest or sleep are really of no consequence, yet we do not the 
less obtain our object. 

For, if you do not take exercise, it will assist you to be- 
come fat; if you do so, you will become still stouter, for you 
will eat more, and when the appetite is skilfully satisfied, 
you not only repair waste, but you even acquire strength 
when needed. 

If you sleep much you will grow fat; if you sleep little 
you will digest quicker, and you will eat more. 

We have, therefore, merely to show what those who 
(244) 



ON LEANNESS 

wish to round their form should always eat; and this task 
is not difficult, as may be seen from different rules we have 
already laid down. 

To solve this problem, we must present to the stomach 
food that fills it without fatiguing it, and that can be as- 
similated and converted into fat. 

Let us try and give an outline of what a sylph or a 
sylphide should eat during the day if they feel disposed 
to assume a more material form. 

As a general rule, plenty of newly-baked bread, made 
during the day, should be eaten, and above all the crumb. 

In the morning, before eight o'clock, and even in bed 
if necessary, take a small basin of soup with bread or paste, 
not too much, so that it may digest sooner, or, if you like it, 
a cup of good chocolate. 

At eleven o'clock, breakfast with newly-laid eggs, beaten 
up over the fire or fried, and a pie or cutlet, or anything 
else you hke; the main point is to eat eggs; a cup of coffee 
will also do no harm. 

The dinner hour has to be regulated in such a manner 
that the breakfast is digested before again sitting down to 
table; for we have often said that to eat one meal before 
another is digested is as bad as embezzlement. 

After breakfast a Httle exercise must be taken; the men, 
if their profession does not prevent them doing so, for duty 
before everything; the ladies may go to the Bois de Bou- 
logne, to the Tuileries, to their dressmaker, their milliner, 
go shopping, or even visit some of their friends to have a 
chat about what they have seen. Such a bit of gossip will 
certainly do the ladies good, as it gives them much satis- 
faction. 
At dinner, take as much soup, meat, and fish as you Uke, 
(245) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

taking care to add dishes containing rice, macaroni, sweet 
pastry, sweet creams, "charlottes," and so forth. 

At dessert eat Savoy cakes, sponge cakes, and such 
preparations as contain starch, eggs, and sugar. 

This diet, though apparently circumscribed, has, never- 
theless, great variety; for the whole animal kingdom can 
be laid imder contribution. And great care should be taken 
to change the different kinds of farinaceous foods, to pre- 
pare and season them, and to make them tasty by every 
known means, so as to prevent a dislike for them, an in- 
vincible obstacle to any further improvement. 

Beer should be preferred, and, if you take wines, drink 
Bordeaux, or some from the south of France. 

Acids are to be avoided, except salads, which gladden the 
heart; take sugar with the fruit when not too sweet. Baths 
should not be taken too cold: endeavour to breathe from 
time to time the pure country air. Eat plenty of grapes in 
season, and do not fatigue yourself at any ball by dancing 
too much. 

You should go to bed about eleven o'clock on ordinary 
days, and not later than one on festive days. 

If this regimen be followed exactly and resolutely, the 
deficiencies of Nature will soon be filled up; the health will 
be improved as much as beauty, and pleasure will be en- 
joyed all the more, so that accents of gratitude will fall 
agreeably on the ear of the professor. 

Sheep, calves, oxen, poultry, carp, crayfish, and oysters, 
are fattened, and hence I draw the general maxim: What- 
ever eats can be fattened, providing the food is good, and well 
chosen. 



MEDITATION XXIV 
OF FASTING 

DEFINITION 

116. Fasting is a voluntary abstention from food for 
some moral or religious purpose. 

Although fasting be contrary to one of our inclinations, 
or rather to one of our most habitual wants, it is neverthe- 
less of the highest antiquity. 

ORIGIN OF FASTING 

The learned explain its origin as follows: — 

In family afflictions, they say, when a father, a mother, a 
beloved child, happens to die, the whole household is in 
mourning; they weep, the body is washed and embalmed, 
and it is buried with funeral rites suitable to its condition 
when alive. On these occasions no one thinks of eating, 
and they fast without noticing it. 

In the same manner, on days of public mourning, when 
there has beeen a drought or heavy rains for a very long 
time, when cruel wars or epidemics rage, scourges against 
which our strength or our industry are powerless, men shed 
tears, impute all such inflictions to the wrath of the gods, 
humiliate themselves before them, and mortify themselves 
by abstinence. The inflictions cease; and we are convinced 
that they stopped because we fasted and prayed, so we 
continue to have recourse to it in similar circumstances. 

Thus men sufi'eruig from public or private calamities give 
themselves up to sadness, and neglect to take nourishment; 

(247) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

and, afterwards, they look upon this voluntary abstinence 
as an act of religion. 

They imagined that in macerating their body when their 
soul was sad, the gods might be moved to mercy; and all 
nations, moved by such thoughts, conceived the idea of 
mourning, prayer, mortification, and abstinence. 

Finally, the Saviour, having come upon earth, sanctified 
fasting, and all Christian sects adopted it, with more or 
less modifications. 

HOW PEOPLE USED TO FAST 

117. I must admit that this habit of fasting has singu- 
larly fallen into disuse; and, as it may serve for the edifi- 
cation or for the conversion of unbelievers, I will relate 
here how we lived towards the middle of the eighteenth 
century. 

On ordinary days we breakfasted before nine o'clock on 
bread, cheese, and fruits, and sometimes a pie and cold 
meat. 

Between noon and one o'clock we dined, beginning 
with the customary soup or broth, more or less well 
supplemented, according to our income and other circum- 
stances. 

About four o'clock we had a little snack. This repast was 
light, and specially for children and for those who prided 
themselves of sticking to old customs. 

But other repasts took place, commencing at five o'clock, 
and lasting any length of time. They were usually very 
gay, and suited ladies wonderfully well, so that often they 
gave them amongst themselves, when all men were ex- 
cluded. I find in my Secret Memoirs that a good deal of 
slander and gossip was going on there. 

(248) 



OF FASTING 

Towards eight o'clock came supper with entrees, roasts, 
entremets, salads, and dessert; people conversed, had a 
game of cards, and then went to bed. 

In Paris magnificent suppers have always been given, 
which began after the theatre was over. The guests were 
according to circumstances, pretty women, fashionable 
actresses, elegant professional beauties, noble lords, capi- 
tahsts, rakes, and witty fellows. 

They talked of the events of the day; they sang the last 
new song; they had a chat on politics, literature, spectacles, 
and above all, they made love. 

Let us now glance at what was done on fasting-days. 

Meat could not be had; people had no breakfast; and 
consequently were more hungry than usual. 

At the regular hour they dined as hearty as they could, 
but fish and vegetables are soon digested, and before five 
o'clock every one was ravenous; some were looking at their 
watches and did their best to be patient; others were work- 
ing themselves into a passion, even when securing their 
salvation. 

About eight o'clock they had not a good supper, but a 
"collation," a word borrowed from the convent, and so 
called because at the end of the day the monks assembled 
to hold conferences on the fathers of the Church; after 
which they were allowed a glass of wine. 

At the "collation," neither butter, eggs, nor anything 
that had been alive, was served. They were obliged, then, 
to be satisfied with salads, preserves, and fruits, — a food, 
alas! not very suitable to the appetites people had in 
those times; but patience was practised for the love of 
Heaven, they went to bed, and began again the same pro- 
gramme every day during Lent. 

(249) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

I have been told that the people who gave the little 
suppers I have mentioned did not fast, and never have 
fasted. 

The greatest culinary triumph of those former times was 
to produce a strictly canonical collg,tion, and which, never- 
theless, looked like a good supper. 

Science solved this problem by tolerating fish dressed au 
bleu, cuUis made of vegetables which grow under ground, 
and pastry fried in oil. 

The strict observance, of the Lenten fast gave rise to a 
pleasure unknown at present — namely, that of breaking 
our fast by breakfasting on Easter Day. 

A close observation shows us that the elements of our 
pleasures are, difficulty, privation, desire, and enjoyment. 
All these elements are found in breaking the fast, and I 
have seen two of my great-uncles, intelligent, serious men, 
almost faint with pleasure when on Easter Day a ham was 
carved, or a meat-pie cut in. But a degenerate race like the 
present cannot experience such powerful sensation. 

ORIGIN OF THE BELAXATION OF FASTING 

118. I have seen this relaxation arise, and that gradually. 

Young people up to a certain age were not compelled to 
fast, and pregnant women, or who thought themselves so, 
were also exempted, by virtue of their position, and meat 
and a supper were served to them, which was a great temp- 
tation to those who kept the fast. 

Then, grown-up people began to find out that fasting 
irritated them, gave them a headache, and prevented them 
from sleeping. Then was ascribed to fasting all those little 
accidents which happen to men at the spring-time of the 
year, such as vernal eruptions, giddiness, bleeding at the 

(250) 



OF FASTING 

nose, and other symptoms of effervescence which indicate 
the renewal of nature. So that one person did not fast 
because he thought himself ill; another because he had been 
ill; and a third because he was afraid he was going to be 
ill; and thus it happened that fasting and collations became 
every day more rare. 

This is not all. Some writers were so severe that people 
began to fear vegetables would wholly fail, so the ecclesias- 
tical authorities relaxed their strictness officially; house- 
holders complained of the increased expense caused by' a 
Lenten diet; others said that Heaven did not wish any one 
to ruin one's health, and some men of little faith even added 
that one could not get into Paradise by famine. 

Nevertheless, the duty of fasting was recognised, and 
nearly always a permission to eat meat was asked from the 
priest, who rarely refused it, but who made it, however, 
always a condition that some alms should be given to 
replace abstinence. 

Finally, the Revolution came, filling the minds of all 
with cares, fears, and interests of another nature; so that 
there was neither time nor opportunity to have recourse to 
the priests, of whom some were pursued as enemies to the 
State, which did not prevent others being treated as 
schismatics. 

To this cause, which happily exists no longer, another 
and a not less influential one should be added. We have 
completely changed the hour of our meals; we do not eat 
either so frequently or at the same time as our ancestors, 
and fasting would have to be organised afresh. 

This is so patent a fact that, although I only visit men of 
regular habits, intelligent, and who are more or less believ- 
ers, I do not think that during the last five-and-twenty 

(251) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

years I have seen outside my own home ten Lenten meals 
and one single collation. 

Many people would have felt very awkward in such a 
case; but I know what St. Paul has written, and I trust to 
his wisdom. "^ 

Moreover, it will be a gross mistake to think that this 
new order of things has fostered intemperance. 

The number of meals has been reduced by nearly half; 
drimkenness has disappeared, to take refuge on certain 
days amongst the lowest classes of society; no more wild 
revelry is going on, and a man of dissolute or sottish habits 
would no longer be received anywhere. More than one- 
third of the Parisians take in the morning only a slight 
lunch, and if some persons abandon themselves to the de- 
lights of a refined and select gourmandise, I do not see why 
we should blame them for this, for I have shown already 
that everybody gains, and that nobody loses, by it. 

I cannot finish this chapter without observing that the 
tastes of the people have imdergone a complete change. 

Every day thousands of men go to the theatre or to the 
cafe who, forty years ago, would have spent their evenings 
in the public-houses. 

Economy certainly gains nothing by this new arrange- 
ment; but it is very advantageous to their manners, for 
they become improved by the stage, whilst their minds 
receive some information by reading newspapers, and un- 
doubtedly they are saved from the quarrels, the diseases, 
and the brutality which seem the invariable results of 
frequenting public-houses. 

' This refers, I suppose, to "Unto the pure all things are pure" 
(Epistle to Titus, i, 15).— Tb. 



MEDITATION XXV 
ON EXHAUSTION 

119. We imderstand by exhaustion a state of weakness, 
languor, and depression caused by antecedent circum- 
stances, and which impedes the action of the vital fimc- 
tions. 

We can, without including the exhaustion caused by the 
privation of food, mention three different kinds: — 

Exhaustion caused by muscular fatigue; exhaustion 
caused by mental action; and exhaustion caused by genetic 
excesses. 

A common remedy for those three kinds of exhaustion is 
the immediate cessation of the acts producing this condi- 
tion, which, if not illness, is very akin to it. 

TBEATMENT 

120. After these indispensable preliminaries, let me state 
that to cure it gastronomy is ever at hand to present her 
resources. 

To a man overcome by too long a strain upon his mus- 
cular powers, she offers good soup, generous wine, tender 
meat, and sleep. 

To the man of learning who has been led by the charms 
of his subject to overtask his powers, she offers exercise in 
the open air to refresh his brain, a bath to relax his irritated 
nerves, fowls, vegetables, and rest. 

Finally, by the following cure we may learn what it can 
(253) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

do for a man who forgets that sensuousness has its limits 
and pleasure its dangers: — 

A CURE PERFORMED BY THE PROFESSOR 

121. I went one day to pay a visit to one of my best 
friends, M. Rubat. He told me that he was ill, and, in fact, 
I found him in a dressing-gown by his fireside, and in an 
attitude of extreme depression. 

His looks frightened me, for his face was pale, his eyes 
glaring, and his lips were dropping in such a manner as to 
show the teeth of the lower jaw, which was something 
frightful to behold. 

I inquired, full of anxiety, what had caused this sudden 
change? He hesitated; I urged him to tell it to me, and 
after some resistance, he stammered forth, whilst blushing, 
"My dear friend, you know that my wife is jealous of me, 
and that this idea of hers has made me pass many wretched 
moments. A few days ago she took a terrible fit of jeal- 
ousy, and it is by my wishing to prove that she has lost 
nothing of my affection, and that no portion of the conjugal 
tribute has been paid to her detriment, that I have brought 
myself to this condition." — "You have, then, forgotten 
that you are forty-five, and that jealousy is an evil without 
remedy? Do you not know fur ens quidfoemina possit?" I 
also used some other expressions, not very gallant, for I was 
in a rage. 

"Now," I contiaued, "your pulse is slow, thin, and very 
weak; what are you going to do?" — "The doctor, who 
has just left me, thinks I am nervous and feverish, and has 
ordered me to be bled; the surgeon will be here immedi- 
ately." 

"Don't let the surgeon come near you," I exclaimed, 
(254) 



ON EXHAUSTION 

"or you are a dead man. Drive him away as if he were a 
murderer, and say to him that your body and sovd belong 
to me. Tell me, also, does your doctor know the accidental 
cause of your illness?" — "Alas, no: A false shame has 
prevented my making this confession to him!" 

"Well, ask him to come and see you as soon as possible. 
I am going to make you up a draught, but in the mean 
while take this." I gave him a glass of water with a good 
deal of sugar in it, which he swallowed with the confidence 
of Alexander, and with blind faith.* 

I then left him, and went home to mix, prepare, and 
elaborate a restorative draught, of which the recipe will be 
found in the "Varieties," ^ as w611 as the different ways I 
employed to make as much haste as possible; for in such a 
case, a few hours delay may cause irreparable accidents. 

1 soon came back with my draught, and found him al- 
ready better; the colour had reappeared on his cheeks, the 
eye was not so glaring; but the lip still dropped and gave 
him a frightful appearance. 

The doctor soon came; I told him what I had done, and 
then the sick man made his confession. On the counte- 
nance of the physician a severe frown appeared ; but soon he 
looked at us with a slightly ironical air, and said to my 
friend: "You ought not to be astonished that I could not 
guess you were suffering from an illness neither becoming 
your age nor your condition of life, though you were modest 

' Alexander the Great, was informed that his physician had been 
bribed to poison him. Being not very well, he sent for him, told him 
what he had heard, and then, casting a glance on the physician's coun- 
tenance, swallowed, without hesitation, the draught the latter had just 
given him. The French for "blind faith" is "la foi du charbonnier," 
because charcoal-burners are simple-minded men, and easily believe 
anything. — Tb. 

2 See at the end of this volume, "Varieties," no. x. 

(255) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

enough to conceal the cause, which can only do you great 
credit. I have also to scold you because you might have 
led me to make a mistake which would have become fatal 
to you. Moreover, my learned brother," added he, with a 
bow I returned to him tenfold, "has told you what to do; 
therefore, take his broth, or by whatever name he calls it, 
and if you get rid of your fever, as I believe you will, 
breakfast to-morrow with a cup of chocolate, in which 
you'll beat up the yolks of two fresh eggs." 

With these words he took his cane and his hat and left us, 
whilst we were very much tempted to make fun of him. 

Soon I gave to my patient a large cup of my elixir of life; 
he drank it eagerly, and wished to take another cup: but I 
begged him to wait for two hours, and then gave him a 
second dose before I went away. 

Next day the fever had left him, and he was almost well. 
He breakfasted as the doctor had ordered him, took some 
more doses of my draught, and was able in two days to 
return to his ordinary occupation; but the hanging lip did 
not resmne its place till after the third day. 

In a little time my friend's accident got bruited about, 
and all the ladies chatted about it among themselves. 

Some admired my friend, nearly all pitied him, but the 
professor of gastronomy received great praise. 



MEDITATION XXVI 
ON DEATH 

Omnia mors poseit; lex est, non poena perireA 

122. The Creator has imposed on man six great and 
principal necessities, which are: birth, action, eating, sleep, 
reproduction, and death. 

Death is the absolute interruption of sensual relations, 
and the absolute annihilation of vital forces, which aban- 
don the body to the laws of decomposition. 

These various necessities are all accompanied, and allevi- 
ated, by some sensations of pleasure, and death itself is not 
without its charms when it is natural; that is to say, when 
the body has passed through the various stages of growth, 
virility, old age, and decrepitude, to which it is destined. 

If I had not resolved only to give a very short chapter, I 
might aid the physicians who have noted how an animated 
body passes into a state of inert matter gradually and 
slowly. 

I might quote philosophers, kings, men of letters, who, 
on the confines of eternity, far from being a prey to grief, 
had pleasant thoughts, and enhanced them by the charm of 
poetry. 

I might recall the reply of Fontenelle,'' who on his death- 

' Death demands all things: to die is a law, not a punishment. 

' Bernard le Bouyer de Pontenelle (1657-1757), a. nephew, through 
the mother's side, of the celebrated poet, Pierre Comeille, an author, a 
mathematician, and a philosopher, was for forty-two years secretary of 
the French Academy of Sciences, and is chiefly known by his Dialogues 
des Marts, his Entretieus sur la pluralitS des Mondes; and his Eloges des 
AcadSmiciens. — Te. 

(257) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

bed, being asked what he felt, replied, "Nothing but a 
difficulty of living." 

But I prefer only to give my ideas about death, based, 
not merely on analogy, but also on several carefully made 
observations, and of which the last one is as follows: — 

I had a grand-aimt, ninety-three years old, who was 
dying. Although confined to her bed for some time, she 
had all her faculties, and her state was only perceptible by 
the loss of her appetite, and the weakening of her voice. 

She had always shown great affection for me, and I was 
by her bedside ready to wait upon her lovingly, which did 
not prevent my looking at her with that philosophical eye 
with which I always scan all that is going on around me. 

"Are you near me, nephew?" she asked, in a voice 
scarcely articulate. "Yes, aunt; can I do anything for you? 
I think a little very fine old wine will do you good." — • 
"Give it to me then, my dear; a liquid will always go 
down." I got it as quickly as I could, and raising her up 
gently, I made her swallow half a glass of the best wine. 
She instantly revived, and turning on me eyes that had 
been very fine, said, "I thank you very much for this last 
service you render me. If you ever get to my age you will 
see that death becomes a want just like sleep." 

These were her last words, and half an hour afterwards 
she had fallen asleep for ever. 

Dr. Richerand has described with so much truth and 
philosophy the last decay of the hximan body, and the last 
moments of the iadividual, that my readers will thank me 
for communicating to them the following passage: — 

This is the order in which the intellectual faculties cease and 
become decomposed. Reason, this attribute of which man claims 
to be the sole possessor, abandons him. He begins by losing the 

(258) 



ON DEATH 

power of connecting his thoughts, and soon after that of compar- 
ing, assembling, combining, and joining together various ideas in 
order to decide on their relations. Then people say the patient 
loses his head, that he is wandering in his mind, and that he is 
delirious. He raves usually about ideas familiar to him, and the 
niling passion is easily recognised amidst it all; the miser talks 
about his hidden treasure in a most indiscreet way; another dies, 
seized with rehgious terrors. A happy recollection of an absent 
fatherland is then revived in a most dehghtful and energetic 
maimer. 

After reasoning and judgment, the faculty of associating ideas 
is attacked. This arises in the condition known as "fainting," and 
I have experienced it myself. I was one day talking with a friend 
when I felt an insurmountable difficulty in combining two ideas 
on whose similarity I wished to form an opinion. However, the 
syncope was not complete, for I kept stiU memory and the faculty 
of feeling; I heard distinctly the persons who were around me say, 
"He has fainted," and move about to get me out of that condi- 
tion, "which was not without its pleasure." 

Memory then becomes extinguished. The patient, who in his 
delirium recognised still those who came near him, finally fails to 
know his relatives, and even those persons with whom he was 
very intimate. 

At last, he ceases to feel; but the senses cease to act in a gradual 
and determinate order. Taste and smell do not give any more 
signs of their existence; the eyes are covered with a dull film and 
have a sinister expression; the ear can still perceive sounds and 
noise. 

No doubt, this is why the ancients were in the habit of shouting 
loudly in the ears of the dead to convince themselves that lite had 
really left him. A moribund man is no longer able to smell, taste, 
see, or hear; but the sense of feeling remains, he moves about ia 
his bed, throws his arms outside, changes his position every in- 
stant, and exercises, as we have already said, motions like those of 
the foetus in the mother's womb. Death, which is going to strike 
him, can no longer cause him any fear, for he has no longer any 
ideas, and he finishes life as he commenced it, without being 
conscious of it.^ 

> Richerand, Nouveaux EUments de Physiologie, ninth edition, vol. 
11, p. 600. 



MEDITATION XXVII 
PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

123. CooKEBT is the most ancient of the arts, for Adam 
was born hungry; and the infant, scarcely come into the 
world, utters cries which only the breast of the nurse can 
still. 

It is of all the arts the one that has rendered the most 
important service to social life; for the necessities of pre- 
paring food have taught us how to use fire, and it is by 
fire that man has subdued Nature. 

When we look at these things from a lofty point of view, 
we may count three sorts of culinary art. 

The first is occupied by the preparation of foods, and 
has kept its primitive name. 

The second is occupied with the analysis and verification 
of the elements, and we agree to call this "chemistry." 

And the third, which may be called the kitchen to restore 
strength, is better known as "pharmaceutics." 

If these differ in their object, they are connected by the 
application of fire, the use of ovens, and by employing the 
same sort of vases. 

Thus, the cook will convert a piece of beef into soup and 
bouilli; the chemist will take a similar piece to discover its 
component parts; and the apothecary will make it leave 
the body, if by chance it has caused an indigestion. 

ORDER OP FOODS 

124. Man is an omnivorous animal; he has incisive teeth 
to divide fruits, molar teeth to grind grains, and dog teeth 

(260) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

to tear flesh. The remark has been made that the closer 
man approaches the savage state, the stronger and more 
prominent are his dog teeth. 

It is extremely probable that man was for a long time 
frugivorous by necessity, for of all animals of the ancient 
world, he moves with the greatest difficulty, and his means 
of attack are very limited unless he is armed. 

But the inborn instinct of self-improvement became 
speedily developed; and the very consciousness of his weak- 
ness induced him to find out how to make some weapons; 
to which he was aJso impelled by the carnivorous instinct, 
as shown by his canine teeth. As soon as he was armed, the 
animals around hiTn became his prey and his food. 

This instinct of destruction still exists: children almost 
never fail to kill any little animals that are abandoned to 
them, and they would eat them if hungry. 

It is not at all surprising that man should wish to feed 
on flesh; his stomach is very small, and fruits have too little 
animalisable substances, to be quite sufficient to restore 
him; he could much better live on vegetables, but this diet 
pre-supposes some arts which arose after the lapse of many 
centuries. 

The first arms of man were the branches of trees; and 
later on, he had bows and arrows; for, wherever man is 
found, in every climate, and under whatever latitude, we 
always find him armed with bows and arrows. This uni- 
formity is difficult to explain. We do not see how the same 
series of ideas has presented itself to individuals in such 
different circumstances; it must owe its origin to a cause 
hidden behind the veil of centuries. 

• Raw flesh has only one inconvenience; it sticks to the 
teeth on account of its ropiness, otherwise it is not at all 

(261) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

disagreeable to the taste. Seasoned with a little salt, it is 
easily digested, and ought to be more nourishing than any 
other. 

A captain of Croats, whom I had invited to dine withme in 
1815, said: "Gad! there is no need of so much fuss to make 
a good dinner. When we take the field and feel hungry, we 
kill the very first animal that falls into our hands; we cut 
ofi" a good thick slice; we sprinkle on it a little salt we have 
always in our 'sabretasche,' place it between the saddle 
and the horse's back, set ofi" at a gallop for some time: 
gnian, gnian, gnian, gnian! we have a dinner fit for a 
prince"; and whilst saying this, he was working his jaws as 
if he were tearing the meat to pieces. 

When the sportsmen of Dauphine go out shooting in 
September, they are also provided with pepper and salt, 
and if one of them kills a very fat fig-pecker, he plucks it, 
seasons it, carries it for some time outside his cap, and 
eats it. 

I have been told that a bird, cooked in this way, eats 
even better than if roasted. 

Moreover, if our great-grandfathers ate their food raw, 
we have not altogether given up the habit. The most deli- 
cate palate will very well put up with Aries sausages, 
"mortadella di Bologna," Hamburg smoked beef, ancho- 
vies, pickled herrings, sind other similar dainties, which 
have never seen the fire, and yet provoke appetite none the 



DISCOVERT OF FIRE 

125. After people had regaled themselves for a pretty 
long time in the manner of the Croats, fire was discovered; 
and this must again have been by chance, for fire does not 

(262) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

generally exist spontaneously on this earth. The inhabit- 
ants of the Marianne Islands are said not to have been 
acquaiQted with it. 

BAEING 

126. As soon as fire was known, the instinct of improve- 
ment applied it to meats, firstly, to dry them, and secondly, 
to roast them on hot embers. 

Meat thus treated was found much better than raw; it is 
firmer, triturates with less difficulty, and the osmazome, 
by becoming browner, imparts to it a savoury aroma, which 
still continues to please us. 

However, it was soon found that flesh cooked on the 
embers got rather dirty, for some ashes or some particles of 
coal always adhered to it, of which it was difficult to free it. 
To remedy this inconvenience, spits were used to hold the 
meat above the embers, which were supported on each side 
by stones of a suitable height. 

Then the act of grilling or broiling was discovered, by 
which meat was prepared in a simple as well as a savoury 
way; for all grilled meat is very tasty, partly owing to the 
smoke. 

Things were not much further advanced in the time of 
Homer; and I trust that it will be a pleasure for many of 
my readers to see how Achilleus entertained in his tent 
three of the principal Grecian chiefs, of whom one was a 
king. 

I recommend this passage to the ladies, for Achilleus 
was the most handsome of the Greeks, though his pride 
did not prevent him from shedding tears when Briseis was 
taken from him. 

The following passage from the ninth book of the " Iliad " 
(263) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

is taken from the masterly translation of Mr. P. Stanhope 
Worsley: — 

"... Patroclus to his friend gave ear. 
Then in the blazing firelight his great board 
He planted, and thereon of hog, goat, sheep. 
All flourishing with fat, the chines he stored. 
These held Automedon, and wide and deep 
Achilleus sliced, then spitted the full heap; 
And a great fire divine Patroclus lit. 
But when the crackling flame began to sleep, 
He raked the embers, on the stones each spit 
Laid, and the sacred salt then sprinkled, as is fit. 
So with much care he roasted all the meat. 
And on the table ranged it, and set bread 
In silver baskets for the chiefs to eat. 
Achilleus dealt out portions head by head. 
Where he sat fronting, o'er the banquet spread. 
Divine Odysseus from the adverse wall; 
Then bade Patroclus in the fire to shed 
The Gods' due part, and he obeyed; and all. 
With eager hand outstretched, upon the viands fall. 
When the desire was quenched of food and drink, 
Aias to Phoenix nodded, and divine 
Odysseus in his heart knew what to think. 
And brimmed his goblet, and held forth the wine. 
And spake: 'Achilles, hail, dear friend of mine!'" ^ 

Thus a king, a king's son, and three Grecian chiefs dined 
very well on bread, wine, and broiled meat. 

We imagine that if Achilleus and Patroclus prepared 

themselves the banquet, it was rather exceptional, and in 

order to do greater honour to the distinguished guests who 

visited them; for, usually the duties of dressing food were 

abandoned to women and slaves. This Homer tells us also, 

^ The following note is from the French of M. Brillat-Savarin: "I 
have not copied the original text, which few persons would have under- 
stood, but I thought it best to give a Latin version, becaxise this language, 
being more widely known, and moulding itself perfectly on the Greek, 
lends itself better to the details and the simplicity of this heroic repast." 
Our author gives also a rendering into French of this passage by M. Dugas- 
Montbel, whom he calls "a gentle author, polite, and rather fond of 
good living for a hellenist." 

(264) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

when he gives us in the "Odyssey" an account of the enter- 
tainment of the heralds. 

The entrails of animals stuffed with blood and grease, a 
kind of black pudding, were regarded as a very important 
dish. 

During this epoch, and without doubt long before poetry 
and music were associated with the pleasures of the tables, 
famous minstrels sang the wonders of Nature, the loves 
of the gods, and the achievements of warriors. They formed 
a sort of priesthood, and most likely the divine Homer him- 
self was trained by some of these men favoured by Heaven. 
He could not have soared so high if his poetical studies had 
not commenced from his early youth. 

Madame Dacier^ remarks that Homer never makes men- 
tion of boiled meat in any part of his works. The Hebrews 
were much more advanced on account of having dwelt for 
a considerable time in Egypt; they had vessels to stand the 
fire, and it was in such a pot that the pottage of lentiles 
was made, which Jacob sold so dear to his brother Esau.* 

It is really difficult to divine how man commenced to 
work metals. It is said that Tubal-Cain was the inventor 
of this art. 

In the present state of our knowledge, one metal is used 

' Anne Leftvre (1654-1720), daughter of the celebrated classical 
scholar Tanneguy-Lefevre, was married to Andrfi Dacier, as good a 
scholar as her father, and brought out several editions of various Latin 
and Greek classics, with and without her husband's aid. She is best 
known by her translation of the Iliad. According to Mr. John Cordy 
Jeaffreson's excellent work, A Book about the Table, vol. I, ch. xiv, "Spits 
and Jacks": "Madame Dacier overstated the case when she remarked 
that Homer makes no mention of boiled meat. An instance against her 
assertion may be found in the Fifth Book of the Iliad, which Warner 
{Araiguilates Culinariae, 1791) produces as the only notice of boiling in 
the Homeric poems." — Tb. 

2 Gen. XXV, 34. — Tb. 

(265) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

by us to treat another metal; we hold them with iron tongs; 
we forge them with iron hammers; we cut them with steel 
files, but as yet I have never met any person who could 
explain to me how the first pair of tongs or the first hammer 
were made. 

FEASTS OF THE ORIENTALS OF THE GREEKS 

127. Cooking made great progress when we had either 
iron or earthenware pots that could stand the heat; we could 
then season meats, cook vegetables, and soup; gravy, and 
jeUies could be made. All these things follow and are con- 
nected with one another. 

The most ancient books extant make honourable men- 
tion of the feasts of the Eastern kings. It is not difficult to 
believe that those monarchs who ruled over countries fer- 
tile in everything, and especially in spices and perfumes, 
kept sumptuous tables; but details are wanting; we only 
know that Cadmus, who iutroduced writing into Greece, 
had been cook to the King of Sidon. 

It was also among those voluptuous and efi'eminate na- 
tions that the custom was introduced of surrounding with 
couches the banqueting tables, and of lying down to eat. 

This refinement, which rather denotes weakness, was not 
everywhere well received. Those peoples who held strength 
and courage in especial esteem, those amongst whom fru- 
gality was deemed a virtue, rejected it for a long time; but 
it was adopted at Athens, and was for many years the gen- 
eral custom throughout the civilised world. 

Cookery and its pleasures were in great favour among 
the Athenians, a people of elegant taste, and eager for 
novelties. Kings, private men of wealth, poets, and learned 
men, gave the example, and even the philosophers did not 

(266) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

think they had a right of refusing to share the enjoyments 
drawn from the bosom of Nature. 

From what we read in ancient authors, there is no doubt 
that their feasts were of the highest quality. 

Hunting, fishing, and commerce procured them many of 
the objects which are still considered excellent, and compe- 
tition made them rise to an excessive price. 

All the arts rivalled with each other for the adornment of 
their tables, around which the guests were placed, lying on 
couches covered with rich purple hangings. 

They made it a study to enhajice the pleasures of the 
table by agreeable conversation, and table-talk became a 
science. 

The songs introduced towards the third course lost their 
ancient simplicity; they no longer celebrated exclusively 
the gods, the heroes, and deeds mentioned in history, but 
they sang of friendship, pleasure, and love, with a sweet- 
ness and a harmony that our modern dry and harsh tongues 
can never equal. 

The wines of Greece, which are still considered excellent, 
and ranging from the sweetest to the most heady, were 
examined ajid classified by gourmets. In certain repasts the 
entire scale was gone through, and, contrary to what occurs 
at the present day, the glasses increased in size in propor- 
tion as the wine poured out in them was better. 

The prettiest women appeared to adorn these voluptu- 
ous assembles. Dances, games, and amusements of every 
kind prolonged the pleasures of the evening. They breathed 
sensuousness at every pore, and more than one Aristippus 
who arrived under the banner of Plato, retired as a follower 
of Epicurus.* 
1 Plato, the greatest of Greek philosophers, represents here the highest 
(267) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Learned men vied with each other to write about an art 
that procured such sweet enjoyments; and, though Plato, 
Athenaeus,' and many other authors, have preserved their 
names to us, those works are lost. Most of all, we regret a 
poem on "Gastronomy" of Archestrates,^ a friend of one 
of the Pericles. 

" This great writer," says Theotimus, '" travelled through 
all lands and across all seas to learn for himself the best 
things they produced. During his travels he did not in- 
quire into the manners of the peoples, since it is impossi- 
ble to change them, but he entered into the laboratories 
where the delicacies of the table were prepared, and only 
held intercourse with those men who could advance the art 
he delighted in. His poem is a treasure of science, and does 
not contain a single line which is not a precept." 

Such was the condition of cookery in Greece,* and it 

Truth and Morality; Epicurua, another Greek sage, is supposed to 
have taught his pupils that "happiness and enjoyment are the summum 
bonum of lite"; Aristippus, a Greek philosopher of Cyrene, the father 
of "hedonism" (the pursuit of pleasure), was not a pupil of Plato, but 
of Socrates. — Tb. 

' Athenteus of Naucritis, in Egypt, flourished at the beginning of 
the third century. We have an abridgment of his Banquet of the Sophists 
at Dinner, full of anecdotes and everything relating to the social usages 
of the Greeks. — Tr. 

' Though nearly the whole of the works of Archestrates of Gela, a 
Greek poet who lived during the first half of the fourth century B.C., 
are lost, fragments of them have been published in 18!23, in Palermo, 
by Dominico Scina, under the title I Frammenti delta Gastronomia di 
Archestrate. — Tb. 

' Theotimus was a Stoic philosopher. — Athen. xm. — Tb. 

* The Marquis de Cussy, already mentioned in the Preface of M. 
Monselet, page 4, says in his Art Culinaire: "In spite of happy attempts, 
Athens never possessed the grande cuisine, and the reason of this is 
obvious — too much was sacrificed to sweet things, fruits, and flowers. 
Moreover, she never had bread of the finest flour such as Imperial Rome 
had, nor Italian spices, nor her appetising sauces, nor white Rhine wines." 
— Tb. 

(268) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

remained thus until a handful of men came to establish 
themselves on the banks of the Tiber, extended their sway 
over the neighbouring peoples, and finished by invading 
the world. 

BANQUETS AMONG THE BOMANS 

128. Good living was unknown to the Romans as long 
as they were only fighting to secure their independence, or 
to conquer their neighbours, as poor as themselves. Then 
their generals handled the plough, lived on vegetables, and 
so forth. Frugivorous historians never fail to praise these 
primitive times, when frugality was greatly honoured. 

But when their conquests were extended to Africa, Sicily, 
and Greece, where they had feasted at the expense of the 
vanquished in those countries where civilisation was more 
advanced, they brought back to Rome the art of preparing 
some dishes that had pleased them abroad, and everything 
leads us to believe that they were well received. 

The Romans sent a deputation to Athens to bring back 
a copy of the laws of Solon ;* they went there also to study 
polite literature and philosophy. Whilst refining their man- 
ners, they learned the pleasures of the Athenian banquets; 
and cooks came to Rome as well as orators, philosophers, 
rhetoricians, and poets. 

In time, as a result of the victories of Rome, all the wealth 
of the universe flowed into her treasury, and the luxury 
of the table was increased to a height almost incredible. 

The Romans ate of everything, from the grasshopper to 
the ostrich, from the dormouse to the wild boar.* 

1 Solon, an Athenian lawgiver and philosopher, bom about 640 B.C., 
was said to be a lineal descendant of Codrus, the last king of Athens, 
and is generally placed among the seven sages of Greece, -r- Tb. 

' This is one of the recipes of Apicus, the celebrated Roman gour- 

(269) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Everything that could provoke the palate was attempted 
as seasoning, or used as a relish, and even some substances 
of which we cannot conceive the use, such as assafoetida, 
rue, and so forth. 

The known universe was laid imder contribution by 
armies and travellers, and they brought from Africa guinea- 
fowl and truffles, rabbits from Spain, pheasants from 
Greece, where they had been imported from the banks of 
the Phasis, and peacocks from the far ends of Asia. 

The most important men among the Romans prided 

GuEBa Fabsi. — Qlires isido paramo, item pidpis ex omni glirium 
membro iritis, cum pipere, nucleis, lasere, liquamine, farcies glires, et 
svios in tegvla positos, miites in futrm/m, cut farsos in clihano coques, 
which reads in English thus: Stuffed Dobmioe. — Take dormice in 
pork fat, with bits of meat taken from every limb of the dormouse and 
pounded: stufE with pepper, kernels, assafoetida, sauce; place them in 
tiled receptacles, put them in a warm place, or cook them in an oven. 

Dormice were considered a delicate dish; scales were sometimes placed 
on the table to verify their weight. The following epigram of Martial 
on the subject of dormice has come down to us: — 

Tota miki dormitur hyema, et pinguior iUi 
Tempore sum quo me nil nisi somnus atH. 

Or in English: — I sleep all the winter, and become fatter during that 
time in which nothing but sleep finds me. 

Dr. Lister, fond of good living, and physidan to Queen Anne, who 
also liked to eat and drink well, speaking of the advantages in cookery 
of the use of scales, remarks, "that if twelve larks do not weigh twelve 
oimces, they are scarcely eatable; that they are passable if they weigh 
twelve ounces; but that if they weigh thirteen ounces, they may be con- 
sidered plump and excellent." — Bbillat-Savabin. 

Mr. John Cordy Jeaffreson, in his 4 BooJe about the Table, vol. 
n, ch. XIV, "On Epicures," says: "One of the unfeminine propensities 
attributed to Queen Anne by scandalous gossip is commemorated in the 
saying which, with piquant reference to the position of her statue be- 
fore St. Paul's Cathedral, likens the habitual tippler to Queen Anne, 
'who tvirns her back on the church, and looks towards the wine-shop.' 
Champagne was the favourite wine in which her Majesty is said to have 
indulged with habitual freedom. In justice, however, to this queen of 
proverbial deadness, it should be observed that the impeachment of 
her sobriety is sustained by no conclusive evidence." — Tb. 

(270) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

themselves on having beautiful gardens, where they culti- 
vated not only fruits already known a long time, such as 
pears, apples, figs, grapes, but also those which were brought 
from different coimtries, such as the apricot from Armenia; 
the peach from Persia; the quince from Sidon; the straw- 
berry from the valleys of Mount Ida, and the cherry, the 
conquest of Lucullus, from the kingdom of Pontus. These 
importations, which, of course, took place under very dif- 
ferent circumstances, prove at least that the impulse was a 
general one, and that every one made it his glory, and con- 
sidered it his duty to contribute to the enjoyments of the 
sovereign people. 

Amongst eatables, fish was an especial object of luxury. 
Certain kinds of fish were preferred to other kinds, or when 
they had been caught in certain waters. The fish of distant 
countries was brought in pots full of honey; and when some 
of these fishes were of more than ordinary size, they were 
sold at very high prices, for there was a feeling of rivalry 
among not a few of the buyers, some of whom were richer 
than kings. 

On liquids great care and attention were also bestowed. 

The wines of Greece, Sicily, and Italy, were especial 
favourites with the Romans; and as their price depended 
on the district, or on the year in which they were grown, 
a sort of record of birth was inscribed on each amphora. 
nata mecum ccmsvle Manlio. — Horace.' 

This was not all; as a result of that instinct for improve- 
ment we have already indicated, more piquancy and more 
flavour was attempted to be given to wine; and they infused 
flowers, spices, and various drugs into it, so that such prep- 
arations which contemporary authors have transmitted 
» Ode 3, 21, I. 
(271) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY • 

to us under the name of condita, must have burnt the 
mouth, and violently irritated the stomach. 

Already at that time, the Romans had thoughts of 
alcohol, though it was only discovered fifteen centuries 
later. 

But it is above all in the accessories of the banquet that 
this gigantic luxury was carried out with the greatest 
success. 

All the furniture necessary for such feasts was made with 
great care, of the choicest materials, and by first-rate work- 
men. The number of courses gradually increased to twenty, 
or even more, and at each fresh course everything was 
taken away that had been employed in the preceding 
course. 

Slaves were especially appointed for each detail of the 
service, and such duties were minutely distinguished. The 
most precious perfumes scented the banqueting hall. A 
sort of heralds proclaimed the merit of dishes worthy of 
special attention; they annoimced the claim which they 
had to this kind of ovation; in short, nothing was omitted 
that might stimulate the appetite, sustain the guests' atten- 
tion, or prolong their enjoymrait. 

This luxury had also its aberrations and its eccentricities. 
Such were those banquets where the fish and birds served 
were counted by thousands; and those dishes whose sole 
merit was their extravagant price, as a dish composed of 
the brains of five hundred ostriches, and another dish in 
which were seen the tongues of five thousand birds who had 
all been taught to say a few words. 

From what precedes, it appears to us that we may easily 
accoimt for the enormous sums which Lucullus spent on 
his table, and for the expensive banquets that were given 

(272) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

in the hall of Apollo, * where it was a point of honour to 
exhaust all the means known of gratifying the sensual appe- 
tites of the guests. 

RESTJREECTION OF liTJCTILLTJS 

129. Those glorious days may yet come back again 
before our own eyes, and those marvels might be renewed, 
if we only had a Lucullxis. 

Let us suppose that some man, known to be powerfully 
rich, wished to celebrate an important political or financial 
event, and to give on this occasion a banquet worthy of 
being remembered, and without any regard to expense. 

Let us suppose that he summons all the arts to adorn in 
its various parts the place where the feast will be held, and 
that the caterers be ordered to exhaust all the resources of 
science in providing everything of the best, as well as to 
produce the finest wines out of their cellars for the guests to 
drink. 

That, whilst this stately dinner is given, two pieces be 
acted by the very best actors. 

That, during the banquet, music be heard, performed 
by the most renowned vocal as well as instrumental 
artists. 

That, as an interlude between dinner and coffee, a ballet 
be danced by the most graceful and prettiest dancers of the 
opera. 

That the evening close with a ball given to two hundred 

ladies selected among the most beautiful, and four hundred 

gentlemen-dancers chosen among the most elegant. 

* Luculliis (b.c. 110-57) was a wealthy Roman general, noted for his 
banquets and his gastronomic indulgence, for, sometimes above seven- 
teen hundred pounds were expended in a single meal. In his palace 
there were several halls named after the gods. — Tr. 

(27S) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

That the buffet be constantly supplied with the best 
drinks, hot, cold, or iced. 

That about midnight be served up an artistic supper, to 
impart to all new activity. 

That the attendants be handsome and well dressed, the 
lighting of the rooms perfect; and, to forget nothing, that 
the host should have arranged for everybody to be fetched 
before the entertainment, and to be driven home again 
comfortably when it was finished. 

All persons who know Paris will agree with me that such 
a banquet, well conceived, properly organised, well looked 
after, and well conducted, would startle even the treasurer 
of LucuUus if he were looking over the next day's bills. 

In showing what may be done at the present time, in 
imitation of the banquets of this magnificent Roman, I 
have also told the reader what used to be considered then 
necessary as accessories to a banquet where they always 
introduced actors, singers, mimes, contortionists, and every- 
thing that could contribute to increase the enjoyments of 
persons whose only object was to amuse themselves. 

What has been done amongst the Athenians, then 
amongst the Romans, later on amongst ourselves during 
the Middle Ages, and finally in our own day, springs from 
the nature of man, who looks with impatience for the end 
of the career he has chosen, as well as from a certain imeasi- 
ness which torments him so long as the whole of his life that 
he can dispose of is not entirely occupied. 

LECTISTERNTUM AND INCUBITATION 

130. Like the Athenians, the Romans ate lying down; 
but they only adopted this habit in a somewhat roimdabout 
way. 

(274) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

At first they used couches for the sacred repasts offered 
to the gods; their first magistrates and chief men afterwards 
adopted this practice, and in a little time it became general, 
and was retained until the beginning of the fourth century 
of the Christian era. 

These couches, which at first were only a sort of benches, 
stuffed with straw and covered with skins, soon shared in 
the luxury that invaded everything connected with feast- 
ing. They were made of the most precious woods, inlaid 
with ivory, gold, and sometimes precious stones; they had 
cushions of wonderful softness, whilst the carpets which 
covered them were adorned with magnificent embroideries. 

People laid on the left side, supporting themselves on 
their elbows, and usually there were three persons on the 
same couch. 

In my opinion this manner of reclining at table, which 
the Romans termed lectisternium, was not so commodious 
or comfortable as the one we have adopted, or rather taken 
up again. 

From a physical point of view, the supporting with the 
elbows requires a certain display of strength, in order to 
keep one's balance; moreover, some pain must have been 
felt when the weight of one part of the body rested on the 
elbow-joint. 

From a physiological aspect, there is also something to 
say about a reclining posture; swallowing takes place in a 
less natural manner; the foods have a greater difiiculty in 
going down, and do not form so good a mass in the stomach. 

The ingestion of liquids, or the action of drinking, was 
above all still more difficult; and it must have required 
special care to avoid spilling unseasonably wine from those 
large goblets which shone on the tables of great people. It 

(275) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY , 

is without doubt, during the lectistemium period that the 
proverb arose: "There is many a slip 'twixt the cup and the 
lip." 

It could not have been much easier to eat in a cleanly 
manner when lying down, especially when we consider that 
many of the guests wore long beards, and that the fingers, 
or at most the knife, was used to convey the food to the 
mouth, — for the use of the fork is modem, none having 
been found in the ruins of Herculaneum, though neverthe- 
less a good many spoons were discovered there. 

We also think that modesty was not always respected 
during such banquets, when people so frequently over- 
stepped the limits of temperance, when men and women 
were reclining on the same couches, and when it was not 
rare to see some of the guests asleep. 

Nam pransus jaceo, el satur supinus • 
Pertundo tunicamqiie, palliumque. 

The first interference with this reclining posture at meals 
took place in the name of morality. 

As soon as the Christian religion had escaped from the 
persecutions that made its cradle bloody, and had acquired 
some influence, its ministers lifted up their voices against 
the excesses of intemperance. 

They exclaimed against the length of meals, where all 
their precepts were violated, and the guests surrounded by 
every pleasure. Having adopted by choice an austere diet, 
they considered gourmandise one of the capital sins, bitterly 
criticised the promiscuity of sexes, and above all, attacked 
the habit of eating on couches, a habit which appeared to 
them the result of a culpable efi'eminacy, and the principal 
cause of the abuses they deplored. 

People listened to these outspoken threats; and couches 
(276) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

ceased to adorn the festive halls; they reverted to the 
ancient custom of eating in a sitting posture, and by a rare 
good luck, such a reform required by morality has not been 
detrimental to enjoyment. 

POETRY 

131. During the period we have been describing con- 
vivial poetry underwent a new modification, and took in 
the verses of Horace, Tibullus, and other nearly contempo- 
rary authors, a languor and an effeminacy unknown to the 
Greek muses. 

Duke ridentem Lalagem amabo 
Dulce loguentem.^ 

Quoeria quot mihi basiationes 
Tuw, Leahia, sint satis superque.^ 

Pande, fuella, pande capillvlos 
Flavos, bieentes ut aurum nilidum, 
Pande, pueUa, coUum candidum 
Prodiwtum bene candidis humeris.' 

INVASION OF THE BARBARIANS 

132. The five or six centuries which we have just reviewed 
in the small nmnber of preceding pages, form the golden 
age of the culinary art, as well as for those persons who 
loved and cultivated it; but the arrival, or rather, the inva- 
sion, of the northern races changed everything, upset 

' I will love sweet Lalage, smiling and talking. Horace, Ode i, 22, 
23. — Th. 

' You ask, O Lesbia, how many kisses will be enough and to spare. 
Catullus, Carmen VII. — Tb. 

' Spread out, O girl, spread out your yellow hair, as bright as polished 
gold; spread out, O girl, yovu- white neck well raised up from white 
shoulders. 

These verses are attributed by our author to Gallus, but this can only 
be conjecturally, as he left none. — Tb. 

(277) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

everything, and those days of glory were followed by a pro- 
longed and terrible darkness. 

At the appearance of these strangers, the alimentary art 
disappeared with the other sciences, of which it is the com- 
panion and the consoler. Most of the cooks were massacred 
in the palaces to which they belonged; others took flight 
rather than regale the oppressors of their country, and the 
small number who came to offer their services were affronted 
by being refused. Those savage mouths, and those hot 
throats, were insensible to the delights of refined cheer. 
Enormous quantities of meat and venison, and an unlimited 
amount of the strongest liquors, were sufficient to make 
those barbarians happy; and as the usurpers were always 
armed, the majority of those banquets degenerated into 
orgies, and in the banqueting hall often blood was spilled. 

Nevertheless, it is in the nature of things that that which 
is excessive does not last long. The conquerors grew at last 
tired of being cruel; they allied themselves to the van- 
quished, took a veneer of civilisation, and commenced to 
become acquainted with the gentleness of social life. 

Meals were affected by this improvement. A man in- 
vited his friends, less to fill their stomachs than to entertain 
them; the guests saw that some efforts were made to please 
them; they behaved, in their turn, more decently, though 
they enjoyed themselves, and the duties of hospitality 
became more affectionate. 

These ameliorations, which took place towards the fifth 
century of our era, became more distinct under Charle- 
magne,* whose Capitularies prove that this great king per- 
sonally interested himself to let his domains furnish forth 
some of the luxuries of his table. 

1 742-814. 
(278) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

Under this prince, and under his successors, such feasts 
assumed a gallant and chivalrous aspect; ladies came to 
embellish the court; they distributed the rewards of valour; 
and one might then see on the tables of princes, a pheasant 
with gilded claws, and a peacock with expanded tail, 
brought in by pages covered with gold, and beautiful 
maidens, whose innocence did not exclude the desire to 
please. 

Observe that it was for the third time that women, shut 
up by the Greeks, the Romans, and the Franks, were called 
upon to adorn those banquets. The Turks alone are opposed 
to this appeal; but dreadful tempests threaten this unsocia- 
ble people, and ere thirty years have rolled on, the power- 
ful voice of the cannon will have proclaimed the general 
emancipation of the OdaUsks.* 

The movement, once inaugurated, has been transmitted 
to us, and has greatly progressed by the impulse given to it 
by succeeding generations. 

Women, even those of the most aristocratic rank, occu- 
pied themselves in their own houses with the preparation 
of food, on which they looked as part of the duties of hospi- 
tality, and which continued ia France even as late as the 
end of the seventeenth century. 

Under their fair hands some kinds of food imderwent 

sometimes strange disguises; now and then an eel had a 

tongue like a serpent; a hare, the ears of a cat, and other 

comicalities. They made great use of the spices which the 

Venetians commenced to bring from the East, as well as of 

the scented waters supplied by the Arabs, so that fish was 

• Our author wrote this in 1825, and though the "general emandpa- 
tion of the Odalisks" has not yet taken place, "dreadful tempests" stiU 
threaten the Turks, and they have heard the "powerful voice of the 
cannon about the time he predicted." — Te. 

(279) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

sometimes cooked in rose-water. The luxury of the table 
consisted above all in an abundance of dishes, and things 
went so far that the French kings thought themselves 
obliged to put a stop to this, and published some stunptu- 
ary laws, which had the same fate as those of the Greek 
and Boman legislators; they were made fim of, eluded, for- 
gotten, and they now are only mentioned in books as his- 
torical curiosities. 

People continued, therefore, to eat and drink well as long 
as they could, and especially in abbeys, convents, and other 
religious houses, because the wealth of such establishments 
was less exposed to the chances and dangers of the civil 
wars, which for so long a time desolated France. 

Being thoroughly certain that the French ladies took 
always more or less an interest in what was going on in their 
kitchens, we may safely conclude that to their intervention 
is due that indisputable pre-eminence French cookery has 
always enjoyed in Europe, and which it has principally 
acquired by an immense quantity of delicate, light, and 
tasty preparations, of which women alone could have con- 
ceived the idea. 

I have said that people enjoyed good eating and drinking 
"as long as they could," but they could not do so always. 
The suppers of our kings themselves were often abandoned 
to chance, and they were not always sure of them even. 
During the civil dissensions, Henri IV * would, one evening, 
have made a very poor repast, if he had not had the good 
sense to admit to his table a citizen who owned the only 
turkey in a town where the king had to pass the night. 

However, gastronomic science advanced gradually; the 
Crusaders gave her the shallot, plucked from the plains of 
1 15S3-1610. 
(280) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

Ascalon; pajsley was imported from Italy, and long before 
Louis IX,' the pork-butchers and sausage-makers had 
based on the manipulation of pork the expectation of mak- 
ing a fortune, of which we, even in our own time, have 
witnessed some remarkable examples. 

Pastry-cooks were not less successful, and the products 
of their industry held an honourable place at every feast. 
Even before the reign of Charles IX,^ they formed a con- 
siderable corporation, and this prince gave them a charter 
whereby they had the privilege of making bread to be used 
at mass. 

Towards the middle of the seventeenth centiu-y, the 
Dutch brought coffee into Europe.' Soliman Aga, the 
Turkish ambassador at the Court of France, on whom our 
great-great-grandmothers doted, made them take their 
first cups in 1669. An Armenian sold it publicly at the fair 
of Saint-Germain in 1672, and the first Parisian cafe was 
in the street St. Andre-des-Arts, and was adorned with 
mirrors and marble tables, almost like those of our own. 

Then, also, sugar made its appeajance,^ and Scarron,^ 

complaining that his sister had, from avarice, ordered the 

holes of her sugar-sifter to be made smaller, at least tells 

1 1215-70. 
« 1550-74. 

• Amongst Europeans, the Dutch were the first to import coffee plants 
from Arabia, which they introduced into Batavia, and afterwards brought 
into Europe. 

M. de Reissout, lieutenant-general of artillery, sent for a cutting from 
Amsterdam, and made a present of it to the King's Botanical Garden. 
It was the first ever seen in Paris. This tree, of which M. de Jussien 
has given a description, was, in 1813, one inch in diameter, and five feet 
high. The fruit is very pretty, and slightly resembles a cherry. 

* Whatever Lucanus may say, the ancients did not know sugar; for 
it is a product of art, and without crystallisation cane-sugar has only a 
mawkish and useless taste. 

6 1610-60. 

(281) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

us that in his time such a household article was not un- 
common. 

It is again diu"ing the seventeenth century that brandy 
began to be used. Distillation, of which the first idea had 
been introduced by the Crusaders, up to that time re- 
mained a secret only known to a small number of adepts. 
About the commencement of the reign of Louis XIV,* 
stills were no longer very rare; but it was only in the reign 
of Louis XV that it was habitually drunk by the people, 
and not imtil the last few years has alcohol been obtained 
in one distillation by slow and gradual steps. 

About the same time people began also to use tobacco; 
so that those four objects so importajtit to commerce and 
the revenue, namely: sugar, coffee, brandy, and tobacco, 
are scarcely two centuries old. 

THE AGE OF LOTHS XIV AND LOUIS XV ^ 

133. It was under such auspices that the age of Louis 
XrV began, and under this brilliant reign the science of 
b£inqueting obeyed that progressive impulse which made 
all other sciences advance. 

People have not altogether lost the memory of those fes- 
tivals which all Europe went to see, nor of those tourna- 
ments where shone, for the last time, the lances that the 
bayonet has so well replaced, and those knightly suits 
of armour, a feeble protection against the brutality of 
cannon. 

All these festivals ended with sumptuous banquets as 
their crowning part, for man is so constituted that he can- 
not be perfectly happy imless his taste is wholly gratified. 
This imperious desire has swayed grammar, so that when 

1 1638-1715. 2 1710-74. 

(282) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

we wish to express that a thing has been done "in perfec- 
tion," we say that it has been done "in very good taste." 

As a necessary consequence, those men who invented 
and arranged such festivals became of great importance, 
and this not without reason; for they had to combine vari- 
ous qualities, that is to say, a genius for inventing, a knowl- 
edge of arrangement, a sound judgment for proportions, 
great skill for discovering things, firmness to enforce obedi- 
ence, and punctuality to make no one wait. 

On such important occasions magnificent table decora- 
tions, or surtovis, were displayed for the first time; and a 
new art was created which, with painting and sculpture, 
presented to the eye an agreeable spectacle, and sometimes 
a sight appropriate to the circumstances or to the hero in 
whose honour the festival was given. 

This was the grand and even gigantic era of the culinary 
art; but soon meetings where there were fewer guests, and 
dinners where dishes were very delicate, required a more 
careful attention and greater care. 

It was at the petit convert,^ in the room of the favourites, 
and at the nice suppers of the courtiers and the financiers, 
that the science of culinary artists began to be admired; 
and, animated by a laudable ambition, they endeavoured 
to surpass each other. 

Towards the end of this reign, the name of any famous 
cook was almost always written on the menu besides that 
of his patron,^ and the latter was proud of it. Both their 

' The "petit couvert" was the name given to the dinnei of the French 
king or the princes when amongst intimates; but it was called the "grand 
couvert" when it was a ceremonious banquet. — Te. 

" At some of the imperial, royal, and princely tables of Russia and 
Germany, it is even at the present time the custom to print on the 
menu the name of the culinary artist who has prepared some special 
dish.— Tb. 

(283) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

merits were combined, and some of the most illustrious 
names were foimd in the cookery-books, side by side with 
the dishes which they had patronised, invented, or given 
to the world. ^ 

Such a combination has ceased in our days. We are as 
fond of good living as our ancestors, and perhaps more so, 
but we interest ourselves much less about what is going 
on below stairs. A nod is perhaps the sole tribute of admi- 
ration that we pay to the artiste who pleases us; and the 
restaurant keepers — that is to say, the cooks of the public 
— are the only ones whom we verbally praise, which places 
them quickly amongst great capitalists. Utile duld. 

It was for Louis XlVthat theSpined'HS, "thegood pear," 
as he called it, was brought from the Levant, and it is be- 
cause he was so weak in his old age that liqueurs were in- 
vented.'' 

This prince suffered sometimes from weakness and from 
that difficulty of living, which often appears after the age 
of sixty; some drinks were concocted from brandy and 

1 Among those illustrious names are: Louis de Bechameil, Marquis 
de Nointel; the Bailli de Souvre, grand Prieur de Prance; the Marshal 
de Soubise; the Duke de Richelieu; Madame de Maintenon; the Prince 
de Conti; the Duke of Orleans, Regent of Prance; Louis XV; the Count 
de Nesselrode; Stanislas Leckzinski and his daughter, the wife of Louis 
XV. Let me also quote the following dishes: the filets de lapereau & la 
Berry, invented by the Duchess of Berry, the daughter of the Duke of 
Orleans; the filet de volaiUe d, la BeUevue, by the Marchioness of Pom- 
padour; the vol au vent & la Nesle, by the Marquis of Nesle; the char~ 
treuse (a vegetable salad, not the liqueur) of the Marchioness of Maucon- 
seil; the fowls a la ViUeroy, after the Duchess of Villeroy; the quails & la 
Mirepoix, after the Marshal's wife of that name; the sweetbreads & la 
d'Artais, invented by the Count d'Artois, afterwards Charles X; and 
the potage d la Xavier, a creation of the Count of Provence. — Tb. 

2 This is not quite correct. The art of making liqueurs was brought 
from Italy into Prance during the reign of Henry II (1519-59). See 
also Meditation VI, the chapter on the "Various Uses of Sugar," 
p. 83. — Tr. 

(284) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

sugar, combined with odours; and these were called, ac- 
cording to the custom of the time, "cordials." 

Such is the origin of the art of the modern liqueur- 
manufacturers. 

It is remarkable that about the same time the culinary 
art flourished at the English court. Queen Anne was very 
fond of good eating and drinking, and did not disdain to 
consult her cook. English cookery-books still contain 
receipts for some dishes which are called "after Queen 
Anne's fashion." ' 

Gastrononuc science which remained stationary during 
the sway of Madame de Maintenon,^ continued its up- 
ward march under the Regency. 

The Duke of Orleans,' a clever prince, who was worthy 
to have friends, treated them to banquets as artistic as 
refined. On the best authority I have been told that on his 
table was deserving of notice piquh of extreme delicacy, 
matelotes as appetising as by the banks of the river, and 
turkeys superbly truffled. 

Those truffled turkeys, of which the reputation and the 
price are still increasing, appear like beneficent stars, and 
make the eyes sparkle of all sorts of gourmands of every 
category, whilst their faces beam with delight, and they 
themselves dance with pleasure.* 

The reign of Louis XV was not less favourable to the 
culinary art. Eighteen years of peace cured without much 
difficulty all the wounds made by more than sixty years of 
war; the wealth created by industry and distributed by 

1 See Meditation XXVII, p. 270, last note. — Tb. » 1635-1719. 

' The Duke of Orleans (1674-1723) was Regent during the minority 
of Louis XV, from 1716 until 1723. — Th. 

' The original has tripudier, a word not found in any French diction- 
ary, from the Latin tripudiare. — Tb. 

(285) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

commerce, or acquired by financiers, made disappear cer- 
tain inequalities of fortunes, and a spirit of conviviality 
spread through all classes of society. 

It is from that time,* and generally during all repasts, 
that was observed more order, cleanliness, elegance, and 
those various refinements, which having gone on increasing 
until within our days, now threaten to outstrip all limits, 
and to lead us to ridiculous excesses. 

In this reign again, the cooks were required to show their 
utmost skill in the petites maisons, or private establish- 
ments for the reception of ladies and gentlemen who were 
not "too particular," and for kept mistresses, and this 
turned to the advantage of gastronomy. 

It is very easy to entertain a numerous company, with 
healthy appetites; with butcher's meat, game, venison, and 
goodly sized fish, a banquet for sixty people is soon got 
ready. 

But to gratify mouths that only open to simper, to 

tempt fanciful and nervous women, to excite stomachs of 

"papier mdchS," and rouse gawky, wretched-looking peo- 

1 According to information I have received from the inhabitants 
of many departments, a dinner for ten persons, in the year 1740, was 
composed of the following dishes: — 
C BouiUi. 
First Course. < An entree of veal done in its own gravy. 
I An hors-d'ceuvre. 

(A turkey. 
A dish of vegetables. 
A 1 J 

A salad. 
Sometimes cream. 
{Cheese. 
Fruits. 
Preserves. 
The plates were only changed thrice; namely, after the soup, at the 
second course, and at dessert. 

Coffee was very rarely served, but very often cheny brandy or pink- 
liqueur, which were then only known for a little time. 

(286) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

pie, whose appetite is merely a whim always ready to drop, 
requires more genius, more penetration, and more labour 
than to resolve one of the most difficult problems of the 
Geometry of the Infinite. 

Loxns XVI '■ 

134. Finally arrived at the reign of Louis XVI and at 
the first Revolution, we will not treat minutely all the 
various changes which we have witnessed; we will only con- 
tent ourselves with indicating in broad outlines the various 
improvements that have taken place in the gastronomic 
science since 1774. 

The natural part of gastronomy, as well as the manners 
and social institutions connected with it, have above all 
been ameliorated; and, although these things act on one 
another with continual reciprocity, we have thought, for 
the sake of greater clearness to treat them separately. 

AMELIORATIONS IN EELATION TO ABT 

135. All professions relating to the preparation or the 
sale of foods, such as cooks, restaurant-keepers, pastry- 
cooks, confectioners, Italian warehouses, and so forth, 
have increased in ever greater proportions; and the proof 
that this increase has only taken place in accordance with 
the actual demand, is that the larger number has not inter- 
fered with their prosperity. 

Physics and chemistry have been called to the assistance 
of the culinary art; the most distLnguished men of science 
have not considered it beneath them to occupy themselves 
with our first wants, and they have improved the simple 
pot-aii-feu of the workman, as well as those extractive 
1 1754-93. Louis XVI came to the throne in 1774. — Tb. 
(287) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

and transparent meats which are only served in gold or 
crystal. 

New professions have sprung up, such as pdtissiers de 
petit four, which are a shade between the pastry-cooks 
properly so-called and confectioners. To their domain 
belong all those preparations in which butter is combined 
with sugar, eggs and flour, such as biscuits, macaroons, 
some sorts of cakes, meringues, and other similiar delicacies. 

The art of preserving foods has also become a separate 
profession, of which the object is to present us all the year 
round with the various substances peculiar to each season. 

Horticulture has made immense progress; hot-houses 
have put before us the fruits of the tropics; different kinds 
of vegetables are produced by culture or importation, and 
amongst others the cantaloup melon, which only produces 
good fruit, and thus daily contradicts the proverb."^ 

We have cultivated, imported, and presented, in regular 
order, the wines of all coimtries: Madeira, to open the 
trenches, French wines during dinner, and those of Spain 
and of Africa to crown the feast. 

French cookery has adopted dishes of foreign origin, such 
as curry and beefsteak, a delicacy like caviare, a sauce like 
soy, beverages like pimch, negus, and others. 

Coffee has become popular: in the morning it is consid- 

' II faut en essayer cinquante, 
Avant que d'en trouver un bon. 
Fifty at least you '11 have to try. 
Before you '11 find one fit to buy. 

The whole distich in French is, however: 

Les vrais amis sont comme les melons, 

A peine parmi cinquante en trouve-t-on un de bon. 

It appears according to Apicius, De Re Coguinaria, that melons, such 
as we cultivate, were not known to the Romans. What they termed melo 
and pepo were merely cucumbers, which they ate with very hot sauces. 

(288) 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY 

ered nourishing; and after dinner it is taken as an exhila- 
rating and tonic beverage. 

"We have invented a great variety of cups, vases, and 
other accessories, which give to a banquet a more or less 
distinct, luxurious, and festive appearance; so that stran- 
gers who come to Paris find many objects on the table un- 
known to them by name, and of which often they do not 
like to ask the use. 

From all these facts, it may be generally concluded that 
at the moment I write these lines, everything preceding, 
accompanying, or following a banquet, is treated and 
arranged with an order and a method which shows a praise- 
worthy desire to please the guests. 

FINAL IMPROVEMENTS 

136. We have revived from the Greek the word "gas- 
tronomy"; it sounds pleasant to our ears, and though 
scarcely imderstood, we have only to pronoimce it to make 
every one's face beam with hilarity. 

We have commenced by making a distinction between 
gourmandise, voracity, and gluttony; the first is now looked 
upon as a liking which need not be disguised, as a social 
quality, agreeable to the host, profitable to the guest, 
advantageous to science, and gourmands now rank with all 
other amateurs who are known to have any kind of hobby. 

A general spirit of conviviality is to be found among 
all classes of society; banquets have increased in number, 
and every one, when treating his friends, endeavours to 
offer them some special dish he has seen on the best tables 
of the upper classes. 

On account of the pleasure found in being together, peo- 
ple have adopted a better division of labour; they devote to 

(289) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

business the hoiirs from the beginning of the day till dark, 
and give themselves then up to the pleasures which accom- 
pany and foUow banquets. 

Limcheons, or so-called d&je'Aners a la fourchette, are 
given, which have a particular character on accoimt of the 
dishes brought up, the gaiety which reigns, and the morn- 
ing dress allowed on such occasions. 

Teas are given, a sort of very extraordinary meal, as it 
is oflFered to persons who, having already well dined, feel 
neither hungry nor thirsty; its only object is amusement; 
its foundation, a liking for dainties and tit-bits. 

Political banquets have been created, which have con- 
stantly been given during the last thirty years, and every 
time when it has been thought necessary to bring some 
influence directly to bear on a great number of people. Such 
banquets require an abimdance of good cheer, to which not 
much attention is paid by the guests, whilst real enjoyment 
is almost wholly absent. 

At last the restaurants appeared; — an entirely new 
institution, by no means studied sufficiently, and in which 
any one who has some money in his pocket can immediately, 
infallibly, and without any other trouble than that of 
wishing for it, obtain all the positive pleasures of which thie 
organ of taste is susceptible. 



MEDITATION XXVIH 

OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS AND THEIR 
KEEPERS 

137. A RESTAURANT-KEEPER IS a man whose business 
consists in offering to the public a banquet always ready, 
and of which the viands are sold in portion's at fixed prices, 
at the request of the consumers. 

Such an establishment is called a "restaurant," and he 
who manages it is in French a restaurateur. We give the 
name of carte to the list of the dishes, with their respective 
prices affixed, and of carte d, payer to what we have to pay 
for what we have eaten. ^ 

Among those who crowd to restaurants, there are few 
who imagine that the first man who opened such an estab- 
lishment must have been a man of genius and a profound 
observer. 

We will assist laziness, and endeavour to find out what 
led to the opening of the first of such establishments, now 
so common and so convenient. 

THE RESTATTRANT 

138. Towards the year 1770, after the glorious days of 
Louis XrV, the orgies of the Regency, and the long tran- 
quillity under the Ministry of Cardinal Fleury,^ strangers 

' "We have changed all that," to use a Gallic idiom. The word 
restaurant still exists, but restaurateur is hardly ever used, and it is now 
called the propriStaire de V Hahlissement. We also ask now for the addi- 
tion, a barbarism which has replaced the old-fashioned carte h payer; 
the word carle still lingers on. — Th. 

2 1653-1743. 

(291 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

in Paris found but few resoiu-ces with regard to good 
cheer. 

They were compelled to have recourse to the cookery of 
the traiieurs, or eating-houses, which was generally bad. 
Several hotels existed where tables d'hote were held; but 
with very few exceptions they only gave what was abso- 
lutely necessary for keeping body and soul together, and 
served up their meals at a certain hour. 

People could indeed go to traiieurs; but they did rot sell 
portions, and any one wishing to entertain a few friends 
was obliged to order his dinner beforehSind; so that .ose 
persons who had not the good fortune of Ij^i; ' to 

any rich man's house, left the great city wn ing 

acquired a knowledge of the resources and tha res of 

the Parisian culinary art. < 1 

An order of things which in*^ M every days) erests 

could not continue, and ali^ -ne thinka amt of 

an improvement. \ ^ow ' 

At last a man of thought wa .^ -I who juLj^^i that so 
active a cause could not remait vitnout effect; that the 
same want being reproduced every day, about the same 
time, consumers would flock in crowds to any place where 
they were certain that this want would be agreeably satis- 
fied; that if the wing of a fowl were cut off for the first 
comer, a second would be sure to present himself who 
would be satisfied with the leg; that the taking of a first 
slice in the obscurity of the kitchen would not disgrace the 
remainder of the joint; that no man objects to a slight in- 
crease in the charges, when a good dinner has been promptly 
and cleanly served; that amongst so many necessary details 
it would be endless if the guests were to discuss the price 
or the quality of the dishes ordered; and, besides, that the 

( 292 ) 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS 

variety of dishes, combined with the fixity of prices, has 
the advantage of suiting all purses. 

That man thought of many other things, easy to divine. 
He was the first restaurant-keeper, and created a profes- 
sion that is sure of bringing a fortime to any man whenever 
he will practise it honestly, orderly, and skilfully. 

ADVANTAGES OF RESTAURANTS 

139. The use of restaurants, which from France has 
made the tour of Europe, is of great advantage to all men, 
and of great importance to science. 

1. Any man may dine there at any hour he likes, accord- 
ing to the demands of business or pleasure. 

2. He is certain not to exceed the sum which he has to 
spend on his meal, for he knows beforehand the price of 
each dish served up. 

3. According to the length of his purse, he can, if so 
inclined, make a substantial, refined, or dainty meal, wash 
it down with the best French or foreign wines, aromatise it 
with Mocha, or perfimie with the liqueurs of the Old and 
New World, ^ without any other restriction than the vigour 
of his appetite, or the capacity of his stomach. The dining- 
room of a restaurant in Paris is the paradise of gourmands. 

4. A restaurant is also very convenient for travellers, 
strangers, and for those men whose family resides for some 
time in the country, as well as for all those, in one word, 
who can have no cookery done at home, or who for the 
moment have to do without it. 

Before the year 1770, the time of which we have spoken, 

1 The liqueurs of the New World, of \jhich the French are very fond 
even now, are Jamaica nun; liqueur des lies, or liqueur de la Martinique, 
sometimes called, after its manufactiu'er, liqueur de Made Amphoux; 
and Curasao, which is distilled at Amsterdam. — Tb. 

(293) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Wealthy and influential men enjoyed almost exclusively 
two great advantages: they travelled with rapidity, and 
always feasted on good cheer. 

The establishment of new carriages, which travel fifty 
leagues in twenty-four hours, "^ has done away with the first 
privilege; the establishment of restaurants has destroyed 
the second; and thus the best cheer is within the reach of 
the whole nation. 

Any man who has fifteen or twenty francs in his pocket, 
and who sits down at the table of a first-class restaurant, 
is as well, and even better, served than at the table of a 
prince, for the banquet offered to him is just as splendid; 
moreover, he is not worried by any personal considerations, 
as he can order whatever dishes he likes.^ 

A GLANCE EOTTND A DINING-HOOM IN PARIS 

140. A public dining-room, examined with a little care, 
presents to the inquiring eye of a philosopher a picture 
worthy of his interest, through the variety of situations it 
brings together. 

The back-ground is occupied by a host of customers 
sitting by themselves, who give their orders in a loud voice, 
wait with impatience, eat hurriedly, pay, and go away. 

In this room are also some families on their travels, who, 
satisfied with a frugal meal, nevertheless, give it a zest by 
ordering some dish imknown to them, and appear greatly 
to enjoy a spectacle entirely new to them. 

Close by them is a Parisian married couple, as can be 
seen by the hat and shawl hung up over their heads. For 

' This was published in 1826; such a speed would not be considered 
excessive in our days. — Tb. 

^ Compare this with what is said on page 297 about " Restaurants at 
fixed prices"; see also note, p. 298. — Tb. 

(294) 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS 

a long time they have had nothing to say to each other; 
they made up their minds to go to the theatre, and the 
odds are that one of them will fall asleep. 

A little further are two lovers; it may be concluded that 
they are so, from the attentions of the one, the pretty ways 
of the other, and the gourmandise of both. Pleasure sparkles 
in their eyes; and from the choice which presides over the 
ordering of their meal, the present is sufficient to guess the 
past, and foresee the future. 

In the centre is a table surroimded by regular customers, 
who generally pay less than strangers, and dine at a fixed 
price. They know all the waiters by name, who tell them 
in confidence what dishes are quite fresh and which are 
stale. These customers form the stock of the dining-room, 
and, as it were, a nucleus around which other groups gather; 
or rather, they are like the decoy ducks used in Brittany 
to lure wild ducks. 

People are also to be found there whom everybody 
knows by sight, but whose name no one knows. They are 
at their ease, as if they were at home, and frequently try 
to enter into conversation with their neighbours. They 
belong to some of those people only to be met with in 
Paris; and who, having neither property, capital, nor in- 
dustry, nevertheless, spend a good deal of money. 

Finally, here and there may be seen some strangers, 
especially English, who stuff themselves with double por- 
tions of meat, order everything that is expensive, drink the 
most heady wines, and sometimes require assistance to 
leave the table. 

The exactness of this picture can be verified any day, and 
if it stimulates our curiosity, it may perhaps cast a cloud 
upon our moral feelings. 

(295) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

INCONVENIENCE OP RESTAURANTS 

141. There is no doubt that the occasion and the attrac- 
tion of the different objects to be found in a restaurant may 
lead many persons into spending a larger sum than they 
intended. Perhaps they have given indigestions to a few 
delicate stomachs, and been the cause of some unseason- 
able sacrifices on the altar of "Venus cloaca." 

What is much more ominous for society is, that it is 
almost certain that eating alone engenders egotism, accus- 
toms a person only to care for himself, isolates him from 
everything around him, and teaches him not to show any 
polite attentions. By such conduct before, during, and 
after the meal, it is easy to distinguish, in ordinary society, 
among the guests those who dine habitually at a restau- 
rant.* 

COMPETITION 

142. We have already stated that the establishment of 
restaurants was of great importance for the foimdation of 
gastronomic science. 

In fact, as soon as experience showed that a single dish, 
well cooked, was sufficient to make the fortime of the 
inventor, self-interest, acting as a powerful motive, kindled 
every imagination, and set all the cooks to work. 

Analysis has discovered the esculent parts in substances, 

which up to the present time were reputed useless; new 

foods have been found; the old ones have been improved 

on; and both have been combined in a thousand different 

' Let one example sufiSce: when a dish with a fowl, or anything cut 
up, is sent round, the men help themselves first, and then place the dish 
before them, without passing it to their neighbour, for whom they are 
not accustomed to care. 

(296) 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS 

manners. Foreign inventions have been imported; the 
entire imiverse has been laid under contribution, and it 
may be truly said that during some of our meals a complete 
course of food-geography might be held. 

RESTAURANTS AT FIXED PRICES 

143. Whilst gastronomy thus moved upwards, as well in 
discoveries as in expense — for new things have always to 
be paid for — the same motive, that is to say, the hope of 
gaining money, made it take an opposite direction, at least 
as regards expenses. 

Some restaurant-keepers thought that by giving good 
meals at a moderate price they would attract men of mod- 
erate means, who are, of course, most numerous, and thus 
get a great many customers. 

They endeavoured to find provisions of not too high a 
price, and which might be made agreeable by being well 
cooked. 

In butcher's meat, which is always good in Paris, and in 
sea-fish, to be found there in abundance,^ they had an un- 
failing resource, supplemented by vegetables and fruits, 
which now gardeners always sell cheap. 

They calculated what was strictly necessary to fill a 
stomach of ordinary capacity, and to quench any thirst, 
other than a dog's. 

They observed that many foods are only expensive when 

quite new, or when first in season; and that they could be 

ofi"ered a little later at a much cheaper rate; finally, they 

came gradually to such precision that, whilst gaining 25 or 

* Sea-fish is not even now abundant in Paris, and cannot have been 
so in 1825, before railways were iised! In justice to our author, how- 
ever, let us state that the Almanack des gourmands for 1825 also speaks 
of the abundance of sea-fish in the French capital. — Tr. 

(297) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

30 per cent., they were able to give to their customers for 
two francs, or even less, a pretty good dinner, and with 
which any decent man ought to be satisfied; for it would 
cost at least a thousand francs a month to have in a pri- 
vate house a table as well provided for and with as much 
variety.^ 

Restaurant-keepers, considered from this last point of 
view, have rendered an important service to that interest- 
ing part of the population of every large town, composed of 
strangers, military men, and clerks; and they have been 
led by their interest to solve a problem which seemed diffi- 
cult, namely, to give people good cheer at a moderate price, 
and even very cheap. 

Restaurant-keepers who have followed this S3^tem have 
not been less liberally rewarded than their brethren who 
catered for the upper classes. They have not suffered so 
many reverses as those who were on the top of the culinary 
ladder, and their fortune, although not made so quickly, 
was more certain; for if they made less money at once, they 
made it every day; and it is a mathematical truth that 
when an equal number of units has been collected in one 
point an equal total will be given, whether they are united 
by tens, or whether they are collected one by one. 

Gastronomers have retained the names of many artists 
who shone in Paris since the adoption of restaurants, and 
amongst them we can name Beauvilliers, M^ot, Robert, 
Rose, Legacque, the brothers Very, Henneveu, and 
Baleine. 

' A pretty good dinner is now not to be got for two francs in Paris, 
and a very ordinary dinner d prix fixe costs at least five francs. There 
are' still around the Palais-royal restaurants which pretend to give 
a dinner for two francs and a half, but I should not advise anybody to 
try them. See also note, p. 310. — Tr. 

(298) 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS 

Some of the establishments owed their prosperity to 
special causes, as the Veau qui tette to sheep's trotters, the 
... to boiled tripe, ' the Frhres Provengaux, to cod, stewed 
with a slight flavour of garlic. Very to truffled entrSes, 
Robert to diimers ordered, Baleine to the care he always 
took to have good fish, and Henneveu to the mysterious 
boudoirs on his fourth story. 

But of all the heroes of gastronomy, no one has a greater 
right to a biographical notice than Beauvilliers, who died 
about the year 1820.* 

BEAXrVILLIEES 

144. Beauvilliers, established since 1782, has been for 
more than fifteen years the most famous restaurateur of 
Paris.' 

To begin with: his rooms are elegant and his waiters are 
well-dressed; he has a good cellar and a first-rate cuisine, 
and when a few amongst those we have named attempted 
to vie with him, he fought the good fight without any dis- 
advantage, for he had but a few steps to take to follow the 
progress of gastronomic science. 

During the successive occupations of Paris in 1814 and 
1815, carriages of all kinds and of every nation were con- 

1 "How say you to a fat tripe, finely broiled? " — Shakespeare's Taitt- 
ing of the Shrew, iv, 3. — Tb. 

' Not one of the celebrated restaurants mentioned by our author 
exists at the present moment, except the Freres ProcenQavx, but much 
shorn of its former greatness. The brandade de morue, still very good 
there, has too decided a taste of garlic to please English gastronomers. — 
Tb. 

' Beauvilliers had been chef of the Coimt of Provence, afterwards 
Louis XVIII. At the date of the publication of the Physiohgie du OoOi 
(1826), his sons were established at No. 26 Rue de Richelieu, and, I sup- 
pose, in compliment to their English customers, called their restaurant 
A la Grande Taveme de Londres. — Te. 

( 299) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

stantly to be seen before his establishment; he knew all the 
principal officers of the different foreign troops of the army 
of occupation, and was at last able to address them in their 
own tongue, at least as much as was necessary for business 
transactions. 

Beauvilliers published, towards the end of his life, a work 
in two octavo volumes, entitled L'Art du Cuisinier, the 
fruit of his long experience, which bears the stamp of a 
practical mind, and is still as much esteemed as on its first 
appearance. Until his book saw the light, gastronomic art 
had never been treated with such care and method; several 
editions have smoothed the way for works coming after it, 
but none of them is an improvement upon it. 

Beauvilliers had a prodigious memory; he recognised and 
welcomed men who had only dined at his house once or 
twice, after not having seen them for twenty years. In cer- 
tain cases his method was also peculiar to himself. 

When he knew that a company of wealthy men dined in 
his rooms, he came up to them in a most polite manner, 
paid his respects to them, and appeared to devote quite 
special attention to his guests. 

He pointed out a dish which might be passed over, an- 
other that should be taken without delay, ordered a third 
of which no one had thought, sent for wine from a cellar of 
which he alone kept the key, and all this in so pleasant and 
courteous a manner, that such orders seemed so many per- 
sonal favours on his part. But Beauvilliers' appearance as 
host only lasted a moment; then he withdrew, and soon 
after the bloated bill and the bitterness of the mauvais quart 
d'heure de Rabelais^ were sufficient proof that people had 
been dining at his establishment. 

' Rabelais (1495-1553) was one day at a country inn, and had not 
(300) 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS 

Beauvilliers made, unmade, and remade his fortune 
many times. We do not know what was his pecuniary con- 
dition when death overtook him, but he had so many ways 
of spending money that we do not think his heirs were much 
enriched by what he left. 

THE GASTEONOMEK AT THE EESTAURANT 

145. On examining the menus of various restaurants of 

the first class, and especially those of the brothers Very and 

the Freres Provengaux, it will be seen that any one who goes 

to a good dining-room has at his disposal as elements of his 

dinner at least 

12 soups. 12 of pastry. 

24 side-dishes. 24 of fish. 

15 to 20 erUrSes of beef. 15 roasts. 

20 entries of mutton. 60 entremets. 

30 entrSes of poultry and game. 50 desserts. 
15 or 20 of veal. 

Moreover, the gastronomer may wash down all these 
dishes with at least thirty kinds of wine, from Burgundy to 
Tokay or Constantia,^ and twenty or thirty different sorts 
of liqueurs, without counting coffee, and such mixtures as 
punch, negus, syllabub,^ and so forth. 

Amongst the various parts that constitute the dinner of 

sufficient money to pay his bill. He made up three small packets of 
brick dust, on which he wrote "poison for the king," "poison for the 
king's brother," "poison for the king's son." His landlord informed 
against him, and he was removed to Paris, where he confessed that 
not being able to settle his score, he had adopted this way of being 
brought free of cost to the capital; hence the proverbial expression. 
— Tb. 

' When our author wrote, the only Cape wine known in France was 
the excellent, though rather sweet and luscious, "Constantia"; the 
original has, however, Vin du Cap, which must not be mistaken for the 
ordinary "Cape sherry." — Tb. 

2 This English word has been adopted by Brillat-Savarin; it is not 
even in Littre's Dictionary. — Tb. 

(301) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

a connoisseur, the principal ingredients come from France, 
such as butchers' meat, poultry, and fruits; others are in 
imitation of English ones, such as beefsteak, welsh-rabbit, 
punch, etc.; others come from Germany, as "sauerkraut," 
Hamburg beef, fillets from the Black Forest; others from 
Spain, as the olla podrida, garbanzos, Malaga raisins, pep- 
pered hams from Xerica, and liqueur- wines; others from 
Italy, as macaroni, Parmesan cheese, Bologna sausages, 
polenta, ices, liqueurs; some from Russia, as dried meats, 
smoked eels, caviare; some from Holland, as cod, cheese, 
pickled herrings, curagao, and anisette; some from Asia, 
as Indian rice, sago, curry, soy, Shiraz wine, and coffee; 
some from Africa, as Constantia; some from America, as 
sweet potatoes, pine apples, chocolate, vanilla, sugar, and 
so forth, which furnishes sufficient proof of the truth of 
what we have stated in another part of this book, namely, 
that a dinner, such as can be had in Paris, is thoroughly 
cosmopolitan, to which every quarter of the globe furnishes 
some of its products. 



MEDITATION XXIX 
CLASSICAL GOUBMANDISE PUT INTO PRACTICE 

HISTORY OF M. DE BOKOSE 

146. M. DE BoKOSE was born about 1780. His father was 
secretary to the king; he lost his parents when quite young, 
and then found himself possessor of an income of forty 
thousand francs, which was at that time a very handsome 
fortime; but which now is only just sufficient not to die of 
starvation. 

A paternal uncle took care of his education. He learnt 
Latin, but was surprised that a man who can express every- 
thing in French should give himself so much trouble in 
learning to say the same things in another language. 
Nevertheless, he made some progress, and after having 
read Horace, became converted, took a great pleasure in 
meditating on ideas clothed in such elegant words, and did 
his utmost well to understand the language in which that 
intelligent poet had written. 

He also learnt music, and, after many trials with other 
instruments, only played the piano. He did not throw 
himself into the endless difficulties of that musical instru- 
ment,' but he used it as it ought to be used, and was satis- 
fied when he knew enough to accompany a song. 

As he did not push himself forward, nor move his arms 

^ The piano should facilitate the composition of music, and serve as 
an accompaniment to the voice. Played alone it has neither warmth 
nor expression. The Spaniards call bordanear the humming sound pro- 
duced by stringed instruments. 

( 303 ) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

about, nor turn up his eyes,* he was even preferred to pro- 
fessional musicians, the more so as he tried conscientiously 
to sustain the voice of the lady who sang, so that she could 
show her talent to advantage, which every accompanist 
ought to do. 

Protected by his age, he traversed without accident the 
most terrible times of the Revolution; but he was called 
upon to serve in the army, and paid for a man who went 
bravely in his place to be killed for him. Provided with the 
legal proof of the death of his alter ego,^ he found himself in 
a good position to celebrate our triumphs, and to bewail 
our reverses. 

M. de Borose was of middling height, but was perfectly 
well made. As for his face, it indicated his fondness for 
good living; and we shall give an idea of it, by saying that if 
he had been in the same room with Gavaudan of the Th^ 
§,tre des Varietes, Michot of the Theatre Frangais, and the 
song-writer D&augiers, every one would have thought 
they were members of one and the same family.' On the 

* French musical technical slang: /aire Us bras, is to raise the elbow 
and the upper part of the arm, as if one's feelings overcame one; faire 
les yeiix, is to turn the eyes towards heaven, as if one was going to faint; 
faire des hrioohes, is to miss a single stroke or an intonation. (Bbillat- 
Savabin.) a brioche, is a cake, and the term faire une brioche, according 
to Loredan Larchey's Dictionnaire de l' Argot parisien, is now applied to 
any blunder, and owes its origin to the cakes bought in fonner times by 
the musicians of the opera, with the fines levied on their comrades who 
played out of tune. — Th. 

2 The original has "Sosie/' the slave of Amphitryon, in MoMre's play 
of that name, in which Mercury assumes the form of Sosia, and Jupiter 
that of Amphitryon; and the mistakes and confusion which conse- 
quently arise, resemble those of the brothers Antipholus and their serv- 
ants the brothers Dromio in Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors. — Tb. 

" Jean Baptiste Sauveur Gavaudan (1772-1840) was a well-known 
Parisian actor and singer, and Antoine Michot (1759-1830), in his time 
an actor of some repute. Marie Antoine Madeleine D&augiers (1772- 
1827), one of the best known song- writers and dramatic authors of 

(304) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

whole, it was generally admitted he was a fine-looking fel- 
low, and sometimes he had some reasons to think himself so. 

To select a profession was for him an affair of importance. 
He tried many; but he found them always more or less 
inconvenient, and thus remained without doing anything 
for a long time; in other words, he was admitted into several 
literary societies, became a member on the Committee of 
his parish, subscribed to various philanthropical societies; 
and looked after his own money-matters, which he man- 
aged admirably, so that he had as much to do as any other 
man, and had his correspondence and his study. 

When he was twenty-eight years old, he thought that it 
was time to get married; he only wished to see his intended 
at dinner, and after he had met her three times he was per- 
fectly convinced that she was as intelligent as she was good 
and pretty. 

The conjugal happiness of M. de Borose lasted but a 
short time; scarcely eighteen months after his marriage his 
wife died in childbed, leaving him to bewail for ever so 
short a happiness, and as a consolation a daughter, whom 
he named Herminie, and of whom we shall speak later on. 

M. de Borose amused himself pretty well with various 
occupations he had undertaken. Nevertheless, he at last 
began to perceive that even the most select company was 
not without its pretensions, patronising airs, and some- 
times a little jealousy. He knew that there exists no human 
being without faults, that no one is perfect; but went, 
nevertheless, a good deal in society, imconsciously followed 
the dictates of Fate, impressed on his countenance, and 
gradually found in gastronomy his principal enjoyment. 

France, was also for many years manager of the Paris Vaudeville Theatre. 
— Tb. 

(305) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

M. de Borose used to say that gastronomy is nothing but 
reflection and appreciation combined, apphed to a branch 
of science which ameliorates human beings. 

He said, with Epicurus,* "Is man then made to despise 
the gifts of Nature? Does he only come into the world to 
gather bitter fruits? For whom are these flowers which the 
gods cause to grow at the feet of mortals? It is to obey the 
will of Providence that we abandon ourselves to our vari- 
ous innate inclinations; our duties spring from His laws, 
our ideas from His inspirations." 

He used to say also with the stout professor, that good 
things are intended for good men;^ otherwise we should fall 
into the absurdity of thinking that God had only created 
them for the wicked. 

The first labour that M. de Borose undertook was a con- 
versation with his cook, in which he intended to show him 
what were his duties considered in their true light. 

He told him that an expert cook, who might be a scien- 
tific man in theory, was always one in practice; that by 
virtue of his office his place was between the chemist and 
the physician. He went even as far as to say that a cook, 
who had to keep the animal mechanism in good order, was 
above the druggist, whose use is only occasional. 

He added, with a doctor as witty as learned,' that "a 
cook should study the art of modifying foods by the action 
of fire, an art unknown to the ancients. This art requires, 
in our days, study and skilled combination. A man must 

1 Alibert (1766-1837), Physiologie des Passions, I. 

2 Sibusien, stout, in the original is a word invented by our author, 
probably from the Latin sebosus, and not to be found in any French 
dictionary. But was Professor Alibert abnormally stout? Was it not 
also Dr. Johnson who used to say, "Good things are not made for fools 
alone"? — Tb. 

' Alibert, Physiologie des Passions, i. 

(306) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

have investigated for a long time the productions of the 
globe to employ cleverly the seasonings and disguise the 
bitterness of certain meats, to render others more savoury, 
and to employ the best ingredients. A cook in Europe is 
pre-eminent in the art of arranging these marvellous com- 
binations." 

The allocution had its eflfect, and the chef,'^ penetrated 
with his importance, was never behind the dignity of his 
office. 

A little time, experience, and reflection, soon taught 
M. de Borose that the number of dishes being almost 
determined by custom, a good dinner is not much dearer 
than a bad one; that it does not cost 500 francs a year more 
to drink always very good wine; and that everything 
depends on the will of the master, the order he keeps in 
his household, and the energy he imparts to all his ser- 
vants. 

Starting from those fundamental principles, the dinners 
of M. de Borose assumed a classical and solemn character; 
their reputation for refinement spread abroad; people were 
proud of having been invited by him, and many praised his 
dinners who had never been at his house. 

He never invited those so-called gastronomers who are 
mere gluttons, whose belly is an abyss, and who eat every- 
where, of anything, and everything. He found among his 
friends as many pleasant guests as he liked; they ate their 
diimer with a really philosophical attention, devoted to it 
all the time it requires, and never forgot that there is a 

' In a well-appointed house, the cook is called ch^. He has imder 
tiini an assistant, for the entries, a pastry-cook, a roast-cook, and scul- 
lions, — the pantry is a, separate institution. The scullions are in the 
kitchen what the boys are on board ship; like them, they are often 
beaten, and also, like them, sometimes make their way. 

(307) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

moment when reason says to appetite: non procedes amplius, 
you shall not go further. 

It often happened that provision merchants brought 
him articles of the best quality, and that they preferred to 
sell them to him at a moderate price, because they were 
certain that these articles would be consumed calmly and 
thoughtfully, that they would be mentioned in society, 
and that the reputation of their shops would be propor- 
tionably increased. 

The number of guests at the house of M. de Borose rarely 
exceeded nine, and the dishes were not very numerous; but 
the superintendence of the master, and his exquisite taste, 
rendered them perfect. On his table appeared always what 
was in season and what was best, either on account of its 
rarity, or on account of its being early; whilst the servants 
were as attentive as could be wished. 

During the meal the conversation was always general, 
lively, and often instructive, which last quality was 
due to a very particular precaution that M. de Borose 
took. 

Every week a scientific but not very rich man, to whom 
he paid a yearly allowance, came down from his garret and 
laid before him a series of topics proper to be discussed at 
table. The host took care to put them forward when the 
topics of the day began to be exhausted, and thus the con- 
versation revived and shortened so much the more those 
political discussions which disturb ingestion as well as 
digestion. 

Twice a week he invited ladies, taking care so to arrange 
matters that each of them should find among the guests a 
gentleman who would be exclusively attentive to her. This 
precaution made his society very agreeable, for even the 

(308) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

most severe prude is humiliated when no notice is taken of 
her. 

On those days alone, a quiet game of icart^ was allowed; 
on other days, only piquet and whist were tolerated, for 
they are grave and thoughtful games, and denote in their 
players a caxeful education. But generally a pleasant con- 
versation filled up the whole evening, interrupted now and 
then by a few songs, which M. de Borose accompanied on 
the piano with a talent we have already mentioned, and for 
which he received an ovation which he did not at all dislike. 

On the first Monday of every month, the parish-priest 
came to dine with his parishioner, and was certain to be 
received with esteem and respect. On that day the con- 
versation took a more serious tone, but it did not exclude 
harmless pleasantry. The venerable pastor never refused 
to come to those delightful meetings, and it is said that he 
sometimes wished that every month had four first Mon- 
days. On the same day young Miss Herminie de Borose left 
the boarding-school of Madame Migneron,' who usually 
accompanied her pupil. At each visit the young girl dis- 
played some fresh charm; she adored her father, and when 
he imprinted a kiss on her brow, no human beings could be 
more happy than they were. 

De Borose took care that the expenses of his table should 
always be profitable to morality. 

He only dealt with those tradesmen who were known to 
him as being honourable and just in their dealings and mod- 
erate in their prices; he sang their praises, and helped them 

' Our author bestows in a note great praise on the scholastic-establish- 
ment for young ladies of Madame Migneron-Remy, rue de Valois, fau- 
bourg du Roule, No. 4, which was "under the patronage of the Duchess 
of Orleans"; but the lady has probably been for a long time gathered 
to her fathers, and the school does not exist any more. — Tb. 

(309) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

if they needed it; for he also used to say that people who 
are in too great a hurry to make their fortune, are not over 
delicate in their way of making it. His wine-merchant 
became very soon wealthy, for it was said that he never 
adulterated what he sold — a virtue very rare even among 
the Athenians in the times of Pericles, and by no means 
common in the nineteenth century. 

We believe that it was he who gave advice to Hurbain, 
a restaurant-keeper in the Palais Royal at Paris, where one 
could get for two francs a dinner which elsewhere would 
have cost more than double, and who is on a safe road to 
fortune, because his customers increase, attracted by his 
moderate prices.' 

The dishes from his table, which were not quite finished, 
were not left to the discretion of the servants, who were 
well paid; everything that looked well was sent away to 
the destitute. 

Being a member of the Charity Committee, he came to 
know the wants and the morality of a great number of the 
poor, and was sure for his gifts to be well received; so that 
some food, still appetising, from time to time drove away 
hunger and gladdened the heart; such as part of a large 
pike, the back of a turkey, a piece of fillet, pastry, and so 
forth. 

' Hurbain does not exist any more; let the lover of good cheer, who 
imagines that a decent dinner is still to be got in Paris for a moderate 
price, drop a tear to his memory! I do not know what the late M. Hur- 
bain's dinners at two francs may have been; but I find in the Nouvel 
Almanach des Gourmands, published in Paris in 1825, one year before 
the Physiologie du GaOi made its appearance, in an article La Jcmmie 
(T un Oourmand, the following words: "In order to mortify myself, ac- 
cording to the precepts of oui religion, I sometimes dine in a restaurant. 
The usual price of my dinner is 24 francs." Of course the editor is a gour- 
mand, who has a yearly income of £800; but there is some difference 
between two francs and twenty-four. — Tb. 

(310) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

But to render his presents still more acceptable, he 
always took care to let people know what he was going to 
send them on a Monday morning, or after a public holi- 
day, — thus preventing the necessity of not doing any 
work during holidays, and the inconvenience of keeping 
"St. Monday," ^ and making of a love for nice things an 
antidote to debauchery. 

When M. de Borose discovered some small tradesmen 
married and comfortably settled, and whose prudent con- 
duct showed qualities on which the prosperity of nations is 
based, he went to pay them a visit, and considered it his 
duty to ask them to dine with him. 

On the day appointed the young wife always met at 
M. de Borose's house some ladies who spoke to her of the 
duties of a mistress of a house; whilst the husband met men 
who could talk about commerce and manufactures. Those 
invitations, of which the purpose was known, were finally 
considered as a distinction, and every one was eager to 
deserve them. 

While all these things took place, the youthful Herminie 
grew and developed; and we owe to our readers a portrait 
of the daughter as an integral part of the biography of the 
father. 

1 Most workmen in Paris work on Sunday to finish what they have 
begun; then they take it back to their employer, receive their wagea 
go away and amuse themselves for the rest of the day. 

On Monday morning they meet in little parties, club together all 
the money that is still left, and do not leave each other until all is 
spent. 

This state of things, which was strictly true ten years ago, has become 
a little improved, thanks to the attention paid by the masters of large 
workshops, and owing to the establishment of savings-banks; but the 
evil is yet very great, and a good deal of time and labour is wasted, 
which is spent in tea-gardens, with restaxirant-keepers, in taverns, and 
public-houses in the suburbs and all round Paris. 

(311) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Miss Herminie de Borose is five feet one inch in height, 
and her figure combines the slender form of a nymph with 
the charms of a goddess. 

The only fruit of a happy marriage, she enjoys perfect 
health, whilst her physical strength is great; she dreads 
neither heat nor sunshine, and is not afraid of long walks. 

At a little distance she might be thought of dark com- 
plexion; but, on approaching her, we perceive that she has 
dark chestnut-coloured hair, that her eyebrows are black, 
and that her eyes are the colour of the sky. 

Most of her features are classical, but the nose is French. 
This charming nose produces such a delightful impression, 
that a committee of artists sat during three dinners, and 
decided that this wholly French and typical nose is at least 
as worthy as any other to be immortalised by the pencil, 
the chisel, or the graver. 

The foot of this beautiful girl is very small and well- 
shaped. The professor praised, and even flattered her so 
much, that in the year 1825 her father allowed her to make 
him a present of a pretty little satin shoe, which he shows 
to a select few, to prove that extreme sociability acts on 
shape as well as on persons; for the professor pretends that 
a little foot, such as is admired at the present time, is pro- 
duced by care and culture, is almost never found ajtnong 
country people, and denotes nearly always a young lady 
whose ancestors have long been in comfortable circumstances. 

When Herminie has stuck a comb in her hair and arrayed 
herself in a simple dress with a ribbon round her waist, 
everybody is delighted with her, and no one imagines that 
flowers, pearls, or diamonds could add any lustre to her 
beauty. Her conversation is simple and easy, and no one 
would think that she has read all our best authors; but 

(312) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

occasionally she gets excited, and then her intelligent re- 
marks betray her secret. As soon as she perceives this, she 
blushes, casts down her eyes, and her heightened colour 
proves her modesty. 

Miss de Borose plays as well the piano as the harp; 
but she prefers the latter instrument, through some enthu- 
siastic sentiment for the celestial harps on which the angels 
play, and for the golden harps celebrated by Ossian. 

Her voice is sweet and of angelic perfection, which does 
not prevent her from being a little timid; nevertheless she 
sings without needing much persuasion; but when she 
begins, she never fails to cast upon her audience a bewitch- 
ing glance, so that she might sing out of tune, as so many 
other young girls do, and no one would perceive it. 

She does not neglect needlework, an innocent source of 
enjoyment, ajid a resource ever at hand against irksome- 
ness; she sews Hke a fairy, and whenever some new fashion 
comes out, some forewoman of a well-known establishment 
generally comes and shows it to her. The heart of Her- 
minie had not yet spoken, and filial love has up to the 
present time been sufficient for her happiness. 

She is very fond of dancing, so that when she takes her 
place in a quadrille, she appears to be two inches taller, 
and one would think she was going to fly away; neverthe- 
less, her steps are quiet and without pretension, and she 
contents herself with moving about lightly, like an amiable 
and pleasant young lady; but accidentally she betrays that 
she might dance better if she would, and then one suspects 
that Madame Montessu* would have had a rival. 
"Even when the bird walks, we see that it has wings." 

That charming girl had left boarding-school, and lived 
* A celebrated dancer of the time. — Tk. 
(313) 



A HANDBOOK OP GASTRONOMY 

happily with M. de Borose, who enjoyed a fortune well 
managed, Wcis deservedly esteemed by every one, and im- 
agined that he had yet a long career before him. But all 
hope is illusory, and none can answer for the future. 

About the middle of last March, M. de Borose was ui- 
•vited to spend a day in the country with a few friends. 

It was one of those days unseasonably warm, a fore- 
runner of spring, and on the distant horizon some of those 
dull roars were heard, which have given rise to the prover- 
bial saying, "Winter is breaking its neck," but which did 
not prevent M. de Borose and his friends from going out to 
take a walk. 

Nevertheless, the sky soon looked threatening, the clouds 
gathered, and a frightful storm burst forth with thunder, 
rain, and hail. 

Everybody ran for safety as they could, and where they 
could. M. de Borose sought shelter under a poplar, whose 
lower branches, bending towards the ground, seemed to 
offer some protection. 

It proved an unhappy shelter! The top of the tree rose 
to the clouds as if to attract the electric fluid, and the rain 
falling down the brajiches served as its conductor. All 
at once a fearful explosion was heard, and the unfortu- 
nate man fell dead without having had time to breathe a 
sigh. 

Taken away by the death Caesar always wished for,* and 
of which the least said the better, M. de Borose was interred 
with the most complete religious ceremonies, and was fol- 
lowed to the cemetery of P^re La Chaise by a number of 
people on foot and in carriages: his praises were in every 

' It is said that Csesar always wished to die suddenly. See Suetonius, 
Jidiua CcBsar, §87. — Tb. 

(314) 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE 

one's mouth, and when a friendly voice pronounced over 
his tomb a touching speech, it was reechoed in the hearts 
of every bystander. 

Herminie was overwhehned by so great and so unex- 
pected a misfortune; she did not have any convulsions or 
nervous fits, she did not seek to conceal her sorrows in her 
own room; but she mourned her father so deeply, so long, 
and bitterly, that her friends thought the very excess of 
her grief would become its remedy, for we are not made of 
such stern stuff as to be able to bear for any length of time 
such overpowering feelings. 

Time, after all, exercised its usual influence on this 
youthful heart; Herminie was able to hear the name of her 
father without melting in tears; but she spoke of him with 
such gentle piety, and such artless regret, with so true a 
love and with such heartfelt words, that it was impossible 
to hear her, and not to share in her emotion. 

Happy will be the man to whom Herminie gives the 
right of accompanying her, and of laying with her a funeral 
wreath on the tomb of their father! 

In a side-chapel of the church of ... is to be seen every 
Sunday, at the twelve o'clock mass, a lady of a certain age 
accompanying a tall and good-looking young girl, whose 
figure is charming, but whose countenance is concealed by 
a thick veil. Nevertheless, her features seem to be known, 
for around the chapel can be seen a crowd of young men 
who have only lately become pious, who are elegantly 
dressed, and of whom some are very good-looking. * 

^ It is now almost impossible to discover why our author devoted 
so many pages to the education, accomplishments, and charms of Miss 
Hennime de Borose, whilst remaining silent about her gastronomic 
exploits. We did, however, not feel oittselves called upon to omit these 
pages. — Tb. 

(315) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

THE BETINUE OP AN HEIRESS 

147. As I was going one day from the Rue de la Paix to 
the Place Vend6me, I was stopped by the retinue of the 
richest heiress of Paris, a young lady of marriageable age, 
who was then coming from the Bois de Boulogne. 

It was composed as follows: — 

1. The fair young lady, the object of all desires, on a 
very fine bay horse, which she managed skilfully, dressed 
in a blue riding-habit with a long train, and having on her 
head a black hat with white feathers. 

2. Her guardian, walking by her side, with the grave 
countenance and the important appearance belonging to 
his functions. 

3. Twelve or fifteen young men on horseback, all trying 
to distinguish themselves, either by the attentions they 
showed her, or by their hippiatric address, or by their 
melanchoHc looks. 

4. An en-cas^ drawn by magnificent horses, to be used in 
case of rain or fatigue; on the box a very corpulent coach- 
man, and behind a very small "tiger." 

5. Servants on horseback, in all kinds of liveries, in great 
number, and pell-mell. 

They passed on . . . and I continued my meditations. 

' An erircas seems to mean here "a carriage containing limch." £71- 
cas were the meals called, always held ready for Louis XIV and Na- 
poleon I, in case they should feel hungry. If merely a carriage were 
meant, I cannot see why our author should describe "the retinue of 
an heiress." — Tb. 



MEDITATION XXX 
BOUQUET 

GASTHONOMICAL MYTHOLOGY 

148. Gastehea is the tenth muse. She presides over the 
enjoyments of taste. 

She might lay claim to the empire of the universe, for 
the universe is nothing without life, and all that has life 
requires nourishment. 

She delights specially to dwell on those banks where the 
vine flourishes, or on those which the orange tree perfumes, 
in the thickets where the truflle is developed, and in the 
countries which abound in game and fruit. 

When she deigns to show herself, she appears under the 
form of a young girl; her belt is the colour of fire, her hair 
is black, her eyes azure blue, and her figure full of grace. 
As beautiful as Venus, she is, above all, the queen of loveli- 
ness. 

She shows herself rarely to mortals; but her statue con- 
soles them for her invisibility. Only one sculptor has been 
admitted to contemplate so many charms; and such has 
been the success of this artist, beloved by the gods, that 
whoever sees his work, believes he recognises the features 
of the woman he most loved. 

Of all the places where Gasterea has altars, the one she 
prefers is that town, queen of the world, which the Seine 
imprisons between the marbles of its palaces. 

Her temple is built on that celebrated mountain to 
(317) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

which Mars has given his name,' and stands on an im- 
mense block of white marble, which can be approached by 
a hundred steps from all sides. 

It is in this venerated structure that are excavated those 
mysterious caverns, where Art interrogates Nature, and 
submits her to its laws. 

It is there that air, water, iron, and fire, put into motion 
by skilful hands, divide, combine, triturate, amalgamate, 
and produce effects of which the vulgar do not know the 
cause. 

It is from this spot, finally, that come, at definite times, 
those marvellous recipes whose authors desire to remain 
imknown, because their happiness lies in their conscience, 
and because their reward consists in thinking that they 
have enlarged the limits of science, and procured to men 
new enjoyments. 

The temple, a unique monument of simple and majestic 
architecture, is supported by four hundred columns of 
oriental jasper, and lighted by a dome imitating the celes- 
tial vault. 

We will not enter into the details of the marvels contained 
in this edifice; let it suffice to state that the sculptures 
ornamenting the pediment, as well as the bas-reliefs that 
decorate the enclosure, are consecrated to the memory of 
men who have deserved well of their country by useful 
inventions, such as the apphcation of fire to the wants of 
life, the invention of the plough, and so forth. 

Far from the dome, and within the sanctuary, the statue 
of the goddess can be seen; she has her left hand leaning on 
an oven, and holds in her right hand the productions most 
beloved by those who worship her. 

1 Montmartre. — Tb. 
(318) 



BOUQUET 

She stands underneath a crystal canopy, supported by 
eight columns of the same material; and these columns, 
continually inundated by electric light,' produce in this 
sacred spot a brightness almost divine. 

The worship of this goddess is simple: every day, at sun- 
rise, her priests come to take away the crown of flowers 
which adorns her statue, placiag on it a fresh one, and sing- 
ing in chorus one of the numerous hymns by which poetry 
has celebrated the boons which this immortal being sheds 
upon the human race. 

These priests, to the number of twelve, presided over by 
the oldest, are chosen among the most learned; and the 
handsomest, all things being equal, obtain the preference. 
They are of mature age, ajid can become old, but never 
decrepit, for the air which they breathe in the temple pre- 
vents this. 

The feasts of the goddess are equal in number to the days 
of the year, for she never ceases to shower down her kind- 
nesses; but among these days there is one specially conse- 
crated to her, namely, the 21st September, termed the 
grand gastronomic festival.'' 

On this solemn day the queenly-town is from early morn- 
ing covered with a cloud of incense; the people, crowned 
with flowers, traverse the streets, singing the praises of the 
goddess; the inhabitants call each other most endearing 
names; all hearts are full of the sweetest emotions; the 
atmosphere is laden with sympathy, and disperses every- 
where feelings of love and friendship. 

A part of the day is passed in such effusions, and at the 

1 In the original flamme Slectrique. "O! my prophetic soul! mine 
uncle! " as Shakespeare says. Electric light in 1826! — Tr. 

2 The original has hahl, from an Arab word, meaning "to pray." — Te. 

(319) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

hour ordained by custom the crowds flock towards the 
temple where the sacred banquet must be celebrated. 

In the sanctuary, at the foot of the statue, is erected a 
table for the college of the priests. Another table of twelve 
hundred covers is also in readiness under the dome for the 
guests of both sexes. All the arts have combined to adorn 
these festive tables. Nothing so elegant has ever been seen 
in the palaces of kings. 

The priests make their appearance with a grave and seri- 
ous mien. They are clad in a white tunic of cashmere wool, 
with flesh-coloured embroidery around its edges, whilst a 
belt of the same colour retains its folds. Their countenance 
denotes health and benevolence; they sit down after having 
bowed to each other. 

Then servants, dressed in fine linen, place food before 
them, but not the ordinary dishes prepared to appease the 
wants of the vulgar; naught is served up at this august 
table which is not thought worthy of it, and which is not 
transcendentally exquisite, as well by the choice of materi- 
als as by the labour bestowed upon it. 

The venerable guests are more than able to fulfil their 
functions; their peaceful and substantial conversation is all 
about the marvels of creation and the power of gastronomic 
art; they eat slowly and taste attentively; the motion of 
their jaws has a somewhat velvety sound: it may be said 
that every bite has its own particular intonation; and if 
they happen to moisten with their tongue their shiny lips, 
the cook who has prepared the dish they have tasted 
acquires an immortal glory. 

The beverages which follow one another at intervals are 
worthy of the banquet; they are poured out by twelve 
youthful maidens, chosen, for this day only, by a committee 

(320) 



BOUQUET/ 

of painters and sculptors. They are clad in Greek tunics, 
a costume which happily enhances beauty without alarm- 
ing modesty. 

The priests of the goddess do not pretend to turn away 
their heads in a hypocritical manner, while pretty hands 
pour out for them the delicacies of the Old and New Worlds; 
but, whilst admiring the most beautiful work of the Cre- 
ator, wisdom and prudence appear always to sit on their 
brows; and the manner in which they express their thanks, 
and in which they drink, expresses both these sentiments. 

Around this mysterious table we see circulate kings, 
princes, and illustrious strangers, who have arrived ex- 
pressly from all parts of the world, walk in silence and 
observe everything attentively; they have come to be 
instructed in the great art of eating well — a difficult art, 
and of which entire nations are yet ignorant. 

Whilst these things take place in the sanctuary, a gen- 
eral and lively gaiety animates the guests seated around 
the table under the dome. 

This gaiety is, above all, due to the fact that not one of 
them is placed beside a woman to whom he has told every- 
thing he could tell. This is the command of the god- 
dess. 

Around this immense table have been called, by choice, 
the learned of both sexes who have enriched gastronomic 
art by their discoveries; those masters of a house who have 
fulfilled with so much charm the duties of French hospital- 
ity; the cosmopolite savants to whom society owes useful 
or agreeable importations; and those charitable men who 
nourish the poor with the remains of their superfluity. 

The centre of this table is hollowed out, and leaves 
plenty of room for a crowd of carvers and waiters, who pre- 

(321) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

sent and bring even to t^e farthest ends everything which 
the guests ask for. 

There is placed advantWeousIy everything that Nature 
in her prodigality has crqated to serve as food for man. 
There treasures are multiplied a hundredfold, not merely 
by their association, but also by the changes art has made 
them undergo. This enchanter has united the Old and the 
New Worlds, confounded all kingdoms and shortened dis- 
tances: the odour which arises from those scientific dishes 
perfumes the air, and fills it with exciting gases. 

However, some young, handsome, and well-dressed boys, 
walk round the external circle, and present incessantly 
cups filled with delicious wine, which sometimes glitters 
like a ruby, sometimes has the more modest colour of the 
topaz. 

From time to time skilled musicians, placed in the gal- 
leries of the dome, make the temple re-echo with the melo- 
dious accents of a harmony as simple as well composed. 

Then all heads are raised, and everybody becomes atten- 
tive, and during these short intervals all conversations are 
suspended; but they recommence soon with greater pleas- 
ure; for it appears as if this new present of the gods has 
given to the imagination more freshness, and to all hearts 
more confidence. 

When the pleasures of the table have filled up the time 
assigned to them, the college of priests advances to the 
edge of the enclosure; they come to take part in the ban- 
quet, to mix with the guests, and to drink with them the 
Mocha which the legislator of the East permits to his disci- 
ples. The aromatic beverage smokes in vases chased with 
gold, and the fair female acolytes of the sanctuary traverse 
the assembly to distribute the sugar, which chases away its 

(322) 



BOUQUET 

bitterness. They look charming; nevertheless, such is the 
influence of the air breathed in the temple of Gasterea, that 
no heart of any woman present is accessible to jealousy. 

Finally, the eldest of the priests entones a hymn of grati- 
tude. All the voices join in it, and the instruments play in 
unison. This homage of all hearts rises towards Heaven, 
and the service is over. 

Then only conmiences the popular banquet, for those 
are not true feasts which the people do not enjoy. 

Tables, of which the eye cannot perceive the end, are 
erected in all streets, in all squares, and before all palaces. 
People sit where they like; accident draws near all ranks, 
ages, and parishes; hands are outstretched and grasped 
with cordiality; only happy faces are visible. 

Although the great city is then only an immense dlning- 
hall, the generosity of some individuals assures abundance, 
whilst a paternal government watches with solicitude over 
the maintenance of order, so that the last limits of sobriety 
should not be overstepped. 

Soon a lively and animated music is heard. It announces 
the beginning of dancing, that exercise which young people 
like so much. 

Immense rooms, moveable platforms, have been pre- 
pared, and refreshments of every sort are not lacking. 

Large crowds hasten thither, some to dance; others to 
encourage dancing as mere spectators. It is funny to see 
some old people, animated with a transient fire, offer up to 
beauty an ephemeral homage; but the worship of the god- 
dess and the solemnity of the day excuse everything. 

The feast is kept up for a long while: happiness is general, 
and everybody is in motion; it is painful to hear the last 
hour strike, which announces that it is time to go and rest. 

(323) 



A HANDBOOK OF GASTRONOMY 

Nevertheless, no one is deaf to this appeal; everything has 
gone oS with decency; every one leaves satisfied with his 
day, and goes to skep full of hope in the events of another 
year that has commenced under such happy auspices. 



TRANSITION 

Whoeveb has read me thus far wUh thai attention I have endeav- 
oured to excite and sustain, ought to have seen that in writing I had a 
double object in view, I never lost sight of; the first was to lay down the 
theoretical basis qf Gastronomy, so that she should take her place 
among the sciences in that rank which is incontestably due to her; the 
second, to define with precision what ought to be understood by gour- 
mandise, and to separate for all time that social quality from gluttony 
and intemperance, with which it has been unfortunately confounded. 

This confusion was introduced by intolerant moralists, who, being 
deceived by an extravagant zeal, were seeing excesses where there was 
only a well^egvlaled enjoyment; for the treasures of creation have not 
been called into existence to be trod underfoot. This impression has 
been afterwards propagated by unsociable grammarians who lerote 
definitions with their eyes shut, and swore in verba magistri. 

It'is time such an error were given up, for at present there is no 
longer any misunderstanding; and this is so true that, though there is 
not a person who has not a slight spice of gourmandise in his compo- 
sition who does not pride himself in it, there is not one who will not 
consider it a gross insult to be accused of gluttony, voracity, or intern^ 
perance. 

It appears to me that what I have written on these two cardinal 
points up to the present time is equivalent to a demonstration, and 
ought to be sufficient to persuade all those who are open to conviction. 
I might, therefore, lay my pen aside and regard the task I have im- 
posed on myself as finished; btd in fathoming subjects that touch on 
everything, many things have been recalled to my memory which 
seemed to me too good to be lost, anecdotes which have never been pub- 
lished, witticisms that were said in my presence, some important 
culinary receipts, and other similar side-dishes. 

If these had been put in the theoretical part of this work, they would 
have interrupted the harmony of the whole; as a collection, I trust 
they uiill yield the reader some pleasure, because, in an amusing form, 
a few experimental truths and us^id developments may be found 
therein. 

As I have already stated, I like to introduce something qf my own 
personal history, which gives rise neither to discussions nor to com- 
mentaries. I have looked for the reward of my labour in this part of my 

(325) 



TRANSITION 

book, where I find myself in the company of my friends. It is above 
all when existence is ready to leave us that the ego becomes dear to us, 
and if one speaks of oneself, one must cf course also mention one's 
friends. 

Still, in reading over again its passages that are personal to myself, 
I do not conceal that I have had some moments of uneasiness. 

This anxiety originated in my last lectures, in fact, my very last, 
and in the commentaries which have been made on memoirs that are 
in the hands of everybody. 

I fear some wag who has digested and slept badly will say: "Here 
is a professor who is never dbvMvel Here is a professor who is always 
paying compliments to himself! Here is a professor who . . . I Here 
is a professor who . . . I" 

To which I reply beforehand, whilst putting myself on the defensive, 
that whoever does not say harm of any one may surely treat himself 
also with some indulgence, and that I see no reason why I should be 
excluded from exercising my own feeling cf goodwill towards all men, 
I who have never fostered any malicious feelings against any one. 

After having replied in this manner, which in reality is well 
founded, I believe I may be perfectly tranquil, and take shelter under- 
neath my philosophic chak; and I declare to be disagreeable feltows * 
those persons who insist upon attacking me. Mauvis coucheurs is a 
new epithet, for which I ought to take out a patent, because 1 am the 
first who has discovered that it contains within itself a real excom- 
munication. 

^ The original has mauvais couebeura, liteially " bad sleepers," which is even now in 
use as a slang term. — Tb. 



VARIETIES 



I 

THE CUafi'S* OMELETTE 

Everybody knows that Madame R . . .' has occupied for 
twenty years the throne of beauty in Paris unchallenged; it is 
also well known that she is extremely charitable, and that, at a 
certain epoch, she took an interest in a majority of those schemes 
whose object was to succour misery, often felt more severely in 
the capital than anywhere else.' 

Wishing to considt M. le Cure on some charitable subject, she 
called upon him at about five o'clock in the afternoon, and was 
surprised to find him abeady at table. 

She who lived in the Rue du Mont-Blanc in Paris thought that 
everybody dined at six o'clock, not knowing that in general eccle- 
siastics commence early, because many of them take a light colla- 
tion in the evening. 

Madame R6camier was about to retire; but the cure begged her 
to stay, either because the business on which they were to talk 
was not of a nature to prevent him from dining, because a pretty 
woman is never in anybody's way; or, perhaps, because he saw 
that he only wanted a person to talk to to make of his room a real 
gastronomic Elysium. 

The table was very neatly laid indeed; some old wine sparkled 
in a crystal decanter; the white china was of the best quality; 
imder the plates were wells of boiling Water; and a servant of 
canonical age, and decently dressed, was waiting on him. 

The repast was a happy mean between frugality and luxury. 
Some crayfish soup had just been removed, and a salmon trout, 
an omelette, and a salad were placed on the table. 

"My dinner shows you what perhaps you did not know," said 
the priest, smiling; "to-day we must not eat meat, according to 

^ A cwrS in France is somewhat like a vicar in England, whilst the French word vicaire 
means a curate. — Tb, 

* The original has Madame R . . . but this lady has been already mentioned by 
name in Meditation XIV as Madame Recamier, a relative of our author. See page 
170. — Th. 

' Those espedally are to be pitied whose wants are not known, for, in justice to the Par- 
isians, it should be said that they are charitable, and'give alms. In the year X (1801-02),! 
paid a small weekly pension to an old nun who lived on the sixth story, and who was partly 
paralysed. This decent woman received enough from her neighbours to live almost com- 
fortably, but she again kept a lay sister who attended on her. 

(329) 



VARIETIES 

the laWs of the Church." The lady bowed her assent; but, as I 
have been privately told, she slightly blushed, which did not pre- 
vent the cure from eating. 

He began his operations with the trout, of which the upper part 
delayed him not long; the sauce bore proof of a skilful hand, and 
the pastor's featiu-es showed signs of inward satisfaction. 

After this first dish had been removed, he attacked the ome- 
lette, which was round, full-bellied, and cooked to a nicety. 

At the first stroke of the spoon, there ran out a thick juice, that 
tickled at the same time sight and smell; the dish appeared full of 
it, and my dear cousin confessed that it made her mouth water. 

This sign of sympathy did not escape the cur6, accustomed to 
watch the passions of men; and, as if in answer to a question which 
Madame Recamier did not ask, he said, "This is a tunny omelette; 
my cook is an adept at making them, and few people ever taste 
them without complimenting me." — "I am not at all surprised," 
replied the lady; "for so tempting an omelette never appears on 
the tables of the laity." 

A salad followed, and I recommend its use to all those who have 
confidence in me, for salad refreshes without weakening, and com- 
forts without irritating. I usually say it makes one yoxmg again. 

The dinner did not interrupt their conversation. They talked 
of the matter ia hand, the cause of my cousin caUing on him; of 
the war then raging; of the events of the time; the hopes of the 
Church; and other topics which make a bad dinner pass, and 
enUven a good one. 

In its turn, dessert came. It consisted of some Semoncel cheese, 
three Calville apples, and a pot of jam. 

Then the servant placed near the cur6 a small round table, such 
as was formerly in use, and was called gu6ridon, on which she put 
a cup of Mocha, quite clear and hot, and filling the room with its 
aroma. 

After having sipped it, the cur6 said grace, rose, and remarked, 
" I never take spirits ; it is a superfluity I always offer to my guests, 
but which personally I do not use. I reserve them as a resource 
for ejctreme old age, should it please God to let me live so long." 

While this conversation was going on time did not stand stiU, 
and it struck six. Madame Ricamier was in a hiury to get into 
her carriage, for she had that day some friends to dinner, of whom 
I was one. She arrived late, according to her usual custom; but, 
however, she came, still excited by what she had seen and smelt. 

Throughout the whole dinner, our hostess spoke of nothing else 
but of the cure's meal, and, above all, of his tunny omelette. 

(330) 



VARIETIES 

Madame Recamier took care to praise its size, its roundness, 
and its form; from all these indications it was unanimously con- 
cluded that it must have been excellent. It was a real sensuous 
equation which each one made in his own manner. 

The subject of the conversation being exhausted, others were 
introduced, and no one thought of it any more. As for myself, a 
propagator of useful truths, I thought it my duty to bring to light 
a preparation I believe as wholesome as agreeable. I got my cook 
to procure the receipt of it with all the particulars, and I give it 
here the more willingly to connoisseurs, as I have not been able 
to find it in any cookery book. 

Preparation of a Tunny Omelette 

Take for six persons two carp roes; wash them carefully and 
bleach them well by steeping them for five minutes in boiling 
water, slightly salted. 

Take a piece of fresh tunny as large as a fowl's egg, and a small 
shallot minced. 

Hash together the roes and the tunny, and mix them well; then 
throw the whole into a saucepan with a pretty good lump of the 
best butter, and when the butter is melted, fry very lightly. That 
constitutes the speciality of the omelette. 

Take another good lump of butter, mix it with parsley and 
chives, put it in an oval-shaped omelette dish, squeeze over it the 
juice of a lemon, and place it on hot embers. 

Next, beat up a dozen eggs, as fresh as you can get them, then 
take the hot roe and the tunny and pour them on the eggs, stir- 
ring it all up tUl it be well mixed. 

Then cook the omelette in the usual manner, and do your best 
to have it of the proper form, thickness, and consistency; lay it 
skilfully on the oval dish that you have made ready to receive it, 
and serve up to be eaten at once. 

The dish should be reserved for breakfasts, or other meetings 
of gastronomic connoisseurs, when the guests understand what 
they are eating, and do not eat in a hurry; let it be especially 
washed down with some first-rate old wine, and you will see some- 
thing wonderful. 

Theoretical notes on the preparation of this disk 

1°. The roes and the tunny should be fried very lightly, and 
the butter should not be made to boil, otherwise they will become 
bard, and not mix well with the eggs. 

(331) 



VARIETIES 

2°. The omelette dish ought to be hollow, so that the sauce may 
coUect at the bottom, and be served with a spoon. 

3°. The omelette dish should be sUghtly heated, for if it is cold, 
the china wUl draw away all the caloric of the omelette, and there 
will not be heat enough to keep warm the sauce. 

II 

EGGS IN GRAVY 

One day I was travelling with two ladies to Melun. 

We left very early in the morning, and on arriving at Mont- 
geron we felt so hungry we could have eaten anything. But there 
was nothing to eat! The ion we stopped at, although looking 
decent enough, had no provisions at all; three stage-coaches and 
two post-chaises had been before us, and like the locusts of 
Egypt the passengers had devoured everything. 

That's what the cook said. 

I saw, however, turn on the spit a most beautiful leg of mutton, 
on which the ladies cast coquettish looks, as they habitually do 
on everything. 

Alas ! they cast their looks in vain. The leg of mutton belonged to 
three Englishmen who had brought it with them, and were waiting 
for it patiently whilst chatting over a bottle of champagne. 

"But, at least," I said, partly annoyed and partly entreating, 
"cannot you poach these eggs in the gravy of that leg of mutton? 
With such eggs and a cup of coffee and cream we shall be resigned 
to our fate." 

"Certainly," repUed the cook; "the gravy belongs to me by 
right, and I'll prepare them for you at once." And thereupon he 
began to break the eggs carefully. 

When he was thus occupied, I went up to the fireplace, and, 
drawing from my pocket my travelUng knife, I made on the for- 
bidden joiat a dozen deep cuts, through which the gravy ran out 
to the last drop. When this was done I watched carefully the 
preparation of the eggs in the gravy, for fear that some one might 
wrong us, and take away some. When they were thoroughly 
done, I took the dish away, and carried it to our room. 

We enjoyed a capital meal, and laughed heartily at the thought 
that in reality we were eating the very substance of the leg of 
mutton, and left to our English friends only the trouble of masti- 
cating the residue. 

(332) 



VARIETIES 

III 

A NATIONAL VICTORY 

During my stay in New York I sometimes went to spend an 
evening at a sort of cofFee-tavern kept by a Mr. Little, where one 
could have every forenoon a basin of turtle-soup, and at night all 
the usual refreshments of the United States. 

I took there often the Viscount de la Massue and Jean- 
Rodolphe Fehr, formerly a broker at Marseilles, both 6inigr6s ^ like 
myself. I treated them to a welch-rabbit, which we washed down 
with ale or cider, and spent the evening quietly speaking of our 
misfortunes, our pleasures, and our expectations. 

There we made the acquaintance of a Mr. Wilkinson, a Jamaica 
planter, and of a man who, without doubt, was one of his friends, 
for he always was with him. 

The latter, whose name I never knew, was one of the most 
extraordinary men I ever saw. He had a square face, sharp eyes, 
and appeared to examine everything attentively; but he never 
spoke, and his features were as inunoveable as those of a blind 
man. 

Only when he heard a joke or something humorous, his face 
expanded; he closed his eyes, and opening a mouth as wide as the 
bell of a horn, he gave vent to a prolonged sound which was like 
a kind of laughter and neighing, and is called in English a "horse 
laugh"; then everything went on as usual, and he resumed his 
habitual taciturnity: his laugh had the effect and the duration of 
a flash of lightning which cleared the atmosphere. As for Mr. 
Wilkinson, who appeared about fifty, he had the manners and the 
outward bearing of a gentleman. 

These two Englishmen appeared much to value our society, 
and had abeady partaken several times, without wanting much 
pressing, of the frugal meal I offered to my friends, when one 
evening Mr. Wilkinson took me aside and told me he wanted to 
invite us all three to dinner. 

I thanked him; and as I thought I had sufficient authority to 
act for my friends, I accepted for aU three, and an appointment 
was made for three o'clock for the next day but one. 

The evening was spent as usual; but just as I was going away 

1 The word SmigrS is generally only applied to those who during the first French Revolu- 
tion left their native country from political motives. — Tb. 

(333 ) 



VARIETIES 

the waiter took me aside and told me that the Jamaica planters 
had ordered a good dinner, and had given special directions for 
the wine and spirits to be very good, as they regarded the invita- 
tion as a challenge to test who should drink most, and that the 
man with the big mouth had said that he hoped he would put the 
three Frenchmen under the table. 

This news would have made me refuse to go to this banquet, if 
I could have done so with credit to myself, for I have always 
avoided such orgies; but it was impossible. The English planters 
would have proclaimed everywhere that we dared not accept the 
combat, and that their presence alone sufficed to make us retreat. 
Therefore, although forewarned of the danger, we adopted the 
saying of Marshal Saxe, "Since the wine is drawn it must be 
drunk!"! 

I was not without some regret; but, in fact, these regrets were 
not for myself. 

I looked upon it as certain that I, being at the same time 
younger, taller, and more vigorous than my host, and having a 
constitution which had never been tried by strong drinks, would 
triumph easily over those two Englishmen, probably worn out by 
their abuse of spirituous liquors. 

Without doubt, if I had remained seated to the last in the 
midst of four prostrate figures, I might have been proclaimed con- 
queror; but my sole victory would have been singularly weakened 
by the downfall of my two fellow-countrymen, who would have 
been carried ofiF with the slain in the hideous condition that fol- 
lows such a defeat. I wanted to avoid this scandal; and I wished 
the French nation to triumph, and not the individual. 

I sent for both Fehr and La Massue, addressed them in a severe 
and formal manner, and warned them to be careful. I advised 
them to drink small quantities at a time, to throw away some 
liquor while I was attracting the attention of our antagonists, and 
above aU to eat slowly, and to keep a little appetite in reserve, for 
food mixed with drink diminishes in strength, and prevents it 
flying to the brain with so much violence. Moreover, we shared 
between us a plate of bitter almonds, which I had heard praised 
for their quality of moderating the fumes of wine. 

Thus armed, physically and morally, we went to Little's, where 
we found the Jamaica planters, and soon after dinner was served. 

' Hermann Maurice, Count de Saxe (1696-1750), was an iUegitmate son of Augustus, 
Elector of Saxony, and King of Poland, and Aurora von Koenigsmark. He was one of the 
bravest generals of Louis XV, was made a marshal in 1744, and marshal-general in 1747. It 
is said that the above quoted saying of the marshal was uttered before the battle of Fon- 
tenoy. — Tb. 

(334) 



VARIETIES 

It consisted of an enormous piece of roast-beef, a turkey cooked 
in its own gravy, vegetables, a salad,' and a jam-tart. 

We drank in the French fashion, that is to say, the wine was 
served from the very beginning of the dinner. It was very good 
claret, which was then cheaper in the United States than in 
France, because lately several cargoes had arrived which had to 
be sold very cheaply. 

Mr. Wilkinson did the honours admirably, invited us to taste 
of everything, and gave us the example; his friend seemed buried 
in his plate, not saying anything, and looking at us sideways, and 
laughing with the corners of his mouth. 

As for me, I was delighted with my two acolytes. La Massue, 
although gifted with a rather large appetite, was as careful with 
his dinner as a fanciful young lady; and Fehr from time to time 
got rid of several glasses of wine, which he adroitly poured into 
a beer-pot which stood at the bottom of the table. As for me, 
I boldly held my own with the Englishmen, and the longer the 
repast lasted the more I felt my confidence increase. 

After the claret came port, after port Madeira, to which we 
stuck for a long while. 

When the dessert came on, which consisted of butter, cheese, 
cocoanuts, and hickory-nuts,^ toasts were proposed, and we drank 
amply to the health of all kings, to the Liberty of peoples, and to 
the beauty of the ladies ; we even drank with Mr. Wilkinson to the 
health of his daughter Maria, whom, he assured us, was the pret- 
tiest girl in the whole island of Jamaica. 

After the wine came the spirits, that is to say, rum, brandy, and 
raspberry-brandy;' with the spirits came songs, and I saw that 
it was getting rather hot for us. 

I was afraid of the spirits, and to avoid them I asked for some 
punch; Mr. Little himself brought in a bowl, no doubt prepared 
beforehand, which was large enough for forty people. In France 
such capacious drinking-vessels do not exist. 

This sight restored my courage; I ate five or six pieces of toast 
well buttered, and I felt my strength renewed. 

Then I cast a scrutinising glance on everything around me, for 
I began to feel' uneasy about the finish. My two friends appeared 
comparatively sober; they drank while eating hickory-nuts. Mr. 
Wilkinson's face was crimson, his eyes looked glassy, and he ap- 

^ M. Brillat-Savarin speaks of a salad de choux crua, or of raw cabbages, by which 
he means ** Coss lettuces," then scarcely known in France, — Tb. 

2 Our author has a phonetic way of spelling "hickory," namely, ycory. — Ta. 

3 Idonot know if "raspberry-brandy" is still used in the States; "peach-brandy" is. 
— Tb. 

(335) 



VARIETIES 

peared done for. His friend held his tongue, but his head smoked 
like a boiling caldron, and his immense mouth was sticking out. I 
perceived that the catastrophe was near. 

Suddenly, Mr. Wilkinson seemed to wake up, started to his feet, 
and began to sing, in a loud voice, the national air, "Rule Britan- 
nia"; but he could not get on any farther; his strength failed him, 
and he fell back on his chair, and thence rolled under the table. 
His friend seeing him in such a state, gave vent to one of his loud- 
est horse-laughs, and, stooping down to assist him, fell by his side. 

It is impossible to explain the satisfaction I felt at this sudden 
result, and the weight which it took from my mind. I hastened to 
ring for the landlord, who came up, and after having told him, as 
was customary, "to see those gentlemen properly attended to," 
we drank with him a parting glass of punch to their health. 

Meanwhile the waiter came with his assistants to take posses- 
sion of the vanquished, whom they carried home between them 
"feet foremost,"^ the friend preserving absolute immobility, and 
Mr. Wilkinson still trying to sing his favourite air, "Rule Britan- 
nia." 

The next morning the New York newspapers, afterwards 
copied by all the other papers in the States, gave a pretty exact 
account of everything that had happened, with the remark that 
the two Englishmen were ill in consequence of the dinner. I there- 
fore went to call upon them. I found the friend quite stupefied 
and suffering from a severe attack of indigestion, and Mr. Wilkin- 
son confined to his chair by an attack of gout, brought on proba- 
bly by our Bacchanalian contest. He appeared pleased with my 
visit, and said to me amongst many other things, "My dear sir, 
you are very good company indeed, but too hard a drinker for us." 

IV 

ABLUTIONS 

I have already stated that the vomitorium of the Romans was 
repugnant to the delicacy of our manners ;^ but I am afraid I have 
committed an imprudence, and that I shall be obliged to retract 
my statement. 

Let me explain this. 

1 In English this expression is applied, according to our author, to those people who are 
carried off intoxicated or dead drunk. 

2 See Meditation XIV, 75, page 165. Bead also on this subject in Mr. J. Cordy Jeaffre- 
son's A Book about the Table, vol. I, chap, xv, " Cruelties and Curiosities," the history of 
the provand of Judge Rumsey. — Tb. 

(336) 



VARIETIES 

About forty years ago some persons of the upper classes, nearly 
always ladies, used to be rinsing their mouths after meals. 

Just before leaving the table a servant presented them a basin 
of water; they turned round so that no one could see them, took 
a mouthful, and very quickly emptied it in a saucer. The servant 
then took everything away, and the whole performance was done 
so deftly that hardly any one perceived it. 

But we have changed all that. 

In those houses where they pride themselves on their fashion- 
able manners, it is now the custom for servants, towards the end of 
the dessert, to hand to each of the guests a bowl full of cold water, 
in the midst of which stands a goblet of hot water. Then, before 
the whole company, people dip their fingers in the cold water, so 
that it may look as if they had washed them, and take the hot 
water in the mouth, gargle themselves noisily with it, and then 
eject it into the goblet or into the bowl. 

I am not the only one who has protested against an innovation 
as useless as it is indecent and disgusting. 

It is useless, because, among all persons who know how to eat, 
the mouth is clean at the end of a meal; it is cleansed either by 
fruit, or by the last glasses we are accustomed to drink at dessert. 
As for the hands, they ought not to be made dirty by use; more- 
over, every one has a napkin on which he can wipe them. 

It is indecent, for it is a generally recognised principle that all 
ablutions should be done in the privacy of the dressing-room. 

It is particularly disgusting, for the loveliest and most tempt- 
ing Ups lose all their charms when they perform the functions of 
an evacuating organ. What will it be then if such a mouth is 
neither pretty nor youthful? And what shall we say of those 
enormous gaping clefts that show abysses which are apparently 
without a bottom, and which exhibit teeth attacked by time. 
Proh pudor! Such a ridiculous practice is the result of an aflFecta- 
tion of pretentious cleanliness, which is neither according to our 
taste nor to our manners. 

When once certain limits are overstepped, people do not know 
where to stop; and I cannot say what purifications may yet take 
place in our presence. 

Since the official appearance of those new-fashioned bowls, I 
utter lamentations day and night. Like a new Jeremiah, I bewail 
the aberration of fashion; and when on my travels, never enter a 
dining-room without expecting to find there «ome abominable 
utensil.' 

> It is well known that in England there are, or. rather, there were, dining-rooma a few 

(337) 



VARIETIES 



MYSTIFICATION OP THE PROFESSOR AND DEFEAT OF 
THE GENERAL 

Some years ago the newspapers announced the discovery of a 
new perfume; the Hemerocallis, a bulbous plant which has in 
fact a very agreeable odour, somewhat resembling that of jessa- 
mine. 

I am very inquisitive, and rather a loiterer, and therefore one 
fine day wound my way towards the Faubourg Saint-Germain, 
where I was going to find this perfume, "the chosen delight of the 
nostrils," as the Turks say. 

I was received there, as every customer will always be received, 
and they took for me, out of the sanctum sanctorum of a well-fitted- 
up chemist's shop, a little box carefully wrapped up, and which ap- 
peared to hold two ounces of those precious crystals; a politeness 
which I acknowledged by paying three francs, according to those 
rules of compensation of which every day M. Azais* enlarges 
the scope and principles. 

A novice would have opened the box at once, smelt and tasted 
it, but a prof essor acts diflFerently; and I think that in such a case 
solitude is advisable. I went home at a professional pace, and 
soon, nestled on my couch, I was prepared to experience a new 
sensation. 

I took the box with the scent from my pocket, and out of the 
papers with which it was wrapped up. There were three differ- 
ently printed documents, all referring to the Hemerocallis, to its 
natural history, to its culture, to its flowering, and to the delicate 
enjoyments that might be derived from its perfume, whether 
it was concentrated in pastilles, mixed in culinary preparations, 
whether it appeared on our tables, dissolved in alcoholic Uqueurs 
or combined with ice-cream. I read attentively the three printed 
wrappers. 1. To indemnify myself for the compensation I have 

years ago where there was no necessity to leave the room for anything; this was strange but 
handy, and was perhaps of less consequence in a country where the ladies withdraw as soon 
83 the gentlemen begin to drink wine. 

^ Pierre Hyacinthe Azals (176&-1845), a philosopher and moralist, who wrote, amongst 
other works, a book On Compeniations in HumanDestinies, in which he maintains that " the 
sum total of destruction must necessarily equal the sum total of recomposition, since all 
beings are alternately formed and decomposed, and since the universe remains immoveable. 
. . . Misfortune, in the whole of human life, is necessarily proportioned to happiness; just 
as the power of formation is balanced by that of destruction. Therefore, there is compenaa- 
tion."—Ta. 

(338) 



VARIETIES 

already mentioned. 2. To prepare myself conveniently for the 
appreciation of the new treasure extracted from the vegetable 
kingdom. 

I opened therefore, with all due reverence, the box which I sup- 
posed full of pastilles. But I was surprised and pained to find, 
within a second copy of the three printed documents I had just 
greedily perused, and merely as accessories, about two dozen 
lozenges; and to get these I had travelled all the way to the noble 
Faubourg Saint-Germain. 

To begin with, I tasted them, and I must render homage to the 
truth by admitting that I found these pastilles very agreeable; but 
I regret all the more that, in spite of outward appearances, there 
were so few of them; and, in fact, the more I thought about it, the 
more I felt myself made a fool of. 

I rose, therefore, with the intention of taking back the box to 
the shop where I bought it, even if they kept the money; but in 
getting up I perceived my grey hairs in a looking-glass; I laughed 
at my vivacity and sat down again, though I felt annoyed. This 
annoyance has lasted a long while, as my readers can see. More- 
over, a particular consideration retained me; I had bought these 
pastilles from a chemist, and not four days ago I had been an eye- 
witness of the extreme imperturbability of one of the members of 
that respectable profession. 

I am going to tell my readers another anecdote; to-day is the 
17th of June of the year of our Lord 1825, and I am in a narrative 
mood. May Heaven grant that this mood does not become a pub- 
lic calamity! 

I went one morning to pay a visit to General Bouvrier des 
ficlats, my friend and countryman. 

I found him walking up and down his room in a state of agita- 
tion, and crushing between his hands a piece of paper, on which I 
thought were written some verses. 

"Here," he said, handing it to me, "give me your opinion of 
this; you are a judge of such things." 

I took the paper, and having glanced over it, I saw to my great 
astonishment that it was a bill for medicines supplied to the Gen- 
eral; so that my services were not required as a poet, but simply 
as a pharmaconomist.^ 

"Upon my word, my dear friend," I said, giving him back his 
property, "you know the customs of the corporation whose ser- 
vices you have engaged; they have perhaps gone a little too far; 
but why do you wear an embroidered coat, three orders, and a 

* Pharmaconome, another word invented by our author. — Tb, 

(339 ) 



VARIETIES 

cocked hat, with golden tassels? Those are three aggravating cir- 
cumstances, and you will not get the best of it." 

"Hold your tongue!" he said impatiently; "this charge is 
abominable. But you '11 see the swindler directly, for I have sent 
for him; he is coming, and you will back me up." 

He was still speaking, when the door opened, and in came a 
man of about fifty-five, dressed with care. His bearing was lofty, 
his demeanour grave, and his whole countenance bore a uniform 
impress of severity, belied by something sardonic lurking around 
his mouth and in his eyes. 

He drew near the fireplace, refused to sit down, and I was pres- 
ent at the following dialogue, which I have accurately preserved. 

The General. — Sir, the note which you have sent me is a regular 
apothecary's bill,* and . . . 

The Man in Black. — Sir, I am not an apothecary. 

The General. — What are you then, sir? 

The Man in Black. — Sir, I am a chemist. 

The General. — Well, Mr. Chemist, your man must have told 
you . . . 

The Man in Black. • — Sir, I have no men. 

The General. — Then, what was that young fellow who called? 

The Man in Black. — Sir, he is my pupil. 

The General. — I wished to tell you, sir, that your drugs . . . 

The Man in Black. — Sir, I do not sell drugs. 

The General. — What, then, do you sell, sir? 

The Man in Blaek. — Sir, I sell medicines. 

There the discussion ended. The General, ashamed of having 
made so many blunders, and of being so little versed in a knowl- 
edge of the pharmaceutical language, lost his self-possession, for- 
got what he had to say, and paid the bill in full. 

VI 

THE DISH OP EELS 

In Paris there lived sometime ago in the Rue Chauss6e d'Antin, 
a certain person whose name was Briguet, who had been a coach- 
man, and afterwards a horse-dealer, and had made a small fortune. 

He was a native of Talissieu,^ and when he went back there, he 

^ In French a bill containing overcharges is called familiarly un vrai compte d*apothi' 
caire; the reason for this is obvious. — Tb. 

s A small village in the Department of the Ain, in the arrondiasement of Belley, the birth- 
place of our author. — Th. 

(340) 



VARIETIES 

married a woman who had a little money, and had formerly been 
a cook at Madame Th^venin's,* whom all Paris knew by her nick- 
name of " Ace of Spades." 

An opportunity presented itseU of acquiring a small property 
in his native village; so he bought it, and estabUshed himself there 
with his wife towards the end of 1791. 

At that time it was the custom for vicars of the entire presby- 
terial circuit to meet once a month at the house of one of them in 
turn, to confer on ecclesiastical matters. High mass was said, 
after which a conference was held, and then they went to dinner. 

This was called "The Conference," and the vicar, at whose 
house it was to take place, did not fail to make some preparations 
so as to receive his colleagues well and as became them. 

But when it was the turn of the vicar of Talissieu it happened 
that one of his parishioners had made him a present of a magnifi- 
cent eel, more than three feet long, caught in the Umpid waters of 
Serans. 

DeUghted at possessing a fish of such dimensions, the clergy- 
man was afraid his cook would not be able to prepare such a prom- 
ising dish; he went therefore to Mistress Briguet, did homage to 
her superior knowledge, and begged her to put her hand to a dish 
worthy of an archbishop, and which would do the greatest honour 
to her dinner. 

His docile parishioner consented to do so without any difficulty, 
and with so much the more pleasure, she said, because she had 
still in her possession a small box containing various rare season- 
ings which had been employed by her former mistress. 

The dish of eeb was prepared with care, and served up sepa- 
rately. Not only did it look very well, but it sent forth a most de- 
Ughtful smell, and after it had been tasted, words were wanting to 
praise it sufficiently; needless to say, that the eels entirely disap- 
peared and that not a morsel was left. 

But it so happened that when the dessert was on the table the 
venerable company felt emotions of an unaccustomed nature; and 
as physics have naturally some influence on morals, the conversa- 
tion turned on the ladies. 

Several of them told some very good stories of their adventures 
whilst in the seminary; others quizzed their neighbours abotit 
some scandal that was told about them; in short, they conversed 
for a considerable time about the nicest of the capital sins; and 
what was even more remarkable, they did not even suspect that 

^ Madame Th6vemn (176S-1841) waa an actress, very dark and rather stout, hence her 
nickname. — Tb. 

(341 ) 



VARIETIES 

they had given rise to any scandal, for the deuce knows what he 
is about. • 

They separated at a late hour, and my Secret Memoirs do not 
tell me what happened further on that day ; but when the next con- 
ference took place, and the vicars met again, they were ashamed 
of what they had done, begged each other's pardon for all that had 
been said, and attributed everything to the influence of the dish 
of eels; so that whilst admitting that it was deUcious, they never- 
theless agreed it would not be prudent to try the skill of Mistress 
Briguet a second time. 

I have searched everywhere in vain to ascertain what sort of a- 
condiment produced such marvellous effects, the more so as no- 
body complained that it had been of a dangerous or corrosive 
nature. 

The culinary artist admitted that she had made use of a cray- 
fish sauce strongly spiced; but I am certain she did not say every- 
thing she knew. 

VII 

THE ASPARAGUS 

M. Cortois de Quincey,* Bishop of Belley, was told one day that 
a head of a marvellous size had just appeared above one of the 
asparagus beds of his kitchen garden. 

Immediately everybody ran to the spot to ascertain the truth 
of the story; for, even in Episcopal palaces, people are delighted 
with having something to do. 

The news was found to be neither false nor exaggerated: the 
head stuck out the earth, and appeared already above the ground. 
It was round, shiny, variegated, and gave promise of an asparagus 
the size of a column, and so thick that the hand could hardly span 
it. 

This horticultural phenomenon was the talk of every one. It 
was clear that the bishop alone had the right of cutting it, and 
an order was immediately given to a neighbouring cutler to make 
a knife specially for this lofty purpose. 

For several days the asparagus continued to grow, and to look 
more charming and beautiful; its progress was slow, but gradual, 
and soon people began to perceive that part of the white stalk 
which is not fit to be eaten. 

The time for cutting it having come, a good dinner was first 

* Gabriel Cortois de Quincey was Bishop of Belley from 1751 to 1700. — Tb. 

(342) 



VARIETIES 

given, and then the operation was delayed until after the bishop 
and his guests had come back from their walk. 

Then the bishop advanced, with the official knife in his hand, 
stooped gravely, and began to separate the proud vegetable from 
its stalk, while the whole of the attendants of the Episcopal court 
showed some impatience to examine its fibres and contexture. 

But, to their surprise, disappointment, and sorrow, the knife 
would not cut, and the prelate rose with nothing in his hands. The 
asparagus was a wooden one. 

This joke, perhaps carried a Uttle too far, was planned by the 
Canon Rousset, a native of Saint-Claude,* an admirable turner, 
and a very fair artist. 

He had carved a wooden asparagus in perfect imitation of a real 
one, had stuck it by stealth into the bed, and lifted it a little every 
day to imitate the nocturnal growth. 

The bishop did not know how he ought to take this mystifica- 
tion, for it was really one; but seeing a grin on the faces of all the 
bystanders, he smiled, and the smile was followed by a general ex- 
plosion of really Homeric laughter. The corpus deUcli was then 
removed, and, without taking any further notice of the perpetra- 
tion of the joke, for the whole of that evening at least the monster 
asparagus had the honours of the drawing-room. 

VIII 

THE PLOT 

The Chevalier de Langeac ' had been pretty well off, but his for- 
tune had disappeared among those expenses which are compul- 
sory on any man who is rich, young, and good-looking. 

He collected what was left of it, and with the assistance of a 
small pension he received from the Government, lived pretty com- 
fortable at Lyons amongst the best society, for experience had 
taught him economy. 

Although always gallant, he nevertheless danced no ^longer at- 

' Saint-Claude, a little town of Franche-Comt6, now in the Department of the Jura, was 
until 1742 governed by an, abbot of a Benedictine convent, who was directly appointed by 
the Pope, and was spiritual and temporal lord of the town. Only noblemen were, in the 
latter times, allowed to become members of the chapter of this abbey. 

' In the first edition of the Physioloffie du GoM^ published a few months before the au- 
thor's death in 18Sd, no name, but only Chevalier de L , was printed; in later editions 

the name was added. Can this chevalier be the same one as a certain Chevalier de Langeac 
mentioned in Grimm's MSmoiTes Eiatoriquea, LitUraiTes^ etc^ whose translation of the be- 
ginning of the 16th book of the Iliad was publicly and honourably mentioned by the French 
Atademy in 1778? — Tb. 

(343) 



VARIETIES 

tendance on the fair sex; he still did not mind taking a hand with 
them in any game of skiU, for he played them all very weU, but he 
coolly defended his money against them, a characteristic of those 
men who expect nothing more from them. 

Gourmandise now took the place of all his other inclinations, 
and it can be said with truth that he became a professed gourmand; 
and as he was, moreover, very agreeable, he received more invita- 
tions than he could accept. 

Lyons is a town where people are fond of good living; owing to 
its geographical position, claret. Hermitage, and Burgundy are 
easily to be got there; the game of the neighbouring hills is excel- 
lent; in the lakes of Geneva and of Bourget the best fish in the 
worid is to be caught; and connoisseurs take great pleasure in the 
fat pullets of Bresse, which are all sent to this town. 

The Chevalier de Langeac had always a knife and fork laid for 
him at the best tables in Lyons; but where he liked to dine espe- 
cially was at Mr. A.'s, a very rich banker and a distinguished con- 
noisseiu". The chevaher gave as a reason for the preference that he 
and the banker had been at college together; though spiteful men, 
for such there are everywhere, attributed his frequent visits to 
Mr. A. having as his cook the best pupil of Ramier, a skilful 
culinary artist, who flourished in those remote times. 

However, about the end of the winter of 1780, the ChevaUer de 
Langeac received a letter of invitation to come to supper at Mr. 
A.'s in ten days, for people took supper then. My Secret Memoirs 
assure me that he was quite delighted, for he thought that an in- 
vitation at so long a date showed that it would be a festive ban- 
quet of the first class. 

He came on the day and at the hour appointed, and found there 
ten other guests, all people fond of pleasure and of good cheer. 
The word gastronomer had not yet been borrowed from the Greek, 
or at least it was not as common as it is at present. 

Soon a substantial repast was served them. There was, amongst 
other things, an enormous sirloin, a fricassee with plenty of chick- 
ens, a piece of veal of the most beautiful appearance, and a very 
nice stuffed carp. 

All this was well and good, but did not respond, in the eyes of 
the chevalier, to the expectations which he had formed from an in- 
vitation sent more than ten days beforehand. 

Another singularity struck him. The guests, who were all peo- 
ple of good appetite, either did not eat, or merely tasted a bit now 
and then. One had a headache, another felt cold shivers, a third 
had dined late, and so with the others. The chevalier was amazed 

(344) 



VARIETIES 

to find that, by chance, this supper was far from convivial; and, 
believing it his duty to be the representative of all these patients, 
he attacked boldly.carved neatly, and showed good feeding power.' 

The second course had no less solid foundations. An enormous 
Cremieu turkey faced a very fine pike au bleu, both flanked by the 
six usual side dishes, of which one was full of macaroni with Par- 
mesan cheese; besides this there was a bowl of salad. 

At this appearance, the chevaUer felt his expiring valour revive, 
whilst the other guests looked as if they were giving up the ghost. 
Excited by the change of wines, he triumphed over their weak- 
ness, and drank their health in numerous bumpers, with which he 
washed down a large slice of the pike, which had followed the leg 
of the turkey. 

The side dishes were tackled in their turn, and gloriously he 
pm-sued his career, resolved to have for his dessert only a bit of 
cheese and a glass of Malaga, for sweets formed no part of his 
programme. 

My readers will have observed that M. de Langeac had had 
already two surprises during supper: the first was, because the 
dishes were too substantial; the second, to find the guests with 
such bad appetites. A third surprise, and that a much greater one, 
was in store for him. 

For the servants, instead of bringing the dessert, took away 
everything that was on the table, the plate as well as the linen, 
gave others to the guests, and served up four fresh entries, of 
which the savour rose upwards to the skies. 

These were, veal sweetbreads with crayfish sauce, roes and 
trufiHes, a larded and stuffed pike, and wings of the large red 
partridge, with a jmrSe of mushrooms. 

Like that old magician of whom Ariosto speaks, and who hav- 
ing the beautiful Armida in his power, only made feeble efforts 
to dishonour her,^ M. de Langeac was horrified at the sight of so 
many good things he could no longer eat, and he commenced to 
suspect evil intent. 

But all the other guests seemed, on the contrary, to gain fresh 
strength. Their appetites came back, the headaches disappeared, 
an ironical smile seemed to irradiate their mouths, and it was 
now their turn to drink to the health of the chevalier, whose eating 
powers were exhausted. 

Nevertheless, he put a good face on the matter, and endeav- 

' Our author uses here another word of his invention, intusBUBceptiffn, — Tb. 

' Our learned author here quotes probably from memory, for Armida is not the heroine 
ot Ariosto, but of Tasso's Jerusalem Delivered. He means to speak of Angelica, the heroine 
of Ariosto's Orlando Furioso, and of her adventure with the Hermit, canto viii, 49. — Tb. 

(345) 



VARIETIES 

cured to brave the storm courageously; at the third mouthful 
Nature revoked, and his stomach threatened to betray him. He 
was therefore obUged to remain inactive, and as we say in music, 
he "counted his rests." 

What did he not feel when he saw brought up as a third course, 
snipes by the dozen, on snowy beds of fat, and sleeping on appe- 
tising toasts; a pheasant, then a bird extremely rare, and coming 
from the banks of the Seine; fresh tunny, and all the most elegant 
entremets the cuUnary art of that time, and the petit jour, could 
produce. 

He remained in thought for a moment, and then imagined he 
was bound in honour, right or wrong, to continue the meal, and to 
die bravely on the field of battle; but soon egotism came to his aid, 
and inspired him with more sensible ideas. 

He reflected that in such a case prudence is not cowardice, that 
to die from indigestion looks always ridiculous, and that the 
future had no doubt many compensations in store for him for such 
a disappointment. He, therefore, made up his mind what to do, 
and, throwing down his table-napkin, he addressed himself to the 
banker, and said: "Sir, no man should ever expose his friends thus, 
you have acted treacherously, and I '11 never see you again as long 
as I live." After having uttered these words he went away. 

His departure did not produce a very great sensation, for it 
showed how successful had been the plot to place M. de Langeac 
before a first-class meal which he should not be able to eat; and 
every one of the guests was in the secret. 

Nevertheless, the chevalier sulked far longer than could have 
been beUeved; and a good deal of kind attention had to be shown 
before he would be appeased. At length he came back, when the 
beccaficos were in season, and he thought no more about the trick 
played upon him when the truffles made their appearance. 

IX 

THE TURBOT 

Discord one day threatened to introduce itself into the bosom 
of one of the most united families of the capital. It was precisely 
on a Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath-day; and the cause of it was 
a turbot that had to be cooked; it was in the country, at Ville- 
cresnes.^ 

' Villecresnea, a hamlet in the Department of Seine et Oise, with the beautiful castle of 
Cereay. — Tb. 

(346) 



VARIETIES 

This fish, snatched, it was said, from a far more glorious fate,' 
was to be served on the morrow at a banquet of nice people, of 
whom I was one. It was fresh, plump, and looked remarkably 
well; its size was so much larger than all the pans that could be 
got that no one knew how to prepare it. 

"Well," said the husband, "let us cut it in two." — "Would 
you dare so to disgrace this poor creature? " asked the wife. " We 
must do it, my dear, as we cannot do anything else. Bring the 
chopper, and it wiU soon be decided!" — "Wait a httle, my 
friend, there will always be time to do that. You know that my 
cousin is coming; he is a professor, and he will soon find the means 
to get us out of the difficulty." — "A professor . . . get us out 
of the difficulty! . . . Nonsense!" And a faithful report informs 
me that he who spoke thus did not appear to have a great con- 
fidence in the professor, and nevertheless that professor was my- 
self! 

The difficulty would probably have been got rid of in Alexander 
the Great's manner,^ when I arrived in double-quick time, my nose 
in the air, and with an appetite I always have when I travel, when 
it is seven o'clock in the evening, and when the smell of a good 
dinner titillates my nostrils and soUcits my sense of taste. 

When I entered the house I attempted in vain to pay the usual 
compUments. Nobody answered me: because nobody listened to 
me. Soon the question which absorbed all attention was told me 
in a family duet: after which both were silent, the lady regarding 
me with eyes which appeared to say, "I hope that we shall get rid 
of our difficulty"; the husband looking at me, on the contrary, 
with a mocking and quizzical air, as if he were certain I would not 
get out of the scrape, while his right hand rested on the redoubt- 
able chopper that had been brought at his request. 

But all these differences disappeared and gave place to a hvely 
curiosity when, with a grave and oracular voice, I pronounced 
these solemn words, " The turbot remains entire until it is brought 
up for dinner." 

I was certain of not compromising myself, for I had intended 
to have it baked in an oven ; but this method presented a few diffi- 
culties, and as I did not explain myself further, I went in silence 

> No fate could have been more glorious for a turbot than to be eaten by our author and 
his friends; not even if it had been served up on the table of Napoleon I. The professor is 
too modest. — Tb. 

* Alexander the Great cut the Gordian knot in twain with his sword, when they told him 
that whoever undid it would reign over the whole East. This knot was contrived by 
Gordius, a peasant chosen king of Fhrygia, who dedicated his waggon to Jupiter, and fas- 
tened it so ingeniously with a rope of bark that no one could untie it. — Tb. 

(347) 



VARIETIES 

towards the kitchen — I going first, the husband and wife serving 
as acolytes, the family representing the faithful, and the cook 
closing the procession. 

The front and back kitchen did not show anything that would 
suit me; but in the wash-house I saw a boiler, although rather 
small, well set, and with a good fire-place. I at once perceived 
that it would do, and, tiurning towards my retinue, I said, having 
that faith which removes mountains,^ "Make your minds easy; 
the turbot will be cooked whole; it will be cooked by steam, and 
immediately." 

In fact, though it was quite time for dinner, I at once set every- 
body to work. While some were lighting the fire, I cut from a 
large hamper a hradle, exactly the size of this gigantic fish. On 
this hm-dle I put a layer of bulbs and sweet herbs, on which the 
turbot was laid, after being well washed, thoroughly dried, and 
with sufficient salt. A second layer of the same seasoning was 
placed on its back. Then the hurdle was placed on the boiler half- 
full of water; and the whole was covered with a little tub, around 
which dry sand was put to prevent the steam from escaping too 
easily. Soon the water in the boiler was heated, and the steam 
fiUed the whole of the tub, which was taken off in about halt an 
hour; then the hurdle was lifted out of the boiler with the tmbot 
done to a nicety, very white, and looking admirably. 

When this was going on we sat down to dinner with appetites 
sharpened by the delay, by our work and by our success, so that 
we had time enough to arrive at that happy moment, always in- 
dicated by Horner,^ when the abundance and the variety of the 
food drives hunger away. 

Next day at dinner the turbot was served to the worthy guests,' 
who complimented us on its good appearance. Then the master 
of the house told in what unexpected manner it had been cooked, 
and I was praised not only for my seasonable invention, but also 
for its results, for, after having carefully tasted it, it was unani- 
mously decided that fish, cooked in this fashion, is very much 
better than cooked in a turbot-kettle. 

This decision did not surprise anybody, as the fish had not been 
in boiling water, and, therefore, had not lost any of its properties, 
but, on the contrary, had been impregnated with the flavour of 
the seasoning. 

' An allusion to Matthew xxl, 21," If ye shall say unto this mountain. Be thou removed, 
and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done." — Tb, 

^ Homer, ■passim, Iliad, I, 469, etc. — Tb. 

' Was the turbot served up cold " next day," or, if not, how was it kept warm? Our 
author is silent on so important a subject. — 1^. , 

(348 ) 



VARIETIES 

Whilst my ears were completely saturated with the compli- 
ments showered on me, I looked for more sincere evidence by 
observing the guests, and I saw with secret delight that General 
Labassee was so satisfied that he smiled at every bit he ate, that 
the cur6, with outstretched neck, stared with all his might at the 
ceiling in complete ecstasy, and that of the two clever gourmmuL- 
academicians who were amongst the company, the eyes of M. 
Auger ' sparkled, and his face was as radiant as that of an author 
who is applauded, whilst M. Villemain's * head was bent down, 
and his chin was on one side, like a man who listens with attention. 

This deserves to be noticed, as there are very few country- 
houses where there is not everjrthing necessary to make a sort of 
boiler, such as I used on this occasion; and because it can be 
employed every time when one wishes to cook something which 
has come unexpectedly and is of extraordinary dimensions. 

However, my readers would have never learned the history of 
this great adventure if it did not seem to me to lead to results 
more generally useful. 

Those who know the nature and the eflFects of steam, know also 
that it has the same temperature as the liquid that produces it; 
that it can even become a few degrees higher by a sUght concen- 
tration; and that it accumulates as long as it does not find an 
issue. 

It follows, therefore, that, all things being equal, and by merely 
taking a larger tub than the one that covered the fish when I tried 
the experiment, and by substituting, for example, for the tub an 
empty barrel, we may cook quickly and at a trifling cost, and only 
through steam, several bushels of potatoes, or vegetables of any 
sort, in fact, -anything that is put on the hmdle and covered with 
the barrel, either for the use of man or beast; and everything will 
be cooked in six times less time, and with six times less wood than 
is necessary merely to boil the water in a boiler containing a hecto- 
litre, or a httle more than twenty-two gallons. I think that this 
very simple way of cooking may be of some importance wherever 
there is a large bakehouse, either in town or in the country; that 
is why I have described it so that everybody can understand and 
profit by it. 

I beheve that the power of steam has not been sufficiently 
turned to account for domestic purposes, and I hope that some 

J Lonis-SimoD Auger (1772-1829), a literary man, a journalist, and perpetual secretary 
to the French Academy. — Tb. 

' Abel-Francois Villemain (1790-1870), a celebrated profeagor, author, and politician, 
who was for many years minister of public instruction. His Coura de LilUraluTe fransaiae is 
still read. — Tb. 

(349) 



VARIETIES 

day the bulletin of our Society for the Encouragement of na- 
tional Industry will tell husbandmen that I am further occupied 
with it. 

P.S. — One day when a committee of gastronomic professors 
was assembled in the Hue de la Paix, No. 14, 1 told the story how 
I had cooked a turbot by steam. When I had finished, a gentle- 
man who sat on my left turned towards me, and asked in a re- 
proachful tone, "Was I not present? And did not I vote as well as 
the rest?" — "Certainly," said I, "you were there, and you sat 
next to the curS, and without any reproach, you took your share 
of the fish." 

The gentleman who put in his claim was a M. Lorrain, whom 
Nature had created a first-class gourmand, and who was also a 
financier as agreeable as prudent; he has brought his ship safely 
into port, so he now can judge calmly of the effects of the tempest ; 
for more than one reason his name deserves therefore to be men- 
tioned here. 



VARIOUS RESTORATIVE PREPARATIONS 

Bt the Pkofessor 

Improvised for the case mentioned in Meditation XXV 

A 

Take six large onions, three carrots, and a handful of parsley; 
mince the whole and put it into a stewpan; then heat it and brown 
it with a good lump of fresh butter. 

When this is well done, add to it six ounces of sugar-candy, 
twenty grains of powdered ambergris, with a piece of crust toasted, 
and three bottles of water. Boil the whole for three-quarters of 
an hour, and add fresh water to make up for the loss during the 
boiling, for there must always be three bottles of liquid. 

While this is boiling, kill, pluck, and clean an old cock, pound 
it with an iron pestle, flesh, bones, and all, in a mortar; and mince 
also two pounds of first-class beef. 

Then mix the pounded fowl and minced-beef together, and add 
sufficient pepper and salt. 

Put it in a stewpan, on a brisk fire, and let it be well heated; 
then add to it from time to time a little fresh butter, so as to 
brown the meat nicely without letting it stick to the pan. 

(350) 



VARIETIES 

When it is done enough, that is to say, when the osmazome has 
turned brown, strain the liquid of the first stewpan, and put it 
slowly and gradually into the second; keep the whole on the boil 
for three-quarters of an hour, but always add hot water, so as to 
keep the same quantity of liquid. 

At the end of that time the broth is ready, and you have a 
remedy of which the effect is certain every time the patient is ex- 
hausted by some of the causes we have indicated; but possesses 
nevertheless a stomach that can do its work. 

Give him the first day a cup every three hours, until it is time 
for him to go to bed: on the following days, give him a large cup 
in the morning only, and a similar quantity every evening, until 
the three bottles are emptied. The patient must also have a Ught, 
but at the same time a nourishing diet, such as a leg of a chicken, 
fish, sweet fruits, and preserves. It scarcely ever happens that 
another decoction is needed. About the foiwth day, he may re- 
turn to his ordinary occupations, and should endeavoiu: to be 
wiser for the future, if such a thing is possible. 

If we suppress the ambergris and the sugar-candy, we can in 
this way, and in a very short time, make a soup of high flavour 
and worthy of being served up at a dinner of connoisseurs. 

Instead of an old cock we can take four old partridges; and in- 
stead of the beef, we can take part of a leg of mutton; and the 
soup will neither be less effective nor less agreeable. 

In all cases when one is in a hurry, it is better to mince the meat 
and to brown it before moistening it, for meats treated in this way 
take much more caloric than in water. It can, therefore, be used 
every time when a good meat broth is wanted, and without hav- 
ing five or six hoiurs to Wait for it; this may often happen, espe- 
cially in the country. It is, of course, understood that those who 
use it should sing the praises of the professor. 

B 

Everybody knows that if ambergris, considered as a perfume, 
is injin-ious to the profane who have delicate nerves, when taken 
internally it is a splendid tonic, and very exhilarating. Our an- 
cestors used it a good deal in their cookery and were not the 
worse for it. 

It is well known that Marshal Richelieu,* of glorious memory, 

* Louis-Francois Annand du Flessis, Due de Richelieu (1706-88), Marshal of France and 
memher of the French Academy, distinguished liimself during his long life by his amorous 
and political intrigues. — Tb. 

(351) 



VARIETIES 

habitually chewed ambergris pastilles; and as for me, whenever I 
feel, some day or other, the burden of age, when I think with diffi- 
culty, and feel oppressed by some power unknown, I take as much 
powdered amber as will lay on a shilling with a cup of chocolate, 
sugar it to my taste, and it has always done me a great deal of 
good. This tonic renders life more easy, makes thoughts flow 
with facility; and I do not suffer from that sleeplessness which is 
the infallible result of a cup of coffee taken witji the intention of 
procuring the same effect.* 



The preparation A is for robust temperaments, for men of reso- 
lution, and for those in general who have exhausted themselves by 
overwork. For the nonce I have composed another potion much 
more agreeable to the taste, of a milder effect, and which I reserve 
for feeble temperaments, for people of undecided character, and 
for those, in one word, who get easily exhausted. It is as fol- 
lows: — 

Take a knuckle of veal, weighing at least two pounds, divided 
in four in its whole length, bone and flesh; let it brown with four 
onions cut in slices, and a handful of watercresses, and when it is 
nearly done, put it in the same quantity of water as in prepara- 
tion A, and boil it for two hours, always taking care to replace the 
liquid that evaporates, and you '11 have some very good veal broth; 
add pepper and salt, but not too much. 

Pound separately three old pigeons and twenty-five crayfish, 
quite alive; mix them and brown them in the same way as I ad- 
vised that the old cock and the meat should be treated in prepa- 
ration A. 

When it has become quite hot, and begins to get dry, moisten 
it with the veal broth, and keep it on a brisk fire for an hour. Then 
strain the broth, which may be taken morning and evening, or 
rather only in the morning, two hours before breakfast. It is also 
a delicious soup. 

I made this preparation for a man of letters and an authoress, 
who, seeing that I was rather positive in my assertions, took con- 
fidence in me, and, as they said, had recourse to my knowledge. 

They used it, and have not repented it. The poet, who was 
merely elegiac, has become romantic; the lady, who had only 

' Those wonderful effects of ambergris on our author seem the produce of his poetical 
imagination; in any case it is now only used in perfumery, and is no longer considered 
a tonic or an excitant. — Tu. 



(352) 



VARIETIES 

written a rather feeble novel, with an unfortunate catastrophe, 
has written a second one, much better, which ends with a good 
and happy marriage. It is, therefore, self-evident that in both 
these cases there has been increase of power; and I think honestly 
that I have reason rather to be proud of it. 

XI 

THE PULLET OF BRESSE 

During one of the first days of the month of January of the cur- 
rent, year 1825, a young married couple, M. and Madame de 
Versy, had been at a grand and festive oysters-luncheon; and we 
know what that means. 

Such luncheons are charming, either because the dishes are all 
appetising, or because they usually are very Uvely ; but they have 
the inconvenience of disturbing the whole day. 

And so it was on this occasion. At dinner-time the young 
couple sat down at their own table, but it was only for form's sake. 
The lady ate a Uttle soup; the gentleman drank a glass of wine and 
water. Some friends arrived, and they played a game of whist. 
Thus they spent the evening, and then went to bed. 

About two o'clock M. de Versy awoke; he felt quite uncom- 
fortable, yawned, and tossed about so much that his wife got 
uneasy, and asked him if he was ill. "No, my dear; but I imagine 
1 am hungry, and I cannot help thinking of that white and nice- 
looking Bresse pullet we had for dinner, and which, nevertheless, 
we scarcely touched." — "To tell the truth I must admit that I 
am* as hungry as you are; and as you have thought of the pullet, 
we '11 send for it, and we'll eat it." — "What madness! Every- 
body is asleep, and to-morrow they will laugh at us." — "If every 
one is asleep, they can wake up, and nobody will laugh at us, for 
they'll know nothing about it. Besides, who knows if between 
now and to-morrow morning one of us may not die of hunger? I 
don't like to run the chance of it, and I am going to ring for Jus- 
tine." 

They immediately rang up the poor lady's maid, who, having 
had a good supper, slept as one sleeps at nineteen, not tormented 
by love.' 

She arrived in dishabille, half-asleep, yawning, and sat down 
stretching her arms. 

That was an easy task, but to get the cook to rise was rather a 

1 A piema tendida, as the Spaniards say. 

(353) 



VARIETIES 

troublesome business. She was a cordon bleu, and therefore very 
grumpy; she scolded, growled, grumbled, roared, and snarled; 
nevertheless, she rose at last, and moved about her rather un- 
wieldy body. 

Meanwhile, Madame de Versy had put on a dressing-gown; her 
husband had dressed himself as well as he could; Justine spread 
on the bed a cloth, and brought the necessary things for this im- 
provised meal. 

Everything being thus got ready, the pullet was brought in, 
instantly cut up, and eaten without mercy. 

After this M. and Madame de Versy divided between them a 
St. Germain large pear, and ate a Uttle orange-marmalade. 

In the intervals they emptied a whole bottle of Grave wine, and 
repeated a great many times, with variations, that they had never 
eaten a more agreeable repast. 

This meal came, however, to an end, for everything in this 
world must come to an end; Justine took away the knives, forks, 
and all the other things, and went to bed again, whilst the curtain 
of the conjugal couch closed on the couple. 

Next morning, Madame de Versy hastened to her friend, 
Madame de Frauval, and told her what had happened; and it is 
due to the indiscretion of this latter lady that it has become 
public. 

She also remarked that in finishing her story, Madame de Versy 
coughed twice and blushed. 

XII 

THE PHEASANT 

The pheasant is a mystery of which the key is only revealed 
to the initiated; they alone can taste the bird in all its perfec- 
tion. 

Each substance has its highest point of esculence; some arrive 
at it before their entire development, as capers, asparagus, grey 
partridges, green pigeons, etc.; others arrive at it the moment 
when they are as perfect as they ever can be, such as melons, 
nearly all fruits, mutton, beef, venison, red partridges; others, 
finally, when they begin to decompose, as medlars, the woodcock, 
and especially pheasants. 

This last-mentioned bird, when it is eaten within three days 
after it has been killed, is not so delicate as a pullet, nor so sapid 
as a quail. 

(354) 



VARIETIES 

When eaten at the right time its flesh is tender, sublime, gamy, 
and tastes of chicken and of venison. 

The right time is when the pheasant begins to decompose; then 
its aroma is developed, and combines with an oil, which to be- 
come developed requires a slight degree of fermentation, just 
as the essential oil of coffee is only obtained by roasting the 
bean. 

This right moment reveals itself to the senses of the uninitiated 
by a slight odour, and by a change in the colour of the belly of the 
bird; but the born gourmand divines it by a sort of instinct which 
shows itself on many occasions, so that, for example, a first-class 
cook can tell in an instant whether a fowl should be taken from 
the spit, or be allowed to take a few turns more. 

When a pheasant has arrived at this stage it ought to be plucked, 
but not before, and larded carefully with the freshest and firmest 
lard. 

It is not a matter of indifference to pluck a pheasant too early; 
very careful experiments have taught us that those kept in their 
feathers are more highly perfumed than those plucked some time 
ago, either because the contact of the air has neutralised some 
part of the aroma, or that a part of the juice for nourishing the 
feathers is absorbed again, and serves to give more flavour to the 
meat. 

The bird being thus prepared, it must be stufiFed, and this is 
done in the following manner: Take out the bones of two wood- 
cocks, put their meat aside, and keep the trails and livers of the 
two birds separate. 

Take this meat and mince it, add some beef marrow steamed, a 
little scraped bacon, pepper, salt, herbs, and enough good truflSes 
to stuff the inner cavity of the pheasant. 

Be carefTil not to let the stuffing spread to the outside, which is 
sometimes a Uttle difficult when the bird is rather high. Never- 
theless, it can be done in various ways, and amongst others by 
fastening a crust of bread with a piece of thread on the stomach, 
which prevents its bursting. Cut a slice of bread longer and wider 
by two inches than the whole pheasant is; then take the livers and 
trail of the woodcocks, and pound them with two large truffles, 
one anchovy, a Uttle scraped bacon, and a goodly lump of the best 
fresh butter. 

Spread this paste on the slice of bread, and put it under the 
pheasant stuffed as above, so that it may receive all the gravy 
dripping from it while roasting. 

When the pheasant is cooked, serve it up lying gracefully on 

(355) 



VARIETIES 

its toast, put some bitter oranges round it, and await the result 
without any uneasiness. 

This high-flavoured dish ought to be washed down, in prefer- 
ence, with some of the best wine of Upper Burgundy. I have dis- 
covered this truth after many observations, which have cost me 
more trouble than a whole table of logarithms. 

A pheasant prepared in this manner is worthy of being served up 
to angels, if these were still travelling on this earth, as they did in 
the days of Lot. 

What do I say? Such an experiment has been tried. A pheas- 
ant has been stuffed and cooked whilst I was present, by the 
worthy chef Picard, in the castle of La Grange, belonging to my 
charming friend Madame de Ville-Plaine,* and brought to table 
by the Major domo Louis, marching as if he were marching in a 
procession. It was examined with as much care as if it had been 
a new bonnet made by Madame Herbault,^ and was tasted with 
great attention. Whilst this scientific labour was going on, the 
eyes of the ladies sparkled like stars, their lips were as glossy as 
coral, and their countenance became ecstatic. (See the "Gas- 
tronomic Tests," Meditation XIII.) 

I have done more; I had a pheasant cooked in the same manner, 
and served up to a committee of magistrates of the supreme court, 
who know that the senatorial toga must sometimes be laid aside, 
and to whom I proved without any difficulty that good cheer is a 
natural compensation for the fatigues of study. After a careful 
examination, the eldest declared, with a grave voice, that the bird 
was excellent in taste; everybody present bent his head in token 
of acquiescence, and the sentence was unanimously confirmed. 

I observed whilst the deliberation lasted that the noses of those 
venerable men were agitated by very strong movements of inhala- 
tion, that their august brows shone with peaceful serenity, and 
that their truthful mouths looked somewhat jubilant and almost 
smiling. 

Moreover, those marvellous effects are in the nature of things. 
Treated according to the preceding prescription, The pheasant, 
aheady distinguished itself, is permeated from its outside with 
the savoury fat of the bacon which is browned; and in its inside it 
is impregnated with the odoriferous gases from the woodcocks and 
the truffle. The toast, already so richly prepared, receives again 
the gravies of the triple combination which flow from the bird 
whilst roasting. 

> This lady has already been mentioned in Meditation VI, § vii, 43. p. 72. — Tb. 
* The fashionable milliner in Paris at the time our author wrote, — Tb. 

(356) 



VARIETIES 

Thus, of the combination of all these good things, not an atom 
is lost, and everything can be appreciated, so that, knowing the 
excellence of this dish, I think it worthy of the most august tables. 
Pane, nee invideo, sine me, liber, ibis in aulam^ 

xin 

GASTRONOMICAL INDUSTRY OF THE fiMIGRfiS 

"Any woman in France, as I can tell. 
Can always cook, be it ill or well." ^ 

In a preceding chapter I have shown the immense advantages 
France has gained from gourmandise during the events of 1815.' 
This general propensity has not been less useful to the Smigris, 
and those who had some talents for the culinary art derived pre- 
cious assistance from it. 

Whilst passing through Boston, in the United States, I taught 
the restaurant-keeper Julien * to make a jondue, or eggs cooked 
with cheese.' This dish, a novelty to the Americans, became so 
much the rage that he felt himself obUged, by way of thanks, to 
send me to New York the rump of one of those pretty little roe- 
bucks that are brought from Canada in winter, and which was 
declared exquisite by the chosen committee whom I convoked for 
this occasion. 

Captain Collet gained also a good deal of money in New York 
in 1794 and 1795 by making ices and sherbets for the inhabitants 
of this commercial town. 

The ladies, in particular, never tired of this pleasure, so new to 
them; nothing was more amusing than to see the funny faces they 
made whilst tasting, being especially astonished that those ices 
could be kept cold under a summer heat of ninety degrees.* 

' "Go, without me, little book, to the court; I do not envy you." 

Thia line is an alteration of the first line of Ovid's Tristia, where urbem, town, is used 
instead of auhm, court. 

2 "Toute Frangaise, & ce que j*imagine, 

Sait, bieu ou mal, faire un peu de cuisine." 

These lines are from the third act of La BeUe Arahie, an opera, performed, in 177S, 
and of which the music was composed by Monsigny (1729-1817), who died at the age of 
eighty-eight. — ^Tb. 

» See Meditation XI, S7, pp. 188-130. — Tb. 

* Julien flourished about 1794; he was a clever young fellow, who, it was reported, had 
been cook to the Archbishop of Bordeaux. He ought to have made a large fortune if he 
did not die early in life. 

» See Meditation XIV, "A Sketch," p. 166; and also in the Varieties, XVI, p. 367, the 
receipt for making this fondue. — Tb. 

8 Ice was then a novelty in the United States; now there is more ice consumed, I sup- 
pose, than in the whole of Europe. — Tb. 

(357) 



VARIETIES 

Passing through Cologne, I met with a gentleman from Brit- 
tany, who had done very well by keeping dining-rooms, and I 
might quote many other instances, but I prefer to tell the story of 
a Frenchman who made his fortune in London by his skill in mix- 
ing a salad. 

If I recollect aright he was called d'Aubignac, or d'Albignac, 
and was a native of Lim6ges. 

Although his way of living was not very luxurious, as his means 
were very small, he went one day to dine in one of the most famous 
taverns in London. He was one of those people who lay down the 
rule that one can always dine very well on a single dish, if it is only 
good. 

While he was discussing a plate of juicy roast-beef, five or six 
young dandies of good family were enjoying themselves at a 
neighbouring table; and one of them rose, came to him, and said 
very politely, "Mr. Frenchman, it is said that yoiu- nation excels 
in the art of making a salad. Will you oblige us and mix one for 
us? "I 

D'Albignac consented after some hesitation, ordered all that he 
thought necessary to make the expected masterpiece, did his very 
best, and had the good luck to succeed. 

While mixing the ingredients, he replied frankly to all questions 
about his position, told them that he was an StrdgrS, and admitted, 
not without blushing a little, that he was receiving assistance 
from the English government — a circumstance which, without 
doubt, authorised one of the young men to slip into his hand a 
five-pound note, which was accepted after a little hesitation. 

He had given them his address, and some time afterwards he 
was only slightly surprised on receiving a letter in which he was 
requested in the most courteous terms to go and make a salad in 
one of the finest houses in Grosvenor Square. 

D'Albignac perceived that some double advantage might be 
obtained from this, so he did not hesitate a single moment, and 
arrived punctually, bringing with him a few fresh seasonings, 
which, as he thought, would give to his work a higher degree of 
perfection. 

He had had time enough to consider what to do; and was again 
fortunate and succeeded. He received this time such a fee that he 
could not well have refused it without injuring himself. 

The first young men for whom he had mixed a salad had, as we 
may presume, extolled and exaggerated its merits; and the second 

' Our author puts in a footnote: This ia a literal translation of the English compliment 
which was made on the occasion. — Tb. 

(358) 



VARIETIES 

company made so much more noise about it that d'Albignac's 
reputation extended rapidly. He became known as the fashion- 
able salad-maker, and in a country where all novelties are run 
after, the upper classes in the capital of the three kingdoms were 
all anxious to have a salad mixed by the French gentleman; if "I 
die for it," as they usually say in England. 

"The longing of a nun consumes like fire, 
Far fiercer still 's an English girl's desire." • 

Like a wise man d'Albignac took advantage of such an infatua- 
tion; he soon had a gig to go quicker to the various houses where 
he had an appointment, and a servant carrying a mahogany case 
containing all the ingredients which he now used; such as vinegar 
of different flavoiurs, oils with or without a fruity taste, soy, caviar, 
truffles, anchovies, catchup, gravies, and even hard-boiled eggs, 
which are a distinct characteristic of the mayonnaise. 

Later on he got such cases made, which he furnished com- 
pletely, and sold by hundreds. 

In short, by carrying on his operations, carefully and intelli- 
gently, he realised a fortune of more than eighty thousand francs, 
which he took back with him to France when the times had 
changed. 

When back again in his native land, he did not amuse himself 
by making a show in the streets of Paris, but thought of the future, 
and placed sixty thousand francs in the public funds, which stood 
then at fifty, and bought for twenty thousand francs a little 
country-seat situated in the Limousin, where he still lives, for 
aught I know, contented and happy, as he knows to limit his 
wants. 

Those details were told me some time ago by one of my friends 
who had known d'Albignac in London, and who had just met him 
when passing through Paris. 

' These linea are elightly altered from Giesaet (1709-77), poem Vet-Vert, chant ii, 
and are in the ori^nal — 

*' DSsir de fille eat un feu qui d6vore, 
D^ir de nonne eat cent foia pis encore." 

Oar author haa altered "fille" into "nonne/' and "nonne" in the second line into "ang- 
laiae." — Tb. 



(359) 



VARIETIES 
XIV 

OTHER RECOLLECTIONS OP THE EMIGRATION 

THE WEAVER 

In 1794, in Switzerland, M. Rostaing ' and I were showing a 
serene face in spite of a contrary fortune, and preserving our love 
for our native country which persecuted us. 

We came to Mondon, where some relatives of mine lived, and 
were received by the TroUiet family with a kindness of which I 
have dearly kept the remembrance. 

This family was one of the oldest in the country, but is now ex- 
tinct, for the last member of it left oiJy one daughter, who herself 
had no male descendant. 

They showed me in this town a young French officer who had 
become a weaver; and this is how he became it: 

This young man, of a very good family, passing through Mon- 
don to join the army of Cond6,' found himself at table beside an 
old man, who had one of those grave and animated faces with 
which painters depict the companions of William Tell.' 

At dessert some conversation took place, when the officer did 
not conceal his position, and received various marks of interest 
from his neighbour, who expressed his sorrow that the young man 
was compelled to give up in his youth all he loved, and remarked 
that Rousseau was right when he laid down the maxim that every 
man should learn a trade, to keep him in times of adversity, and 
to nourish him everywhere. As for himself, he declared he was a 
weaver, a widower without children, and that he was content with 
his lot. 

The conversation did not continue, and the next day the officer 
went away, and in a little time was in the ranks of the army of 
Cond6. But from all that he saw there, both in that army and else- 
where, he came easily to the conclusion that this was not the way 
by which he could hope to return to France. Ere long he experi- 

^ M. le Baron de Rostaing, my relative and friend, now military superintendent at 
Lyons, is an administrator of the first order; and has in his portfolio a system of military 
accounts so clear that one day or other it is sure to be generally adopted. 

2 Ijouis-Joseph, Duke of Bourbon, Prince de Cond6 (1736-1818), emigrated during the 
first French BevoluUon (179^1804), and became the chief of a corps of SmigrSa, known aa 
the armSe de Cond6, and in the pay of Austria. — Tb. 

8 William Tell, chief of the confederates of the forest-canton of Switzerland, had for his 
companions Walter Furst, bis father-in-law, StaufFacher and Arnold von Melchtal. It is 
said, that, having refused to salute the Austrian Governor's cap, he was condemned to shoot 
an apple from the head of his own son, and succeeded in doing so. Switzerland shook off the 
Austrian yoke in 1307. — Tb. 

(360) 



VARIETIES 

enced some of that unpleasantness which those men, who had no 
other claim than their zeal for the royal cause, not seldom met 
with there, and later on they did him some great injustice or 
something of that sort, which completely disgusted him. 

The words of the weaver dwelt in his memory; he thought of 
them for some time, and, having made up his mind, he left the 
army, came back to Mondon, presented himself to the weaver, 
and asked him to receive Viitti as an apprentice. 

"I shall not let this opportunity escape me of doing a good 
action," said the old man; "you shall live with me; I only know 
one thing, and I will teach it you. I have only one bed, and you 
shall share it. You '11 work for one year, and at the end of that 
time you shall establish yourself on your own account, and will 
live happy in a country where work is honoured and encouraged." 

The very next day the oflScer set to work, and succeeded so 
well that at the end of six months his master told him that he had 
nothing more to teach him, that he considered himself repaid for 
the care he had bestowed on him, and that from henceforth aU 
the profits of his work should be for himself. 

When I passed through Mondon the new artisan had already 
gained enough money to buy a loom and a bed; he worked with 
Wonderful assiduity, and the townspeople took such a lively in- 
terest in him that some of the first families in turns asked him to 
dinner every Sunday. 

On that day he again donned his uniform, and resumed his 
rightful place in society; and as he was very agreeable and well in- 
formed, he was feasted and caressed by every one. But on Mon- 
days he became again a weaver, and whilst passing his time in 
this alternative, he did not appear dissatbfied with his lot. 

THE FAMISHING MAN 

To this picture of the advantages of industry I shall add another 
of a certainly opposite kind. 

I met at Lausanne an SmigrS from Lyons, a tall and handsome- 
looking fellow, who, in order not to do any work, only ate twice a 
-week. He would have died of hunger in the most charming fash- 
ion; but a charitable merchant of the town told the keeper of an 
eating-house to let him have a dinner every Wednesday and Sun- 
day in the week, and that he would pay for them. 

The imigri arrived on the appointed days, stuffed himself till 
he could eat no more, and went away, not without taking with 
him a large lump of bread, for that was agreed on beforehand. 

He managed as well as he could with this bread, drank water 

(361) 



VARIETIES 

when his stomach hurt him, passed a part of his time in bed, half 
asleep and partly dreaming, which was not without charm, and 
thus waited till the next meal. 

He had Kved for three months in a similar way when I met him. 
He was not ill, but he showed in everything he did such languor, 
his features were so drawn, and between his nose and his ears there 
was something so Hippocratic, that it was painful to look at him. 

I was surprised that he would rather suffer such agony than 
try to make himself useful, and I invited him to dine with me at 
my hotel, where he feasted in an appalling manner. But I did not 
ask him again, for I like people to bear up against adversity, and 
to do, if necessary, what the whole human race has to do, namely, 
to work. 

THE SILVEB LION 

What first-rate dinners we 6migris used to have at that time at 
Lausanne in the Silver Lionl 

For fifteen batzen, or about two shillings, we had three com- 
plete courses, including, among other things, good game from the 
neighbouring mountaias, excellent fish from the lake of Geneva, 
all moistened with as much as we liked to drink of a cheap white 
wine, as clear as spring water, which would have made a madman 
drink. 

At the head of the table sat always a canon of the church of 
Notre-Dame in Paris (I hope that he may stUl be alive), who was 
perfectly at home there, and before whom the waiter never failed 
to place every nice dish of the bill of fare. 

He did me the honour of paying me particular attention, and of 
inviting me to draw near to him and to assist him; but I did not 
enjoy this advantage long, for I was led away by the force of cir- 
cumstances, and I left for the United States, where I found refuge, 
occupation, and repose. 



* I suppose our author means to indicate by those six lines of dots that he does not wish 
to say anything about his stay in America. Accidentally he has told us some of bis adven- 
tures there in Meditation VI, 38, p. 67; Meditation XXI, 105, p. 247; Varieties, III, " A 
National Victory," p. 333; Varieties, XIII, "Gastronomical Industry of the Emigria" 
p. 357; and in the following piece, "A Battle." — Tb. 

(362) 



VARIETIES 



A BATTLE 



I close this chapter with the narrative of an accident in my 
career, which clearly proves that nothing is certain in this world, 
and that misfortune may overtake us the very moment we least 
expect it. 

I was going to France, and after three years' residence was leav- 
ing the United States, where I had found myself so comfortable 
that, though sorrowing for my departure, I asked Heaven, and it 
has listened to my prayers, to grant me the same happiness in the 
Old World I had enjoyed in the New. 

I owe this happiness principally to the fact that when I first 
came among the Americans I spoke as they did,* dressed like 
them, took care not to appear more intelligent than they were, 
and approved everything that they did; thus rewarding the hos- 
pitality I found among them by a politeness I think necessary, and 
which I recommend to everybody who may ever find himself in a 
similar position. 

I quitted, therefore, peacefully a country wherein I had lived 
in peace with every one, and there was not a featherless two- 
legged animal in all creation more full of love for his fellow-crea- 
tures than I was, when an accident occurred, wholly independent 
of my will, which might have caused me to become involved in a 
dire tragedy. 

I was on the packet-boat going from New York to Philadelphia, 
and in order to make the voyage with safety and certainty, we had 
to wait for the precise moment when the tide was going out. 

Now, the sea was neither ebbing nor flooding, so that it was 
time to start, but there was no appearance of the vessel leaving 
her moorings. 

A goodly number of Frenchmen were on board, and among 
others a certain M. Gauthier, a decent man, who most probably 
is still in Paris, and who ruined himself in attempting to build 
ultra vires the house at the southwest corner of the residence of the 
French finance minister. 

We were delayed on account of two American passengers who 
had not yet come on board, and for whom we were kindly wait- 
ing, which made us run the risk of being surprised by the low tide, 
and of taking twice as much time to arrive at our destination, for 
flood and tide wait for nobody. 

1 I dined one day at the same table with a Creole who had lived in New York for two 
years, and did not know enough English to ask for bread, so I expressed my astonishment. 
" Bahl " said he, shrugging his shoulders, "do you think I should be such a simpleton as to 
give myself the trouble of studying the language of such a disagreeable and glumpy people? " 

(363) 



VARIETIES 

Hence a good deal of grumbling, and especially by the French, 
whose passions are much more easily roused than those of the in- 
habitants from the other side of the Atlantic. Not only did I take 
no part in it, but I scarcely paid any attention to it, for my heart 
was full, and I was thinking what Fate would have in store for me 
in France, so that I did not very well know what was going on. 
AU at once I heard a terrific noise, and I saw that it was caused by 
Gauthier, who had given one of the Americans a box on the ear, 
powerful enough to have knocked down a rhinoceros. 

This act of violence produced a frightful confusion. The words 
"French" and "American" having been several times bandied 
about, the quarrel became a national one, and it was proposed 
that aU Frenchmen should be thrown overboard, which would 
have been a rather difificult business, as we were eight against 
eleven. From my outward appearance, I seemed the Ukeliest pas- 
senger to resist to the utmost this "transbordation"; ^ for I am 
thickset, tall, and was then only thirty-nine. No doubt, for this 
reason, the ringleader of the hostile band was sent against me, and 
placed himself right opposite to me in a warlike attitude. 

He was as high as a steeple, and stout in proportion; but, on 
taking his measure with a look which pierced to his very marrow, 
I saw that he was of a lymphatic temperament, with a puffy face, 
lack-lustre eyes, a small head, and weak legs. 

Mens rum agitat molem, I said to myself; let us see what he is 
made of, and if we must die, we must. So this is exactly what I 
said to him, after the manner of an Homeric hero: — 

"Do you think you can bully me,^ you infernal rogue! By Jove, 
it will not do, and I '11 throw you overboard like a dead cat. If I 
find you too heavy, I '11 cling to you with hands, legs, teeth, nails, 
everything; and if I cannot do better, we will sink together to the 
bottom. My life is nothing to send such a dog as you to the in- 
fernal regions. Come on!"' 

Whilst saying these words, which harmonised, no doubt, with 

' Another word invented by our author in imitation of the English word "transporta- 
tion," wliich is dSportation in French. — Tb. 

s Our author says in a footnote; "People never say 'thou' in English; and a carter, when 
plying his horse with the whip, says, 'Go on, sir! go on, sir, I say.'" What polite carters 
there were in England, and, 1 suppose, in America too, in M. Brillat-Savarin's time, and 
what a pity that all this is changed, but unfortunately not for the better. — Tb. 

8 The translator has taken the liberty of slightly altering a couple of the strongest and 
choicest English invectives, which our author uses, to prove bis perfect Imowledge of our 
language ; some of bis specimens of the vernacular have also been carelessly printed. M. 
Brillat-Savarin further states; "In all countries under English law a fight is always pre- 
ceded by many words and a good deal of abuse, as they have a saying,' High words break 
no bones.' Often also they do not go any further, and are careful not to strike a blow, for 
he who strikes the first blow breaks the public peace, and will always be condemned to pay 
a fine whatever the result of the fight may be." 

(364) 



VARIETIES 

my attitude and action, I felt a strong as Hercules. My oppo- 
nent seemed to shrink an inch in height; his arms fell, and his face 
became elongated. In a word, he gave such evident marks of funk, 
that one of his countrymen, who had no doubt sent him, saw it, 
and came to interpose. And he did right, for my blood was up, 
and the inhabitant of the New World would have felt that thos« 
who bathe in the Furens ^ have well-knit and sinewy frames. 

Meanwhile words of peace had already been heard in another 
part of the ship; the arrival of the unpunctual passengers created 
a diversion; and it was necessary to set sail, so that, whilst I was 
still Ln a boxing attitude, the tumult suddenly ceased. 

Things ended even better than I thought, for when everything 
was quiet, I went to look for Gauthier to scold him for his vivacity, 
and found him sitting at the same table with the man he had 
slapped in the face, in the presence of a most attractive-looking 
ham and an enormous jug of beer. 

XV 

A BUNDLE OF ASPARAGUS 

Going through the Palais-Royal on a fine day in the month of 
February, I stopped before the shop of Madame Chevet, the 
most famous provision warehouse in Paris,^ with whom always I 
had been somewhat of a favourite; and seeing a bundle of aspara- 
gus, of which the smallest stick was thicker than my forefinger, I 
asked her the price. "Forty francs, sir," she said. "They are cer- 
tainly very fine; but at that price only a king or some prince could 
eat them." — "You are wrong; such choice objects never enter 
palaces, where they merely want what is fine, but not what is 
magnificent. For all that, my bimdle of asparagus will soon be 
sold, and I'll tell you why: 

"At this very moment there are in this town at least three 
hundred wealthy men, financiers, capitalists, contractors, and 
others, who must stay at home on account of gout, for fear of 
catching cold, by the doctor's orders, and from other causes which 
do not prevent them from eating; they sit by their fire, puzzhng 
their brains to know what will please their palate; and when they 
are quite fatigued, and that without any result, they send their 

' A clear stream that takes its rise above RoussUIon, passes near Belley. aod falls into 
the Rhone above Feyrieux. The trouts caught in it have pink-coloured flesh, while that of 
the pike is as white as ivory. 

' We are happy to state that this shop still exists in the Falais-Royal, though 1 believe 
no longer kept by any member of the Chevet family. — Tb. 

(365 ) 



VARIETIES 

valet on a voyage of discovery. He comes to my shop, notices 
those asparagus, makes his report, and they are bought at any 
price. Or, perhaps, a pretty, dainty-looking woman is passing 
with her lover, and says to him, 'Ah! my dear, look at those beau- 
tiful asparagus I Let us buy them; you know how well my servant 
makes the sauce.' Now, in such a case, a gentlemanly sort of lover 
never refuses to buy nor haggles. Or, again, it is for a wager, a 
christening, or a sudden rise in stocks. . . . How can I know the 
reason? In a word, the dearest objects are sold quicker than 
others, because in Paris so many extraordinary circumstances 
happen in men's lives that there are always sufficient motives to 
account for such objects beiug got rid of." 

Whilst she was speaking, two big Englishmen, who were going 
along arm-io-arm, stopped before the shop, and their faces in- 
stantly expressed their admiration. One of them entered, told 
Madame Chevet to wrap up the wonderful bundle, without even 
asking the price; then he paid for it, put it under his arm, and 
carried it off whistling "God save the king." 

"There, sir," said Madame Chevet, lauglung, "there 's another 
chance quite as common as the rest, though I had not yet men- 
tioned it." 

XVI 

THE FONDUE 

The fond/ue is of Swiss origin, and is only made of eggs lightly 
fried, with cheese in certain proportions, which time and experi- 
ence have revealed. I will give here the right way how to prepare it. 

It is a wholesome, savoury, and appetising dish, quickly got 
ready, and, therefore, always fit to be placed before any unex- 
pected guest. Furthermore, I only mention it here for my own 
private delectation, and because the dish reminds me of an an- 
ecdote which the old men of the district of Belley still remember. 

Towards the end of the seventeenth century, a M. de Madot 
was appointed Bishop of Belley,* and arrived to take possession 
of his bishopric. 

Those who had to receive him, and were doing to him the hon- 
ours of his palace, had prepared a banquet worthy of the occasion, 
and used aU the resources of the culinary art of that time to feast 
the arrival of the bishop. 

' Franfoia Madot was Bishop of Belley from the month of April, 170S, until the 
month of December, 1711, and therefore officiated in the beginning of the eighteenth 
century. — Tb. 

(366) 



VARIETIES 

Among the entremets was a sivaple fondue, of which the prelate 
helped himself copiously. But he made a mistake, by its appear- 
ance took it to be a cream, and surprised everybody by eating it 
with a spoon instead of using a fork, which from time immemorial 
served for such a purpose. 

All the guests, astonished at this eccentricity, cast sidelong 
glances at one another, and smiled almost imperceptibly. Never- 
theless, respect made every one hold his tongue, for it was clear 
that a bishop, who had just come from Paris, would do exactly 
what was right and proper at table, especially on the first day of 
his arrival. 

But the report got bruited about, and the next day when one 
person met another they asked, "Well, do you know how our. new 
bishop ate \he fondue yesterday evening?" "Oh yes, I know all 
about it; he ate it with a spoon. I heard it from an eye-witness," 
and so on. Prom the town the report spread into the country, and 
in three months the whole diocese knew everything about it. 

The most remarkable part of this incident was, that it nearly 
upset the beUef of our forefathers; for some innovators took the 
part of the spoon, but they were very soon forgotten. The fork 
triumphed; and more than a century after the event, one of my 
great-uncles stiU made fim of it, and told me, laughing loudly and 
boisterously, how M. de Madot had once eaten fondue with a 
spoon. 

Receipt foh the Fondue 

Taken from the papers of M. Trolliet, hailli of Mondon, in the canton of 

Berne 

Take as many eggs as you wish to use, according to the number 
of your guests. 

Then take a lump of good Gruy^re cheese, weighing about a 
third of the eggs, and a lump of butter of about half the weight of 
the cheese. 

Break and beat up the eggs well in a flat pan, then add the 
butter and the cheese, grated or cut in small pieces. 

Place the pan on a clear fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till 
the mixture is tolerably thick and soft; put in a little or no salt, 
according to the age of the cheese, and a good deal of pepper, 
which is one of the special attributes of this ancient dish. Let it 
be placed on the table in a hot dish, and if some of the best wines 
be produced, and the bottle passed pretty freely, a marvellous 
effect will be beheld. 

(867) 



VARIETIES 

xvn 

DISAPPOINTMENT 

All was quiet one day in the inn, the Ecu de France, at Bourg en 
Bresse, when a great noise of wheels was heard, and a splendid 
travelling-carriage, of English make, made its appearance, drawn 
by four horses; whilst especially deserving of notice were two 
very pretty-looking maids, who sat on the coachman's box, well 
wrapped up in scarlet rugs, with blue linings and embroideries. 

At the sight of this carriage, which denoted an English lord 
travelling by easy stages, Chicot, as the innkeeper was called, ran 
to meet it, cap in hand; his wife stood at the door, the daughters 
nearly broke their necks in their hurry to come downstairs, and 
the stable-boys showed themselves, already counting on an ample 
gratuity. 

The maids were unpacked, not without making them blush a 
little, considering the difficulties of the descent; and the travelling- 
carriage disgorged: 1. A stout Englishman, short, with a red face, 
and a tremendous "corporation." 2. Two young ladies, thin, 
pale, and red-haired. 3. A lady, looking as if she were between 
the first and second stages of consumption, and who said: "Mr. 
Innkeeper, look after the horses; let us have a room to rest 
awhile, and give some refreshments to my maids; but the whole 
must not cost more than six francs, so take your measures accord- 
ingly." 

As soon as this not very large sum had been mentioned, Chicot 
put on his cap, the landlady went indoors, and the daughters re- 
turned to their rooms. 

However, the horses were put into the stable, where they could 
read the newspapers, if they liked; the ladies were shown a room 
upstairs, and the maids got some glasses and a decanter of very 
pure water. 

But the stipulated six francs were only received with a growl, 
and as a very slight compensation for the trouble caused and io: 
expectations deceived. 

xvni 

MARVELLOUS EFFECTS OF A CLASSICAL DINNER 

"Alas, how I am to be pitied," exclaimed, in an elegiac tone, a 
gastronomer, who was a member of the Royal Court of Justice in 

(368) 



VARIETIES 

the department of the Seine. "I thought I should soon return to 
my estate, and left my cook there; but business detains me in 
Parb, and I have to rely on the dishes prepared for me by an old 
woman whose cookery makes me sick. My wife is satisfied with 
anything, my children as yet understand nothing at all about it; 
the cooked meat is underdone, and the roast meat burnt. Alas! 
both the spit and the saucepan kill me!" 

Whilst uttering these words he crossed with a sorrowful gait 
the place Dauphine in Paris. Happily for the public weal the pro- 
fessor heaid these well-founded complaints, and recognised a 
friend in the grumbler. "You shall not die, my dear fellow," he 
said, in an affectionate tone to the martyrised magistrate. "No, 
you shall not die of an evil for which I can offer you a remedy. Do 
me the honour and accept for to-morrow a classical dinner, in 
private committee; after dinner, a game of piquet, which shall be 
arranged in such a manner that everybody will amuse himself, 
and then this evening will drop, as other evenings have done, into 
the abyss of the past." 

The invitation was accepted; the mystery was accomphshed 
according to the usual customs, rites, and ceremonies; and since 
the 23d of June of the year 1825, for that was the day, the pro- 
fessor is happy to have preserved to the Royal Court one of its 
most worthy supporters. 

XIX 

EFFECTS AND DANGERS OF STRONG DRINKS 

The artificial thirst which already we have mentioned,^ and 
which requires strong drinks as a momentary solace, becomes in 
time so intense and so habitual that those who give themselves up 
to it cannot even go through the night without taking a drink, 
and have to leave their bed to quench their thirst. 

This thirst then becomes a regular disease; and we may proph- 
esy with certainty that when any one has gone so far he has not 
two years more to live. 

Some time ago I travelled in Holland with a rich merchant of 
Dantzig, wjio for fifty years had been the head of the first retafil- 
house in the trade for brandies. 

"Sir," said this patriarch to me, "nobody in France even im- 
agines how important the business is we continue, from father to 
son, for more than a century. I have studied carefully the work- 

« See Meditation Vm, 49, "Different Varieties of Thirst," p. 109. — Ta. 

(369) 



VABIETIES 

men who come to my place; and when they wholly give themselves 
up to their passion for strong drinks, but too common amongst 
the Germans, they all end very much in the same manner. 

"At first they only take a httle glass of brandy every morning, 
and for many years this satisfies them, for this habit is common 
enough among all workmen, and any one who does not take it 
would be laughed at by his companions; then they double the dose, 
that is to say, they take a little glass every morning and another 
towards noon. Thus things go on for about two or three years; 
then they begin to drink it regularly, every morning, noon, and 
night. Soon they take it at every hour of the day, and only like 
the brandy with a little cloves in it. When they have come to that 
state they will certainly, and at the most, not Uve six months; 
they are dried up, they get a fever, they go into the hospital, and 
are never seen again." 

XX 

CHEVALIERS AND ABBife 

I have already twice referred to these two classes of gourmands 
now no longer in existence.^ 

Inasmuch as they have disappeared for more than thirty years, 
the greater part of the present generation has never seen them. 

They will probably reappear towards the end of this century: 
but as such an event requires the coincidence of many future con- 
tingencies, I imagine that very few persons, now aUve, will ever 
witness this regeneration. Therefore, as a painter of manners, I 
give them a final touch of my brush, and, to do so the easier, bor- 
row the following passage from an author who never refuses me 
anything:* 

"Regularly and usually the title of chevaher should only have 
been given to persons decorated with an order, or to younger sons 
of the aristocracy; but many of those chevaliers foimd it con- 
venient to create themselves, and, if the bearer had any educa- 
tion and a good figure, the carelessness of the time was such that 
no one took any notice of it. 

"The chevaliers were generally handsome fellows; they wore 
their swords straight downwards, stretched out their leg, held their 
heads high, and their nose in the air. They were fond of gambling, 

» See Meditation XII, 67, p. 149, and "Varieties," VHI, "The Plot," p. S4S. — Tb. 
' This author is M. Brillat-Savarin himself, and the passage is borrowed from his Essai 
huiorique nir U Duel, published in 1819. — Tb. 

(370) 



VARIETIES 

libertines and roysterers, and essentially formed part of the retinue 
of a fashionable beauty. 

"They were also distinguished by their brilliant coiu;age, and 
by their great readiness to draw their swords. Sometimes they 
would call you out for merely looking at them." 

Such was the end of the Chevalier S , one of the most fa- 
mous of his time. 

He gratuitously sought a" quarrel with a yomig man just arrived 
from Charolles, and they went to fight behiad the Chauss6e- 
d'Antin, where, at that time, there were nothing but marshes. 

From the behaviour and attitude of the new comer, S 

soon saw that he had not to deal with a novice; but, nevertheless, 
he thought he would try his mettle, and at the first lunge he made, 
his opponent replied with so effective a thrust that the chevalier 
was dead before he fell to the ground. One of his friends, and his 
second ia the duel, examined for a long time in silence a wound so 
terrible, and the direction the sword had taken, and said, finally, 
when going away, "What an elegant thrust in carte!" "What a 
good hand that young fellow is in fencing! " Those words were all 
the funeral oration the dead man got. 

At the commencement of the wars of the Revolution, the great- 
est part of the chevaliers entered the ranks, others emigrated, the 
rest were lost among the crowd. The few who survive are still to 
be recognised by the way they hold their heads ; but they are lean, 
and walk with difficulty: they have the gout. 

When there were many children in an aristocratic family, one 
was always destined for the Chiu-ch. He commenced by obtain- 
ing simple benefices, which defrayed the expenses of his education, 
and afterwards he became prince, commendatory abbS, or bishop, 
according as he felt more or less inclined for the apostolate. 

This was the legitimate type of abbis, but there were imitation 
ones, and many young fellows who had some means, and did not 
like to run the risk of the title of chevalier, called themselves abbis 
when coming to Paris. 

Nothing was easier; with a slight modification in the dress a 
professional appearance was at once obtained, then they looked 
the equals of every one in society, and were invited every- 
where, caressed, run after, for there was no house without its 
abbs. 

The abbSs were short, thick-set, plump, well dressed, cajoling, 
very polite, inquisitive, gourmands, alert, insinuating; those who 
are still in existence have become corpulent and very pious. 

There was no happier lot on this earth than that of a rich prior 

(371) 



VARIETIES 

or commendatory ahbS; they were of some importance, had money, 
no superiors, and nothing to do. 

The chevaliers will reappear, if peace last for a long time, as we 
trust; but, unless there be a great change in the ecclesiastical 
administration, the race of abb6s is lost for ever. "Sinecures" no 
longer exist, and people have reverted to the first principles of the 
Church, ben^dum propter offidum. 

XXI 

MISCELLANEA 

"Mr. Counsellor," * asked one day an old marchioness of the 
Faubourg Saint-Germain,^ from one end of the table to the other, 
"which do you like best, Burgxmdy or Bordeaux?" "That, my 
lady," repUed, in an oracular tone, the magistrate to whom this 
question was addressed, "is a trial in which I am so dehghted to 
examine both sides, that I always adjourn for a week the pro- 
notmcing of the verdict." 

At the table of a gentleman living in the Chaussee d'Antin was 
served up an Aries sausage of an enormous size. " Will you accept 
a slice? " the host asked a lady who was sitting next him; "you see 
it has come from the right factory." — "It is really very large," 
said the lady, casting on it a roguish glance; "what a pity it is 
unlike anything." 

It is only intelligent men, especially, who hold gourmandise in 
honour; other men are incapable of an operation consisting of a 
series of appreciations and judgments. 

The Countess of Genlis ' boasts in her Memoirs of having 
taught a German lady, who had been very attentive to her, the 
way to prepare as many as seven different delicious dishes. 

It was the Count de Laplace * who discovered a very elegant 
way of eating strawberries, namely, of squeezing over them the 
juice of a sweet orange, or apple of the Hesperides.^ 

' See M. Monselet's Introduction, p. viii. 

* In this Faubourg used to live, and even live now, some of the most aristocratic families 
of France. — Tb. 

' Felicity Ducrest, Countess de Genlis (1746-1830), a well-known female author of num- 
berless novels and other works, now completely and deservedly forgotten. — Tb. 

' See Meditation VI, p. 88. — Tb. 

B The Hesperides were three sisters who guarded the golden apples which Juno received 

(372) 



VARIETIES 

Another scientific man has improved on the first by adding the 
rind of an orange, which he rubs off with a lump of sugar; and he 
pretends to prove by means of a scrap preserved from the flames 
which destroyed the library of Alexandria,* that strawberries were 
served up prepared in a similar way at the banquets of Mount Ida.* 

"I have no very great opinion of that gentleman," said Count 

M , speaking of a candidate who had just been appointed to 

a certain place; "he has never eaten a sausage d la Richelieu, and 
does not know mutton chops d la Sovbise." 

A man who was fond of wine was offered some grapes at dessert 
after dinner. "Much obliged," said he, pushing the plate aside; 
"I am not accustomed to take my wine in pUls." 

A connoisseur of gastronomy was congratulated on his appoint- 
ment as director of indirect contributions at Periguew: and, above 
all, in the pleasure there would be in living in the midst of good 
cheer, in the country of trufiSes, partridges, truffled turkeys, and 
so forth. "Alas!" replied with a sigh the sad gastronomer, "can 
one really live at all in a country where is no fresh sea-fish?" 

xxn 

A DAY WITH THE BERNARDIlSrES 

About the year 1782, and about one o'clock on a fine summer's 
night, we started, but not without having first given a rather loud 
serenade to the fair in whom we were happy enough to take an 
interest. 

We left Belley to go to Saint-Sulpice, a Bernardiue Abbey,^ on 
one of the highest mountains of the district, at least five thousand 
feet above the level of the sea. 

I was then the leader of a troop of amateur musicians, all jolly 
good fellows, and all well provided with those virtues which ac- 
company youth and health. 

S3 & marriage gift; hence the place where those apples grow is sometimes called after them. 

— Tb. 

* The library of Alexandria, founded by the Ptolemies, is said to have been burned by 
order of the Caliph Omar in the year 641. — Tb. 

' On Mount Ida, in Asia Minor, the gods, according to the Mythology, used to feast, 

— Tb. 

» The Bemardine monks are so-called after St. Bernard (1091-1153), who reformed the 
order of the Cistercians, and became the first abbot of the monastery of Clairvaux. — Tb. 

(373) 



VARIETIES 

"Sir," the Abbot of Saint-Sulpice said to me one day after 
dinner, whilst taking me in a corner by the window, "it would be 
a great kindness if you and your friends were to come and give us 
a little music on St. Bernard's day, for the saint will receive 
greater honour, our neighbours will be delighted, and you will 
have the honoxu- of being the first Orpheuses ^ penetrating into 
these lofty regions." 

I would not allow him to repeat his request, which promised an 
agreeable holiday; so I nodded my head aflSrmatively, and the 
room shook. 

Annuit, et Mum nutu trem^ecit Olym/pum? 

All our precautions were taken beforehand, and we left early, 
because we had four leagues to go by roads capable of frightening 
even those audacious travellers who have cUmbed the heights of 
the lofty Butte Montmartre.' 

The monastery was built in a valley closed to the west by the 
summit of the mountain, and on the east by a hUl not quite so 
lofty. 

The western peak was crowned by a forest of fir-trees so dense 
that during one storm on one day there were blown down thirty- 
seven thousand.* The bottom of the valley was occupied by a 
vast meadow, intersected by bushes of beech-trees, which formed 
various irregular compartments, models on a large scale of those 
small English gardens which we like so much. 

Arriving at daybreak, we were received by the father-cellarer, 
who had a quadrangular face and a nose like an obelisk. 

"Welcome, gentlemen," said the good father, "welcome; our 
reverend abbot will be very pleased when he hears you have ar- 
rived. He is still in bed, for yesterday he was very much fatigued; 
but if you wiU come with me, you will see that you were expected." 

After having uttered these words, he walked on, and We followed 
him, supposing correctly that he wotild lead us towards the re- 
fectory. 

^ Orpbeus. a Thia^an poet of such excellence that, when hia wife Eurydice died, and 
went to the nether world, he so charmed King Pluto that she was released from death, on 
the condition that her husband would not look back till he had returned to earth; but he 
took one parting glance, before leaving Hades, and his wife vanished instantly, according 
to Greek mythology. — Tb. 

^ *'He nodded, and made the whole of Olympus tremble with a nod"; a line from the 
Mneid.—TR. 

> The Butte Montmartre is a small hill near Paris, somewhat like Notting Hill, Den- 
mark Hill, or Primrose Hill in London. — Tb. 

' The administration of the streams and forests counted them and sold them, and com- 
merce and the monks alike profited by it; a large capital was put into circulation, and 
nobody complained of the storm. 

(374) 



VARIETIES 

There all our senses were delighted on beholding a most tempt- 
ing breakfast, a really classical meal. 

In the centre of a spacious table rose a pasty as large as a 
church, flanked on the north by a quarter of cold veal, on the 
south by an enormous ham, on the east by a monumental pile of 
butter, and on the west by an enormous dish of artichokes, with a 
hot sauce. 

We saw, besides, various sorts of fruits, plates, napkins, knives, 
and silver spoons and forks in baskets, and at the end of the table, 
the lay brothers and servants ready to Wait upon us, though as- 
tonished to find themselves up so early. 

In one comer of the refectory we beheld a pile of more than a 
hundred bottles continually cooled by a natiual fountain, which 
rippled out, murmuring Evohe Bacche.^ And if the smell of the 
Mocha did not tickle our nostrils, it was because in those heroic 
times coffee was not yet taken so early. 

The reverend cellarer enjoyed for a short time our astonishment, 
and then addressed to us the following allocution, which in our 
wisdom we thought had been prepared beforehand: 

" Gentlemen, I should have been very glad to have kept you 
company, but I have not yet said my mass; and to-day is a double 
of the first class. I have no need to wish you a good appetite, for 
I imagine your age, the voyage, and the sharp air of our mountains 
will have given you one. Accept, therefore, with pleasure what we 
offer you with all our heart. I must leave you to sing my matins." 

Whilst saying these words he disappeared. 

Now was the moment for action, and we attacked with an 
energy which really seemed produced by the three aggravating 
circumstances so distinctly mentioned by the cellarer. But what 
could feeble children of Adam do against a repast seemingly pre- 
pared for the inhabitants of Sirius.^ Oiu" efforts were powerless, 
and, although fully crammed, we only left imperceptible traces of 
om- passage. 

Thus provided until dinner-time, we broke up; and I went to lie 
down in a good bed, where I slept whilst waiting for mass, like the 
hero of Eocroy,' and other heroes who slept until the battle was 
to begin. I was woke up by a robust brother, who nearly tore my 
arm off, and I hastened to church, where I found everybody at his 
post. 

1 "Long live Bacchus," the cry of the priestesses of Bacchus at the festivals held in 
honour of this god, and distinguished for their licentiousness and debauchery.— Tb. 

2 The inhabitants of Sinus or the Dogstar were supposed to be great eaters. — Tb. 

> The battle of Bocroy in the Ardennes was fought against the Spaniards, May 19, 1643, 
and won by Cond^, then Duke of Enghien. — Tn. 

(375) 



VARIETIES 

At the offertory we performed a symphony, and sang a motet at 
the elevation, finishing with a quartett of wind instruments. And 
in spite of the jokes made about amateur music, truth obhges me 
to say that we did it very well. 

I take this opportunity to remark that aU such persons who are 
never pleased with anything are really always ignorant people, 
who only state their opinions boldly because they hope their au- 
dacity may lead others to believe they possess a knowledge they 
never had the corn-age to acquire. 

We received with becoming modesty the praises lavished on us 
on this occasion, and after having received the thanks of the abbot, 
we sat down to dinner. 

It was served in the style of the fifteenth century; there were 
few side-dishes, few superfluities; but an excellent choice of meats, 
simple and substantial stews, everything well cooked and per- 
fectly roasted, and above all, vegetables of a flavour unknown in 
the marshy valleys, prevented us from wishing for anything we 
did not see. 

As a sample of the abundance which reigned in this excellent 
monastery, I'U simply state that during the second course were 
served up fourteen different dishes of roast meat. 

The dessert was so much the more remarkable as it was partly 
composed of fruits which do not grow on the mountains, and 
which had been brought from the Low Countries; for the gardens 
of Machuraz, la Morflent, Viu, Champagne, and other places 
favoured by the sun, the generator of heat, had been laid under 
contribution. 

Liqueurs were not lacking; but the coffee especially deserves 
mention. It was as clear as crystal, aromatic, and wonderfully 
hot; but, above aU, it was not handed round in those wretched 
vessels called cups on the left banks of the Seine, but in beautiful 
and capacious bowls, into which the thick lips of the reverend 
fathers plunged, engulphing the refreshing beverage with a noise 
that would have done honour to sperm-whales before a storm. 

After dinner we went to vespers, and we performed, between 
the psalms, some antiphons which I had composed for this occa- 
sion. It was ordinary music, such as was sung at that time, and I 
neither praise nor blame it, for fear of being detained by modesty, 
or influenced by being the father of it. 

The service for the day being thus ended, some of the neigh- 
bours began to go away, and others to form among themselves 
small card parties. 

As for me, I liked walking better, and went with several of my 

(376) 



VARIETIES 

friends to tread that soft and close turf worth all the carpets of the 
Savonnerie manufacture,* and to inhale that pure air which re- 
freshes the mind and disposes the imagination to meditation and 
to romanticism.' 

It was late when we entered again the monastery. The abbot 
came to me to wish me a good evening and a good night's rest; 
then he said: "I am going to my room, and let you finish the even- 
ing; not because I think that my presence would be irksome to the 
brethren, but I wish them to know they can have full liberty. It is 
not every day Saint Bernard's day. To-morrow everything will 
be as orderly as usual: Craa iterahimus mquor. 

In fact, after the departure of the abbot the company became 
more gay and Uvely, and more of those jokes were told peculiar to 
monasteries, which do not mean much, and at which every one 
laughs without knowing why. 

About nine o'clock supper was served, a supper carefully and 
delicately prepared, and several centuries in advance of the 
dinner. 

We began to eat again; we chatted, laughed, sung some songs, 
and one of the fathers read us some verses he had made, which 
really were not so very bad for a shaveling. 

Towards the close of the evening, some one called aloud, 
"Father cellarer, where is your dish?" — "Quite right," replied 
the father, "I am not cellarer for nothing." 

He left the room for a moment, and came back soon, accom- 
panied by three servants, one carrying a quantity of excellent 
buttered toast, and the other two laden with a table on which 
there was a bowl of burnt brandy and sugar, almost as good as 
pimch, which was as yet unknown. 

The new comers were received with acclamation; the toast was 
all eaten, the burnt brandy drunk, and as the Abbey clock struck 
midnight, each of us returned to his room to enjoy that delicious 
sleep to which the labours of the day had inclined and entitled 
him. 

The father ceUarer, mentioned in this really true narrative, be- 
came very old, and they spoke before him of a newly-appointed 
abbot from Paris, whose severity was dreaded. "My mind is 
quite easy about him," said the reverend father. "Let him be as 
terrible as he likes, he will never have the courage to drive away 

^ La Savonnffrie, a government carpet-manufactory at Challlot, became united in 1669 
to the celebrated manufactory' of the Gobelins still in existence. — Th. 

^ I have constantly noticed this effect under the very same circumstances, and 1 am led 
to believe that the lightness of the air in the mountains allows certain powers of the brain 
to act which are depressed in the plains by heaviness. 

(377) 



VARIETIES 

an old man from the corner of the hearth, nor take away the key 
of the cellar." 

XXIII 

HAPPINESS ON A JOURNEY 

One day, mounted on my good horse. La Joie, I was riding over 
the pleasant slopes of the Jura. 

It was in the worst days of the Revolution, and I was on my 
way to D61e^ to see the representative Pr6t, and to obtain from 
him a safe conduct, which might prevent my being put into prison, 
and probably afterwards guillotined. 

On arriving, about seven o'clock in the morning, at an inn in 
the little hamlet or village of Mont-sous- Vaudrey, I first of all 
looked after my horse's comfort, and then went into the kitchen, 
where a spectacle met my gaze which no traveller can behold 
without a feeling of pleasure. 

Before a bright and brilliant fire a spit was turning, admirably 
furnished with various kinds of quails, and those little corn-crakes 
with green feet that are always so fat. That choice game was 
dropping its gravy on an enormous piece of toast evidently pre- 
pared by a sportsman; and close by I saw abeady roasted one of 
those very plump leverets, unknown to Parisians, the perfume of 
which would fill a whole church. 

" That's all right," I said to myself, cheered at the sight. "Provi- 
dence does not altogether abandon me. Let us pluck this flower as 
we go along, for there will always be time enough left to die in." 

Whilst I had been looking round the kitchen, the landlord, 
whistling, and his hands behind his back, was walking his gigantic 
size to and fro. I said to him, "My dear feUow, what good thing 
are you going to give me for my dinner?" "Nothing but good 
things, sir; good boiled beef, good potato soup, a good shoulder of 
mutton, and good haricots." 

At this unlooked-for reply a shiver of disappointment went 
through my whole system. Everybody knows that I never eat 
boiled beef, because it is the meat without the gravy. Potatoes 
and haricots generate f at,^ and I have not got teeth of iron to tear 
asunder a shoulder of mutton. That bill of fare must have been 
prepared especially to annoy me, and I felt again overwhelmed by 
my misfortunes. 

^ One of the oldest towns of the Department of the Jura, which is bordering on that of the 
Ain, where ouu author was bom. — Tb. 
3 The author this time creates the barbarous word obisigine. — Tb. 

(378) 



VARIETIES 

The landlord cast on me a sly glance, and seemed to guess why 
I looked so disappointed. "For whom are you keeping all that 
nice game?" I asked with a dissatisfied air. "Alas! sir," he replied, 
in a sympathetic tone, "I cannot dispose of it; it all belongs to 
some gentlemen of the law, who have been engaged ten days as 
legal experts for a very rich lady. They finished their business 
yesterday, and are having a treat to celebrate so happy an event." 
— "Sir," I said, after having thought for a few minutes, "be 
kind enough to tell those gentlemen that a decent person asks the 
favour of being allowed to dine with them, that he will pay his 
share of the bill, and be very much obhged to them." He went 
away, but did not come back. 

Soon after, a Uttle man, corpulent, ruddy, chubby, thick-set, 
and sprightly, came in, and roamed about the kitchen, displaced 
certain articles, lifted the cover of a stewpan, and vanished. 

"Good," I said to myself; "that is the brother tyler who comes 
to look at me." And hope revived again, for I knew, from ex- 
perience, that I am not repulsive looking. 

My heart, nevertheless, was beating like a candidate's at the 
end of a scrutiny of the ballot, when the landlord came to teU me 
that those gentlemen were highly flattered by my proposal, and 
only waited for me to sit down to dinner. 

I Went away jauntily, received the most flattering welcome, 
and after a few minutes felt like one of them. What a splendid 
dinner we had! I do not give the details, but I ought to make 
honourable mention of an elaborate fricassee of chicken, such as 
is only to be found in the country, and so richly dowered with 
truffles that there would have been enough to renew the vigour of 
old Tithonus.i 

We know already what the roast was; it tasted as well as it 
looked, and was done to a turn; and the difficulty I had had in 
getting at it made me appreciate the task the better. 

The dessert consisted of a vanilla cream, some choice cheese, and 
excellent fruit ; and we washed it all down first with a light reddish- 
coloured wine, then with Hermitage, and afterwards with some lus- 
cious and generous straw-coloured wine. The whole was crowned 
by some very good cofifee, prepared by the sprightly tyler, who was 
also pohte enough to provide us with certain liqueurs of Verdun, 
which he took out of a sort of tabernacle, of which he had the key. 

The dinner was not only very good, but it was very merry. 

^ Tithoniu. the son of Laomedon. King of Troy, was so handsome that Aurora fell in 
love with him; Jupiter made him immortal at her request, but as she forgot also to ask for 
eternal youth for him, be became decrepit and ugly, and Aurora changed him into a grass- 
hopper. — Tb. 

(379) 



VARIETIES 

After having discussed passing events with some circumspec- 
tion, those gentlemen began cracking jokes with one another, 
which told me part of their biography; they hardly mentioned the 
business that had brought them together, but some good stories 
were told, and some songs were sung. I gave them a few couplets 
that had never been published, and I actually composed an im- 
promptu, which was, of course, much applauded. Here it is: — 

AiB OF THE MarSchal f errant 

How sweet, as through the world we pass. 
To find good folk who love their glass! 
Ah! 't is a blessing, I declare. 

Surrounded by such men as these, 

In life's warm inn I take my ease. 
And pass without a single care 

My time; and stay 

An horn-, a day. 
Four days, a week, a month, a year. 
And think me blest for such good cheer. 

If I give here this couplet, it is not because I think it is excel- 
lent. Thank Heaven I have written better ones, and I could 
have improved that one if I liked, but I preferred to leave it 
as an impromptu, so that the reader will admit that any man 
who, with a Revolutionary Committee dogging his steps, could 
thus amuse himself, undoubtedly possessed the head and heart 
of a Frenchman. 

We had aheady been four hours at dinner, and we were begin- 
ning to consider how we could best finish the evening; it was sug- 
gested that We should take a long walk to aid digestion, and that 
after that we should play a game of cards whilst waiting for supper, 
which would be of a dish of trout kept in reserve, and the remains 
of the dinner still very presentable. 

I was obliged to refuse all these proposals; the going down of 
the sun on the horizon warned me that it was time to leave, but 
those gentlemen insisted, as politely as possible, on my remaining 
with them, and only gave way when I assured them that I was 
not altogether travelUng for my own pleasure. 

It may easily be imagined that they would not allow me to pay 
my share; and then, without asking me any troublesome ques- 
tions, they all accompanied me to the door to see me start, and we 
bade each other farewell in a most afifectionate manner. 

Should any one of those who received me so well still live, and 
should this record fall into their hands, I would have them to 

(S80) 



VARIETIES 

know that after more than thirty years I write these words with 
the most heartfelt gratitude. 

Luck never comes single, and my voyage had a success I had 
almost not expected. 

I found on reaching D61e the representative Pr6t strongly prej- 
udiced against me; he looked at me ominously, and I thought 
that I was going to be arrested; but I got ofiE only with the fear, 
and after some explanation, it appeared to me that his features 
softened somewhat. 

I am not one of those persons who are rendered cruel by fear, 
and I think that M. Pr6t was not exactly a bad man; but he was 
not very intelligent, and did not know how to employ the formi- 
dable power put in his hands; he was like a child armed with the 
club of Hercules. 

M. Amondru, whose name I have much pleasure in mentioning, 
had really some considerable difficulty in getting him to accept an 
invitation to supper where I should meet him. However he came, 
and received me in a far from satisfactory manner. 

I was a little better received by Madame Pr6t, to whom I Went 
to pay my respects; for the circumstances under which I pre- 
sented myself interested at least her feelings of curiosity. 

The first words she said were to ask me it I loved music. What 
an unexpected happiness! She was passionately fond of it, and as 
I am myself a very fair musician, oiu: hearts beat in unison from 
that very moment. 

We talked before supper, and we discussed everything deeply. 
She spoke to me of treatises on musical composition, I knew them 
all; she spoke to me of the most fashionable operas, I had them 
by heart; she named the best-known authors, I had seen most of 
them. She went on talking, not having for a long time met any 
one with whom she could converse on such a subject, but she 
talked as an amateur, though I heard afterwards she had been a 
singing mistress. 

After supper, she sent for some of her music-books. She sang, I 
sang, we sang. I never used my voice to greater advantage, and 
I never enjoyed it more. M. Pr&t had already several times said 
he was going, but she took no notice of it, and we were giving in 
grand style the duet from the opera La Fausse Magie,^ 

"Vous souvient-il de cette ffete ?" 



when he told her he really must insist upon her leaving. 

vAb by Gr^ti 

(381) 



• La Fauste Magie, an opera in two acts by Gr^try (1741-181S), first performed in Paris 
in 1776. — Tb. 



VARIETIES 

We had to finish; but at the moment of parting, Madame Pr&t 
said to me, "Citizen, a man who cultivates the fine arts as you 
have done, does not betray his country. I know you have asked 
some favour from my husband; it shall be granted; it is I who 
promise you." 

On hearing these words, so consoling to me, I kissed her hand 
as warmly as I could; and the next morning I received my safe- 
conduct, duly signed, and magnificently sealed. 

Thus the object of my journey was accomphshed. I returned 
home with head erect; and, thanks to Harmony, charming 
daughter of Heaven, my ascension was for a good many years 
postponed. 

XXIV 

POETRY 

My lord, if what Cratinus says be right. 
Those verses cannot live, those lines deUght, 
Which water-drinkers pen: in vain they write. 
For e'er since Bacchus did on wild design. 
With Fauns and Satyrs half-mad poets join. 
The Muses every morning, smelt of wine. 
From Homer's praise his love of wiae appears. 
And Ennius never dared to write of wars. 
Till heated well; let sober dotards choose 
The plodding law but never tempt a muse; 
This law once made, the poets straight begin. 
They drink all night, all day they smelt of wine. 

— Horace, trans, by Creech, Epistle i. 19. 

If I had had time enough, I should have made a careful selection 
of Gastronomical poetry, from the days of the Greeks and Latins 
to our own time, and I would have arranged it in historical epochs, 
to show the intimate connection which has always existed be- 
tween the arts of speaking well and of eating well. 

What I have not done, another will do.^ We shall then see how 
the table has always controlled the lyre, and we will have an ad- 
ditional proof of the influence of physics on morals. 

Until the middle of the eighteenth century, poetry of such a 
kind was especially intended to glorify Bacchus and his gifts, be- 

* This, if I am not mistaken, is the third woTk I leave to my fellow-workmen in the fields 
of Gastronomy to write: 1. A Monograph on Corpulence; 2, Theoretical and Practical 
Treatise of Halts of a Shooting Party; 3. A Chronological Collection of Gastronomical 
Poetry. 

(382) 



VARIETIES 

cause to drink wine and to drink much was the highest degree of 
taste any one could obtain at that time. Nevertheless, to break 
the monotony, and to enlarge the poetic arena, Love was associ- 
ated with Bacchus, an association which undoubtedly did not 
always benefit Love. 

The discovery of the New World, and the acquisitions follow- 
ing it, brought about a new order of things. 

Sugar, coffee, tea, chocolate, alcoholic beverages, and all their 
combinations, have made of good cheer a more composite whole 
of which wine is only a more or less necessary accessory, for tea 
can very well replace wine at breakfast.^ 

Thus a more vast career is open to the poets of our days; they 
sing of the pleasures of the table, without being obliged to drown 
themselves in casks of wine; and charming pieces of poetry cele- 
brate already the new treasures by which gastronomy is emiched. 

I have looked through those poetical gatherings as any other 
man would do, and I have enjoyed the perfume of those ethereal 
offerings; but whilst admiring the resources of talent, and luxuri- 
ating in the harmony of the verses, I felt a greater satisfaction 
than any other man can feel, as all those authors agree with my 
favourite system, for most of these pretty things have been writ- 
ten to get a dinner, when dining or after dinner. 

I trust that expert workmen will labour in that portion of my 
domain I give up to them; and I shall satisfy myself for the nonce 
by presenting to my readers a small number of choice poetic 
pieces, selected because I like them, and accompanied by very 
short notes, so that nobody will have to rack his brain by trying 
to find out the reason of my selection. 

Song 

OF DiaiOCHAKES AT THE BANQUET OF DINIAB 

This song is taken from the " Voyage of the Young Anachar- 
sis," ' and this statement will be sufficient for my readers: — 
"Let us drink, and sing of Bacchus! 

He delights in our dances, he deUghts in our songs; he silences 
envy, hatred, and sorrow. He gave birth to the seductive Graces, 
to enchanting Loves: — 

Let us love and drink, and sing of Bacchus! 

> Tbe EngUsli and Dutch breakfast on bread, butter, fish, ham, and eggs, and scarcely 
drink anything else but tea. 

• The imaginary travels in Greece of Anacharais, a young Scythian, written by the 
ihbi, Jean-Iacques Barthelemy (1716-96). — Tb. 

(383) 



VARIETIES 

The future does not yet exist, the present soon will be no more; 
the moment of our enjoyment is the only moment we live: — 

" Let us love and drink, and sing of Bacchus!" 

Wise through our follies, rich through our pleasures, let us 
trample under foot the world and its vain greatness, and in the 
soft intoxication that such happy moments bring into our souk: — 

"Let us drink, and sing of Bacchus!" 

This one is by Motin,* who, it is said, was the first poet in 
France who wrote drinking songs; it breathes the true spirit of 
intoxication, and does not lack nerve: — 

I tike, I own, a public-house. 
For there I care for none a louse! 
What place is like the place I prize? 

Where I have all which makes life dear, 
Where common wipers in my eyes. 

The finest Holland web appear. 

When summer heats my worid invade. 
And I can find no whispering shade. 
How fresh its pariour seems and cool. 

Its flaming fagots can aSord, 
To me more joys in time of yule. 

Than all the forests of my Lord. 

I find there all I hope to dream. 
Its very thistles roses seem. 
And juicy ortolans its tripes. 

Except in drink no rivalry 
It knows. My public, with its swipes 

And cards, is Paradise to me. 

*Tis Bacchus, whom we follow there. 
The nectar which he bids us share 
Has something in it of divine; 

For man is man, so say the wise. 
Not angel if he drink no wine. 

But he who drinks it haunts the skies. 

The laughing jolly wine I ween 
Can banish all my gloom and spleen, 

' Very little is known of Pierre Motin, who flourished in tlie sixteenth century, and died 
about 1615. Nearly all hia poems, which have never been published in a volume, are to be 
found in the collections of that time. Boileau sneers at Motin's poema in the fourth song 
of his Art PoHique, and says that they freeze and chill their readers; we think, on the con- 
trary, they are rather "warm." — Tb. 

(384) 



VARIETIES 

It smiles, and all my spirit wakes. 

We love each other in like sort 
I take it, me it overtakes. 

And sport with what of me makes sport. 

I 'm merry when I 've had enough, 
My ears buzz more than quantum suff., 
I stumble when I would advance: 

I every quart and pint-pot greet. 
And cut, though I could never dance, i 

My capers in the muddy street. 

My prayer is till I be dead. 

May the good white wine and the red, ■ 

To quit my body be full loath; 

The while they rest in amity. 
For I shall soon eject them both. 

Unless they can like friends agree. 

The following piece is by Racan,' one of our ancient {Kiets; it is 
full of charm and philosophy; has served as a model for many 
others, and appears to be younger than its baptismal certifi- 
cate: — 

To Matnabd* 

Why take such trouble, toil, and pain. 
Oh let us drink and drink again 
Of these delicious wines, which vie 
With nectar, or perhaps exceed 
In flavour those which Ganymede 
Pours in the cup of Gods on high. 

'T is drink, which makes the years go by. 
And swifter than our short days fly; 
'T is drink which makes us young again. 
Which banishes from our sad heart 
All past regret, all sorrows smart. 
All present toil, all future pain. 

Then drink, Maynard, and fill your glass. 
Insensibly the swift hours pass 
And lead us softly to our urn. 
What prayer may avail ? what tears 
For us, or will our vanished years. 
Till rivers backward flow, return ? 

' HoDorat de Bueil, Marquia de Racan (1589-1670), a pupil of Malherbe, is chiefly 
known by his pastoral Lea Bergeries; he also wrote some religioua poetry. — Tb. 

^ Fransois Maynard (1582-1646), a lawyer, was another poetical pupil of Malherbe. 
— Tb. 

(385) 



VARIETIES 

The spring, so quaintly dad in green, 
Soon puts to flight the cold I ween. 
And calmly ebbs and flows the main; 
But when our youth is gone and hour. 
Old age contracts our limbs no more. 
Will Time bring back our youth again? 

The iron laws of death allot 

One fate to palace and to cot. 

Old reed-thatched huts lie side by side 

With ruined fanes. The Fates enthral 

Both poor and king. The threads of aU 

One pair of scissors must divide. 

Those hands which all the world deface 

Will ravish in but little space. 

The very best established whole 

On earth. Then drink, my friend, with me. 

Before we reach that sluggish sea. 

Where Lethe's waters roll and roll. 

This next is by the professor himself, who has also set it to 
music. He shrioks from the inconvenience of having the music 
published, notwithstanding the pleasure he should have felt at 
hearing it played on all pianos ; but, by an unforeseen stroke of good 
luck, it can be sung, and it wiU be sung, to the air of the "Vaude- 
ville de Figaro" : — 

The Choice op Sciences 

Let us not pursue this glory. 

For it sells its favours dear; 
Let us banish ancient story, 

'T is a web of crime and fear. 
Let us till our heads be hoary 
Drink the wine our sires held dear. 
Ah! it smacks well, old and clear, (pis.) 

Of the stars I leave the science. 

In the skies I 've lost my way. 
There 's in chemic art reliance 

None, but many debts to pay. 
No! In cooks and their appliance 
I will trust nor leave my tracks; 
Well a dainty morsel smacks! (Jns.) 

Young, I read both mom and even, 
I White grew every raven hair, 

(386 ) 



VARIETIES 

But the old Greek sages seven 

Taught me nothing new or rare. 
Now with sin my life I leaven. 
To dear idleness I 'm wed. 
Pleasant 't is to be abed, (bis.) 

Medicine 's a practice which in 

Great success gave me supply. 
But the science I was rich in 

Only helps a man to die. 
I myself prefer the kitchen. 
For an art-restoring need. 
And a cook 's a man indeed. (Jns.) 

All such trades of rudeness smatter. 

Therefore in my day's decline, 
I to mix some gayer matter. 

With my toil to love incline. 
Spite of all old prudish chatter. 
Love 's a very pretty game. 
Let us play it all the same, (bis.) 

I was present when the following couplet was composed by M. 
Boscary de Ville-PIaine ^ a distinguished amateur, and a cherished 
pupil of the professor, and that is the reason I give it here. Truffles 
are worshipped now, and perhaps the idolatry does us not much 
credit: — 

Impromptu 

To the black trufiSe drink, for I 
Hate the ungrateful worse than hell; 
The herb which gives us victory. 
In that short 6ght we love so well. 

For the strange might 

Of love's delight. 
Our God Himself this good weed sent. 
On making mortals blessed intent. 
That we might use it day and night. 

As a finale I give some verses which belong to Meditation 
XXVI.« 

I tried to set them to music, but have not succeeded to my mind. 
Another may do better, especially if he is a little more animated. 

* This gentleman seems the same as the one mentioned by our author as **an aspiring 
gastronomer and financier"; see Meditation XI, 57, p. 130, note. He was probably a rela- 
tion of a lady of the same name mentioned in Meditation VI, S vii. p. 72. 

> The Meditation XXVI, p. 257, b "On Death." — Tb. 

(387) 



VARIETIES 

The melody ought to be strong, and denote in the second couplet 
that the patient is getting worse. 

The Agont 

A Physiological Romance 

I feel through all my senses life's sad end. 
My dun eye sees the last few grains of sand 
Falling, Louisa weeps, my tender friend. 
And places on my breast her trembling hand. 
The band of morning callers troops apace. 
Not to return, they bid a last good-bye. 
The doctor leaves, the pastor takes his place. 
For I must die. 

I fain would pray, my memory is gone; 
I fain would speak, my Ups can frame no sound; 
I hear, though all is still, a singing tone. 
And a dull shadow seems to hover round; 
All is now cold and dark: my panting breast 
Exhausts itself in heaving one poor sigh. 
To wander round my mouth in frozen rest. 
For I must die. 

XXV 

M. HENRION DE PANSEY» 

I honestly thought I was the first who ever in our days had con- 
ceived the idea of an Academy of Gastronomers; but I am afraid 
it has been anticipated, and this sometimes occurs. We can judge 
of it by the following fact, which happened nearly fifteen years 
ago. 

The president, Henrion de Pansey, whose intelligent liveliness 
bids defiance to chilling old age, in speaking in 181S to three of the 
most distinguished scientific men of the present time (MM. La- 
place, Chaptal, and BerthoUet),* said to them: "I look upon the 
discovery of a new dish which keeps up our appetite and prolongs 
our enjoyments as an event much more interesting than the dis- 
covery of a new star, for we see quite enough stars. Moreover, I 
shall not think science sufficiently honoured, nor adequately rep- 

* Pierre-Paul Henrion de Pansey (174*-1829), a well-known French lawyer and Presi- 
dent of the Court of Appeal. — Tb. 

^ For MM. Laplace and Chaptal see Meditation VI, pages 88 and 83. Claude-Louis 
Berthollet (174S-1822), a celebrated chemist who was also made a Count by Napoleon 1. 
— Tb. 

(388) 



VARIETIES 

resented, until I see a cook appointed a member of the scientific 
branch of the Institute." ^ 

The dear president was always pleased when he thought of the 
object of my work; he wished to give me a motto for it, and main- 
tained it was not the Esprit des Lois which had opened to M. de 
Montesquieu the doors of the Academy.^ He also told me that 
Professor Berriat-Saint-Prix ' had written a novel, and he advised 
me to write the chapter on the Gastronomical industry of the 
imigrSs. Therefore, as justice ought to be done to him, I com- 
posed the following four verses on him, which contain at the same 
time his history and his praise: — 

Vbeses 
to be placed xjndehneath the pohtbait of 
m. henrion de pan8et 

To labour among books was his delight, 
And on the bench he showed a lofty mind. 

Profound in law, a scholar, erudite. 
To all forever courteous and kind.^ 

President Henrion de Pansey was appointed Minister of Justice 
in 1814, and the officials in this department have not yet forgotten 
the answer he gave them when they came in a body for the first 
time to present their respects to him. 

"Gentlemen," he said to them in that paternal tone which 
suited so well his tall figure and great age, "probably I shall not 
remain long enough with you to do you any good, but at least you 
may be sure I shall not do you any harm." 

I The French Institute was established in 1703, when all academies and literary socie- 
ties endowed by the State were abolished; its members are the most eminent scientific 
and literary men of France and other countries. — Th. 

* Charles de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu (1689-1765), author of the Lettres Per- 
aane8, CoruidSratioru tur lee Caueeg de la Grandeur etdela Decadence des Bomaine, L' Esprit 
des Lois, etc., owed his nomination as member of the Academy, in 1727, to his dinners, ac- 
cording to the ridiculous insinuation of the "dear president." — Th. 

8 Jacques Berriat-Saint-Prix (1769-1846), a well-known lawyer and literary man. See 
also the "Dialogue between the author and a friend," p. xxvi, note. — Tb. 

* We give the verses here in the original, as they were written by our author. — Tb. 

Dans ses doctes travaux il fut infatigable; 
11 eut de grands emplois, qu'il remplit dignement: 
Et quoiqu' il fftt profond, ^rudit, et savant, 
II ne se crut jamais dispense d* 3tre aimable. 



(389) 



VARIETIES 
XXVI 

ADDRESSES 

My work is finished, and, nevertheless, to show that I am not 
out of breath, I am going to kill three birds with one stone. 

I shall give to my readers in all countries some addresses of 
which they may take advantage; I shall give to the artists I have 
selected a remembrance of which they are worthy; and to the 
public a sample of the metal I am made of. 

1. Madame Chevet keeps a provision warehouse. No. 220 
Palais-Royal, near the Theatre Frangais, where I am a regular 
customer, but not a very large buyer. Our connection began when 
she appeared on the gastronomical horizon, and she was kind 
enough to bewail my death, though this was happily only a mis- 
take, based on the death of another gentleman very much like me. 

Madame Chevet is the necessary intermediary between the 
purveyors of choice provisions and wealthy men. She owes her 
prosperity to the honesty of her commercial transactions; every- 
thing that is not quite fresh disappears from her shop as by en- 
chantment. The nature of her business requires her to make a 
rather large profit; but when the price is once agreed on, one may 
be sure of having a first-rate article. This honesty is hereditary, 
and her daughters, who have scarcely reached the age of puberty, 
already follow the same principles. 

Madame Chevet has agents in all countries to satisfy the wishes 
of even the most capricious gastronomers, and the more rival es- 
tablishments have been established, the more popular she becomes. 

2. M. Achard, a pastry-cook, 9 Rue de Grammont, born at 
Lyons, is established in Paris about ten years; he commenced his 
reputation by the biscuits and the vanilla gaufres which have been 
inimitable for a long time. 

Everything in his shop is somewhat delicate and coquettish, 
such as can be rarely found elsewhere; the handiwork of man does 
not obtrude itself. His dainties seem the natural productions of 
some enchanted island; everything made in his place is sold the 
same day. We may say that for him there is no morrow. 

In the dog-days, when it is fine weather, every moment some 
smart carriage stops in the Rue de Grammont, and usually a 
stylish young man '■ and a pretty girl with hat and feathers are in 

* In the original beau Titua, because during tlie Directory (1795-99) it was the fashion for 
young men to have their hair cut short, except a few curls in front, in imitation of the bust 
of the Roman Emperor Titus. — Tb. 

(390) 



VARIETIES 

it. The first runs into Achard's, and conies back with a large bag 
full of sweetmeats, which is received with an "Oh, my dear 
friend, how nice that looks!" or, perhaps, "Oh, dear! how well 
that looks; it makes already my mouth water." And then they 
start ofi again to the Bois de Boulogne. 

The gourmands are so zealous and so kind that for a long while 
they have borne with the rude behaviour of a far from polite 
young lady who served in the shop. This inconvenience exists no 
longer; for behind the counter is now Miss Anna Achard, whose 
pretty little hand gives a new merit to the dainties which needs 
no commendation. 

3. M. Limet, No. 79 Rue de Richelieu, my neighbour, and 
baker to several princes, with whom I have also dealt for some 
time. 

He bought the business when it was doing nothing, but very 
soon raised it to a high degree of prosperity and reputation. 

His household bread is very good, and it is difficult to unite in 
fancy breads such a whiteness, flavour, and hghtness, as he does. 

Foreigners, as well as people from the provinces, always find at 
M. Limet's the bread they are accustomed to; so the customers 
come themselves, crowd, and often have to wait till others are 
served. 

This success will not surprise any one who is aware that M. 
Limet is no slave to custom, but labours assiduously to discover 
new resources, and that some of our greatest scientific men give 
him advice.' 

xxvn 

PRIVATIONS 

HisTOEicAL Elegy 

Ye, the first parents of the human race, whose gourmandise is 
mentioned in history, you who ruined yourselves for an apple, 
what would you not have done for a truffled turkey? But in Par- 
adise there were neither cooks nor confectioners. 

How I pity you! 

Ye mighty kings who conquered haughty Troy, your valour 
will be handed dowb from age to age; but your table was wretched. 

> See about Madame Chevet.*' Varieties," XV, "The BundleofAsparagua," p. 365; about 
Achard, Meditation XI, S7, p. 130; and about Limet, Meditation XXI, 99, p. 217. — Tb. 

( 391 ) 



VARIETIES 

Reduced to a joint of beef and a chine of pork, you remained ig- 
norant of the charms of a matelote and the delights of africassie 
of chicken. 

How I pity you! 

You, Aspasia, Chloe, and all you whose forms have been im- 
mortalised by the Grecian chisel to the despair of the belles of the 
present day, your charming mouth has never inhaled the sweet- 
ness of a meringue d la vanille or d, la rose; your thoughts scarcely 
rose above gingerbread. 

How I pity you! 

You, gentle priestesses of Vesta, burdened at once with so many 
honours and threatened by such horrible punishments,^ if only 
you had tasted those delightful syrups which refresh the mind, 
those preserved fruits which defy the seasons, those creams, of 
various flavours, the marvels of our time! 

How I pity you! 

You, Roman capitalists, who drained the whole known universe, 
in your renowned saloons you never beheld such succulent jellies, 
the deUghts of the indolent, nor those variegated ices, of which the 
cold braves the torrid zone. 

How I pity you! 

You, invincible Paladins, celebrated by talkative minstrels, 
after having cleft giants in twain, set free fair ladies, or extermi- 
nated armies, no black-eyed captive ever did offer you sparkling 
Champagne, Malmsey, or Madeira,^ or liqueurs the creation of the 
age of Louis XIV. You had to be satisfied with beer or with some 
herb-flavoured sour wine. 

How I pity you! 

You, crossed and mitred abbots, who dispensed the favours of 
Heaven, and you terrible Templars, who wielded your swords to 
exterminate the Saracens, you knew nothing of the sweet, restor- 
ing influence of chocolate, nor of the thought-inspiring bean of 
Arabia. 

How I pity you! 

^ They were condemned to be buried alive if they allowed the sacred fire in Vesta's Temple 
to become extinguished, or if they broke their vows of chastity. — Tb. 

3 I regret to say the illustrious author speaks of Malcoiaie de Madhe, Malmsey is a wine 
from Candia. — Tb. 

(392) 



VARIETIES 

You, proud ladies of the manor, who felt so lonely in your 
castles during the Crusades, and raised your almoners and your 
pages to supreme rank, you never shared with them the charming 
biscuit and the delightful macaroon. 

How I pity you! 

And, finally, you. Gastronomers of the year 1825, who find 
satiety in the lap of abundance, and dream of some newly made 
dishes, you will not enjoy the discoveries which science has in 
store for the year 1900, such as foods drawn from the mineral 
kingdom, liqueurs produced by the pressure of a hundred atmos- 
pheres; you will never see the importations which travellers yet 
unborn will bring to you from that half of the globe which has 
still to be discovered or explored. 

How I pity you! 



ENVOY TO THE GASTRONOMERS OF 
BOTH WORLDS 

Excellencies ! 

The work I present to you aims at developing to all the principles 
of that science of which you are alike the ornament and the support. 

I begin also by offering up incense to Gastronom,y, that young im- 
mortal being, who having hardly put the starry crown on her brow, 
rises already above her sisters, like Calypso,^ "who surpassed by a 
head the charming group oj nymphs by whom she was surrounded." 

The immense porticoes of the temple cf Gastrmiomy, that orna- 
ment of the metropolis qf the world, will soon tower to Heaven; you 
will make it ring again with your voices, and will enrich it vnth your 
gifts; and when the Academy promised by the oracles shall be es- 
tablished on the inimitable bases of pleasure and cf necessity, intel- 
ligent gourmands, agreeable guests, you all shall be members or 
correspondents. 

In the meanwhile, lift up to Heaven your radiant faces; advance in 
all your force and majesty; the universe of foods is open before you. 

Work, Excellencies; labour for the benefit cf science; digest for your 
oum particular interest; and if in the course of your labours you 
should happen to make any important discovery, be kind enough to 
communicate it to your most humble servant. 

The Author of "Handbook of Gastronomy." 

< An allusion to Calypso, queen on the island Ogygia, on which Ulysses was wrecked and 
detained for seven years, according to F^nelon's prose epic TilSmaque, from which work , 
the above lines are taken. — Tb. 



CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS 
V . S . A 



