GOfsmNENlAL (X)OKKR' 



mm. w.^ 



ENGLISH TAniAf 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University Library 
TX 723.5.A1S54 



Continental cookery for the English tab] 




3 1924 000 700 850 




Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000700850 



CONTINENTAL COOKERY FOR 
THE ENGLISH TABLE 



THE EVERYDAY SERIES 

Edited by Gertrude Paul. 

Books on Household Subjects, giving a recipe or hint for every day 
in the year, including February 29th. 

In Crown 8vo, strongly bound, 1/- net each. 

THE EVERYDAY SOUP BOOK 
By G.P. 

Recipes for soups, purtes, and broths of every kind for a quiet dinner 
at home or an aldermanic banquet. 

THE EVERYDAY PUDDING BOOK 

By P.K. 

One of the most valuable cookery books in existence. It gives 366 
ways of making puddings. 

THE EVERYDAY VEGETABLE BOOK 
By F.K: 

This includes sauces as well as vegetables and potatoes. It gives an 
unexampled list' of new and little-known recipes, 

THE EVERYDAY ECONOMICAL COOKERY BOOK 

By A.T.K. 

" Very practical." — Westminster Gazette. " Really economical and 
good."— H^orW. 

THE EVERYDAY SAVOURY BOOK 

By Marie Worth. 

" A practical book of good recipes." — Spectator. 



CAMP COOKERY : A Book for Boy Scouts 

By Lincoln Green. 

Crown &V0, strongly bound, Qd. net. 

This is the officially approved book for the Boy Scouts' Association, 
and contams a clear account of the methods, materials, dishes, and 
utensils appropriate to camp life. It also describes the construction of 
an mexpensive cooking apparatus. 



CONTINENTAL COOKERY 

FOR THE 

ENGLISH TABLE 



BV 

EDITH SIEPEN 



LONDON 

STANLEY PAUL & GO 

31 ESSEX STREET W.C. 



FOREWORD 

The recipes in this little volume have been arranged 
with discrimination by an experienced hand. 

If they are conscientiously followed it will be 
found that they offer to the English cook a welcome 
variation in the making of her menu. 

THE AUTHOE. 



CONTENTS 



Sotjps. ...... 


1 


MBA.T AND Other Balls fok Soup 


15 


Sauces ...... 


21 


Fish ....... 


29 


Meat ....... 


33 


PoDLTBT AND Game .... 


52 


Made Dishes, Luncheon and Supper Dishes . 


63 


Vegetables ...... 


91 


Salads ...... 


101 


Sweet Dishes, Creams, and Iceb 


109 


Cakes ...... 


123 


Compotes, Preserves, and Pickles 


143 


Cups, Punch, and Conpectioneey 


150 



Vll 



CONTINENTAL COOKERY 
FOR THE ENGLISH TABLE 



SOUPS 

FoEEiGNEKS are very fond of soups, no dinner being 
considered complete without one. While very in- 
expensive, Continental soups are most excellent. 
Water in which vegetables have been boiled is fre- 
quently pressed into the service and is both tasty and 
nutritious. In almost all clear soups some kind of 
egg or meat balls are used. In summer a cold fruit 
soup sometimes takes the place of the more heating 
meat soup, and is generally considered very refreshing. 

I. Chicken Soup 

Boil a good-sized chicken till it drops to pieces. 
Strain the broth through a wire sieve and let it stand 
until all fat can be removed. Dissolve a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a saucepan, stir in over a slow fire 
the same quantity of flour till it is yellow, but not 
brown, then add the chicken broth very gradually. 
Salt to taste and boil up. Remove from the fire and 
add the yolks of four eggs, which have previously been 
beaten with a small cup of cream and a pinch of 



SOUPS 

grated nutmeg. The breast of the chicken is pounded 
in a mortar and put into the soup just before serving. 

2. Cauliflower Soup 

The water in which a cauliflower has been boiled 
is thickened with butter and flour and brought to 
the boil. Draw to the side and stir in the beaten 
yolk of an egg, adding salt if necessary. If a better 
soup is desired a little good stock may be added or 
some extract of meat. Put a few tiny pieces of the 
cauliflower into the soup before sending to table. 
Water in which the vegetable has been boiled the 
previous day can be used for the soup, but it should 
not stand longer. 

3. Gravy Soup 

Mince a shallot and simmer it in a stewpan with 
a tablespoonful of butter. Stir in a dessertspoonful 
of flour and add half a pint of good gravy — roast beef 
gravy for preference, that has been left over from 
the joint. Put in about half a teacupful of rice that 
has been boiled tender in a little good stock, or, if 
preferred, use marrow balls (see Meat and Other Balls 
for Soup). In the latter case, however, the soup must 
not be too thick; either less flour must be used or 
more stock added. 

4. Oatmeal Soup 

In an enamelled saucepan fry lightly in plenty of 
butter or good dripping the following ingredients : A 
small teacupful of coarse oatmeal or oat flakes, two 
raw potatoes, two carrots, and a small onion, all 

2 



SOUPS 

chopped finely. Be careful they do not burn, but 
let them get brown. Pour in a pint of boiling water 
with a little good gravy or meat extract, flavour with 
salt and pepper, and simmer for half an hour. Any 
vegetable preferred may be substituted for the carrots. 

5. Venison Soup 

The inferior parts of venison are used for this soup. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and fry them brown in 
butter or, still better, bacon fat in a stewpan. Fry 
with them a carrot, a shallot, and a piece of celery, 
cut in slices. Add as much water as you need for 
the soup, put in the thinly-cut peel of a quarter of 
a lemon, a few peppercorns, and the necessary salt. 
Bring the soup to the boil and skim carefully, then 
close the stewpan tightly and simmer for an hour. 
Strain through a wire sieve, thicken with butter 
rolled in flour, and add a glass of Madeira or sherry. 

6. Hare Soup 

This soup is seldom made from a fresh hare, but 
usually from the remains of one that has been roasted. 
Scrape off any good meat that may be left on the 
bones and set it aside. Cut about a pound of good 
gravy beef into small pieces and fry them brown in 
butter. Add a stick of celery, a carrot and turnip 
cut into thin slices, a quarter of a bead of garlic 
minced finely, and fry everything for a few minutes 
in a stewpan. Pour in about a pint of hot water 
with any gravy there may be left from the roast 
hare ; put in the bones, a strip of lemon peel and a 
clove, and a slice of lean raw ham. Stew gently 

3 



SOUPS 

until the meat and vegetables are done, then strain 
and boil up the soup again, flavouring with pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg, and thickening slightly 
with a teaspoonful of corn flour which has been made 
smooth in a very little cold milk. Drop in liver 
balls (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup), and serve 
very hot. The balls in this case should be made from 
the hare's liver. 

7. Lentil Soup 
Soak half a pound of lentils in a quart of water 
overnight. Set them on a slow fire with the same 
water, put with them a pound of the scrag-end of 
mutton or a small piece of gravy beef with salt and 
a little pepper, and boil very gently until the lentils 
are soft, which will take about two hours. The 
meat, however, should be removed after boiling an 
hour. Stir the lentils through a wire sieve, adding 
a little more water if too thick. Boil up once more 
with a little chopped parsley. 

8. Haricot Bean Soup 

Proceed as in the above recipe, substituting a 
piece of smoked ham or pickled pork for the mutton 
or beef. 

9. Potato Soup 

Boil two pounds of potatoes until rather overdone, 
then strain off only partially. Stir them well in the 
saucepan with a wooden spoon and strain through a 
wire sieve. Add sufficient stock for the quantity of 
soup required, flavour with salt and pepper — this 
soup needs plenty of the latter — and boil up again. 

4 



SOUPS 

Put in a piece of butter the size of a waltmt before 
serving. If the flavour of onion is liked, a small one 
may be boiled with the potatoes. 

10. Potato Soup (Another Way) 

Boil the potatoes with a piece of celery until they 
are almost a pulp. Put them through a fine sieve 
and add a little extract of meat, salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley. Make the soup very hot, then 
remove from the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with a tablespoonful of sour cream. 

11. An Economical Potato Soup 

Two pounds of even-sized potatoes boiled in their 
jackets. Peel them while hot and stir them through 
a sieve. Stew any remains of meat or game with an 
onion and sliced carrot in as much water as you 
require. Strain the stock on to the pressed potatoes, 
season with pepper and salt, and add a piece of butter. 

12. Macaroni Soup 

Put three ounces of macaroni into boiling salted 
water and boil it for thirty-five minutes. Drain and 
chop it in pieces about half an inch long. Put the 
macaroni into hot veal stock flavoured to taste, and 
stir in very gradually the yolk of a well-beaten egg. 

13. Rye Bread Soup 

Any stale crusts and pieces of the rye or "black " 
bread — so often met with on the Continent — should 
be soaked in plenty of cold water overnight. "Wash 
some good cooking apples, remove the stalks and 

5 



SOUPS 

put them whole, with the bread and the water in 
which it has been soaked, on to a slow fire and simmer 
three or four hours. Strain through a fine sieve 
and set aside for use. It will keep good for a week 
in a cool place. When required, make the soup very 
hot, and serve it with fresh butter and crushed white 
sugar to suit individual taste. This is a popular soup 
on a winter's night. 

14. White Wine Soup 

Melt a tablespoonful of fresh butter in a saucepan, 
add the same quantity of flour and stir till it is a 
pale yellow. Pour in gradually a pint of any light 
white wine and half a pint of water. Add the finely- 
grated peel of half a lemon and the juice of a whole 
one, a small piece of cinnamon, and sufficient white 
sugar to sweeten it very slightly. Bring the soup to 
the boil and let it simmer gently a couple of minutes, 
then remove from the fire and stir in the yolks of 
three well-beaten eggs. The white of the eggs should 
be whisked to a stiff froth and dropped in tiny lumps 
upon the soup. 

15. Red Wine Soup 

Put into a saucepan a pint of claret, a breakfast- 
cup of water, half a small cupful of pearl sago, a little 
grated lemon peel, a small stick of cinnamon, and 
white sugar to taste. Simmer gently till the sago is 
done, and if too thick add a little more wine or water. 
Serve very hot. 

16. Windsor Soup 

Despite its English name, this is a genuine Conti- 
nental soup and a very favourite one. Fry lightly in 

6 



SOUPS 

a stewpan a few slices of fat bacon with a minced 
shallot and carrot. Cut in small pieces a calf's foot 
and a piece of the shin of beef and brown them in the 
fat. Add a pint or more of water and the necessary 
salt, put on the lid tightly and simmer till the meat 
is tender. Put through a fine sieve, remove the fat, 
thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour and boil 
up again. Then add a large glass of Madeira or, if 
preferred, of sherry, a little Worcester-sauce and a 
pinch of Cayenne pepper. Just a little macaroni, 
well boiled and cut very small, or tiny slices of 
truffles, or sponge dice (see Meat and Other Balls for 
Soup), may be added and will be found an improve- 
ment. 

17. Semolina Soup 

This is a very simple and quickly made soup. 
"Semolina" is the nearest equivalent to the 
foreign "Gries," which is so popular for all kinds 
of dishes, including flummery, puddings, soups, and 
dumplings. Boil about three-quarters of a pint of 
water with a little salt. While it is boiling strew 
with the left hand about two tablespoonfuls of 
semolina into the water, stirring vigorously with the 
right. Boil gently for ten minutes, add a teaspoonful 
of extract of meat, a piece of fresh butter, and the 
beaten yolk of an egg. 

18. Julienne Soup 

Cut into tiny squares or thin strips two carrots, a 
small onion, a turnip, a leek, and a small piece of 
celery, and fry them slightly in good butter in a 
stewpan, but see they do not become brown. Add a 

7 



SOUPS 

little good stock or water with some extract of meat, 
and salt to taste. Skim the soup well before serving. 
Marrow balls (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup) are 

suitable for this. 

19. Beer Soup 

This is a very favourite soup in many families on 
a cold winter's evening. Bring half a pint of beer 
which is not bitter to the boil, with the thinly-cut 
peel of half a lemon, three cloves, a little cinnamon, 
and sugar to taste. Boil in another saucepan, stirring 
continually, half a pint of milk with two dessert- 
spoonfuls of flour which have previously been well 
mixed with a little of the cold milk. Then mix the 
contents of the two saucepans, add a little very 
gradually to the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and 
mix altogether. Then, if the flavour be liked, add 
a tablespoonful of rum. Beat the white of the eggs 
to a stiff froth and drop it on the soup in little heaps. 

20. Beer Soup (Another Way) 

Boil a pint of light ale with the soft part of a 
round of black or very brown bread. Put in a good- 
sized piece of ginger, a pinch of salt, and a couple 
of cloves. When the bread is soft get it perfectly 
smooth with a spoon, sweeten to taste, and mix in 
gradually, after the soup has ceased to boil, the yolks 
of two eggs, adding a piece of fresh butter the size of 
a walnut. Serve the soup as hot as possible. 

21. Beer Soup for Summer 

The beer known as white beer is used for this 
soup; it is very light and refreshing, being almost 

8 



SOUPS 

free from alcohol As this is probably not known in 
England, the lightest kind of beer obtainable, and not 
bitter, must be used and mixed with a little water. 
Two hours before the soup is served put the beer in 
the tureen with the thinly-cut peel of a lemon, two 
ounces of currants, which have been washed in boiling 
water, some grated black or brown bread — the former 
for preference — and sufficient white sugar to sweeten 
it very slightly. Set the tureen on ice until the soup 
is to be served. 

23. Pea Soup 

If this is made from split or whole peas they must 
be soaked overnight. Pea-meal answers the same 
purpose and needs less cooking. Boil with water in 
which ham or bacon has been boiled and add a little 
chopped pai"sley or mint. Cut a round of stale bread 
into dice, discarding the crust; fry them a rich 
brown in plenty of butter or good dripping and serve 
with the soup. 

23. Ox-tail Soup 

Cut a quarter of a pound of fat bacon into small 
strips; fry it slowly in a stewpan till the fat is 
liquid, then mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring with a wooden spoon until bixjwn. Add a 
small onion, a piece of celery, two carrots, two turnips, 
and two tomatoes, all cut small, and brown these also. 
Then put in the ox-taU, divided at the joints, and 
about a quart of cold water seasoned with salt and 
whole pepper. See that the lid fits tightly, and 
simmer very slowly for a couple of hours or longer 
until the meat is done. Take out the meat carefully, 

9 



SOUPS 

seeing that no vegetables cling to it, and put it into 
another saucepan. Pour the soup through a fine 
sieve, working as much as possible of the vegetables 
through the holes. Put the soup to the meat and 
boil gently for a few minutes with a little good 
ketchup and extract of meat. When about to be sent 
to table add half a glass of dry Madeira. 

24. Good Everyday Soup 

Slice finely a small Savoy cabbage. Cut in small 
pieces a large onion and all kinds of root vegetables 
you can obtain, a piece of celery, and two skinned 
tomatoes. Cut a pound of gravy beef, not too lean, 
into dice, and put everything into as much boiling 
water as is required for the soup, adding salt and 
pepper to taste. Simmer till the meat is tender. 
Add a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup just before 
serving. 

25. Lenten Soup 

Wash, peel, and slice turnips, celery, parsley roots, 
and, in fact, any other kind of vegetables obtainable. 
Put them into enough boiling water and simmer until 
quite soft, then put through a fine sieve. Add the 
pulp to the water in which the vegetables have been 
boiled, season with salt and pepper, and thicken with 
a piece of butter the size of an egg rolled in a table- 
spoonful of flour. Semolina balls (see Meat and 
Other Balls for Soup) are an improvement to this 
soup. 

26. Cherry Soup 

Take a pound of fine Morello cherries, wash them 
and remove the stalks, and stew them gently in a pint 

10 



SOUPS 

and a half of water with a small stick of cinnamon. 
When the cherries are almost, but not quite, boiled to 
a pulp, strain them through a wire sieve. Sugar to 
taste, using white sugar, and thicken with a little 
com flour till the consistency of double cream. Set 
the soup on ice for an hour or two before serving. 
If preferred, lemon peel may be used instead of 
cinnamon, and a small glass of claret added after the 
soup has boiled. 

27. Bilberry Soup 

Proceed as in the above recipe, but take less water 
and do not stew the berries so long. If wine be 
added let it be white instead of red, and stew the 
peel of half a lemon and a small stick of cinnamon 
with the berries. 

28. Rhubarb Soup 

Cut the rhubarb into small pieces and stew with 
lemon peel and plenty of sugar in sufficient water. 
Put through a fine sieve, thicken slightly, and add 
a glass of sherry before serving. This soup may be 
served either hot or cold. 

29. Asparasrus Soup 

Keep the water in which asparagus has been boiled, 
thicken it with 1)rown butter and flour, add a little 
extract of meat and the beaten yolk of an egg. 
After it has been removed from the fire put in a 
small piece of fresh butter and a few heads of 
asparagus. 

II 



SOUPS 

30. Chocolate Soup 

This is essentially a children's soup, and is very- 
popular in many nurseries. Scrape a quarter of a 
pound of good chocolate and set it on the fire with 
a cupful of cold water. When it is soft mix in a 
quart of milk, stirring till it boils. Sugar to taste, 
and add a few drops of essence of vanilla. Then stir 
in gradually the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and 
drop the white of the eggs, stiffly whisked, on to the 
soup. 

31. Curry Soup 

Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan with a 
small minced onion and sour apple. When brown 
add a teaspoonful of good curry powder and one of 
flour, made smooth in a tablespoonful of cream, and a 
pint and a half of chicken broth, nicely flavoured. 
Boil up, strain, and serve with sponge dice (No. 43). 

32. Celery Soup 

Wash a large head of celery and cut it in small 
pieces. Melt a piece of butter as large as a small egg 
in a stewpan, and stir the celery in the butter until 
a light brown. Then add a pint of stock — veal is 
the most suitable — and season with salt and a little 
pepper. Simmer till the celery is tender and strain 
through a wire sieve. Put into the soup some bread 
or sponge balls (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup) 
just before serving. 

33. Partridgfe Soup 

Clean two old partridges and fry them with a 
good-sized piece of butter in a stewpan, making them 

12 



SOUPS 

brown on all sides. Add a cupful of stock and 
simmer the birds till tender. Take them out and cut 
all the meat from the bones and pound it in a mortar. 
Boil the bones in a pint of stock with a slice of raw 
ham, a carrot, a piece of celery, a shallot, and a small 
strip of lemon peel. After an hour remove from the 
fire, skim and strain the stock, and add it to the 
gravy in which the birds were stewed. Thicken it 
with a little corn flour to the consistency of good 
cream, add a pinch of salt and Cayenne pepper, a 
glass of Madeira, and the pounded meat. Serve 
sponge dice (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup) in 
the soup. 

34. Eel Soup 

Prepare and cut a fine eel into small pieces and 
cover them with salt for a couple of hours. Wash 
them again, and boil gently till done in sufficient 
water to cover the fish, with a teaspoonf ul of vinegar, 
a glass of white wine, a bay-leaf, whole pepper and 
salt, and six large prunes. Have ready a pint of good 
beef stock in which a carrot and turnip, a leek, a 
piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, and a bunch of 
parsley have been boiled. Strain the eel gravy and 
the stock through a fine sieve and mix them. Boil 
up again, thickening with a piece of butter rolled in 
flour. Either sponge or bread balls (see Meat and 
Other Balls for Soup) may be added to this soup. 

35. Milk Vegetable Soup 

Chop finely a small Savoy or white cabbage, one 
carrot, one leek, one turnip, and a small onion. Boil 
up two and a half ounces of butter and put in the 

13 



SOUPS 

vegetables, letting them simmer for a few minutes. 
Make a tablespoonful of flour perfectly smooth in a 
little cold milk, and add it to the vegetables with two 
and a half pints of milk. Season with pepper, salt, 
and a little grated nutmeg. Simmer gently for thirty- 
five minutes. 

36. Lentil Soup with Meat Dumplingrs 

Boil gently, in two pints of water, half a pound of 
lentils that have been soaked overnight. Put with 
them a few root vegetables and four or five raw 
potatoes. When the lentils are soft pour the soup 
through a fine sieve, and press through the sieve 
as much as possible of the lentils and vegetables. 
Return the soup to the saucepan, adding a little 
broth, and boil the dumplings in it very gently for 
thirty minutes. The dumplings are prepared as 
follows : Take equal parts of chopped raw beef and 
pork; mix with it a few cold boiled potatoes, well 
mashed, some chopped capers, a seasoning of pepper, 
salt, and grated onion, and a round of bread that has 
been soaked for ten minutes in half milk, half water, 
and well pressed. Stir all thoroughly with a wooden 
spoon and add the yolks of two eggs. Form the 
dumplings — which should be the size of large marbles 
— with lightly floured hands and drop them into the 
boiling soup. 



14 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

37. Balls for Brown Soup 

Take a quarter of a pound of fresh, lean pork and 
half that quantity of veal, remove all skin and fat 
and put both through the mincing machine. Cream 
a piece of butter as large as a walnut, adding to it the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, a round of bread that has 
had the crust cut off and has been well soaked in cold 
water and pressed out, half a teaspoonful of grated 
lemon peel, and a very little grated nutmeg. Finally, 
add the chopped meat and mix everything thoroughly, 
then add the white of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
With floured hands form balls the size of a small 
walnut, and boil them till done in any stock you may 
have, or in water with a little meat extract in it. The 
liquid in which they are put must be boiling, and care 
must be taken that the balls are cooked without 
falling to pieces. They may either be dropped into 
the soup thus or lightly bread-crumbed and fried 
before putting in the tureen. 

38. Semolina Balls 

Mix a cupful of semolina in cold milk till it is 
smooth. Put about two ounces of butter with a 
cupful of cream and a pinch of salt into a saucepan, 
and when it boils add the semolina. Stir continually 
until you have a very smooth thick paste, then remove 

15 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

from the fire and allow the mixture to cool, and add 

the well-beaten yolks of two or three eggs, according 

to the consistency. With a small spoon that has been 

plunged in very hot water drop the mixture into 

boiling water and let the balls simmer for ten minutes. 

Take them out carefully and put them to the soup, 

or if the soup is clear they may be simmered in the 

soup itself. 

39. Sponge Balls 

Cream a quarter of a pound of butter with three 
yolks and one whole egg, well beaten. Add a little 
salt and grated nutmeg, and stir in sufficient flour to 
make a stiff paste. Shape small balls as above, and 
drop in boiling water or stock. When they come to 
the surface they are done. 

40. Sponge Balls (Another Way) 

Boil a cupful of cream with a piece of butter the 
size of an egg and stir in a teacupful of flour very 
gradually, adding a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
When it leaves the sides of the saucepan the mixture 
must be removed from the fire and allowed to cool. 
Stir in the yolks of three eggs and a tablespoonful of 
very fine crumbs, those of plain rusks being the best. 
Last of all add the stiffly-whisked white of one egg, 
and boil the balls as above. 

41. Liver Balls 

Cream a quarter of a pound of butter and add three 
beaten eggs. Remove all skin and gristle from half 
a pound of calf's liver, mince it finely and mix it with 
the butter and eggs, adding salt, pepper, chopped 

16 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

parsley, and sufficient fine bread-crumbs to make a 
thick paste. Form the little balls with floured hands 
and simmer them in the soup till done, which will 
take about twenty minutes. When the balls are no 
longer red inside they are done. 

42. Potato Balls 

Mix cold boiled potatoes with creamed butter, a 
little salt, and a very little grated nutmeg to a thick 
paste, very smooth and firm. Roll the balls in flour 
and simmer them one minute in the soup. 

43. Sponge Dice 

Whisk thoroughly the white of three eggs, then add 
the yolks, well beaten, very slowly, and stir in three 
teaspoonfuls of flour with a pinch of salt. Pour the 
mixture into clear soup while it is boiling, and continue 
gently boiling for a few minutes. When the soup is 
in the tureen chop the sponge into small squares or 
strips. 

44. Marrow Balls 

Choose a nice firm piece of beef marrow the size of 
a large walnut, slice it thinly, and melt it slowly in 
a saucepan, stirring it until quite smooth. When it 
has cooled a little add finely-grated stale bread-crumbs, 
very little salt and nutmeg, and a beaten egg. Stir 
all well together and mix with just a little cold water.' 
The making of these balls, which are an excellent 
adjunct to any soup, must be guided by practice. It 
is better to take out a small teaspoonf ul and drop the • 
ball into the boiling soup to try if it is of the right 
B 17 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

consistency. If too thin, more bread-crumbs must be 
added; if too thick, a little more cold water. The 
tiny dumplings, which should be about the size of 
marbles, are done when the inside is no longer sticky, 
or in about five minutes. 



45. Bread Balls 

Cream two ounces of butter and mix with the yolks 
of two eggs, a little chopped parsley, pounded mace, 
and salt. Soak about half a pound of stale bread 
without the crust in cold water, press it thoroughly, 
and add it to the other ingredients. Get the mixture 
very smooth with a wooden spoon, and add last of all 
the white of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Form 
the balls as above, and simmer for five minutes in 
the soup. 

46. Chicken Balls 

Pound the meat from the breast of a boiled fowl in 
a mortar with a little cream, then put it through a 
fine sieve. Add the yolks of five or six eggs, according 
to the size of the fowl, flavour with pepper and salt 
and a very little grated nutmeg, and mix smoothly 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Fill small buttered 
moulds with the mixture. If you have none small 
enough egg-cups will answer the purpose, but they 
must not be more than three-parts filled. Stand 
them up to their necks in a shallow saucepan of 
boiling water, covering them with a lid or plate, and 
seeing that the saucepan lid fits tightly. Simmer for 
fifteen minutes as gently as possible, and then drop 
the balls into the soup. 

18 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

47. Meringues for Wine and Beer Soup 

Whisk the white of three eggs with a quarter of a 
pound of powdered sugar to a firm froth. When the 
boiling soup is in the tureen drop on to it with a small 
spoon tiny heaps of the mixture, sprinkling them 
lightly with powdered cinnamon and powdered sugar, 
which have been equally mixed. This should be done 
as quickly as possible and the cover put on the tureen 
at once. By the time the soup is brought to table 
the meringues will be sufficiently done. 

48. Almond Balls 

These are a welcome addition to any kind of fruit 
or milk soup. Cream three ounces of butter with the 
yolks of five eggs and a dessertspoonful of white 
sugar. Blanch and grate one and a half ounce of 
sweet almonds and two bitter almonds, and grate 
three ounces of stale bread finely. Mix all this 
together smoothly and add the white of one egg 
whisked to a froth. Drop with a small spoon on 
buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven till a 
light brown. 

49. Balls from Meat Remnants 

Take the remains of any meat, boiled or roast, and 
mince it finely. Chop a small onion and a little 
parsley, and fry in two ounces of bacon cut into very 
small squares. It is best to do this in a stewpan. 
When the onion is a light brown put into the stewpan 
a slice of stale bread that has been soaked in cold 
water and squeezed out, and stir this about in the fat. 

19 



MEAT AND OTHER BALLS FOR SOUP 

Then put in the meat with a little Cayenne pepper, 
and after this has been made hot stir in the yolk of a 
well-beaten egg. Dredge some flour on a paste-board 
and form the balls by rolling them on the board. 
Then toss them lightly into the boiling soup, draw to 
the side of the fire, and serve in two or three minutes. 
These balls should not be larger than a small walnut. 



20 



SAUCES 

A VERY favourite ingredient in the making of 
certain gravies is sour cream. It imparts to them a 
rich and delicious flavour. So much is sour cream in 
request for this purpose abroad that it is sold at 
all dairy shops, and sufficient may be obtained for a 
penny for a good-sized joint. The gravies to which 
this is generally considered indispensable are roast 
hare, venison, and veal, but a little sour cream may 
be added with advantage to roast beef gravy also. 
Shortly before the joint is to be taken from the 
oven add very gradually a small cupful of cream to 
the gravy in the baking-tin, basting the meat with it. 

50. Dutch Sauce 

Mix a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with a small 
glass of any white wine and the beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Add a little stock if you want it very good, or 
a little water with some extract of meat, two shallots 
and two small anchovies, finely minced, pepper, salt, 
and a very little grated nutmeg. Stir over a slow 
fire till on the point of boiling, then remove from the 
fire and add a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

51. Dutch Sauce (Another Way) 

Stir a teaspoonful of flour into the yolks of three 
eggs ; beat well with half a pint of cold water : put 
into a saucepan and flavour with salt, a pinch of 
Cayenne pepper, a few capers, and chopped parsley 

21 



SAUCES 

Bring to the point of boiling, and put in a piece of 
fresh butter as large as a small walnut and sufficient 
vinegar to render it piquant, 

» 

52. Boiled Fowl Sauce 

Melt a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg in a 
saucepan. Stir in two teaspoonfuls of flour, and add 
half a pint of the fowl broth with salt, a " suspicion " 
of nutmeg or powdered mace, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. After it has just boiled add the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and a little lemon 
juice. 

53. Piquant Sauce 

Slice a small onion and fry it in butter in a 
saucepan till brown. Add a cupful of stock, a sliced 
carrot, a bay-leaf, a little whole pepper and salt. 
Simmer for twenty minutes, and thicken with com 
flour mixed in very little cold water. Strain the 
sauce through a hair sieve, then put to it a small 
glass of claret, just enough vinegar to make it 
slightly acid, and as much white sugar as will lie on 
a sixpence. This sauce is served with many kinds of 
fish. 

54. Piquant Sauce, Cold 

This sauce is good with any cold meat or brawn. 
Mix the following ingredients, stirring slowly with a 
wooden spoon until all are well blended : The yolks 
of four hard-boiled eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
Burgundy, a large teaspoonful of made mustard, a 
finely-minced shallot or a bead of garlic, a teaspoonful 
of chopped pickled gherkins and capers mixed, a little 
salt and Cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of white sugar, 

32 



SAUCES 

and the juice of two lemons. The success of this 
sauce largely depends upon the amount of patience 
bestowed on it. 

55. Madeira Sauce 

Mince two or three shallots and fry them in butter 
till a deep yellow, then stir in a dessertspoonful of 
flour. Add about three-quarters of a pint of veal 
stock, a carrot and turnip, a bay-leaf, the peel of a 
quarter of a lemon, and simmer for half an hour. 
Strain through a fine sieve and press the vegetables 
through. Boil up the sauce again with salt and 
pepper and a pinch of Cayenne pepper. Then add 
a small piece of fresh butter,, a glass of Madeira, and 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice. This is a nice sauce 
with calf's head. 

56. Shrimp Sauce 

Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan, and 
when it is a pale brown mix with it a dessertspoonful 
of flour, half a pint of stock, a little grated nutmeg, 
and salt, and bring to the boil, stirring all the time. 
Take it from the fire and put in a pint of picked 
shrimps and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Make the 
sauce very hot again, but on no account allow it to 
boil, then add very gradually the well-beaten yolk of 
an egg. 

57. Boiled Meat Sauce 

This is a favourite sauce to any boiled or stewed 
meat. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream in a 
basin and stir in these ingredients in the following 
order: The yolks, well beaten, of three eggs, a 

23 



SAUCES 

small teaspoonful of made mustard, the juice of a 
quarter of a lemon, a saltspoonful of sugar, a large 
glass of Burgundy, and half a pint of good stock. 
Set on a slow fire and stir constantly till the sauce 
is on the verge of boiling. 

58. Sour Cream Sauce 

This is essentially a green salad sauce. It is very 
popular in East Prussia, which is famous for its good 
cookery. Thick sour cream is stirred well with a few 
drops of vinegar, a very little oil and salt, and poured 
over the lettuce or endive just before bringing to 
table. 

59. White Wine Sauce 

Well beat two large eggs, which must be perfectly 
fresh, and mix them with half a pint of white wine, a 
dessertspoonful of crushed lump sugar, a teaspoonful 
of flour, a very little grated lemon peel, a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, and a small piece of cinnamon. Set on 
a brisk fire and whisk vigorously to a froth. The 
sauce must not be allowed to boil, or it will be spoiled. 
Take it quickly from the fire, turn it out, and continue 
to whisk for another minute. It is then ready to 
serve, and is an excellent accompaniment to almost 
any kind of boiled pudding. 

60. Red Wine Sauce 

This sauce is prepared exactly as in the preceding 
recipe, but with red instead of white wine. Red 
currant jelly may be used in place of the lemon juice. 

24 



SAUCES 

6i. Raspberry Sauce 

Take a pint of fresh raspberries and stew them 
gently with sugar and a small piece of cinnamon in 
a pint of water. Put the juice through a hair sieve 
and thicken with corn flour. Sauce of a similar kind 
can be made of red currants or juicy plums, and jam 
or jelly may be substituted for the fresh fruit. This 
sauce is served either hot or cold with puddings and 
blancmanges. 

62. Mustard Sauce — for Fish 

Use French mustard for this sauce. It is bought 
in glass jars ready made ; it is mixed with vinegar, 
and is less pungent than the English mustard. This 
sauce is made of water in which fish has been boiled, 
to which is added a dessertspoonful of mustard and 
sufficient sugar to lessen the acid taste slightly. 
Thicken with com flour moistened in a little cold 
milk, and add a good-sized piece of fresh butter after 
the sauce is done. 

63. Brown Butter 

Place a large piece of fresh butter in a frying-pan 
over a slow fire. Let it melt, and then stir it till it 
becomes a rich brown, but be careful it does not burn. 
Sometimes a few very fine bread-raspings are browned 
with the butter. Make the sauce-tureen hot before 
putting in the butter. This is a very general 
accompaniment to any kind of fish. 

64. Danish Sauce 

Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and when 
it is melted mix with it, using a wooden spoon, a 

25 



SAUCES 

dessertspoonful of flour. Get it very smooth, and add, 
if the sauce is intended for fish, a breakfast-cupful of 
the fish water ; if for meat, the same quantity of stock, 
in each case with a small glass of white wine. Stir 
well over a slow fire, adding a very little grated 
nutmeg and, if necessary, more salt. On the verge 
of boiling draw the saucepan from the fire and put 
to the sauce a small piece of butter, a teaspoonf ul of 
lemon juice, and the beaten yolk of an egg. 

65. Mayonnaise Sauce 

There are, of course, many ways of making 
mayonnaise, but the most satisfactory is the 
following: Break the yolks of three perfectly fresh 
eggs into a basin, seeing that no white runs in. Stir 
with a wooden spoon for a few moments, then take a 
bottle of the purest olive-oil in your left hand and 
pour the oil, drop by drop, into the basin, stirring 
slowly and regularly in one direction all the time. 
This is tedious, but the trouble is repaid. After five 
minutes' stirring the oil may be added a little more 
quickly. Four tablespoonfuls of oil should be used 
up in this manner till the sauce is quite thick. Then 
add a very little salt and pepper and a few drops of 
essence of vinegar, or sufficient vinegar to impart a 
piquant flavour — not a sharp one. 

66. Remoulade Sauce 

Make a mayonnaise as above, thin it with a 
tablespoonful of cold water, add a saltspoonful of 
made mustard and two finely-minced shallots or half 

26 



SAUCES 

a very small onion. A few minced capers may also 
be added, if liked. 

67. Tartar Sauce 

Take the yolks of two eggs and make a mayonnaise 
sauce, thin with a very little cold stock without any 
fat, and add some capers, two shallots, and any mixed 
pickles, all finely minced. Pound the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg with a saltspoonful of mustard, mix it to 
a smooth paste and put it to the sauce. This is a 
favourite sauce with cold meat. 

68. Madeira Sauce 

Mince a shallot and a small carrot finely and fry 
them lightly in butter in a saucepan. Stir in a 
teaspoonful of flour and very gradually a cupful of 
good brown gravy. Let it simmer about a minute, 
skim and strain, and add a large glass of Madeira. 

69. Truffle Sauce 

Make a sauce as above, leaving the wine till last. 
After the sauce is strained put to it three truffles 
finely minced, and simmer again for five minutes. 
Then remove from the fire and add the Madeira. 

70. New Worcester Sauce 

Mix cold Madeira sauce with the same quantity of 
mayonnaise, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and the 
same of Worcester sauce, stirring well. 

71. Bechamel Sauce 

Mince finely a quarter of a pound of lean raw 
ham and two shallots. Simmer them in butter ten 

27 



SAUCES 

minutes over a slow fire. Stir in a dessertspoonful 
of flour, and when smooth add a small cup of fresh 
cream and one of good stock, veal stock for prefer- 
ence. Flavour with pepper, salt, and a very little 
grated nutmeg. Boil and strain the sauce, then let it 
boil up again with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

72. Vanilla Sauce 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of 
cream or half cream and half milk and put it in a 
saucepan with three or four lumps of sugar. Stir 
it slowly over the fire till just about to boil, then 
remove from the fire and add a few drops of essence 
of vanilla. Put the sauce in the tureen and let it get 
cold before serving. 

73. White Sauce 

Get a large tablespoonful of flour smooth in half a 
pint of cold milk. Put in a pinch of salt and boil the 
milk for a few minutes, then remove from the fire 
and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the 
yolks of two eggs, and a little lemon juice. 

74. Horse-radish Sauce 

Thicken with a little flour and boil up a quarter of 
a pint of good broth, or water with a teaspoonful of 
extract of meat. Grate into it sufficient horse-radish 
to form the right consistency, add a tablespoonful of 
sour cream — or failing that a little vinegar — and the 
necessary salt ; stir, and boil up again, then remove 
from fire and add a piece of fresh butter the size of a 
walnut. This is a favourite sauce with boiled beef. 

28 



FISH 

75. Fried Sole 

Wash and prepare the sole, squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice over it, and set it in a cool place for an 
hour, then egg and bread-crumb it and fry it in good 
fat. Drain off well, garnish with parsley, and serve 
with remoulade sauce and fresh lemons cut length- 
ways into eight parts. 

76. Boiled Sole 

Put the fish into cold salted water, let it come to 
the boil slowly and simmer for five or ten minutes 
according to size. Brown butter is suitable for this 
dish, but shrimp or mustard sauce may be served if 
preferred. 

77. Boiled Turbot 

When the fish has been washed and prepared rub 
it well with salt. Wash it again, and sprinkle it 
generously with lemon juice an hour before cooking. 
Put it into plenty of cold water with a little salt and 
bring to the boil very slowly, taking off all scum. 
Let it simmer gently about fifteen minutes, take it 
up carefully, drain and place the fish, with the white 
side uppermost, on a napkin. Garnish with parsley 
and sliced lemon and serve with Dutch, anchovy, or 
shrimp sauce, or with brown butter. 

29 



FISH 

78. Stewed Cod 

Take a good-sized cod, make some deep incisions 
on the sides, and lay it in cold water with a little 
vinegar for a couple of hours. Put it into a stewpan 
in which plenty of butter — according to the size of 
the fish — has been melted. Add some minced mush- 
rooms, parsley, and capers, a little grated lemon peel, 
salt and pepper, and a large glass of white wine. 
Cover closely, and stew very gently for about half an 
hour. Strain and thicken the gravy, and garnish the 
dish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

79. Stewed Cod (Another Way) 

Cut a fine cod into steaks nearly an inch thick. 
Put into asaucepan about a pint of water with a little 
salt and pepper, a finely-minced onion, three bay- 
leaves, and six medium-sized potatoes cut into slices 
as thick as a five-shilling piece. When this boils 
place the fish in the saucepan, cover closely, and 
simmer gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
When done, thicken the sauce with a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and add a little chopped parsley, boil- 
ing for a few minutes longer. Take the fish up care- 
fully and serve in the sauce. 

80. Cod Cutlets 

Select a middle piece of a fine cod and cut it in 
slices about an inch thick, removing all skin and 
bones. Put into a shallow basin three tablespoonfuls 
of oil, a little salt and pepper, and a dessertspoonful 
of lemon juice. Lay the fish in the marinade for an 
hour. Dry, egg, and bread-crumb the cutlets, and fry 

30 



FISH 

them for a few minutes in good fat until a pale 
brown. Serve remoulade sauce with them, but if 
preferred tomato or mustard sauce, or plain brown 
butter may be served. 

8 1. Haddock 

A very nice way to cook fresh haddock is the 
following : When the fish has been washed and scaled 
fasten the tail to the mouth, sprinkle a little salt, 
pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice over it. Take 
an enamelled or earthen stewpan that has a very 
closely-fitting lid, put in it two ounces of butter and 
a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, then put the fish in, 
close the lid firmly, and set the pan in a slow oven for 
an hour. Thicken the gravy you will find in the pan 
with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and add a little 
chopped parsley. Serve the fish in its own sauce. 

82. Tench, Boiled 

Well clean two or three fine tench by rubbing 
them with salt and pouring vinegar on them. Bring 
water, well salted, to the boil, put in the tench — head 
and tail tied together — with a few peppercorns and a 
bay-leaf, and let them gently simmer for ten or fifteen 
minutes. Serve with brown butter, and garnish with 
lemon cut lengthways in quarters. Tench is also 
very good cooked like haddock in the preceding 

recipe. 

83. Carp, Stewed in Beer 

This dish deserves to be better known. It is 
extremely popular in some parts, and when it is 
properly prepared it is exceptionally good. Choose 

31 



FISH 

two or three very fresh, fat carp, scale and wash them 
thoroughly and cut them into pieces about three 
inches thick. Slice two good-sized onions and fry 
them in butter in a stewpan till of a light brown 
colour, then add a pint of light beer, which must not 
be bitter, a carrot, three cloves, a little allspice, salt 
and pepper, a bay-leaf, and the thinly-cut peel of a 
quarter of a lemon. Put in the fish when the beer 
has come to the boil, cover the saucepan and simmer 
till done, which will take fifteen to twenty minutes, 
perhaps a little longer, according to the size of the 
carp. When the fish has been stewing gently for 
about ten minutes put in gradually a grated piece 
of coarse gingerbread as large as your hand. If you 
are unable to obtain this kind of gingerbread, about 
an ounce of very brown sugar or a teaspoonful of 
treacle must be made to do. The gravy must not be 
sweet, but merely very slightly sweetened. Thicken 
with butter rolled in flour, add a small cupful of 
good beef gravy or half a teaspoonful of meat extract, 
and strain through a fine sieve. Pour a little of the 
gravy over the fish and send the remainder to tabl6 
in the tureen. Garnish the dish with lemon parsley. 

84. Eel in Beer 

Eel may be prepared in the same manner as carp 
in the above recipe, but add a few drops of tarragon 
vinegar to the gravy after it is finished. 



32 



MEAT 
(Roast, Stewed, and Boiled) 

On the Continent, roasting pure and simple, that is, 
cooking meat before a fire, is not known to the 
extent that it is in this country. Under the term 
" roasting " must therefore be understood cooking the 
meat in an oven. The gas oven is very popular, and 
is used almost exclusively abroad, so that the art of 
roasting in this manner has been brought to great 
perfection. Baking-tins as used in England are rare. 
The baking " pans " are frequently of iron, lined with 
white enamel, which is very easily kept clean. 

85. Fillet of Beef 

Take about five pounds of the under side of a 
sirloin of beef, remove all skin and gristle and lard it 
with thin strips of fat bacon. Have the oven very 
hot ; put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into 
the baking-tin and when it is brown put in the meat. 
After about fifteen minutes slacken the heat a little, 
add some hot water to the butter and baste fre- 
quently. It will require about an hour and a half to 
cook the joint. Add a little salt to the gravy after the 
meat is done. Stir gradually during the last twenty 
minutes a small cupful of sour cream into the gravy 
and baste the meat with it. Garnish the dish with 
small browned round potatoes and nicely arranged 
c 33 



MEAT 

little heaps of vegetables, such as French beans, small 
tomatoes cut in half and stuffed, asparagus tops, 
small green peas, tiny pieces of cauliflower, and 
button mushrooms, all of which may be tinned if at 
a season when fresh vegetables are difficult to obtain 

86. Fillet of Beef (Another Way) 
Put the fillet into the oven as above for one hour. 
Fry three ounces of butter in a large stewpan till a 
light brown, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour and a 
pint of good stock. Add a calf's sweetbread which 
has been blanched and cut in small slices, a bay-leaf, 
salt, pepper, and a pinch of Cayenne pepper, some 
button mushrooms, a few truffles sliced, and some 
tiny liver balls (see Meat and Other Balls); finally 
add a large glass of Madeira, and simmer everything 
for about fifteen minutes. Strain carefully, cover 
the va,rious ingredients — discarding the bay-leaf — 
and put the sauce back into the stewpan. Take the 
meat from the oven and put it with its gravy into 
the stewpan ; put the lid on tightly, and simmer as 
gently as possible for thirty minutes. The other 
ingredients must be put back into the sauce for a 
minute or two before serving. Garnish the dish with 
them and with a little scraped horse-radish. 

87. Stewed Beef 

Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan— 
an enamelled one is the best — and let it get brown. 
Lay the joint, which may be a piece of the round and 
not too fat, in the butter and make it quickly brown 
on all sides, turning it carefully with a fork at the 

34 



MEAT 

edges. Then add boiling water till the meat is half 
covered, put in a small onion, a carrot and turnip, a 
large ripe tomato, a small piece of celery, one clove 
and bay-leaf, some peppercorns and a strip of lemon 
peel. Close the saucepan tightly and simmer till 
done, adding a little more boiling water when 
necessary. Strain, salt, and thicken the gravy, and 
add a teaspoonful of any good ketchup. 

88. Beef Rolls 

Take two pounds of the round of beef and cut it 
with a sharp knife into slices of not more than a 
quarter of an inch thick ; lay them on a board and 
beat them well with a meat-beater or rolling-pin. In 
the centre of each steak put two or three thin strips 
of fat bacon about an inch long, a sprinkling of salt 
and pepper, and if the flavour is liked a very little 
minced onion or shallot. Roll the steaks closely and 
secure each with fine string or strong cotton, which 
must be removed before serving. Brown the rolls as 
in 87, add boiling water to cover; stew very gently 
till tender, and thicken the gravy with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. 

89. Gulasch 

This is a Hungarian dish, and may be made very 
appetising. Cut about half a pound of fat bacon into 
small squares ; put it into a stewpan on a quick fire 
and after a minute or two add three medium-sized 
onions finely sliced. When these are a light brown 
put in about two pounds of good steak, cut into pieces 

35 



MEAT 

of an inch square, and stir them about till they are 
also brown. Add salt and pepper, a saltspoonful of 
Cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, 
and a breakfast-cupful of any kind of light stock. 
Cover closely, and simmer an hour or longer till the 
meat is done. Thicken the gravy with a little corn 
flour, but do not strain it. 

90. Oulasch (Another Way) 

Cut up a pound of beef and a pound of pork as 
above and fry them in butter with a small onion. 
Then add a bead of garlic, two chillies, the peel of 
half a lemon, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Just cover the meat with boiling water and simmer 
till done. The gravy must be strained and thickened. 

91. Savoury Beefsteaks 

Notwithstanding the admixture of pork this dish 
is always known as Beefsteak. It is made in the 
following manner : Put through the mincing machine 
a pound of raw meat, half beef, half pork ; it should 
not be too fat or have any skin or gristle. Mix it in 
a basin with a thick round of stale bread that has 
been soaked for half an hour in cold water and well 
pressed out. Two or three stale rolls are generally 
used for this. Season with pepper and salt and, if 
liked, a little minced onion, and add the yolks of two 
eggs. If the mixture is too thin add a few bread- 
raspings. Form round cakes an inch thick and three 
inches across; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry 
till cooked through in butter or good dripping. Serve 
with good brown gravy. 

36 



MEAT 

92. Savoury Beefsteaks (Another Way) 

Put a pound of the best raw beef, free from bone, 
fat or gristle, twice through the mincing machine. 
Flavour it well with salt and pepper ; form little flat 
steaks as broad as two fingers, about three inches 
long and half an inch thick ; cross them lightly 
several times with the back of a knife and fry them 
in good butter for about a quarter of an hour. Serve 
very hot with some rich gravy or brown butter and 
a green salad. 

93. Fricadells 

Mince finely equal parts of raw beef, veal, and pork 
so that there are about two pounds of meat altogether. 
Mix the meat with four well-beaten eggs, three ounces 
of fine bread-crumbs, pepper and salt and a little grated 
nutmeg, and a small cupful of cold water. Form small, 
flat, oval cakes (which will be an easier process if 
you plunge your hands into cold water), turn them in 
fine bread-raspings, and place them in a baking-tin 
with plenty of butter which has been made a light 
brown. Bake for about an hour, adding gradually a 
very little boiling water and two tablespoonfuls of 
sour cream, basting frequently. The fricadells must 
be a golden yellow, not brown. They must be served 
very hot. Send the gravy to table in the tureen, and 
garnish the dish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

94. Fricadells (Another Way) 
Take any cold meat that may be left, roast meat 
for preference, and a slice of raw ham. Mince both 
finely ; add a little grated lemon peel, salt and pepper, 

37 



MEAT 

some fine bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of sour cream, 
the beaten yolk of one egg, and, when all is well mixed, 
the white of the egg whisked to a stiif froth. Form 
into small flat cakes and fry in butter or good 
dripping. 

95. Marinaded Beef 

If you have a larger joint than you need this is 
a good way to keep part of it good for some days. 
Wash the meat well and put it into a basin with 
water and vinegar to cover it — one part vinegar to 
three parts water. Let it lie three or four days ; 
take it out, dry it, and lard it closely with fine strips 
of fat bacon. Then fry and stew the meat precisely 
as in No. 87, adding the juice of a lemon when done, 
or sufficient vinegar to give the gravy a slightly 
pungent flavour. 

96. Stewed Beef 

Cut a pound of lean raw beef into very thin slices of 
about three inches square ; beat them a little and put 
them into a stewpan with pepper and salt to taste, 
butter or good dripping, a finely-minced shallot, a 
little flour dredged in, a teaspoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, and sufficient water and milk, half and half, 
to cover the meat. Stew very gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

97. Les: of Veal, Roasted 

This is considered the prime joint. Slices of the 
middle of the leg are often sold for cutlets, but these 

38 



MEAT 

form an expensive dish. Take a piece weighing four 
or five pounds; beat it well, skin and lard it. Put 
a piece of fresh butter the size of a large egg into 
the baking-tin and let it get brown in a very hot 
oven ; then put in the meat. After about ten minutes 
add some hot water and a little salt, basting from 
time to time. Slow down the heat ; bake two hours, 
and add gradually to the gravy a small cupful of sour 
cream in which you have made very smooth a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Chop a few button mushrooms 
and put them to the gravy before serving. 



98. Veal Steaks 

Cut from the best part of a leg of veal some steaks 
about an inch in thickness. They should be nearly 
as long and wide as your hand. Trim them well and 
beat them with the cutlet-beater. Pepper and salt 
them lightly, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry 
quickly in good fat till brown on both sides. The 
garnishing of these steaks is really the chief feature. 
Place them side by side on a large dish and sprinkle 
a few drops of lemon juice over them. On the centre 
of each lay a slice of hard-boiled egg, upon which is 
curled a thin strip of anchovy with a caper in the 
middle. Ornament furthermore with thin slices of 
pickled cucumber and gherkins cut into stars, and 
with a few capers, all tastefully arranged. Garnish 
the dish with parsley and with lemons cut length- 
ways into half-quarters, and serve the latter with the 
steaks. If potatoes are served with this dish send a 
little brown butter to table in a tureen. 

39 



MEAT 

99. Veal Cutlets, Stewed 

Wash and remove all skin from several fine veal 
cutlets and beat them well. Melt a little butter in a 
shallow stewpan and fry a minced shallot in the 
butter till brown. Then put in the cutlets and brown 
them on both sides. Season with pepper and salt 
and a very little grated nutmeg. Add a large glass 
of white wine and a tablespoonful of water and 
simmer the cutlets gently till tender. Thicken the 
gravy with a little corn flour or, if desired, with the 
beaten yolk of an egg, which, of course, must be 
added after the gravy has ceased to boil. Put to the 
gravy last of all a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

100. Fricandeaux 

Cut some steaks of two inches in thickness from a 
leg of veal ; beat and lard them ; sprinkle generously 
with lemon juice and dredge them with flour. Put a 
quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan with 
a chopped shallot and a few parsley roots. Cover 
closely and simmer for half an hour, then pour in 
quickly rather less than half a pint of boiling water, 
hardly lifting the lid while doing so. Simmer again 
for half an hour, and then baste the meat with the 
gravy, adding if necessary a very little more boiling 
water. Take out the fricandeaux when they are 
brown and tender and put them on a very hot dish. 
Strain the gravy quickly, boil it up with a table- 
spoonful of sour cream, salt to taste, and add some 
minced truffles. Serve the fricandeaux in the gravy. 

40 



MEAT 

loi. Calf's Liver, Stewed 

Wash and trim a calf's liver thoroughly and lard it 
with small pieces of fat bacon. Line the bottom of a 
stewpan with slices of bacon, two minced carrots and 
shallots, and fry the liver till a light brown. Add 
salt, pepper, a bay-leaf, and a breakfast-cupful of 
boiling water, and simmer the liver half an hour. 
Strain and thicken the gravy and add a little meat 
extract. 

I02. Calf's Liver (Another Way) 

Wash and skin the liver and cut it in slices half 
an inch in thickness. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan with some parsley and thyme and a minced 
shallot. Brown the liver, cover it with a little veal 
stock, flavour with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, 
and two cloves, and stew the liver very gently until 
it is done. Strain the gravy, thicken with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, and add a small glass of sherry. 

103. Veal Ragout 

Fry a small chopped onion in butter in a saucepan. 
When brown put in the meat, which may be either 
raw or cooked, cut into small squares about two 
inches thick, and stir it over the fire till it has 
become a light brown. Then add sufficient water to 
cover the meat, a glass of white wine, some tomato 
pur^e, or two skinned and sliced tomatoes, the 
necessary salt, and a pinch of Cayenne pepper. 
Simmer till the meat is done, take it out and strain 
the gravy through a fine sieve. Boil up again with 
some chopped button mushrooms or truffles, a few 

41 



MEAT 

capers and chopped parsley, then pour over the meat. 
A border of rice that has been boiled in veal stock 
should be served with this dish. 

104. Veal Rolls 

Cut some small steaks about half an inch thick 
from a leg of veal. Trim the edges smoothly and 
put the trimmings through a mincing machine. Mix 
the minced meat with a small round of bread that 
has been soaked in cold milk and pressed out, a little 
grated lemon peel, chopped parsley, salt and pepper, 
and the beaten yolk of an egg. Beat the steaks, put 
on each a few thin strips of fat bacon, spread the 
forcemeat over each and roll up. Bind the rolls with 
strong cotton as in beef rolls and fry in the same 
manner. A little sour cream should be added to the 
gravy when the meat is done. 

105. Calf's Feet 

Thoroughly clean and blanch two or three calf's 
feet ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water with 
a teaspoonful of salt and simmer slowly till quite 
tender. Remove all the bones, and when the meat is 
cold form it into cutlets ; egg and bread-crumb it, and 
fry on both sides in good butter till a golden yellow. 
Serve hot with remoulade or tartar sauce. 

106. Veal Fricassee 

The breast is a good joint for this dish. Take a 
piece of three or four pounds, remove the bones and 
beat well ; cut it into small pieces about two inches 
square; put them in a stewpan of boiling water, 

42 



MEAT 

sufficient to well cover the meat, with a small onion, 
a carrot, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a thin 
strip of lemon peel, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf. 
Simmer till the meat is done, skimming carefully 
from time to time. Strain the gravy through a fine 
sieve, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; 
add a dessertspoonful of lemon juice and the yolks of 
four eggs very gradually. Then put the meat into 
the gravy and serve in a border of rice that has been 
boiled in veal stock. 

107. Leg of Mutton, Roasted 

Take a small leg of mutton that has been well 
hung, wipe it with a damp cloth and beat it thoroughly 
on both sides. Put a slice or two of bacon in the 
baking-tin with a minced shallot, a bay-leaf, a little 
salt and pepper, and make the tin very hot. Put in 
the meat, and add a very little boiling water, bast- 
ing frequently. When the joint is done strain and 
thicken the gravy and add some button mushrooms. 

108. Leg of Mutton (Another Way) 

This is a very good imitation of a leg of venison. 
Choose a fine leg of mutton that has hung for a few 
days. Lay it in a pan and cover it with buttermilk 
for four days, changing the buttermilk on the second 
day. Dry the meat, skin and lard it closely with 
small strips of fat bacon. Make the baking-tin very 
hot in a fierce oven ; cover the bottom of the tin with 
boiling water, adding a couple of sliced shallots. 
Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the meat and 
bake about two hours, according to size, well basting 

43 



MEAT 

it. About fifteen minutes before it is done put to the 
gravy gradually three tablespoonfuls of sour cream, 
and if the gravy is too pale use a little burnt sugar. 
Strain the gravy, but do not thicken it. 

109. Leg of Lamb, Roasted 

Take a leg of lamb of about six pounds, wipe it 
with a damp cloth and strew a little salt and black 
pepper over it. Then make with a sharp penknife 
about thirty small incisions on the upper side. Insert 
in each of these slits a very thin slice cut from a bead 
of garlic. One bead, or two at the most, must suffice 
for the joint. Fill up the holes with a tiny strip of 
fat bacon. Sprinkle the meat well with lemon juice, 
and pour over it a tablespoonful of butter, melted. 
Put the baking-tin with a very little water in a hot 
oven ; put a bunch of sweet herbs in with the meat. 
Baste frequently, and when the meat is done take out 
the herbs and thicken the gravy with a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 

no. Mutton, Stewed 

Cut about three pounds of mutton into small pieces, 
remove all skin and gristle and beat well with a 
cutlet-beater.' Make a piece of butter brown in a 
stewpan and stir the meat in it until it is a light 
brown. Add pepper, salt, and a small onion and 
carrot, cover the meat with boiling water and let it 
simmer slowly until tender. Take out the meat, 
skim and strain the gravy, thicken it with the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs, and add a teaspoonful 
of mushroom ketchup and a few capers. Serve the 
meat in the gravy. 

44 



MEAT 

111. Lamb Fricassee 

Take a shoulder of lamb or any other joint you 
may prefer of about four pounds. Remove all the 
meat from the bones and cut it into small square 
pieces. Let about two or three ounces of butter come 
to the boil in a stewpan and fry the meat in it, adding 
a small minced onion, two cloves, a bay -leaf, a strip 
of lemon peel, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, 
and finally dredge in a little flour. Stir all well 
about in the brown butter, pour in half a pint of 
boiling water and simmer gently till done. Take out 
the bay-leaf, cloves, and lemon peel, add a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a few capers, and the beaten 
yolk of two eggs. Semolina or bread balls (see Meat 
and Other Balls for Soup) should be added to the 
gravy. 

112. Mutton Cutlets 

Trim some mutton cutlets about an inch in thick- 
ness, removing all fat. Fry them very quickly in 
butter, turning them carefully. When they are a 
light brown on both sides strew over the cutlets a 
tablespoonful of the following mixture: equal parts 
of finely-minced chervil, parsley, mushrooms, and 
shallots. Cover the stewpan closely and simmer 
gently a few minutes. If you do not use plenty of 
butter the pan will be too dry, and in that case a very 
little water must be added. Place the cutlets on a 
very hot dish and pour the strained gravy over them. 

113. Mutton Chops, Grilled 

Eemove all skin and fat from the chops, which 
should be cut from the loin. Beat them lightly and 

45 



MEAT 

dip them into butter that has been melted. Sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper and turn them in fine 
bread-raspings. Grill as quickly as possible, three 
minutes for each side being sufficient. Serve tartar 
sauce with the chops. 



114. Mutton Chops (Another Way) 

Mix in a soup-plate a tablespoonful of grated 
Parmesan cheese with double that quantity of fine 
bread-raspings and a little salt. Prepare the chops 
as above, and after they have been dipped in the 
butter turn them twice in the soup-plate. Grill or 
fry them very quickly. 

115. Sheep's or Calf's Breast 

Put about two pounds of the breast into boiling 
water with salt and a few root vegetables. Simmer 
gently till the meat is tender. Take out the bones 
and spread the meat with chopped parsley and 
shallots and press it for an hour. Turn it in yolk 
of egg and fine bread-crumbs, and bake it in butter 
till a nice brown in a hot oven. Serve with a gravy 
made from the butter in which it has been baked and 
the stock, adding a little extract of meat and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

116. Bullock's, Calf's, or Sheep's Heart 

Well wash and trim the heart, cut it into quarters, 
and fry it in butter in a stewpan till nicely brown. 

46 



MEAT 

Put into the stewpan suflBcient boiling water to cover 
the meat, three small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a bay-leaf, a few peppercorns and cloves, and salt to 
taste. Cover closely and stew gently till the meat is 
done. Strain and thicken the gravy, and add a small 
glass of sherry. 



117. Leg: of Pork, Roasted 

Take about four pounds from the middle of a leg 
of pork, beat it a little, and with a sharp-pointed 
knife and a ruler score the skin. Rub the skin with 
a little butter or oil, or fat bacon. Put a little boiling 
water into the baking-tin, and make the oven very 
hot before you put in the meat. Do not baste it or 
the "crackling" will not be crisp. A little minced 
shallot, if the flavour is liked, may be put in the tin ; 
a tomato baked in the gravy gives it a nice flavour. 
Thicken the gravy slightly, skim and strain it, and 
garnish the dish with any small cooked vegetables. 



118. Leg of Pork (Another Way) 

Pork prepared in this manner resembles very much 
that excellent dish, wild boar. Choose a fine leg 
of about eight pounds from a young pig. Remove 
the thick skin and rub the meat well with a mixture 
made of the following ingredients : three-quarters of 
a pint of claret, a little more than a quarter of a pint 
of white wine vinegar, a large onion and a bead of 
garlic, both minced finely, five grated bay-leaves, a 

47 



MEAT 

teaspoonful each of grated cloves, black pepper, and 
ground ginger, the minced peel of half a iemon, 
twenty-five juniper berries, or if you cannot obtain 
these, ripe elderberries must do, though they are not 
nearly so good ; a dessertspoonful of chopped estragon, 
and the same quantity of salt and brown sugar. Lay 
the meat in a pan and pour the mixture over it ; leave 
it in for four days, turning it daily. Make a quarter 
of a pound of butter a pale brown in the baking-tin 
in a very hot oven. Put in the meat after it has been 
well dried and sprinkled with a little salt. In about 
ten minutes add a little boiling water and half the 
quantity of the strained pickle. Bake for about two 
and a half hours, basting frequently. Half an hour 
before the meat is done put a large cupful of sour 
cream to the gravy gradually, and thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour made smooth in the cream. 
Garnish the dish with small browned potatoes and 
button mushrooms. Red cabbage is the most suitable 
vegetable with this meat. When eaten cold, meat 
prepared in this manner may be cut into small thick 
slices and sent to table with remoulade sauce or any 
piquant sauce preferred. 



119. Pork Sausages, in Beer 

Take about a pound of pork sausages, fry them 
lightly in a saucepan in some butter, pricking them 
with a fork to prevent bursting. Add gradually 
sufficient light beer, which must on no account be 
bitter, to cover them, a sliced shallot, a small strip 
of lemon peel, a few peppercorns, and a bay-leaf. 

48 



MEAT 

Simmer very gently for half an hour. If necessary 
add a little salt, thicken the gravy and put to it a 
little extract of meat. Serve the sausages as hot as 
possible in the gravy. Mashed potatoes and sauer- 
kraut are the usual accompaniments to this dish. 

I20. Pork Chops, Pried 

Carefully trim the chops, which should be three- 
quarters of an inch in thickness. Beat them lightly, 
but thoroughly, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry 
over a brisk fire in good fat, drain them well, and 
serve with piquant sauce (No. 53). 

121. Pork Chops, Stewed 

Remove any superfluous fat from the chops, beat 
them and fry them quickly on both sides with a little 
butter in a shallow stewpan. Put in a bay-leaf, two 
cloves and allspice, a little pepper and salt, a small 
chopped onion, and cover the chops with sour cream. 
Simmer gently, with the lid of the stewpan fitting 
tightly, until the chops are tender. Strain the gravy 
and thicken with a little corn flour. This is a pleasant 
change from the usual method of cooking pork chops. 

122. Fillet of Pork, Roasted 

Skin two good-sized fillets and lard them with thin 
strips of fat bacon. Bake them in a hot oven in 
butter and a very little water, basting frequently. 
When the meat is done thicken the gravy with corn 
flour, and add half a glass of Madeira. Garnish the 
dish with olives and button mushrooms. 
D 49 



MEAT 

123. Pork Rolls 

Cut thin steaks from a leg of pork, beat them well, 
and proceed as in beef rolls (No. 88), adding, how- 
ever, a little powdered sage to the filling. 

124. Ham, Stewed in Burj^undy 

This is a very popular dish and excellent when 
properly prepared. Choose a mildly smoked ham of 
about nine pounds. Clean and trim it, and lay it in 
cold water all night, or for twenty-four hours if very 
dry. Put it into a large saucepan of cold water with 
a carrot, a turnip, a small onion, and a piece of celery. 
Bring it as soon as possible to the boil, then simmer 
very gently for three hours. Let the ham get cool, 
but not cold, in the water ; take it out and cut off the 
rind, and if very fat some of the fat also. Put into a 
saucepan a pint of good stock and a large bottle of 
Burgundy or Madeira, with a tablespoonful of red 
currant jelly or, failing that, of sugar. Let the ham 
stew very gently in this until tender. It must be 
frequently basted with the liquid, which should be 
thickened and served in tureens. Garnish the dish 
in the same manner as fillet of beef. 

125. Baked Ham 

Soak a small ham in cold water overnight. Trim 
and dry it thoroughly. Make a dough as for ordinary 
bread, or order some at the baker's ; roll it out on a 
large board to the thickness of quite half an inch. 
Strew on the dough a tablespoonful of finely- 
powdered sweet herbs and lay the ham on it. Cover 

SO 



MEAT 

the ham well with the paste ; be careful that no part 
is exposed. Make a few incisions on the top of the 
paste. Flour a baking-tin, and bake the ham in a 
moderate oven about four hours, according to size. 
The crust must be stripped off when done ; but if you 
do not wish to serve the whole at once it is well to 
leave part of it in the paste till wanted. Hot or cold, 
a ham cooked in this manner is equally good. 



5* 



POULTRY AND GAME 

126. Roast Turkey 

Dkaw and truss a young turkey and lard it with 
small strips of fat bacon. Fill the crop with a force- 
meat made of the following ingredients : Half a pound 
of lean veal and a quarter of a pound of fat pork, put 
through the mincing machine, a round of bread with- 
out the crust, that has been soaked for an hour in 
cold milk and pressed out, a little chopped thyme and 
grated lemon peel, salt, pepper, two minced truffles, 
and two well-beaten eggs. Shell and blanch a pound 
of fine chestnuts, and boil them in water with a piece 
of butter added. When they are tender, drain them 
and fill the turkey with them. Roast in plenty of 
butter till done, and serve with a rich brown gravy 
added to the butter in the tin. 

127. Roast Qoose 

Prepare a young goose and fill it with good cook- 
ing apples pared and cut in quarters. Mix with the 
apples a leaf or two of sage. Bake the goose two to 
three hours, according to size. The oven should not 
be too hot at first, but the water that covers the 
bottom of the baking-tin must be boiling. The goose 
must be well browned by the time it is finished. 
Make a rich brown gravy with the giblets and some 
extract of meat, and pour off the fat from the baking- 
tin. Goose dripping is esteemed a great delicacy on 

52 



POULTRY AND GAME 

the Continent, particularly that which comes from the 
bird while roasting. The fat that is round the in- 
testines is always washed and set on a slow fire till it 
is done to " scratchings." The dripping thus gained 
is excellent for frying potatoes, and the "scratch- 
ings " are eaten hot with bread or toast. 

128. Goose Qiblets 

The giblets usually include the wings, and a set of 
giblets with rice forms a popular meal at a bourgeois 
table. Clean and prepare the giblets and put them 
on the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, just 
sufficient to cover them. Add a carrot, a parsnip, a 
parsley root, a leek, a piece of celery, and the neces- 
sary salt. Cover the saucepan closely and stew the 
giblets slowly until tender ; take them out and strain 
the stock. Melt a piece of butter the size of a large 
walnut in the saucepan, stir in a dessert-spoonful 
of flour until it is brown, then add the stock gradu- 
ally. After it is removed from the fire stir in the 
yolk of an egg. Make on a hot dish a border of 
rice that has been boiled in good stock, put the giblets 
in the middle of the dish and pour the gravy over 
them. 

129. Chicken, Roasted 

Draw and truss a fine chicken and lay it upon some 
thin slices of fat bacon in a baking-tin in a very hot 
oven. Pour over it a little hot water or stock and 
baste it a few times. Make a little butter brown in a 
frying-pan, and when the chicken has been in the oven 
about fifteen minutes pour the butter over it and 
baste it frequently until done, which should be in 

53 



POXJLTRY AND GAME 

three-quarters of an hour. When nearly done get a 
teaspoonful of com flour, smooth in half a small cupful 
of sweet cream and add it to the gravy. Garnish 
with watercress and button mushrooms. 

130. Chicken (Another Way) 

When the chicken has been drawn and trussed fill 
it with the following forcemeat : A quarter of a pound 
of fat pork and the same of veal — a nice veal cutlet 
should be used for this — ^both finely minced; the 
fowl's liver, which has been lightly fried in butter 
with a minced shallot ; pepper, salt, and a very little 
grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of fine bread- 
crumbs, two truffles, sliced, the yolks of two eggs 
and the white of one, and a tablespoonful of sour 
cream. Fill the chicken with the forcemeat and bake 
it in plenty of butter in a quick oven, adding a little 
stock and basting frequently. Serve Madeira sauce 
in a tureen as well as a tureen of the chicken gravy. 
Garnish as above. 

131. Capon, Stewed 

Prepare and truss a fine young capon, cover it with 
thin slices of fat bacon and secure them firmly. Put 
into a stewpan a carrot and turnip sliced, a small 
onion, a slice of lean raw ham, cut into dice, a few 
sweet herbs and peppercorns, a little salt and a bay- 
leaf, and lay the capon on them, covering it with 
stock, to which has been added a large glass of 
sherry. Stew the capon very slowly until it is done ; 
strain and thicken the gravy with the yolks of two 
eggs, and add a dessertspoonful of lemon juice last of 

54 



POULTRY AND GAME 

all. Boil some rice in plenty of stock ; see that the 
grains remain whole. Make a border of rice on the 
dish, joint the capon nicely and lay it in the middle, 
pouring the gravy over it. 

132. Fowl, Fried 

This is an agreeable change from the usual roast 
or boiled fowl. Truss a nice plump fowl and boil it 
gently with a few root vegetables and sweet herbs 
until tender, but do not overdo it, as the meat must 
remain firm enough to allow of jointing cleanly. Let 
it get partially cold in the water in which it was 
boiled, then drain and cut the fowl into nice pieces. 
Lay each piece in egg and fine bread-raspings as you 
would a cutlet. Fry them a light brown in butter 
over a quick fire. Pile them on a hot dish, garnish 
with parsley and with lemons cut lengthways in half- 
quarters, and serve remoulade or any other sauce that 
is preferred with them. 

^33' Pigeons, Roasted 

Make a forcemeat in the following manner : Cream 
an ounce and a half of butter and stir in the yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten. Add the pigeons' livers, 
chopped, a little grated lemon peel, a very little salt, 
pepper and grated nutmeg, and sufficient bread- 
crumbs to make the mixture the right consistency. 
This is sufficient for four pigeons. Truss the birds 
and stufi" them. Make four ounces of butter very hot 
in a baking-tin, put the pigeons in and baste them 
frequently till done. They must be a deep yellow, 
not brown. If a gravy made of the butter is too fat, 

55 



POULTRY AND GAME 

serve the pigeons with good brown gravy. Garnish 
with watercress or parsley and a little cut lemon. 

134. Pigeons (Another Way) 

Pigeons prepared in this manner are not unlike 
partridges. Make a marinade of half water, half 
vinegar, a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, 
half a stick of celery, a strip of lemon peel, a bay-leaf, 
some peppercorns, and a few juniper or elderberries. 
Boil this for half an hour gently, with the lid of the 
saucepan on firmly. Pour the marinade into a shallow 
basin, and when it is cold lay in it three or four plump 
young pigeons that have been trussed and well rubbed 
with salt or lemon juice. Let them lie in the 
marinade for twenty-four hours, then dry them and 
cook like partridges. 

135. Roast Pheasant 

Prepare a well-hung pheasant. Wipe the inside 
with a damp cloth, but do not wash it. When it 
is trussed cover the breast with thin slices of fat 
bacon and secure them firmly. Bake in plenty of 
hot butter in a very hot oven for about three-quarters 
of an hour, basting continually. Add gradually a 
little good stock and a small cupful of sweet cream. 
Thicken the gravy with a little com flour and skim 
off the fat. Garnish with watercress and lemon. 

136. Partridges, Roasted 

On the Continent, partridges are not hung more 
than a few days. Game of any kind is seldom eaten 
high. Draw and wipe some plump young birds; 

56 



POULTRY AND GAME 

cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon, and 
bake thirty minutes in hot butter in a quick oven, 
basting frequently. Add to the butter a little sour 
cream and some good brown gravy ; serve the gravy 
in a tureen. Garnish with watercress or parsley. 

137. Partridges (Another Way) 

Prepare the birds as above. Cover the breast with 
a slice of bacon and cover the bacon with young 
vine leaves, tying them on with thin string. The 
leaves render the meat juicy, and impart a fine flavour. 
They can also be served with the birds and are con- 
sidered a delicacy. The partridges may be cooked 
either in the oven or in an earthen saucepan, but in 
either case the butter in which they are put must be 
boiling and they must be frequently basted. A little 
fresh milk thickened with corn flour may be used 
instead of sour cream. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

138. Grouse 

The grouse of Scottish fame refuses to take kindly 
to foreign soil, despite many efforts to persuade it to 
do so. There is, however, a somewhat similar bird 
called the hazel cock, which has a fine flavour. The 
hazel cock is prepared in precisely the same way as 
the partridge, and be sure you do not spare the sour 
cream if you want delicious gravy. 

139. Blacks^ame 

Blackgame grows to a large size in some parts 
and is very good. Prepare in the same manner as 

57 



POULTRY AND GAME 

partridge, but lard the breast with thin strips of 
fat bacon. Bake in a fierce oven in plenty of good 
butter for about twenty-five minutes. Baste fre- 
quently, and do not overcook the bird. Add a little 
good stock and sour cream gradually and thicken with 
corn flour. Sauerkraut is liked by many persons 
with blackgame. 

140. Wood Pigeons 

Wood pigeons may be prepared and cooked in 
exactly the same manner as partridges. They may 
also be marinaded. If liked, a stuffing similar to that 
used for domestic pigeons may be used. Young wood 
pigeons are a very tasty dish if carefully prepared. 

141. Roast Hare 

Prepare the hare, skin it and lay it flat, and lard it 
all over closely with small pieces of fat bacon. This 
is so usual a method in Germany that hares ready 
larded are sold by all game dealers, saving the cook a 
good deal of trouble. Put four ounces of butter in a 
baking-tin with a little salt and make the oven very 
hot. Lay the hare in the hot butter and baste it 
constantly, adding a little hot water from time to 
time. A young hare is done in thirty-five to forty 
minutes ; it is a too frequent mistake to overcook it. 
When it has been in the oven about twenty minutes 
begin to add the sour cream, of which there should 
be a breakfast-cupful. If you cannot obtain the 
cream fresh milk must be substituted, but it is not 
nearly so nice. Continue basting and gradually use 
up all the cream, then thicken the gravy with a 

58 



POULTRY AND GAME 

teaspoonful of corn flour. Green or red cabbage are 
the favourite vegetables for roast hare. 

142. Ju8:£fed Hare 

Lard the hare as above, cut it into neat pieces, and 
fry these lightly in butter. Put them in a stone jar 
with the butter in which they were fried, two shallots, 
two large slices of raw ham or bacon cut rather small, 
a little salt, some peppercorns, clove's and allspice, a 
bay-leaf, and a quarter of a pint of sour cream. Tie 
the jar tightly with a cloth and put a heavy lid on 
the top of that ; the jar must be hermetically sealed 
as far as is possible. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about two and a half hours, according to the size of 
the hare. Thicken the gravy and add a little stock 
if necessary. Serve with toast sippets. 

143. Leg of Venison, Roasted 

Forests abroad frequently teem with deer of all 
kinds, so that venison in many parts is plentiful and 
cheap. The most esteemed is the flesh of the roebuck, 
which is very delicate. A leg weighing three to 
four pounds costs six or seven shillings. Venison is 
never eaten in the least high. To roast a leg of roe 
remove the shank bone. This will come in very 
nicely for stock. Beat and skin the meat, lard it 
closely, and sprinkle it lightly with salt. Make a 
quarter of a pound of butter very hot in a baking- 
tin ; lay the leg on a few slices of thinly -cut fat bacon 
in the tin. Keep the oven very hot and baste fre- 
quently, allowing fifteen to twenty minutes to each 
pound of meat. Add a little stock or boiling water and 

59 



POULTRY AND GAME 

then a large cupful of sour cream, in which a tea- 
spoonful of com flour has been made smooth. Some 
minced button mushrooms may be added to the gravy 
before sending to table, but they are not essential. 
Serve a green salad with the venison. 

144. Ragout of Venison 

Meat from the breast and shoulder is suitable for 
this. Remove all skin and gristle and cut the meat 
into large dice. Fry it in butter in a stewpan, turning 
it with a wooden spoon until each piece is brown. 
Dredge a little flour over it, stir it again, and pour on 
the meat about half a pint of stock made from the 
bones and trimmings, and the same quantity of any 
red wine. Add a slice of lean ham cut into dice, an 
onion stuck with cloves, two bay-leaves, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and some grated lemon peel. Simmer 
slowly till the meat is done. Take out the herbs, the 
onion, and the bay-leaves, and put to the sauce a few 
button mushrooms, or larger ones minced, a pinch of 
Cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of good ketchup. 

145. Roast Boar 

The wild boar is a favourite quarry. The meat is 
sold like that of the deer, and when young is prepared 
in a similar manner. A piece of the leg of some six 
or seven pounds makes a nice joint baked in a hot 
oven with plenty of butter and sour cream. The 
flavour is delicious — a cross between ham and venison. 
If the meat is that of an older animal, lay it in a 
marinade as in No. 118, and bake for two to two and 
a half hours. 

60 



POULTRY AND GAME 

146. Stewed Boar 

Choose a middle piece, weighing about five pounds, 
of the leg or shoulder of a young boar. Skin and 
lard the meat and put it into a stewpan with sufficient 
water to half cover it. Add some whole pepper, a 
few cloves, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, two bay- 
leaves, a large onion sliced, a dessert-spoonful of red 
currant jelly and a little salt. Cover the pan very 
closely and let the meat stew gently till it is tender. 
Into a baking-tin put a quarter of a pound of good 
butter ; let it get brown in a fierce oven, then put in 
the meat for about fifteen minutes. It must become 
a rich brown and be well basted. Strain and thicken 
the gravy in which the meat has stewed and add that 
gradually, with some good cream, to the hot butter 
in the baking-tin. Serve red currant jelly and cran- 
beiTy compote with this dish. 

147. Rabbit, Piquant 

Make a marinade as in No. 118. Prepare a fine 
young rabbit, cut it in pieces, and lay it in the 
marinade for three days, turning it occasionally. Fry 
it in butter in a saucepan, cut up a quarter of a pound 
of bacon into small squares and fry that also. Cover 
the meat with some good stock and simmer till tender. 
Thicken the gravy, add just sufficient of the marinade 
to impart a piquant flavour, and serve in a border of 
nicely boiled rice. 

148. Rabbit (Another Way) 

Wash a young rabbit and cut it into quarters. 
Salt and pepper the pieces and dredge them lightly 

61 



POULTRY AND GAME 

with flour. Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of 
fine olive-oil, two ounces of butter, and a minced 
shallot, and cook the rabbit in this slowly till done, 
which will be in about thirty minutes. Take out the 
meat and put to the gravy a teaspoonful of chopped 
thyme and parsley, mixed, and a cupful of stock. Let 
it boil up, then strain and skim it, and add a glass of 
Madeira. Make the rabbit hot again in the gravy 
and serve with toast sippets. 



62 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON AND SUPPER 
DISHES 

149. Chicken Fricassee 

Boil a nice young chicken and a calf's tongue 
together till done. Wash and blanch two sweetbreaHs 
and stew them in a very little water. Remove all the 
meat from the chicken, skin the tongue, and free the 
sweetbreads from all skin and gristle. Cut all into 
small pieces about an inch and a half square. Put 
the water in which the chicken and sweetbreads have 
boiled into one saucepan, boil it up with a seasoning 
of salt and pepper and a very little grated nutmeg ; 
add some chopped mushrooms, two finely-minced 
anchovies, and a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, or 
more if the gravy is not sharp enough, then remove 
from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Pour the sauce over the meat and a few 
semolina balls (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup), 
and ornament the dish with a border of fleurons, or 
small crescents of good pufF paste. 

150. Tongue Cutlets 

Thoroughly cleanse an unsmoked ox-tongue and boil 
it till tender with a few root vegetables in the 
water. Skin it and cut into slices half an inch thick. 
Beat up an egg with a tablespoonful of cold water 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Dip each slice of 
tongue into the egg and turn it in a plate of finely- 

63 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

grated bread-crumbs, then fry in butter till pale 
brown. 

151. Potato Pancakes 

Grate two pounds of fine raw potatoes. Put them 
in a basin and drain some of the water from them, 
then mix with four well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of cream, and sufficient flour to make a moderately 
thick paste. Add a teaspoonful of salt, and fry the 
mixture in butter or any good fat as you would fry 
pancakes. Either fresh salad or stewed fruit may be 
served with them. 

152. Mock Roast Hare 

Put equal quantities of beef, veal, and pork through 
the mincing machine, or if you have no veal, beef and 
pork will do alone. Mix well in a basin with a round 
of bread that has been soaked an hour in cold milk 
and pressed out, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon peel, a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, a 
minced shallot, and two well-beaten eggs. On a 
floured board form the mixture into an oval cake 
about four inches high. Cut some small strips of fat 
bacon and stick them all over the " hare," then make 
some butter very hot in the baking-tin and place the 
" hare " carefully in the tin. Bake it for an hour in 
a rather hot oven, basting it a little and adding a 
small quantity of stock from time to time. Thicken 
the gravy and serve it in a tureen. Garnish the mock 
hare with parsley and slices of lemon. 

153. Pish Entree 

Boil a fine plaice, take the meat from the bones in 
good-sized pieces and lay it in a flat baking-dish well 

64 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

buttered. Mix half a teacupful of grated cheese with 
a well-beaten egg, a pinch of flour, a little lemon juice, 
pepper and salt to taste, and half a small cupful of 
milk. Pour the mixture over the fish and bake in a 
hot oven until a light brown. A few tomatoes rubbed 
through a sieve and added to the mixture is often 
thought to be an improvement. If the fish is very 
large add a little more milk. 

154. Rissoles 

Mince about half a pound of lean raw beef, mix it 
with two tablespoonfuls of fine bread-raspings, a little 
grated onion, pepper and salt, and a little cold milk. 
Have ready some boiling stock in a saucepan, roll 
small balls of the mixture on a floured board and toss 
them into the saucepan. Let them simmer about 
fifteen minutes. Serve the rissoles with cut lemons 
and with any piquant sauce. 

155. Rissoles (Another Way) 

Mince equal quantities of lean beef and fat pork, 
mix with a small round of bread that has been soaked 
in cold milk and well pressed, salt, pepper, and a very 
little grated nutmeg, a finely-chopped onion, some 
chopped parsley, and two well-beaten eggs. Form 
small balls and fry them lightly in butter, then toss 
them into some boiling stock and simmer till done. 

156. Ham and Eg'gs 

Cut several slices of nice ham into small pieces and 
fry them in butter. Then beat three or four eggs 
seasoned with pepper and salt and pour them over the 
E 65 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

ham. When the beaten eggs are set, slide the contents 
of the frying-pan on to a hot dish. 

157. Cauliflower Pudding 

Well wash and break into small pieces a good-sized 
cauliflower. Parboil it in as little water as possible, 
drain and let it get cold. Boil up the water with a 
teacupful of milk and one of semolina, stir till it is 
thick, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Cream a piece of butter as large as an egg, add the 
yolks of three eggs and salt to taste, and mix every- 
thing well together. Finally beat the white of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and put that to the mixture. It 
is better to use a wooden spoon. Butter a basin 
thickly and turn the mixture into the basin. Steam 
the pudding one hour and serve with it a Dutch or 
bechamel sauce, or, if preferred, a simple white sauce. 

158. Baked Eggs 

Cream two dessertspoonfuls of butter, mix with it 
double that quantity of soft bread-crumbs, a small 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a very little salt, 
pepper, and Cayenne pepper. Make a smooth paste 
and line with it some small patty-pans that have been 
well buttered. Break carefully into each patty-pan a 
fresh but not too large egg; the yolk must not be 
broken or the effect will be spoiled. Put on each egg 
a pinch of salt, cover it lightly with very fine bread- 
raspings, and dot about on the raspings tiny bits of 
fresh butter. Bake for about five minutes in a hot 
oven, and serve the eggs in the tins, prettily orna- 
mented with sprigs of parsley and endive leaves. 

66 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

159. Ham and Pancake 

Make some nice pancakes, but mix salt with the 
batter instead of sugar. When they have cooled cut 
the pancakes into pieces about two inches square and 
some slices of boiled ham into smaller pieces. Butter 
a pie-dish and fill it with layers of the pancake and 
ham, the cake at the bottom. When the dish is full 
pour a little good gravy into it, and on the top layer 
of cake strew a dessertspoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese and pour a little butter, melted. Bake in a 
hot oven for about ten minutes. 

160. Aspic Pork 

Cut about two pounds of neck of pork from the 
bones and cut it into moderately sized pieces. Put 
the meat and the bones into a saucepan of cold water 
sufficient to just cover them, and add six whole spice 
and six peppercorns, two bay-leaves and one rather 
small onion. Boil very gently till the meat is tender. 
Take out the bones, salt the stock slightly, add 
sufficient good vinegar to give it a pungent but not 
too acid flavour, and enough gelatine to ensure a jelly 
when cold. Boil it up again and turn into a stone 
jar. Let it stand till cold and take out the meat and 
jelly as required. It will keep good for some days. 

161. Farmer's Pie 

Chop the remains of any roast meat, but not too 
finely. Cut up small about half the quantity of fat 
bacon, mince two onions and mix well. Press a 
quarter of a pound of haricot beans that have been 

67 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

boiled soft in salted water through a sieve and add 
them to the mixture. Season with salt and pepper, 
a pinch of Cayenne pepper, some minced thyme, and 
a little grated nutmeg. Beat up an egg and add that, 
and finally pour a cupful of any good gravy over the 
mixture. Stir all well together and fill a buttered 
pie-dish, covering the top with fine bread-crumbs and 
little pieces of butter. Bake in a quick oven for 
thirty minutes. 

162. Ham Fritters 

Cut some nice slices of either raw or boiled ham ; 
they must be a quarter of an inch in thickness. 
Make a rich batter and dip the slices of ham into it, 
then fry in butter and serve very hot. 

163. Goose Liver, Stewed 

Wash and free from all skin two fine livers, make 
some small incisions with a pointed knife and fill each 
hole with a thin slice of truffle. Sprinkle a very little 
salt and pepper over the livers and tie them in slices 
of fat bacon cut as thin as possible. Put them in a 
small stewpan, pour over them a glass of Madeira, and 
simmer them gently in the wine until done, which 
will take about twenty minutes. Liver done in this 
manner is better cold, as it is not so rich. 

164. Clieese Dumpling:s 

Soak a round of bread for an hour in cold milk, 
press it well out and put it into a saucepan in which 
a piece of butter the size of an egg has been melted. 
Add a teaspoonful of minced parsley and a finely- 
chopped shallot; stir the mixture till it leaves the 

68 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

sides of the saucepan. Turn it into a basin, and when 
cold mix with it the following ingredients : The yolks 
of one or two eggs, a very little salt and grated 
nutmeg, two large tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, 
Gruyere, or Chester cheese, and sufficient stale fine 
bread-crumbs to make the mixture firm, allowing for 
the white of the egg or eggs, stiffly beaten, which 
must be added last of all. With a tablespoon, 
heated in boiling water, form the dumplings, dropping 
them one by one into boiling water. They should be 
cooked in about ten minutes, but it is safer to cut one 
through before taking out the others. Take them 
out carefully on a strainer and serve with good brown 
butter. 

165. Potato Dumplings 

Grate as many cold potatoes (that have been boiled 
in their skins the previous day) as will fill two soup- 
plates. Mix with them four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
a little grated nutmeg, salt, a teacupful of butter, 
melted, and the yolks of five eggs. When you have 
mixed everything thoroughly add the white of the 
eggs beaten to a stifi" froth. Make the dumplings and 
boil them as above, but they will need boiling a little 
longer. Serve brown butter with them. 

166. Potato Dumplings (Another Way) 

Take one pound of potatoes prepared as above with 
half a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, melted, four well beaten eggs, and a little salt 
and nutmeg. Shape and boil the dumplings as in the 
preceding recipe, and serve with either brown butter 
or stewed fruit. 

69 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

167. Ham and Macaroni 

Boil half a pound of macaroni for three-quarters of 
an hour in salted water, putting it in when the water 
boils. When it is done strain and cut it into pieces 
an inch long, and mix it with half a pound of boiled 
ham cut into dice or chopped coarsely. Butter a 
baking-dish and put in the macaroni and ham in 
layers, beginning with the former. When the dish is 
full beat two eggs in a quarter of a pint of milk, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Pour this over the macaroni, which should also form 
the top layer, and then pour in half a teacupful 
of good butter, melted, distributing it equally. Bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour, or till a 
nice brown. Grated Parmesan cheese is served sepa- 
rately with this dish. 

168. Lentil Cutlets 

Soak half a pound of lentils in cold water over- 
night. Boil them gently in salted water, using as 
little water as possible, and when soft put them into 
a basin and get them very smooth with the back of 
a wooden spoon or pound them in a mortar. Beat 
three eggs well and mix them with the lentils ; fry a 
good-sized minced onion in butter till brown and add 
this ; add a little pepper and salt and mix thoroughly. 
Should the mixture be too thin put in some fine 
bread-crumbs. Form small cutlets, egg and bread- 
crumb them and fry in good fat till brown. These 
are good either hot or cold. A green salad with nice 
sauce should be served with them. 

70 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEOxN, SUPPER DISHES 

169. Cheese Biscuits 

Mix equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese 
and flour well together with the yolk of one egg; 
add a pinch of Cayenne pepper. Cut into small 
biscuits, and bake on a floured tin in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes. 

170. Meat Pancake 

Mince any roast meat that is left, roast beef for 
preference, and put it in a stewpan with a little 
butter, grated onion, half a glassful of white wine 
and a little gravy, a teaspoonful of Worcester-sauce, 
salt and pepper to taste. Make it hot in the stewpan, 
but do not let it boil. Then make some good batter, 
fry a pancake and spread it with the beef mixture 
and lay a second pancake over it. If you prefer, you 
can put the stufiing on half a pancake and roll the 
other half over it as soon as it is set. 

171. Stuffed Cauliflower 

Choose a nice cauliflower that is not too close. 
Make a forcemeat of minced raw beef and pork in 
equal quantities, a little bread soaked in milk and 
pressed as dry as possible, some grated lemon peel 
and nutmeg, salt, pepper, and a beaten egg. Fill the 
stuffing between the stalks and in all the apertures of 
the cauliflower that admit of it. Wrap the cauli- 
flower in a serviette and put it in a saucepan of 
boiling water with a little salt. Boil for about an 
hour and serve with white sauce. 

71 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

172. Cabbag^e Rolls 

Detach seven or eight leaves from a white cabbage 
or a large Savoy cabbage ; wash them and let them 
boil up in salted water, then throw them into cold 
water. Make a forcemeat of equal parts of minced 
raw veal and pork, the latter fat, the former lean, a 
little rice that has been boiled soft in some stock and 
allowed to cool, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a couple of ripe tomatoes crushed 
through a sieve. Mix all weU together and spread 
the leaves with the forcemeat ; roll them up, turning 
in the ends, and tie them with coarse cotton, which 
must, of course, be removed before serving. Lay the 
rolls side by side in a shallow stewpan in which a 
good-sized piece of butter has been made brown. 
Simmer them in the butter for ten minutes, then add 
sufficient hot water to cover the rolls and stew very 
gently for three hours. Serve on a hot dish nicely 
garnished and with some good brown gravy. 

173. Cabbaj^e Rolls (Another Way) 

Prepare the leaves as above. Make the forcemeat 
out of any remnants of cold meat, some minced ham 
or bacon, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel, 
and a tablespoonful of sour cream. Mix well and 
spread the leaves, securing them as above. Fry a 
minced shallot in butter in a stewpan, put in the rolls 
and let them get brown, then cover them with some 
nice stock and simmer two to three hours. Thicken 
the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
serve the cabbage rolls in the gravy. 

72 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

174. Beef Puffs 

Mince some cold roast beef, if underdone so much 
the better; season it with pepper, salt, and a little 
mushroom ketchup. Make some nice short paste and 
roll it out as thin as possible. Cut the paste into 
squares of five inches across, and put a teaspoonful of 
the prepared meat into the middle of each square. 
Fold the paste neatly over the meat and fry about 
ten minutes in boiling fat. The fat must be good 
and must cover the puffs. 

175. Stuffed Onions 

Skin well two or three Spanish onions, cut off the 
top, making the aperture no larger than a shilling- 
piece, and carefully take out sufficient of the onion to 
leave a good-sized cavity. Fry lightly in butter some 
sheeps' kidneys, mince them, and mince also a slice or 
two of rather fat ham or bacon. Mix these with a 
small piece of white bread that has been soaked a few 
minutes in cold water and squeezed nearly dry, season 
with pepper, salt, and a little Cayenne pepper, and fill 
the onions. Allow one kidney to each onion. You 
can bake the onions in the oven, basting frequently 
with butter, but it is a better plan to put them side 
by side in plenty of butter in a stewpan and let them 
simmer till done, which will take several hours. 

176. Scrambled Bggs and Cheese 

Cut some rather small squares of bread without 
the crust; fry them in good butter till brown on 
both sides, then lay them on a hot dish. Melt a 

73 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER. DISHES 

dessertspoonful of butter in a saucepan; beat four 
eggs quickly and put them to the butter over a quick 
fire. Stir them constantly, and when the eggs are on 
the point of setting, that is, scrambled, add a table- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and a little 
Cayenne pepper. Stir once or twice, then heap the 
eggs and cheese on the fried bread and serve very 
hot. 

177. Venison Pasty 

Cut from a cold roast leg of venison or from a 
roast hare about a pound of meat. Remove any skin 
or gristle, cut it into very small pieces, and send it 
through the mincing machine. Fry half a pound of 
ham or bacon lightly with a minced shallot and put 
that through the machine. Then pound all the meat 
in a mortar, moistening with a very little gravy. 
Mix with salt, pepper, two or three truffles cut in 
dice, a tablespoonful of rich brown gravy, and the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. Butter a flat mould 
and fill it with the mixture. Put a little boiling 
water in a baking-tin and stand the mould in the tin 
in a slow oven. It must bake an hour. When cold, 
turn the pasty out and garnish with parsley. 

178. Mushroom Ragout 

Skin a pound of fine mushrooms and cut them in 
half. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, but do 
not let it get brown. Put in the mushrooms and let 
them stew very gently for a few minutes. Get a 
dessertspoonful of flour smooth in a small cupful of 
fresh cream — milk with a little more butter will do if 
you have no cream — and salt to taste. Let it simmer 

74 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

for about fifteen minutes, but see that it does not 
bum. Make a border of rice, nicely cooked in stock, 
on a hot dish, and turn the ragout into the middle of 
the dish. 

179. Tongue Ragout 

Boil a calf's or an ox-tongue until tender, skin and 
cut it in small pieces and let it get cold. A tinned 
tongue can also be used. Make a mushroom ragout 
as above, but with half a pound of mushrooms and 
with a little water and extract of meat instead of the 
cream. Melt about two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, and gradually 
add some of the water in which the tongue was boiled 
or any other stock. Put in a large glass of Madeira 
or sherry, a teaspoonful each of lemon juice and 
Worcester-sauce; add the tongue and the mush- 
room ragout and boil up once more. Shortly before 
serving put to the ragout a few meat or semo- 
lina balls (see Meat and Other Balls for Soup). 
Serve the tongue ragout in a border of rice that has 
been cooked in stock and sprinkled over with a little 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

180. Fish Hash 

Cold cod or any fish that has been left over may be 
used for this. Get half a pound of fish into flakes 
with two forks, mix it with a quarter of a pound of 
rice that has been boiled soft and drained. Melt two 
ounces of butter in a saucepan and put to it the rice 
and the fish, a hard-boiled egg that has been boiled 
the previous day, chopped finely, and a little salt and 

75 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

Cayenne pepper. Stir quickly over the fire until very 
hot, then serve in a border of tomato puree. 



i8i. Macaroni Souffle 

Boil three-quarters of a pound of macaroni till 
tender, then drain and cut it into pieces about three 
inches long. Cream a quarter of a pound of butter 
and mix it with the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, 
two and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
pepper and salt, a small cupful of gravy, two slices of 
boiled ham finely minced, and a dessertspoonful of 
minced dried mushrooms. Then put the macaroni to 
the other ingredients, and finally add the white of the 
four eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Turn all into 
a thickly-buttered pie-dish, strew two more ounces of 
grated cheese on the top and put little lumps of 
butter on the cheese. Bake for an hour in a hot 
oven. This souffle may be served with any sauce 
you may think suitable ; mushroom or tomato sauce 
is perhaps the best. 

182. Stuffed Tomatoes 

For stuffing tomatoes it is well to take large ones. 
Cut half a dozen fine ripe tomatoes in half, cutting 
across, not down. With a small-pointed spoon scrape 
out all the inside that you can get without breaking 
the skin. Mix this in a basin with two tablespoonf uls 
of fine bread-crumbs, a small teaspoonful of white 
sugar, a little salt, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Fill the tomatoes with the mixture and fry in butter. 
They can also be baked in butter in a hot oven. 

1^ 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

183. Veal Puddingr 

Mince half a pound of cold roast veal and the same 
quantity of boiled ham or bacon. Soak a small round 
of bread without the crust in cold milk for fifteen 
minutes and press it as dry as possible. Mix the 
meat and the bread and add some chopped parsley, 
the yolk of one or two eggs, and a little salt and 
pepper. Fry a small minced onion a nice brown in 
butter in a saucepan, put in the meat and let it 
simmer in a cup of sweet cream for a few minutes. 
Butter a baking-dish and bake the pudding half an 
hour in a brisk oven. Serve with some good gravy. 

184. Pork Fricassee 

Cut a piece of rather lean raw pork, about two 
pounds, into large dice. Melt some butter in a stew- 
pan, put to it ar finely-minced onion and the meat 
with a little salt and pepper, and let it simmer gently 
in the butter till nearly done. Cut four large raw 
potatoes into slices as thick as a five-shilling piece ; 
pour boiling water over them and drain them, then 
add them to the meat with a small cupful of sour 
cream and a pinch of Cayenne pepper. Continue to 
simmer until the meat is quite tender. A few 
semolina or bread balls are an improvement. 

185. Calf's Brains 

Well wash and prepare the brains, and boil them a 
quarter of an hour with a little salt and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar added to the water. Let them 
cool in the same water, and when cold cut them in 

17 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

thick slices. Salt and pepper the slices, turn them 
in flour and then in egg and fine bread-crumbs. Fry 
them in butter till they are a rich brown on both 
sides. Serve with lemon cut lengthways in half- 
quarters. With lemon juice sprinkled over them this 
is a very nice way of cooking any brains. 

1 86. Calf's Kidney Hash 

Chop the kidney rather coarsely with its fat. 
Mince the shallot and fry it in a little butter in a 
saucepan till it turns yellow, then put in the kidney 
with some salt and pepper, a very little grated nut- 
meg, a tablespoonful of sour cream, and a saltspoonful 
of made mustard. Simmer for half an hour, and 
serve on dainty slices of toast. 

187. Sardine Sandwiches 

Take the contents of a small tin of sardines, remove 
the backbone and mince the fish very finely. Boil 
three eggs hard and chop them small, then mix the 
sardines and eggs thoroughly. Fry some squares of 
bread nicely in butter and spread the mixture thickly 
on them. A pinch of Cayenne pepper may be mixed 
with the sai'dines. 

188. Pheasant Souffle 

Remove all the meat from a large roast pheasant ; 
pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and 
the same of minced raw pork, and a quarter of a pint 
of cold bechamel sauce. When it is a smooth paste 
put it through a sieve and mix it with a little pepper 
and salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper and grated 

78 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

nutmeg, the yolks of three eggs, and three or four 
truffles cut into dice. When all is well mixed stir in 
the white of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; butter 
a mould and bake at once in a hot oven for half an 
hour. Stand the mould in a tin with a little boiling 
water. The souffle must be sent to table immediately 
after it is turned out. Serve a truffle sauce with this 
dish. 

189. Goose Liver Pasty (Fois Qras) 

This is an excellent recipe and well repays 
the trouble it makes. Wash in milk, not water, 
and skin two fine fat goose livers. Boil gently 
till soft a pound and a half of fresh truffles; 
turn them in salt and white pepper mixed in equal 
quantities ; cut them in slices and lard the livers with 
them. Make a forcemeat of two pounds of lean raw 
pork, a pound of unsalted bacon, a moderate-sized 
onion, which has been sliced and lightly fried in 
butter, a dessertspoonful together of chopped thyme 
and marjoram, fresh if possible. Chop everything 
small and then put through the mincing machine; 
pound it in a mortar and finally rub through a fine 
sieve, then add a little salt and pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and cloves ground to powder — a very small 
teaspoonful together. Mix the forcemeat thoroughly, 
butter a mould and cover the bottom and the sides 
thickly with the forcemeat. In the middle put the 
goose livers, whole, and fill in the forcemeat closely 
all round them. Cover the top of the mould with a 
piece of buttered paper ; place the mould in a tin the 
bottom of which is well covered with water, and bake 
in a slow oven for an hour and a half. Remove the 

79 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

paper, and if you wish to keep the pasty for some 
time pour a little hot lard over the top, after the 
pasty has become cold, and allow it to stand for ten 
hours ; then put on the lid of the mould. When it is 
to be served, scrape off the lard, hold the bottom of 
the mould for a moment or two in boiling water and 
turn the pasty out. 

190. Plinsen 

Mix a quart of milk with half a pound of butter, 
melted, three eggs well beaten and the yolks of three 
more, two ounces of sugar, a little salt and grated 
nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of grated unsweetened 
rusks, and suflScient flour to make a nice batter. Fry 
in butter like pancakes. Wash a few currants in 
boiling water and strew over the plinsen while they 
are being fried. They must not lie a moment longer 
than can be avoided. 

191. Kidney Cutlets 

Stew gently in butter a calf's kidney or four 
sheep's kidneys sliced. When cold, mince the kidney 
and mix it with about the same quantity of any cold 
roast meat you may have. Beat four eggs with a 
tablespoonful of cream, take the crumb of three stale 
rolls or of a round of bread, break it into small 
pieces and let it soak in the egg and cream about 
fifteen minutes. Mix it with the minced meat ; add a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley and shallot together, 
some salt and a very little grated nutmeg, and steam 
the mixture in a buttered mould three-quarters of an 
hour. Turn the meat out and cut it in nice, rather 

80 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

thick slices. These may be either served thus with 
good brown gravy or be turned in fine raspings and 
fried a delicate brown in butter. In either case 
garnish with lemons cut lengthways into half- quarters. 
A little lemon juice sprinkled over the cutlets is an 
improvement. 

192. Mushroom Patties 

Make some good puff paste and put in patty-pans. 
Fill them with mushroom ragout (No. 178), cover 
with a layer of paste as for mince-pies, and bake 
about twenty minutes in a quick oven. The patties 
must be served hot. 

193. Soubise Cutlets 

Fry some nice veal or mutton cutlets in butter for 
two or three minutes, then lay them in a buttered 
china or enamelled baking-dish. Stew one pound 
and a half of sliced onions in plenty of butter for 
about three-quarters of an hour, or until they are 
perfectly soft, adding a little water from time to time, 
then strain the onions and rub them through a hair 
sieve. Melt a piece of butter or good dripping the 
size of an egg, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and 
when boiling hot add the onion puree with a little 
pepper and salt. Stir all well over the fire until it 
boils and pour the mixture over the cutlets. Bake 
about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

194. Piquant Dumplings 

Mix half a pound each of minced raw beef and 
pork, a round of bread soaked in cold water and 
F 81 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

pressed nearly dry, five or six chopped anchovies, a 
teaspoonful of chopped capers, a little salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg and grated lemon peel, and three well- 
beaten eggs. Form with floured hands balls the 
size of a small orange, and throw them into plenty of 
boiling salt water. In about ten minutes they will 
be done. Serve with caper or mustard sauce. 

195. Fish Salad 

Simmer very gently in salt water half a pound of 
eel, half a pound of halibut, and three-quarters of a 
pound of salmon. Put into the water the thinly-cut 
peel of half a small lemon and the juice, a bay-leaf, 
and a few peppercorns. When the fish is done take 
it out carefully and put it in a cold place till next 
day. Remove all bones and skin and divide the fish 
into small pieces with two forks. Mix it lightly 
together and heap it into the centre of a round dish. 
Arrange a border of oysters or lobster coral and of 
small toasted sippets spread with caviare. Make a 
good mayonnaise sauce and thin it with a very little 
veal stock. Pour the sauce over the fish, sprinkle a 
few capers over the sauce, and ornament with hard- 
boiled eggs cut lengthways into half-quarters and 
with prettily cut gherkins. 

196. Lobster Salad 

Cut up a fine lobster into long pieces. Put the 
lobster in the middle of the dish and cover it with 
a thick mayonnaise sauce. Ornament it with capers, 
pickled cucumber slices, cut into stars or any other 
fancy shape, strips of hard-boiled egg, and filleted 

82 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

anchovies. Garnish with toasted sippets spread thickly 
with caviare and with small lettuce leaves. 

197. Parmer's Supper Dish 

Soak one pound of split peas overnight, boil them 
till soft and rub them through a fine sieve. Mince a 
pound of corned beef, fry a chopped onion in two 
ounces of beef dripping and mix this with the peas 
and the meat. Add pepper, salt, some chopped 
parsley, and a cupful of good stock. Make the 
mixture very hot over the fire and serve with toast 
sippets. 

198. Cheese Souffle 

Make a quarter of a pound of butter hot in a stew- 
pan. Stir into the butter four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and add rather more than three-quarters of a pint of 
cream or good milk, boiling it till perfectly smooth. 
Pour it into a basin, and when it has cooled a little 
add the yolks of five eggs, four dessertspoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and, lastly, the white of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Stir all lightly together 
and put in a butter souffle dish. Bake thirty to forty 
minutes in a hot oven and serve at once. 

199. Liver Sausage 

Cut one pound of pig's liver into good-sized pieces 
and put it into some boiling stock. Leave it in for 
ten minutes, but do not let it boil, then rub it through 
a fine sieve. Boil one pound of pig's belly till tender, 
mince it finely and put it through the sausage 
machine and mix it well with the liver. Take off the 

83 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

fat from the water in which the pork has boiled; 
put it in a stewpan with two small onions sliced. 
Simmer the onions in the fat for an hour with the stew- 
pan covered closely. Strain the liquid fat and put it 
to the meait. Add a teaspoonful of powdered thyme, 
a teaspoonful and a half of powdered marjoram, a 
saltspoonful each of pepper and pounded cloves (the 
heads only), and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir every- 
thing thoroughly together for about ten minutes with 
a wooden spoon until you have a perfectly smooth 
paste. Fill the skins, tying them at the ends, but 
leaving a little room for swelling. Plunge the 
sausages into a saucepan of boiling water and keep 
boiling very gently for thirty minutes. The sausages 
may be laid twenty-four hours in ice-cold water to 
blanch them. If desired, truffles or fat bacon cut into 
dice may be added to the preparation to make it 
richer. 

200. Chicken Cutlets 

Boil a fine large chicken till tender. When cold, 
cut off all the meat, remove the skin, and chop very 
finely. Prepare and blanch a sweetbread ; boil it, and 
when cold mince it and add it to the chicken. Soak 
the crumb of two or three stale rolls in milk and 
squeeze them as dry as possible. Add the bread to 
the meat, stir well, and season with salt, pepper, and 
a very little grated nutmeg, then add the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten. Form small oblong cakes, to 
resemble cutlets as much as possible, egg and bread- 
crumb them, and fry them a golden brown in butter. 
The drumsticks and the wing bones should be care- 
fully stuck into the cutlets before sending to table 

84 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

ornamented with a paper frill. Serve some good 
brown gravy with the cutlets. 



201. Beans and Bacon 

Soak a pound of haricot beans overnight and boil 
them very gently in salt water till done, but let them 
remain firm. Turn the beans and some of the water in 
which they have been boiled into an earthenware dish 
that has a lid. Strew over them a dessertspoonful of 
sugar. Cut a pound and a half of nice streaky bacon 
into pieces about two inches square and put them on 
the top of the beans. Cover the dish and bake four 
or five hours in a very slow oven. Serve in the same 
dish with a paper frill or a serviette round it. 

202. Ham Souffle 

Boil half a pint of cream with a piece of butter as 
large as an egg, a small onion finely minced, and a 
tablespoonful of flour that has been smoothly mixed 
in a little milk. Stir well, and while it is boiling 
add half a pound of ham cut into dice and four ounces 
of Parmesan cheese, grated. Remove from the fire 
and add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Whisk 
the white of the eggs to a very stiff froth and put 
them lightly to the mixture. Bake in a buttered 
dish for forty minutes in a hot oven. 

203. Meat Pudding 

Cut a thick round of stale bread, without the crust, 
into small dice and put it into a saucepan with half 

85 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

a pint of milk and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut. Stir over the fire to a smooth pulp. Let it 
cool, then add four well-beaten eggs, a pound of 
coarsely-chopped roast veal and ham, a sweetbread, 
boiled and cut into small pieces, a few mushrooms, 
minced, a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg, pepper 
and salt to taste. Add a little good gravy, and stew 
the pudding in a buttered mould for an hour and a 
half. Serve with brown gravy or bechamel sauce. Any 
kind of meat may be used for the pudding, but if you 
have pork omit the ham and substitute a little 
powdered sage for the lemon peel. With beef a little 
minced shallot should take the place of the sage. 



204. Baked Ham and Potatoes 

Any odd pieces of boiled ham may be used for this 
dish. Mince about half a pound finely, season with 
pepper and salt and a very little grated nutmeg. 
Chop three small onions and fry them a light brown 
in butter. Boil two pounds of potatoes in their 
skins with a teaspoonful of salt in the water. Peel 
them as hot as possible and cut them in slices. Make 
a layer of the potatoes in a buttered baking-dish and 
put a little butter or good dripping on them, then 
put in a layer of ham and onion and repeat this 
till the dish is full, potatoes and butter forming the 
top layer. Set the dish in a very hot oven, and after 
five minutes pour on the potatoes and ham four eggs 
beaten in a teacupful of milk. Strew some fine rasp- 
ings on the top and dot little pieces of butter about the 
crumbs. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

86 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

305. Spinach and Meat Pudding 

Wash a pound of spinach in several waters, pour 
boiling water on it, drain it well and chop it. Mince 
a little parsley and a shallot and stir both for a few 
minutes over the fire in a saucepan in which two 
ounces of butter have been melted. Soak the crumb 
of a round of bread in milk and squeeze it out and 
stir this with the onion and parsley. Mix with the 
spinach, season with pepper, salt, and a very little 
grated nutmeg ; add the yolks of three eggs and, lastly, 
the white beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a mould and 
cover the sides and bottom thickly with any roast 
meat you may prefer, finely chopped and seasoned 
with a little pepper and salt. Put to the spinach a 
little more chopped meat and then fill up the mould. 
Steam the pudding for an hour and a quarter, then 
turn it out and serve with Dutch or white sauce or 
good brown gravy. 

206. Tomato Aspic 

This is a very pretty dish, and it can be prepared 
the previous day if desired. Boil four pounds of ripe 
tomatoes cut in slices in rather less than a pint of 
water with a small piece of celery, a slice of onion, a 
bay -leaf, a teaspoonful of salt and the same of sugar. 
When they have been gently boiled for fifteen 
minutes strain the liquid ; add to it a tablespoonful of 
good clear stock, the same quantity of sherry, and two 
ounces of gelatine or sufficient to ensure a stiff jelly 
when cold. Strain it again and half fill six or eight 
small cups which have been previously oiled with 

87 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

perfectly fresh olive-oil, keeping the rest of the 
liquid warm. When the jelly in the cups is on the 
point of setting press into the centre of each cup 
half a hard-boiled egg, then fill up the cup with the 
remainder of the liquid. Put the cups in a cold place 
and turn out when wanted. Garnish the dish with 
fresh tomatoes cut in quarters and with lettuce, and 
send a good mayonnaise sauce to table with the aspic. 
You may vary the filling of the jelly with sliced 
truffles and chicken breast instead of egg, or with 
cold veal and any root vegetables cut into dice. 

207 "Thick Milk" 

Fill a small, shallow glass dish with fresh milk. 
Let it stand unshaken for several days if cold weather, 
or less time in summer, until the cream is firm and 
slightly crinkled. Strew powdered sugar over it 
when eating. "Thick milk," as it is called, is ex- 
ceedingly wholesome, and is so popular in many parts 
of the Continent that special glass dishes are sold for it, 
and it is to be bought ready at any dairy shop. Milk 
that has become thick in this manner forms a whole- 
some and refreshing drink when slightly sweetened 
and whisked with a little fresh milk to a froth. 

208. Macaroni and Brown Butter 

Put half a pound of macaroni into boiling salt 
water and boil three-quarters of an hour. Drain it 
well and cut into pieces about two inches long. 
Serve brown butter in a tureen with the macaroni 
and grated Parmesan cheese separate. 

88 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

209. Ragout Fin 

This dainty little dish is always served en co- 
quilles, the large scallop shells forming convenient 
and picturesque receptacles for the tasty mixture. 
Mince any cold meat you may have and warm it 
up in some good gravy. Put it into a basin and 
mix with the meat the following ingredients : 
A small grated onion, a little grated lemon peel, 
and the juice of one lemon, or of half a lemon, 
according to the quantity of meat, some chopped 
capers, a glass of Madeira, a teaspoonful of Wor- 
cester-sauce, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and 
grated nutmeg. If the mixture is too stiff, add a 
little milk or cream. Butter the shells and fill them ; 
strew some grated cheese on the top and bake in a 
quick oven about twenty minutes. The changes may 
be rung upon ragout fin according to individual taste 
and the matter of economy. Some minced mush- 
rooms and sweetbread are an improvement ; the wine 
may be omitted; bread-raspings and a little butter 
dotted about them may be substituted for the grated 
cheese ; mashed potatoes spread over the ragout are 
very good and economical, and ragout baked thus is a 
nice supper dish. Remains of cold fish can also be 
made into this type of ragout, anchovy sauce making 
a pleasant flavouring. 

210. Stuffed Pancakes 

Mince finely some cold veal or beef and warm it in 
a saucepan with a little butter. Stir in quickly a 
small grated onion, some good gravy, and as much 

89 



MADE DISHES, LUNCHEON, SUPPER DISHES 

white wine as gravy. Season with salt and pepper 
and a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Make 
some light pancakes, thin and not very rich ; spread 
the mixture over one and roll, or spread half a 
pancake and fold the other half over. In the latter 
case sprinkle a little grated cheese on the top. 

211. Meat Pudding 

Soak two large rolls or a thick round of bread, cut 
in half and without any crust, in the yolk of an egg 
beaten with a large cup of water. When soft and 
the moisture is absorbed, fry the bread on both sides 
in butter. Put into a bowl a quarter of a pound of 
minced raw meat and the same quantity of minced 
ham or bacon, a small onion, chopped fine, a little 
chopped parsley and grated lemon peel, pepper, salt, 
and the yolks of two eggs, and the fried bread cut 
into dice. Stir all thoroughly with a wooden spoon, 
finally adding the white of the two eggs whisked to 
a stiff froth. Steam in a buttered pudding mould for 
forty minutes, then turn out and serve hot with 
mashed potatoes and any sauce preferred. 



90 



VEQETABLES 

On the Continent plenty of good butter is used, 
and two or more kinds of vegetables are frequently 
mixed with good results. A visitor to England 
once remarked to the author: "Th§ English have 
splendid material in the matter of vegetables, but 
they don't turn it to account." There is more than 
a grain of truth in this criticism. Carrots and turnips 
served in their naked ugliness are unknown abroad. 

212. Red Cabbage 

Shred a firm, medium-sized pickling cabbage very 
finely, rejecting the outer leaves and cutting out 
all stalk. Put it in a saucepan with just enough 
water to keep it from burning. Add two sour apples, 
sliced and cored but not peeled, two or three cloves, 
a little salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of pure 
lard. Boil gently till quite tender and the water 
absorbed, then dredge in a little flour and add a level 
tablespoonful of sugar and sufficient white wine 
vinegar to give a piquant flavour. The cabbage must 
be neither sweet nor sour. Half a glassful of claret 
may be added, and is thought by many to improve it. 
Stir it well with a wooden spoon. Drain and serve 
very hot. Red cabbage is often served with roast 
goose, pork, or venison. 

91 



VEGETABLES 

213. Green Cabbage 

Well wash some curly cabbage, boil it till tender, 
drain, and mince it finely, or still better put it through 
a sausage machine. Put a tablespoonful of good lard 
or dripping (goose dripping is excellent) into a 
saucepan, and when melted lightly brown a dessert- 
spoonful of flour in the fat and half that quantity 
of fine bread-crumbs. Add a little cold water or 
stock, always stirring; then put in the minced 
cabbage, about a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little 
grated nutmeg. This is a very nice vegetable with 
roast hare or venison, 

214. Green Cabbage (Another Way) 

Wash the curly cabbage, boil and mince it as above. 
Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, 
stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, put the cabbage into 
the saucepan, and stir it well with a wooden spoon 
for a few minutes over the fire. Add a quarter of a 
pint of cream, a very little grated nutmeg, and simmer 
it gently for twenty minutes. 

215. Carrots, Boiled 

If the carrots are very young and small scrape 
them and cut them in two and simmer them for a 
few minutes in butter. Then dredge a little flour 
over them, add a small cupful of stock, a very little 
salt and sugar, and boil gently till done. Put a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley to them just before they 
are done. Old carrots should be cut in slices or dice, 
and put into sufficient boiling water or stock to cover 

92 



VEGETABLES 

them, a little salt and sugar added, and boiled very 
gently till tender. Melt a good-sized piece of butter 
in a stewpan, stir with it a dessertspoonful of flour 
till brown and smooth, then put in the carrots with 
the stock in which they have boiled. Stir for a 
minute or two over the fire with some minced parsley, 
and serve in the sauce. 

216. Carrots (Another Way) 

Cut the carrots into small squares and boil till done 
in salt and water, with a piece of butter and a little 
sugar. Make a teaspoonf ul of corn flour smooth in 
a large cupful of cream, and let it boil for a minute. 
Add a little salt and pepper ; strain the carrots and 
serve them in the cream sauce. 

217. Qreen Peas 

Shell half a peck of peas, put them into a saucepan 
with a very little boiling water or stock, a piece of 
butter as large as a walnut, a small quantity of 
sugar and salt, and let them simmer till done, with the 
lid of the saucepan on. Roll a small piece of butter 
in flour and put it to the peas, then serve as quickly 
as possible. 

218. Green Peas (Another Way) 

Shell the peas and put them into a saucepan in 
which you have melted four ounces of butter. Let 
the peas simmer gently till tender, then dredge in a 
little flour ; add pepper and salt and a little chopped 
parsley, and serve in the butter very hot. 

93 



VEGETABLES 

219, Green Peas and Carrots 

Boil the peas and carrots — the latter cut into dice — 
separately, in suflBcient stock to just cover them, then 
mix them together, not omitting the stock in which 
they have been boiled. Add a little salt and sugar 
and some chopped parsley. Melt a piece of butter 
and stir into it a teaspoonful of flour until a light 
brown ; add this to the vegetables, and boil up once 
more. 

220. French Beans 

When the beans, which should be young, are 
prepared cut them in half, crossways, and boil them 
in plenty of salted water with the lid of the saucepan 
ofi". When they are tender, drain thoroughly and put 
the beans into a saucepan in which a good-sized piece 
of butter has been melted. Turn them about in the 
hot butter with a wooden spoon for a few minutes ; 
add pepper and, if necessary, salt, and a little chopped 
parsley. 

221. Cauliflower, Boiled 

Wash a cauliflower and boil it in salt water till 
done. Take it out carefully, let it drain, and put it 
in a hot vegetable dish. Make a sauce by frying 
butter and flour together and adding a little of the 
water in which the cauliflower has boiled. Draw the 
saucepan from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, a 
small piece of fresh butter, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Pour some of the sauce over the cauliflower and 
serve the remainder in a tureen. 

94 



VEGETABLES 

222. Cauliflower (Another Way) 

Boil as above. Strain the cauliflower and put it in 
a dish. Let a quarter of a pound of butter become 
brown in a frying-pan, and strew in two dessertspoon- 
fuls of fine, stale bread-crumbs. When these are a 
rich yellow shake them over the cauliflower and then 
cover it with the minced yolk of a hard-boiled egg 
and some minced parsley. 

223. Cauliflower, Pried 

Cut a cauliflower into about ten pieces ; boil them in 
salt water till done, but do not let them fall to pieces. 
In the meantime, prepare a thick bechamel sauce and 
let it cool. Turn each piece of cauliflower thoroughly 
in the sauce, and when cold egg and bread-crumb them. 
Fry in good fat till a rich yellow. 

224. Maize (American Sweet Corn) 

This is a delicious vegetable when quite young. 
It should be eaten the same day that it is gathered. 
Remove the green leaves and put the maize in 
boiling water with plenty of salt, and boil it about 
twenty minutes. The corn must be stripped very 
quickly from the spikes and sent to table with a 
little oiled butter over it. The proper way to eat 
maize, say many people, is to rub a little fresh butter 
over the spikes and to gnaw off the grains. 

225. Spinach 

Wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters. 
Put it into a saucepan without any water and simmer 

95 



VEGETABLES 

till tender. Plunge it into cold water and drain it 
well, then put it through the mincing machine or a 
fine sieve. Put it back into the saucepan, add salt 
and a very little grated nutmeg, a piece of butter or 
good dripping, and dredge in a little flour. If too dry 
add a spoonful of milk. Stir and bring to the boil. 
Serve with poached eggs if intended as a dish for 
itself, or as an accompaniment to any roast meat. 

226. Spinach (Another Way) 

Boil and mince the spinach as above. Cut about 
four ounces of fat bacon into dice, fry them slowly 
in a stewpan, then put the spinach to the bacon. 
Add pepper and salt and stir in a very little flour. 

227. Spinach (a Saxon Method) 

Boil the spinach with a small onion, which must 
be removed before it falls to pieces. Mince with 
the spinach three or four boned anchovies, and on 
returning to the saucepan add just a little good stock. 

228. Vegetable Ragout 

Boil two pounds of potatoes in their skins, but be 
careful that they do not over-cook. Peel and cut 
them into dice; put them into a bowl with the 
following ingredients, mixing everything carefully 
with a wooden spoon : Two boiled beetroots, two large 
apples and a salted cucumber, all cut into dice, a 
finely-minced shallot, and a dessertspoonful of capers. 
Melt three ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan and 
stir into it two dessertspoonfuls of flour ; when well 
mixed add gradually a little hot water and a large 

96 



VEGETABLES 

glass of white wine. Allow it to just boil up, remove 
from fire and stir in the beaten yolk of one or two 
perfectly fresh eggs; then make the vegetables hot 
in the sauce, and add slowly a dessertspoonful of 
lemon juice, according to taste. 

229. Asparagus and Green Peas 

Cut a pound of prepared asparagus into pieces 
about two inches long and boil very slowly in salt 
and water. Boil separately some young peas — a 
pound when shelled — in a very little salt water with 
a lump of sugar. Use as little water for both as you 
possibly can. Mix the vegetables, strain them, and put 
them in a heated dish. Thicken the water in which 
they were boiled with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and add the yolk of an egg beaten in a tablespoonful 
of cream. Pour the sauce over the vegetables. 
Water in which asparagus has been boiled makes 
a very nice soup next day, thickened with flour fried 
in butter, and the yolk of an egg added when finished. 

230. Kohlrabi 

Take a dozen young kohlrabi, strip off" the smallest 
leaves, put them into boiling water for a few minutes 
and then into cold. Strain and chop them coarsely. 
The heads of the kohlrabi must be peeled and cut into 
slices. Put them into another saucepan of boiling 
water, let them boil up, and then strain. Melt two 
ounces of butter in a stewpan, stir in a dessertspoon- 
ful of flour and about half a pint of stock. Put the 
sliced kohlrabi and the chopped leaves to the butter, 
add a little salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of 
G 97 



VEGETABLES 

milk, and simmer gently till tender. Prepared in 
this manner, kohlrabi is a very nice and wholesome 
vegetable. 

231. All-Sorts 

Boil separately, in just enough water to cover them, 
equal quantities of green peas, asparagus, carrots, and 
cauliflower, the latter cut into small pieces. Strain 
the vegetables and mix them. Mix also the water in 
which they have boiled, simmer it for a minute or 
two with a piece of butter rolled in flour, seasoning 
with pepper and salt and a little sugar. Add the 
yolk of an egg well beaten and a few sliced truffles. 
Serve the vegetables in the sauce. 

232. Cabbage and Peas 

For this dish use a quarter of a pound of dried 
green peas, soaked in cold water overnight and boiled 
with pepper, salt, and butter till nearly done. Par- 
boil in salt water a nice white cabbage, cut off as 
many leaves as you require, and fill them with the 
peas. Roll them up and tie the rolls with coarse 
cotton. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of 
butter, and let them get brown ; add a little stock and 
simmer till tender. If fresh peas are used they must 
be previously parboiled with some butter, salt, and 
pepper. Serve the rolls in a sauce made from the 
butter and stock in which they have been boiled. 

233. Savoy Cabbage 

Trim off the outer leaves, cut the cabbage in half 
and take out the stalk, then cut the cabbage into 

98 



VEGETABLES 

small pieces. Wash well and put it into plenty of 
boiling water with a little salt. Boil till done, strain 
thoroughly, and put the cabbage back into the sauce- 
pan with a small cupful of stock, a piece of butter, 
a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and stew 
gently for a few minutes. 

234. Mangel-Wurzels 

Choose a young mangel-wurzel, peel, wash, and cut 
it into small strips or squares. Boil it up in slightly 
salted water, pour the water off, and simmer the 
wurzel in some fat stock till tender. Melt a little 
butter and mix some flour with it, let it become 
brown over the fire, then gradually add the stock and 
the vegetable, stirring all well together and season- 
ing with salt, pepper, and a little sugar. 

235. Brussels Sprouts 

Boil the sprouts in salt water till done in an open 
saucepan, then drain them. Fry a little butter and 
flour in a stewpan ; mix gradually with a cupful of 
good stock or sufficient to make a sauce as thick as 
double cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a very 
little grated nutmeg, and serve the sprouts in the 
sauce. 

236. Stewed Chestnuts 

Peel a pound of fine chestnuts, put them into boil- 
ing water for a minute, and remove the skin. Melt a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut in a stewpan, add 
a little salt and sugar and some good stock, put in 
the chestnuts, and stew slowly till tender. Thicken 

99 



VEGETABLES 

with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve the 
chestnuts in the gravy. 

237. Cream Potatoes 

Peel some potatoes, wash them, and cut them in 
slices. Put them in a stewpan, cover them with 
cream, add a piece of butter and a little salt, and 
simmer till done. Thicken by dredging a little flour 
over the potatoes, and shake a little grated Parmesan 
cheese on them before serving. 

238. Potatoes, with Cucumber Salad 

Wash and boil some potatoes in their skins. Let 
them be fairly equal in size. They must be peeled at 
table and eaten hot with fresh butter and salt and a 
nicely-made cucumber salad. 

239. Potatoes in White Sauce 

Boil two pounds of potatoes in their skins, peel, and 
cut them into slices. Chop an onion very finely, fry 
it with a piece of butter the size of an egg, with a 
little salt and pepper; stir in a dessertspoonful of 
flour and get it smooth. Stirring all the time, add a 
teacupf ul of cold milk and then a very Httle boiling 
water until you have a smooth sauce. Let it boil up, 
put the potatoes into the sauce, and stir them about 
with a wooden spoon. Draw the stewpan to the side 
for a minute or two, and serve the potatoes in the sauce. 



100 



SALADS 

240. Mixed Salad 

Cut into thin strips one pound of good cooking 
apples, one pound of potatoes (boiled in their skins) 
cooled and sliced, a celery root, also boiled and 
allowed to cool (a stick of celery must be made to do 
if you cannot get the root), one pickled cucumber, 
and half a pound of skinned tomatoes. Mix well, and 
pour over the salad some remoulade sauce, omitting 
the capers. If preferred, a simple " French dressing " 
can be used for this salad : three spoonfuls of good 
olive-oil to one of vinegar, well stirred for several 
minutes. 

241. Mixed Salad (Another Way) 

Boil in salt water a good-sized beetroot and some 
potatoes in their skins. When cool, skin and cut in 
slices. Mix with some boiled and sliced celery and 
pickled cucumbers. Make a sauce of the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs, well stirred with some thick 
sour cream, a very little oil and vinegar, and sufficient 
white sugar to counteract any acidity. Pour the 
sauce on to the vegetables. 

242. Potato Salad 

Boil the potatoes in their skins, peel and slice them 
while hot; the slices should be as thick as a five- 
shilling piece. Put them in a bowl, add salt and a 

lOI 



SALADS 

very small onion, finely minced. Pour a large table- 
spoonful of oil over them, and stir well with a wooden 
spoon. Dissolve about a dessertspoonful of crushed 
white sugar in a teacupful of boiling milk, and stir it 
with the potatoes, and when thoroughly mixed add 
one or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar according to 
taste. Make the salad an hour before it is wanted, 
and set it in a warm place with a cover on. Stir 
again before serving, and if too dry add a little more 
warm milk. 

243. Potato Salad (Another Way) 

Boil the potatoes and peel them as hot as possible. 
Slice them, putting slices into a heated dish, pour a 
teacupful of boiling water over them, and cover the 
dish. Take three tablespoonfuls of the best olive-oil 
and stir it with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a 
little good stock. Mix well together, and pour over 
the potatoes. Stir thoroughly with a wooden spoon, 
taking care that they do not break, yet that all the 
slices are covered with the sauce. 

244. Beetroot Salad 

Wash and boil the beetroots in plenty of water, 
with a little salt. When they are done let them cool, 
peel and cut them in slices, and put them into a jar. 
Boil some good vinegar with two bay -leaves, a few 
carroway seeds, two or three shallots, a piece of 
horse-radish cut into dice, and a little salt and sugar. 
Pour this hot over the beetroot slices, shaking them 
about in the vinegar. Set the jar in a cool place till 
the salad is required. It will keep good for weeks. 

102 



SALADS 

245. Celery Salad 

It is best to use the root of the plant, which 
grows to the size of a cocoa-nut. It makes an exceed- 
ingly nice salad, peeled and boiled and cut into slices. 
A tablespoonful of good oil should first be well but 
lightly mixed with the celery, then vinegar, pepper, 
and salt mixed in a cup and poured over it. If the 
vinegar is very sharp add a very little sugar, and 
thin it with water. A remoulade sauce is also very 
good with celery salad. 

246. Summer Salad 

Well wash some nice lettuce and leave it in ice-cold 
water for an hour to become crisp. Drain and dry it 
and cut it in strips, put with it a bunch or two of 
well-washed and lightly-chopped watercress and some 
sliced cucumber. Pour hot, but not boiling, water 
over a few ripe tomatoes, skin and cut them into 
small pieces, mix them with the lettuce, and add two 
hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Rub the salad bowl 
with a bead of garlic, put in the salad, and proceed as 
above. 

247. Winter Salad 

Equal parts of potatoes (boiled in their skins), sour 
apples, beetroot, and gherkins must be sliced and 
mixed lightly with some hard-boiled eggs, also cut in 
slices. Make a sauce by stirring thoroughly oil, sour 
cream, vinegar, pepper, salt, and a little sugar, or use 
a French dressing. In the latter case the salad must 
be seasoned with pepper and salt, before the dressing 
is added. 

103 



SALADS 

248. Italian Salad 

This salad is very popular as a hors d'oeuvre. 
Take any cold roast meat you may have, but veal or 
lean pork are perhaps the best, and cut it into thin 
strips an inch and a half long and a quarter of an inch 
wide. Cut in the same manner some pickled beet- 
root and gherkins, a few cold potatoes which have 
been boiled in their skins, and a sour apple or two. 
Rub the dish with a bead of garlic. Mix well and 
season with pepper and salt. Pile the ingredients in 
the centre of the dish and pour over them a thick 
remoulade sauce. Garnish with sliced beetroot and 
cucumber, sliced hard-boiled eggs and capers, and a 
lemon cut into half-quarters lengthways. 



249. Herrin^r Salad 

This salad may be met with on the table of the 
highest in the land, while it is a staple supper dish of 
the bourgeoisie. Those who like "piquant" dishes 
will appreciate it. The ingredients are : four salted 
herrings, a little pickled beetroot, four good cooking 
apples, four or five cold potatoes, cooked in their 
skins, two pickled cucumbers, and about half a pound 
of cold roast meat. Cut everything into dice, the 
herrings having all bone and skin removed, and mix 
well. Stir the soft roe of the herrings in two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and add the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, a tablespoonful of French mustard, three 
tablespoonfuls of good oil, and a large teaspoonful, 
or a little more if necessary, of crushed white sugar. 

104 



SALADS 

Stir the sauce until moderately thick, and then mix 
it with the other ingredients. Ornament the salad 
with cucumber and beetroot stars, some red-currant 
jelly, and slices of egg. 

250. Anchovy Salad 

Ten filleted anchovies, four or five olives, some 
pickled gherkins, three good sour apples, a little cold 
roast veal, and four potatoes, boiled in their skins. 
Cut all in very small squares, mix them, and season 
with a little pepper and, if necessary, salt. Pour 
over the salad plenty of remoulade sauce or French 
dressing, and strew some capers on the top. 

251. Asparagus and Tomato Salad 

Boil a pound of asparagus, and when cold cut it in 
pieces an inch long. Skin a pound of ripe tomatoes 
and cut them into half-quarters. Put them into the 
salad bowl with a little salt, pepper, and white sugar, 
stir lightly, and cover with a remoulade sauce. 
Garnish with small crisp lettuce leaves. 

252. Carrot Salad 

Boil a pound of young carrots and a small piece of 
celery in salt water till done. Let them get cold, and 
then cut them into slices. Pepper and salt them 
lightly, put them into the salad bowl, and mix them 
with a French dressing or a remoulade sauce. 
Sprinkle a very little finely-minced parsley over the 
salad. 

105 



SALADS 

253. Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice the cucumber, rub the bottom o£ the 
dish with a bead of garlic, and mix the cucumber 
thoroughly with a dessertspoonful of oil. Stir for 
several minutes a tablespoonful of sour cream with 
the same of vinegar; add pepper, salt, and a little 
chopped estragon, and pour this dressing over the 
salad just before serving. 

254. Watercress Salad 

Wash the cress in several waters. Cut off a little 
of the thickest stalk and roughly chop the cress. Put 
plenty of good oil over it and turn it about until 
every leaf is oiled, then mix a little vinegar with a 
very small quantity of salt and pepper, and pour over 
the cress at the last moment. 

255. Cabbage Salad 

Cut a small red or white cabbage in half and cut 
out the stalk and the thickest veins of the leaves. 
Shred it as finely as possible. Put the cabbage into 
a large sieve, pour plenty of boiling water over it, and 
then plunge it into ice-cold water to make it crisp. 
Mix the cabbage with a finely-minced onion or shallot 
and a very little white sugar. Pour over it a French 
dressing or remoulade sauce, and stir well. 

256. Cabbage Salad (Another Way) 

Chop a small white cabbage very finely and mix 
with it a small, finely-chopped onion, seasoning with 
pepper and salt — a generous quantity of the latter. 

1 06 



SALADS 

Put into a saucepan a large cupful of vinegar and 
water (half and half unless the vinegar is very acid), 
in which a dessertspoonful of corn flour has been made 
smooth. Add a saltspoonful of made mustard, a 
dessertspoonful of sugar, and a little salt. Stir till it 
boils, then add a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Remove from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, and pour the hot sauce over the salad. Let 
it stand half an hour before serving. 

257. Qreen Salad 

Wash some fine crisp lettuces and cut them into 
strips. Mix a large cupful of sour cream with a very 
little vinegar and sugar. Pour this over the lettuces 
just before serving, and stir well. 

258. Bean Salad 

String a pound of French beans, break them into 
small pieces — halves or quarters, according to size — 
and boil till tender in salt and water. Drain them, 
put them for a minute in cold water, and drain very 
dry. Mix the beans with a tablespoonful of oil, then 
with a little warm stock nicely flavoured and salted. 
Stir well with a wooden spoon, add a minced shallot, 
a little pepper, a teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley, and 
a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar. Toss the salad 
well about till thoroughly mixed. Bean salad is also 
good with a French dressing or remoulade sauce. 

259. Royal Salad 

Boil two pounds of potatoes that are not mealy; 
peel them while warm, cut into slices as thick as half 

107 



SALADS 

a crown, and cover closely. Melt in a saucepan a 
piece of butter the size of a small egg ; stir in with a 
wooden spoon a teaspoonful of flour, a small onion 
finely minced, a bay-leaf, a tablespoonful of the best 
olive oil and two of vinegar — or less, if the vinegar 
is very sharp — a little pepper, and a saltspoonful of 
salt. When all is thoroughly mixed add three well- 
beaten eggs and whisk the mixture over the fire to 
the point of boiling. Withdraw the saucepan, take 
out the bay-leaf, and add about a quarter of a pint of 
good stock. Stir once more; pour the sauce, hot, 
over the potatoes, cover again, and let the salad stand 
half an hour before serving. 



1 08 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

260. Lemon Sponge 

Stir the yolks of six perfectly fresh eggs with half 
a pound of fine white sugar for twenty minutes, 
using a wooden spoon. Add the juice and the grated 
peel of a lemon, and two ounces of gelatine that has 
been melted in a little light wine or cider. Stir for 
some minutes more, and then mix in quickly the 
white of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Stir for 
another minute, and set on ice till wanted, 

261. Orans^e Sponge 

Choose three fine juicy oranges and proceed as 
above, grating, however, only one of the oranges. Mix 
with the sponge the grated peel of a quarter of a 
lemon and the juice of half a lemon. 

262. Almond Pudding 

An ounce of butter, rather less than a quarter of a 
pint of milk, four ounces each of flour, crushed white 
sugar and grated almonds, the white of eight eggs, 
the juice and grated peel of one lemon. Mix the 
flour with the milk and boil it up, then let it get cold. 
Cream the butter and add it to the milk and flour 
with the sugar. Stir in gradually the almonds, the 
lemon juice and peel, the unbeaten white of three 
eggs, and finally the remaining white of egg beaten to 
a stiff froth. Stir the mixture well, and put it into a 

109 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

closed mould which has been thickly buttered, A few 
fine raspings should be shaken over the butter. Put 
the pudding into boiling water and boil for one hour. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

263. Wine Jelly 

Put a pound of crushed white sugar into a saucepan 
with just sufficient water to dissolve it. Let it boil 
up, then add the juice of four lemons and two ounces 
of gelatine which has been dissolved in a little water. 
Stir for a minute, then take the saucepan off the fire 
and continue stirring till lukewarm. Pour in nearly 
a pint of white wine or champagne, and stir until on 
the point of setting. Put the jelly into a mould that 
has been rinsed in cold water, and set on ice. 

264. Wine Cream 

Put into an enamelled saucepan half a pound of 
lump sugar on which a lemon has been grated, the 
juice of two lemons, a bottle of sherry or any white 
wine, ten fresh eggs, and a dessertspoonful of corn flour 
mixed in a very little cold water. Whisk the mixture 
over a brisk fire until just before boiling-point, then 
pour it quickly into a dish and continue to whisk for 
a few minutes longer. Put the cream into custard 
glasses, and serve wafer biscuits or macaroons with it. 

265. Prune Puddin^r 

Wash half a pound of prunes. Put them into a 
stewpan with half a pint of boiling water, three 
tablespoons of white sugar, and a small piece of cinna- 
mon. Simmer for about ten minutes, then add a 

no 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

tablespoonful of corn flour mixed in a little cold water. 
Boil for five minutes more, then remove the cinnamon 
and add a dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Put it into 
a mould, and when cold turn into a glass dish and 
ornament it with strips of almonds and candied fruits. 
Serve rich cream with the pudding. 

266. Vanilla Cream 

Bring to the boil three-quarters of a pint of 
sweetened milk, some vanilla flavouring, and two 
ounces of gelatine, dissolved in cold water. Draw the 
saucepan to the side of the stove and add the yolks 
of four eggs well beaten in a little cold milk. Stir 
the mixture till nearly cold, then put some good 
whipped cream to it. Put it quickly into a mould 
and set on ice till stifle. Turn it out and serve vanilla 
sauce with it. 

267. Raspberry Cream 

This is excellent for garnishing sweet dishes. It 
is hardly substantial enough for a separate dish. 
Mix the white of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of raspberry 
juice. Whisk all thoroughly until stiff, which will 
take about twenty minutes. 

268. Corn Flour Puddingr 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of corn flour with a pint of 
milk and boil it with six lumps of sugar. When it 
has boiled for a few minutes take it off the fire and 
stir in slowly the yolks of three eggs. Butter a 
baking-dish and pour half the corn flour mixture into 
it, flavouring with vanilla essence. Mix with the 

III 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

remaining half a dessertspoonful of grated chocolate, 
and pour that on the top. Whisk the white of the 
eggs with a little powdered sugar, and cover the 
pudding with the egg, then bake in a brisk oven for 
twenty minutes. 

269. Cup Puddings 

Make a batter with the yolks of six eggs, a pint of 
milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a tablespoonful of 
butter, melted, a very little grated nutmeg, and a small 
teaspoonf ul of baking powder. Put into buttered cups, 
filling only half full, and bake for twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Turn the puddings out, and pour over 
them a wine sauce or any good sauce preferred. 

270. Almond Cream 

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and pound 
them with a very little cold milk to a smooth paste. 
Whisk the white of an egg with half a pint of good 
cream to a stiff froth, mix it lightly with a little 
powdered sugar, the almond paste, a little vanilla 
essence, and two ounces of gelatine dissolved in a 
tablespoonful or two of water. Stir well together and 
fill a mould that has been rubbed with oil of almonds. 
Turn out when quite cold and stiff. If preferred, this 
cream can be served in glasses. 

271. Chocolate Cream 

Boil half a pound of grated, unsweetened chocolate 
and a quarter of a pound of white sugar with a pint 
and a half of cream. It must boil gently for quite 
half an hour and be frequently stirred. Take it from 

112 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

the fire and when slightly cooled add six well-beaten 
eggs. Mix thoroughly and put in a glass dish to 
get cold. 

272. Bread Fritters 

Mix two glasses of sherry with half a wineglass 
of water, two well-beaten eggs, five dessertspoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, and the peel of a lemon grated. 
Soak in this for fifteen minutes, or till the liquid is 
absorbed, some even slices of bread without the crust 
and about half an inch thick. Turn the bread in fine 
raspings, fry them in butter till a golden yellow on 
both sides, and spread with any jam preferred. 

273. Butter Tartlets 

Cream a piece of butter the size of an egg, mix with 
it the yolks of two eggs, a teacupful of milk, a table- 
spoonful of crushed white sugar, a pinch of salt, and 
two tablespoonfuls of currants. Boil all gently till a 
smooth paste, stirring well. Let the mixture cool, fill 
patty-pans that have been lined with good short paste, 
and bake in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour. 

274. Chestnut Cream 

Peel a pound of chestnuts and soak them in boiling 
water until the skin can be easily removed. Put 
them on the fire in sufficient milk to cover them, and 
simmer till tender, then rub them through a hair 
sieve. Mix the chestnut puree with a dessertspoonful 
of powdered sugar and the well- beaten yolk of a 
perfectly fresh egg. Whip a pint of good cream with 
the white of the egg till stifl', stir the cream and the 
chestnut puree quickly together with an ounce of 
H 113 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

gelatine dissolved in a little water. Put in an oiled 
mould and set on ice. 

275. Semolina Pudding: 

Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan and 
when it boils stew in gradually half a pound of 
semolina. Stir it well for a few minutes and then 
let it cool in the saucepan. Add four well-beaten 
eggs, a little salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. 
Cut a piece of bread into dice, fry them in good 
dripping, and put them to the semolina. Mix well, tie 
the pudding in a floured or buttered cloth, and boil 
one hour in salt and water. This is a very nice 
pudding as an accompaniment to roast meat; if 
desired as a sweet dish the salt must be omitted and 
a little sugar substituted. 

276. Cherry Dumplings 

Stone a pound of large juicy cherries and put them 
in a stewpan with about two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little grated lemon peel, and three cloves. Do not 
put in any water, but let the cherries stew gently in 
their own juice till tender. Let them cool, add a 
small piece of butter, four eggs well-beaten, and 
sufficient fine stale bread-crumbs, to make the dump- 
lings stiff". Take them up with a wooden spoon or 
shape them with floured hands, toss into boiling 
water, and boil about ten minutes. Serve with wine 
sauce. 

277. Apple Charlotte 

Peel two pounds of good cooking apples, cut them 
in small slices, and steam them till soft, sweeten them 

114 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

nicely, add a large glass of white wine, two or three 
cloves, a very little grated lemon peel, and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, and stew gently for fifteen minutes. 
Butter a baking-dish and line it with thin slices of 
bread saturated in butter, make a layer of the apples, 
and another of sliced bread dipped in wine and sugar. 
Proceed in this manner till the dish is full, and stew 
little lumps of fresh butter on the top. Bake for 
three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 

278. Chocolate Blancmange 

Three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, three of 
crushed white sugar, and two of corn flour, ten drops 
of vanilla essence, half a pint of milk, a quarter of a 
pint of water, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Get the 
corn flour smooth in the cold milk. Put the chocolate 
into the boiling water with salt, sugar, and vanilla, 
stir well and let it boil up, then add the milk with 
the corn flour and continue to stir till thick. Take it 
from the fire and continue stirring for a few minutes 
in order that no skin may form. When slightly 
cooled add the beaten yolk of an egg and the white, 
stiffly whisked. Put into a mould that has been 
x-insed in cold water, and, when cold, turn out. Serve 
with whipped cream or vanilla sauce. 

279. Pink Pudding 

Stir three tablespoonfuls of semolina, corn flour, or 
ground rice with a pint of milk till quite smooth, and 
boil it gently for several minutes with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and a pinch of salt. Remove from the fire, 
and stir in three tablespoonfuls of raspberry or red- 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

currant juice and two ounces of gelatine that has been 
dissolved in a little white wine. Stir all quickly and 
turn into a mould to set. Serve thick cream with 
the pudding. 

280. Baked Batter Pudding: 

Beat four eggs separately, and add to the yolks half 
a pint of milk, half a pound of sifted flour mixed with 
a small teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, 
and a little grated nutmeg. Put the white of the 
eggs, whisked to a froth, to the mixture last of all, 
and turn into a buttered baking-dish. Bake in a 
brisk oven for three-quarters of an hour. A few 
currants may be added to the batter if preferred. 

281. Danish Flummery 

Wash a pound of tapioca or sago in cold water and 
boil it in a pint of red currant or raspberry juice and 
a little sugar till quite clear and stiff. Put in a mould 
that has been well-rinsed with cold water, and, when 
quite cold, turn out. Serve with whipped or double 
cream. 

282. Wine Rice 

Put half a pound of rice into plenty of boiling 
water and let it boil briskly for twenty minutes, then 
pour it off. Make a bottle of light white wine very hot, 
with half a pound of lump sugar upon which the peel 
of one lemon has been rubbed, and the juice of two 
lemons. Put in the rice and let it boil up in the wine. 
Turn it out and add a liqueur glass of good rum. Stir 
well together and serve cold with red wine sauce. 

116 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

283. Milk Rice 

Boil rice in half milk and half water, with a little 
sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, and a thin piece of 
lemon peel. When it is done put in a piece of butter 
the size of an egg and stir well. Eaten warm, the rice 
is served with equal parts of powdered cinnamon and 
white sugar mixed ; if wished cold, it should be well- 
stirred with a generous quantity of cream whipped 
till stiflF. 

284. Apple Puffs 

Peel, core, and cut into small slices some good 
cooking-apples. Put them in a shallow dish over- 
night, and pour over them a glass of rum and sprinkle 
them with fine sugar and a little powdered cinnamon. 
Next morning mix with the apples a few currants 
(washed in boiling water), some blanched and chopped 
almonds, a very little grated lemon peel, and more 
sugar if needed. Make some nice short paste, roll it 
out to an eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it 
in pieces about six inches square. Spread half of 
each square with a tablespoonful of the apple filling, 
turn the other half over, and pinch the edges together. 
Beat the yoke of an egg with a little water and brush 
the puffs with it, then strew over them some sugar 
and chopped almonds. Bake about half an hour in a 
well-heated oven. 

285. Apple Dumplings 

Peel some large apples of equal size, take out the 
core with a corer, and lay the apples in a " marinade " 
of sherry, rum, and crushed white sugar for two 

117 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

hours. Dry them and fill the aperture with apricot 
jam. Cover them in the usual way with some good 
pastry, and bake till done. 

286. Apple Tart 

Prepare some good cooking-apples, cut them into 
small thin slices, and stir them well in powdered 
sugar. Cover a greased baking-sheet with a rich 
short paste rolled to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch. Pinch the edges up all round, and spread the 
paste with the sugared apples, then dot tiny lumps of 
fresh butter over the apples. Bake in a hot oven 
about thirty minutes or until a light brown. Cherry 
and plum tarts may also be made in this manner ; the 
fruit, of course, must be stoned. 

287. Veiled Peasant Maid 

Crumble some stale brown bread — the coarser the 
better — roughly, put a thick layer of the bread at the 
bottom of a glass dish, and pour over it a glass of 
sherry. On the moistened bread put a layer of 
strawberry or apricot jam, and fill up the dish with a 
pint of good cream beaten till stiff, flavoured with 
vanilla and sweetened with a little powdered sugar. 
The white of an egg whisked with the cream facili- 
tates the process. Scatter over the cream tiny knobs 
of red currant jelly. 

288. Whipped Cream and Pumpernickel 

Grate some coarse brown bread that has been made 
thoroughly dry, and mix it well with some cream 
beaten till stiff, slightly sweetened with powdered 

118 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

sugar. Pumpernickel, very coarse brown bread, can 
be bought at any large grocer's in England. It is 
sent over ready sliced in tins. 



289. Royal Ice Cream 

" Half-frozen " sweets are very delicious and not so 
aggressively cold as ices usually are. The creams are 
frozen in long oval moulds. This is one of the nicest 
and most popular kinds, and well repays the trouble it 
needs. Beat a pint and a half of rich cream till it is 
stiff, and lay it on a sieve to drain. Divide the cream 
into three parts, each part in a separate basin. Add 
to one a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of red-currant juice, a little cochineal, and 
half a small glass of maraschino. Stir all well to- 
gether. In the second basin put two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, a little vanilla essence, and six 
finely -grated macaroons ; and in the third, four ounces 
of cocoa dissolved in warm water, and three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Fill the ice-mould with 
the three colours separately, in three layers — the 
mould must be quite full — and put on the lid. Freeze 
in the following manner : Break some ice into small 
pieces, put them into a bucket to the height of five 
inches, and cover the ice thickly with coarse salt. Put 
the mould upright on the ice and pack layers of ice 
and salt closely round it, and cover it well with four 
inches of ice and salt. It will take quite three hours 
to freeze. It is unnecessary to say that the bucket 
must be put in as cold a place as possible; should, 
however, the ice melt very much, pour off the water 

119 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

and add more ice and salt. To turn the ice out, dip a 
cloth into boiling water and wrap it closely round the 
mould for a few seconds, then remove the lid, run a 
knife between the ice and the mould, and let it 
glide on to a dish. Ornament with macaroons and 
wafers. 

290. Raspberry Ice Cream 

Whisk half a pint of raspberry juice over the fire 
with the yolks of six eggs until on the point of 
boiling. Remove the saucepan from the fire and stir 
until cold, then mix with half a pint of good cream 
beaten till stiff. Fill the mould and proceed as above. 



291. Orangfe Ice Cream 

Put into a saucepan the juice of three fine oranges 
and one lemon, a large glass of sherry or Madeira, 
the finely-grated peel of one orange, seven ounces of 
white sugar, and the yolks of six eggs. Whisk over 
the fire to a foaming mixture, but do not let it boil. 
Stir until cold, and then add three-quarters of a pint 
of whipped cream. Fill the mould and freeze as 
above. 

292. Vanilla Ice Cream 

Beat the yolks of eight very fresh eggs with half 
a pint of water, four ounces of powdered sugar, and 
vanilla flavouring. Stir over the fire to the point of 
boiling, then strain through a sieve and, when cold, 
mix with a pint of whipped cream. Freeze as in the 
preceding recipe. 

120 



SWEET DISHES, CKEAMS, AND ICES 

293. Semolina Fritters 

Half a pint of milk, the same of cold water, four 
ounces of butter, half a pound of fine semolina, a 
teaspoonful of salt, and one egg. Boil up the milk 
and water with the butter and salt; stir in the 
semolina while boiling, and continue to boil — stirring 
vigorously — till the mixture leaves the sides of the 
pan, which takes about ten minutes. Remove from 
the fire and stir in the beaten egg gradually. Pour 
it into a shallow basin and let it get cold, then cut 
into slices half an inch thick, and fry them on both 
sides in plenty of good butter. The fritters may be 
brushed over with yolk of egg and turned in bread 
raspings. They are usually served with any nice 
salad. 

294. Strawberry Shortcakes 

Make a light paste with three-quarters of a pound 
of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
three ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of white 
sugar, and a pinch of salt. Use only the tips of the 
fingers, and when the paste is mixed add one egg 
beaten in a little milk. Touching it as little as 
possible, put the paste on a floured board, divide it in 
half, and roll out to about half an inch in thickness. 
Bake it on two greased tins or round layer cake-tins 
in a quick oven about twenty-five minutes. When 
the cakes have cooled, split and butter them, using 
the best fresh butter. Have ready some fine ripe 
strawberries, cut in half, that have been sprinkled 
with powdered sugar, warmed a little, and slightly 
crushed. Put a layer of the fruit between the cakes 

121 



SWEET DISHES, CREAMS, AND ICES 

and some on the top, then cover with sweetened 
whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. A few small 
berries should be scattered over the cream as a 
garnish. 

295. Chestnut Pudding 

One pound of ripe chestnuts, a quarter of a pound 
of granulated sugar, three ounces of sultanas and two 
of candied peel, six eggs and a dessertspoonful of corn 
flour. Peel the chestnuts ; put them for a few minutes 
in boiling water and remove the skin. Boil them in 
a little milk until soft, then rub them through a fine 
sieve. Stir the yoke of the eggs with the sugar for 
five minutes in a bowl; add the butter, previously 
creamed, and the finely-minced peel, the chestnut pulp 
and sultanas, then the corn flour and, last of all, the 
white of the eggs beaten to a stiff" froth. Mix all 
lightly, but thoroughly, with a wooden spoon, and 
steam the pudding in a buttered mould for forty 
minutes. Vanilla or white wine sauce should be 
served with it. 



122 



CAKES 

296, Apple Cake 

Dissolve an ounce of yeast in half a teacupful of 
luke-warm milk. Put into a bowl one pound of fine 
flour, and mix it with four ounces of oiled butter ; add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of half 
a lemon, the yeast, and a pint and three-quarters of 
luke-warm milk. Mix thoroughly and put the bowl 
in a warm place for an hour or two until well-risen. 
Take out the paste and knead it well, roll out to the 
thickness of half an inch, and spread it on a greased 
baking-sheet. Cover the paste with very small slices 
of apple, sprinkle fine sugar and a little powdered 
cinnamon over the apples, and bake for an hour in 
a moderately heated oven. 

297. Coffee Cakes 

Cream four ounces of butter, add two well-beaten 
eggs, a tablespoonful of white sugar, and sufficient 
flour to make a paste, stirring all the time. Boll out 
as thin as possible and cut into any fancy shapes. 
Half -fill a saucepan with butter or good dripping, and 
when it boils put in the cakes. Fry them in the fat 
till they rise and become brown, which will take only 
a very few minutes. The moment the cakes are taken 
with a strainer from the fat, turn them in powdered 
sugar. 

123 



CAKES 

298. Nut Loaf 

Mix in a bowl four ounces of chopped sultana 
raisins and the same quantity of chopped walnuts or 
hazelnuts. Add two ounces of fine sugar, a pinch of 
salt, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and half a pound 
of flour. When all is thoroughly mixed add the yolk 
of an egg beaten in about half a pint of cold milk. 
Stir everything well, and bake the cake in a buttered 
tin for an hour in a moderate oven. 

299. Almond Cakes 

Make four tablespoonfuls of flour perfectly smooth 
in a teacupful of cold milk. Put it in a saucepan 
with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar, two ounces of blanched and pounded 
almonds, and a pinch of salt. Stir all for a few 
minutes over a quick fire till the paste leaves the 
sides of the saucepan. Let it cool, then add the yolks 
of three eggs and the white beaten to a stifi" froth. 
Take up the mixture with a teaspoon and drop into a 
saucepan of boiling fat. The cakes will be done in a 
few mijiutes, and must then be drained and rolled in 
sugar. 

300. Chocolate Biscuits 

Put half a pound of butter in a bowl and place the 
bowl on a saucepan of hot water till the butter is melted, 
then stir into it half a pound of fine white sugar, two 
well-beaten eggs, three dessertspoonfuls of cocoa, one 
pound of flour, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix well and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of 
an inch. Do not cut the biscuits too large ; an egg-cup 

124 



CAKES 

or wineglass makes a good cutter. Bake in a quick 
oven about fifteen minutes. 

301. Sand Cake 

One pound of fresh butter, three-quarters of a 
pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of fine, sifted 
flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, a tablespoonful 
of good rum, and ten perfectly fresh eggs. Melt the 
butter over hot water and pour off from the sediment, 
stir it with a wooden spoon to a frothy cream and 
add the sugar and lemon. This must be stirred for 
half an hour, always in one direction ; the success of 
this cake depends greatly upon the way in which it 
is stirred. Th«n add the yolks of the eggs very 
gradually, and by very slow degrees the flour, stirring 
constantly. After a while put in the rum and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and, finally, the white of the 
eggs whisked to a froth. Have ready a buttered 
cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake immediately. 
The cake wiU require about an hour and a quarter to 
bake, and the oven must not be too hot. This is a 
delicious cake, but needs careful handhng. All the 
ingredients, except the eggs, should be slightly 
warmed before mixing, and the tin must not be 
moved while in the oven. It is safer to let it get 
cold before turning out. 

302. Sand Cake (a Cheaper Way) 

Proceed as above, omitting the rum, and using 

three-quarters of a pound of butter and only six eggs. 

If liked, vanilla essence may be used instead of lemon. 

Kemember, the longer you have patience to stir, the 

I2S 



CAKES 

better the cake will be. Many cooks stir a sand 
cake for a full hour. 

303. Spicy Cake 

One pound of flour, half a pound of currants, six 
ounces of butter, two ounces of chopped candied peel, 
a teaspoonf ul of baking powder, half a small teacupful 
of milk, and two eggs. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar and the well-beaten eggs. Stir vigorously, and 
add the remaining ingredients, the flour last of all. 
Put the mixture in a buttered, shallow baking- tin, 
mix some chopped almonds, powdered sugar, and 
cinnamon together and sprinkle this over the cake. 
Bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. 

304. Doughnuts 

Put one pound of sifted flour in a deep bowl and 
let it get warm by the fire. Stir one ounce of dried 
yeast into a quarter of a pint of lukewarm milk and 
mix it with the flour. Cover the bowl with a cloth, 
leaving it near the fire. Cream two ounces of butter, 
add to it the yolks of six eggs, four ounces of sugar, 
two ounces of bitter almonds pounded in a mortar, a 
tablespoonful of rum, and stir everything with the 
warmed flour. After stirring thoroughly, always in 
the same direction, cover the bowl again and leave it 
in a warm place for one hour. Roll out the paste to 
the thickness of half an inch and cut in rounds. Put 
on one round a teaspoonf ul of any nice jam, which 
must be fairly stiff", and cover it with another round 
of paste, pressing the edges well over the bottom 
paste so that the jam will not run out in the frying. 

126 



CAKES 

The doughnuts must have a small dumpling shape. 
Let them stand fifteen minutes in a warm place, then 
drop them in a saucepan of boiling fat. It will not 
take long to do them, about a quarter of an hour, and 
they must fry very slowly or they will be brown 
before the inside is done. Take them out with a 
strainer and turn them in a deep plate filled with 
fine white sugar. 

305. Doughnuts (Another Way) 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a bowl over 
hot water, mix with it the yolks of three eggs, a little 
vaniUa essence, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking-powder, and, 
lastly, the white of the eggs well-beaten. Have 
ready a saucepan half -full of good boiling fat, take 
up as much dough as you can on a dessert-spoon, and 
toss it into the saucepan. Let the cakes fry very 
slowly about fifteen minutes and then roll them in 
white sugar. Doughnuts should not be eaten hot. 

306. Little Sweet Cakes 

Three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, half a 
pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, two eggs, a little 
lemon peel, and cardamom. Make a paste of these 
ingredients, roll out thinly, and cut into small shapes. 
Bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

307. Cream Puffs 

Boil a quarter of a pound of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of a quarter of a 
lemon, and half a pint of water together, then add six 

127 



CAKES 

ounces of flour gradually, and stir over the fire to a 
smooth paste. Let the mixture cool a little ; put to it 
five well-beaten eggs that have been warmed slightly 
in hot water, add a pinch of salt, and form the paste 
into balls the size of a large walnut. Bake on a 
waxed baking-sheet in a hot oven till the puffs are 
a deep yellow, which will not take more than ten 
minutes. When cold, cut them in two and fill with 
whipped cream or, if preferred, with apricot jam. 

308. Othellos 

Make some cream-puff paste as above. When the 
cakes are formed and baked, frost them with chocolate 
icing, or roll them in grated chocolate and fill with 
whipped cream. 

309. Jam Puffs 

Make some cream-puff mixture and drop it on a 
greased baking-sheet with a spoon, shaping it into 
cakes of an oblong form. Brush them over with 
white of egg and bake quickly. When cold, cut the 
puffs in two, spread the under half with some nice 
jam, and replace the upper half. 

310. Magdalen Cake 

Cream three-quarters of a pound of butter, add 
half a pound of powdered sugar, the grated peel of a 
lemon, the yolks of six eggs and two whole eggs, and 
beat all thoroughly. Stir in gi-adually three-quarters 
of a pound of sifted flour and a tablespoonful of corn 
flour, then add the white of six eggs whisked to a 
stiff froth. Fill buttered patty-pans with the mixture, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

128 



CAKES 

311. Twists 

Make a smooth paste of half a pound of flour, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a teacupful of cream, 
and two eggs. Roll out and cut into thin strips four 
inches long and an inch wide. Cut a slit in the 
middle of each piece of paste and draw one end 
through. Fry in boiling fat in a saucepan. Drain 
the twists and sprinkle them with powdered sugar 
and cinnamon mixed in equal parts. 

312. Almond Biscuits 

Half a pound each of butter, powdered sugar, grated 
almonds, and sifted flour, two eggs, and the grated peel 
of one lemon. Cream the butter, add the other 
ingredients — leaving a little of the sugar and almonds 
for sprinkling the biscuits — and stir to a smooth 
paste. Roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch and cut the paste into pieces about four inches 
long and two broad. Brush the biscuits lightly with 
beaten white of egg, strew them with the sugar and 
almonds, and bake on a greased sheet in a hot oven 
till a pale brown. 

313. Almond Biscuits (Another Way) 

Elanch half a pound of sweet almonds and five 
bitter almonds and pound them in a mortar. Beat 
an egg and mix it with four ounces of powdered sugar 
and a saltspoonful of grated lemon. Stir this about 
five minutes vigorously, then add the almonds and 
mix thoroughly. Drop the mixture on to a waxed 
baking-sheet with a teaspoon, or have small wafers 
I 129 



CAKES 

ready in position on the tin and drop the mixture 
on to the wafers. Bake about twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

314. Almond Biscuits (Another Way) 

Stir well together half a pound of crushed sweet 
almonds, two bitter almondsj half a pound of powdered 
sugar, two ounces of ground rice, half an ounce of 
finely-chopped candied peel, the grated peel of half a 
lemon and the juice of one. Beat the white of five 
eggs to a stiff froth, add it gradually to the cake 
mixture, stir lightly but thoroughly, and bake as 
above. 

315. Loaf Cake 

The necessary ingredients for this popular cake are 
two pounds of fine fiour, half a pound of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound each of currants, 
sultanas, chopped candied peel, and chopped almonds 
— a third of them bitter — five eggs, a little grated 
nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, a generous pinch of 
salt, three ounces of dried yeast, and rather more than 
half a pint of milk. Make a sponge of the yeast and 
the milk, made lukewarm, with a little of the flour. 
Let it rise till about three times the size it was at 
first. Mix it with the remaining flour, the butter, 
and other ingredients, with the exception of the 
raisins, almonds, and candied peel, which are only to 
be added after the dough has been kneaded for some 
minutes and is perfectly smooth. When all is well 
mixed cover the bowl with a cloth, set it in a warm 
place for two hours, then knead it lightly on a floured 
board and shape into a long, thick cake with rounded 

130 



CAKES 

ends. Make a few light incisions in the top and 
let the cake stand again for a quarter of an hour. 
Spread it with oiled butter and bake for about an 
hour in a moderately heated oven. As soon as it is 
removed from the oven, brush the cake again with 
oiled butter and cover thickly with powdered sugar. 

316. Christmas-Tree Biscuits 

Kub half a pound of butter into one pound of sifted 
flour and one pound of sugar, then add three well- 
beaten eggs and a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon 
and the same of grated lemon peel. Set the mixture 
in a cool place overnight. Sprinkle half a teaspoon- 
ful of carbonate of ammonia over it and knead the 
paste lightly, roll it out to the thickness of a penny- 
piece and cut into any fancy and grotesque shapes. 
A good way to do this is to cut out small pictures of 
people or animals; lay them on the paste and cut 
round them with a pointed knife. Imagination will 
suggest many ways of ornamenting the biscuits to 
amuse the little folks. Bake the biscuits on a waxed 
baking-sheet in a hot oven till a deep yellow. When 
cold, a needle threaded with white silk may be care- 
fully run through them and they can be hung on the 
children's Christmas-tree. 

317. Bdle Honey Cake 

One pound each of honey, powdered sugar, blanched 
and chopped almonds, and sifted flour, two ounces of 
minced candied peel, the grated peel of a lemon, a 
very little powdered cloves, half a small nutmeg, grated 
a pinch of salt, and half a wineglassf ul of rum. Melt 

131 



CAKES 

the honey in a bowl over hot water, add the sugar 
and almonds and mix thoroughly. Stir in the other 
ingredients and work all to a smooth paste. Cover 
the bowl with a cloth and let the paste remain in a 
cool place untouched for a week. Roll out to the 
thickness of half an inch, lay the paste on a buttered 
baking-sheet and bake about forty minutes in a hot 
oven. Cut while warm into pieces four inches long 
and two broad. 

318. Honey Cake (Another Way) 

Bring one pound of honey and a quarter of a pound 
of butter to the boil, remove from fire and stir in a 
pound of sifted flour, five ounces of sweet almonds, 
finely chopped, the grated peel of a lemon, the eighth 
of an ounce of powdered cloves, the same of cardamom, 
and a pinch of salt. When slightly cooled add one 
ounce of potash, dissolved in a little water, to the 
paste and mix it thoroughly. Let the paste stand 
covered with a cloth until next day, then roll out half 
an inch thick and cut into small squares. Put on 
each corner half a blanched almond and in the middle 
a slice of candied peel. Bake about twenty minutes, 
or till a pale brown, in a well-heated oven. As soon 
as the cakes are dry in the middle they are done. 

319. Honey Cake (Another Way) 

One pound of flour, half a pound of good white 
honey, half a pound of sugar, two ounces of almonds 
that have been baked in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes and then roughly chopped, two ounces of 
chopped candied peel, a very little grated orange peel 

132 



CAKES 

and powdered cloves, the eighth of an ounce of 
cardamom, and one ounce of potash dissolved in a 
little rosewater. Mix the cake and bake as above. 

320. Brown Cake 

Two and a quarter pounds of sifted flour, one pound 
of golden syrup, two ounces of well-washed butter, 
two ounces of roughly-chopped sweet almonds, the 
grated peel of half a lemon, a quarter of an ounce 
each of powdered cinnamon and cloves, the sixteenth 
part of an ounce of cardamom, and one ounce of potash 
dissolved in a little milk. Let the syrup become thin 
over the fixe, then add the butter, almonds, and spice. 
When the mixture has cooled a little stir in the flour 
and the potash. Cover the bowl and let it remain in 
a warm room for at least a week, then roll out and 
bake as above. This cake keeps good for several 
montlis and is always made in large quantities. 

321. Brown Cake (Another Way) 

Bring to the boil a quarter of a pound each of 
butter, good lard, and moist sugar, with a little more 
than a quarter of a pound of treacle. Let it cool, 
then mix it with two and a quarter pounds of sifted 
flour, two ounces of grated sweet almonds, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed spice, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of potash and the 
same of carbonate of ammonia in two tablespoonf uls 
of warm water and mix well with the paste. Cover 
the bowl with a cloth and let it remain in a warm 
room for four days, then roU out a quarter of an inch 
thick and cut into pieces about six inches long and 

133 



CAKES 

three broad. Bake about twenty minutes in a well- 
heated oven. The cakes may be brushed over when 
done with an icing of powdered sugar, white of egg, 
and a little rosewater whisked till stiff. 

322. Brown Cake (Another Way) 

One pound and a half of honey, two pounds of 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of sweet almonds 
and a quarter of bitter almonds, rather less than a 
quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves and the same 
of cinnamon, rather more than a quarter of an ounce 
of washed potash, dissolved in a little water, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, a little vanilla essence, 
and three pounds of sifted flour. Warm the honey 
slowly with the sugar, but do not let it boil, add the 
finely-minced almonds, the spice and the butter, and 
as much flour as permits the paste to be stirred. 
When the paste has cooled a little add the potash, 
then stir in the remainder of the flour and knead the 
paste on a floured board quickly before it becomes 
cold. Roll out thinly and cut into fancy shapes. 
Let the cakes stand till the following day in a cool 
place, then bake to a golden yellow in a moderate 
oven. 

323. Cream Horns 

Mix sugar to the weight of four eggs, and flour to 
the weight of two, with four well-beaten eggs and 
a very little powdered cinnamon. Beat the mixture 
until it foams, then drop it with a dessertspoon on to 
a hot greased baking-sheet, spreading each little heap 
into a round thin cake. Bake in a hot oven until the 
cakes are a light yellow. Roll each as quickly as 

134 



CAKES 

possible into the shape of a horn, and when cold fill 
with whipped cream. 

324. Nut Cakes 

Stir well together the following ingredients: A 
quarter of a pound of skinned and chopped hazel- 
nuts, the same of white sugar, a few drops of vanilla 
essence, and the lightly-beaten white of two eggs. 
When all is well stirred drop the mixture with a 
spoon on to a waxed baking-sheet and bake in a 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. Brush the 
cakes over with icing as in No. 321. 

325. Butter Cake 

Put the yolks of ten eggs into a bowl with one 
pound of powdered sugar, and stir for half an hour 
always in the same direction. Add the juice of a 
lemon and the grated peel of half a lemon, and stir in 
very gradually eight and a half ounces of corn flour. 
When all is well mixed add three-quarters of a pound 
of oiled butter and, finally, the white of the eggs well 
beaten. Bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven 
for about an hour and a half. 

326. Oransre Biscuits 

Half a pound of sifted flour and the same of 
powdered sugar, three eggs, an ounce and a half of 
the grated peel of a Seville orange and the same of 
chopped candied peel. Beat the eggs with the sugar 
for fifteen minutes, add the other ingredients, the 
flour last, stirring vigorously all the time. Then add 
as much carbonate of ammonia as will lie on a three- 

135 



CAKES 

penny-piece and mix well. Form little balls about 
the size of a walnut, and bake them in a moderate 
oven about fifteen minutes. 

327. Spice Biscuits 

Stir the yolks of ten eggs for a quarter of an hour 
with one pound of sifted sugar, add one large nutmeg, 
grated, a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
and one pound of flour. Proceed and bake as above. 

328. Spice Biscuits (Another Way) 

One pound of sifted flour, the same of powdered 
sugar, four large eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, 
one grated nutmeg, a dessertspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, a small teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and 
half an ounce of potash dissolved in a little milk. 
Mix the well-beaten eggs with the sugar, spice, and 
potash, then add the flour and mix thoroughly- 
Knead the paste lightly and form and bake the 
biscuits as above. 

329. Wreaths 

One pound of warmed flour, three ounces of butter, 
two ounces of blanched and pounded sweet almonds 
and four bitter almonds, rather less than a quarter of 
a pint of milk, four yolks and one white of egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of rosewater, the same of sugar, and 
one ounce of yeast mixed in a little lukewarm milk. 
Make the butter and milk warm and add gradually 
all the ingredients, the flour last. Beat the paste 
well with a wooden spoon, roll it out in rather long 
pieces, form them into wreaths and let them lie in a 
warm place till all the paste is used up. Cut them 

136 



CAKES 

lightly across two or three times and fry them in 
boiling fat like doughnuts, beginning with those 
that have stood longest. 

330. Spons:e Biscuits 

Beat half a pound of powdered sugar with the 
yolks of six eggs and the grated peal of half a lemon 
for thirty minutes. Whisk the white of the egg to 
a stiff froth and mix it carefully with seven ounces 
of flour, then add that to the eggs and sugar. Stir 
quickly, drop the mixture with a spoon on to a waxed 
baking-sheet, sprinkle a little sugar over the biscuits, 
and bake till a light brown in a quick oven. 

331. Good Plain Cake 

Dissolve an ounce of yeast in a small teacupful of 
lukewarm milk. Put a quarter of a pound of butter 
in a bowl and melt it over boiling water, add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, two eggs, a pound of 
flour, the yeast and a little more warm milk, and 
a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture with a wooden 
spoon lightly, but vigorously, till it leaves the sides 
of the bowl, which will take about half an hour. 
Butter a cake-tin and strew fine bread or rusk 
crumbs over the butter, fill it half full and set it in 
a warm place to rise. When the tin is full put it in 
a hot oven and bake one hour. 

332. Shortcake Biscuits 

One pound of sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of well- washed butter, four ounces of sugar, the yolks 
of two eggs, a saltspoonful of grated lemon peel, and a 

137 



CAKES 

pinch of salt. Rub the butter into the flour, stir all 
well together and knead the paste for a few minutes. 
Roll out a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut into 
small biscuits, brush each with oiled butter and 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon on each. 
Bake in a hot oven till a light brown. 

d33. Rich Nut Cake 

Stir four and a half ounces of sugar with eight 
eggs for half an hour, then add the same quantity of 
grated almonds and walnuts. Continue stirring for 
another half-hour or even more, then put the mixture 
into a buttered tin with a little flour dredged over 
the butter. Bake in a slow oven for an hour. When 
cold cover the cake with an icing made as follows : 
Stir four ounces of powdered sugar with the grated 
peel of a lemon and add the white of two eggs beaten 
to a stifl" froth. Warm it a little before spreading on 
the cake, and put the cake into the oven for a minute 
to dry the icing. 

334. Jam Layer Cake 

Layer cakes are general on festive occasions in many 
countries, and there are infinite varieties of them. A 
tin hoop is a necessary adjunct to the making of 
these cakes ; it should be an inch high and about as 
large as a dinner-plate. It is laid on the baking- 
sheet, and a round piece of buttered paper, a little 
larger than the hoop, must line it. The cake mixture 
is then poured to the desired thickness into the hoop 
and baked. If the oven is large enough to admit 
two or three hoops, so much the better; it will be 

138 



CAKES 

a saving of time. For a jam layer cake make a light 
mixture of half a pound of sifted sugar well beaten 
with the yolks of ten eggs, then add slowly the 
grated peel of half a lemon. Stir for fifteen minutes, 
and mix in very gradually the white of the eggs 
stiffly whisked and one pound of fine flour. Bake 
three layers of the mixture in a well-heated oven for 
about fifteen minutes. They must be a pale yellow, 
not brown. Take out very carefully, and when cool 
cover two layers with any good jam that admits of 
being smoothly spread. Put on the top layer and 
spread with an icing of powdered sugar that has been 
stirred for twenty minutes with rosewater and lemon 
juice to taste. Ornament the cake when the icing 
has set with some prettily-coloured candied fruits. 
These cakes are cut into small wedge-shaped slices 
and invariably served with whipped cream. 

335. Lovers' Layer Cake 

Cream three-quarters of a pound of butter and stir 
in a quarter of a pound of white sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a pound of sifted flour. When you 
have a stiflF paste roll out and cut into three layers. 
Bake them about fifteen minutes and let them cool. 
This cake can be made without a hoop if carefully 
placed on the baking-sheet. Put a layer on a 
perfectly flat round dish, or it will break. Spread 
red-currant jelly thickly over it and cover it with 
a second layer of paste. Spread this with a vanilla 
cream made as follows: Stir two tablespoonfuls of 
corn flour in a little cold milk and boil it for a minute 
or two with half a pint of milk and a dessertspoonful 

139 



CAKES 

of sugar. Draw from the fire and add the vanilla 
essence and the yolks of three eggs. It must be 
allowed to become cold before using. Put on the 
top layer of paste and ice as in the preceding recipe, 
or merely strew plenty of powdered sugar over it. 



336. Apple Layer Cake 

Make the paste for the layers and bake as above. 
The filling is the same as for apple puifs (No. 284). 
When cold, cover the cake with an icing as in the 
preceding recipe. 



337. Almond Layer Cake 

Make the layers according to the directions in No. 
334, and fill them with the mixture for almond 
biscuits (No. 312). Strew powdered sugar thickly 
over the top layer. 



338. Chocolate Layer Cake 

The paste for this cake is the same as in No. 834, 
and the filling is the chocolate cream (No. 271). 
When the cake is cool make an icing by melting four 
ounces of white sugar and two of grated chocolate in 
three tablespoonfuls of water over the fire. Let it 
boil gently about ten minutes, take it from the fire 
and stir a few minutes longer. With a broad knife 
spread the icing smoothly over the top and sides of 
the cake and put the cake for a few seconds in the 
oven to dry. 

140 



CAKES 

339. Orange Layer Cake 

Make the layers of' the paste for shortcake biscuits 
(No. 332). The filling is made with corn flour and 
milk sweetened and boiled to a smooth paste with 
a very little grated orange peel. When removed 
from the fire add the juice of an orange, a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, and the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten. Ornament the cake with a white icing and 
a few orange sections that have been dipped in 
boiling sugar. 

340. Brown Biscuits 

Four ounces of butter, the same of sugar, fiv« 
ounces of flour, half a small teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and a few drops of vanilla essence. Brown 
the butter in a saucepan over a quick fire. Take it 
off' and stir with a wooden spoon until cool, then add 
the other ingredients slowly. With floured hands 
form little balls, and bake them on a greased tin in a 
moderate oven to a rich yellow. 

341. Bee -Bread 

Put one pound of sifted flour and one ounce of 
baking powder into a bowl ; mix it well, and rub into 
it three ounces of butter ; add rather less than three 
ounces of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and 
about a quarter of a pint of milk, forming a firm 
paste. Let it stand for an hour, then roll out to 
about half an inch thick, and cover a greased baking- 
tin with the paste. Make five ounces of butter hot 
in a saucepan ; stir into it the same quantity of moist 

141 



CAKES 

sugar and three and a half ounces of blanched and 
grated almonds. With this mixture, while it is still 
warm, spread the paste smoothly and bake about 
thirty minutes in a well-heated oven. 

342. Cheesecakes 

Beat half a pound of milk cheese to a very smooth 
paste with a wooden spoon. Mix with it gradually 
three well-beaten eggs and four tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar. Then mince half a dozen blanched 
almonds, a small piece of candied peel, and two ounces 
of sultanas, and stir them into the mixture. Grate 
the peel of a small lemon and add it, with the juice, 
last of all, and mix well together. Line some patty- 
pans with a good short crust, fill them with the cheese, 
and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 



142 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

343. Cranberry Compote 

It is the custom in many countries to serve a compote 
or a green salad, or not unfrequently both, with the 
meat course. Cranberry compote is a great favourite, 
and made in the following manner will keep for 
months. Six pounds of loaf sugar are needed for ten 
of cranberries. Wash the berries well, discarding all 
that are doubtful or unripe. Put the sugar into a 
preserving pan with just sufficient water to cover the 
bottom. When it is melted put in the cranberries, 
stir them gently with a wooden spoon, and let them 
boil up well a few times ; then turn them into a deep 
bowl and continue stirring until they are nearly cold. 
Put the compote into large jars and tie them down in 
the usual manner. 

344. Apple Puree 

Peel some large cooking apples, cut them into thin 

slices, cover them with water, and simmer till tender. 

Pour the water oflF and put the apples through a fine 

sieve, then mix with crushed white sugar to taste. 

The pur^e, like all compotes, must be eaten cold. It 

may be garnished with cherries or other preserved 

fruits. 

345. Apricot Compote 

Cut the apricots into halves, peel and stone ihem. 

Cover the bottom of an enamelled saucepan with 

143 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

water and put about four ounces of sugar to the 
water. Let it boil for five minutes, then put in the 
apricots and let it boil up again. Remove any scum, 
and turn the fruit and syrup into a bowl till cold. 
Take out the apricots carefully, put them in a glass 
dish, and pour the syrup over them. 



346. Bilberry Compote 

Put the well-washed and drained berries into a 
preserving pan with two tablespoonfuls of water, 
cinnamon, and sugar to taste. When it boils, pour 
the juice through a sieve, boil it separately for a few 
minutes, and pour it over the berries. 

347. Cherry Compote 

Stone some large juicy cherries or, if preferred, 
leave them whole. Boil a little water with sufficient 
sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, and a thin strip of 
lemon peel, and then put in the cherries. Let them 
simmer a few minutes, take them out with a strainer, 
and boil the juice down to half the quantity, then 
pour it over the cherries and set the dish in a cold 
place. 

348. Raspberry Compote 

Put some freshly picked raspberries into a dish; 
if possible, leave them unwashed. Boil water and 
sugar as for apricot compote, and pour it lukewarm 
over the berries. Let them stand till next day, then 
boil the juice up again, and when cooled pour it over 
the fruit. 

144 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

349. Strawberries and Cream 

Pick some ripe strawberries, and if necessary to 
wash them, do so in ice-cold water very quickly. 
Drain and put them in a glass dish and cover them 
with powdered sugar. Leave them for an hour in a 
very cold place. Serve a dish of whipped cream with 
the strawberries, separately. 

350. Rum Fruit 

Put a pound of crushed lump sugar and half a pint 
of good rum into a deep stone jar, then add one to 
two pounds of fresh, carefully -picked and perfectly- 
ripe fruit. Begin in the early summer with stoned, 
juicy cherries, strawberries, raspberries, and currants. 
Continue to add — a pound at a time — ^peaches, green- 
gages, apricots (all stoned), blackberries, and, in fact, 
any kind of fruit properly prepared. As soon as 
new fruits are added put in half the quantity of rum 
and nearly half as much sugar as fruit. Stir the 
contents of the jar well every day, once or twice 
daily at first, and keep the jar tightly covered. This 
will keep good till winter. 

351. Four-Fruit Jam 

One pound each of stoned black-heart cherries, 
strawberries, raspberries, and bilberries, three and a 
half pounds of white sugar. Put the sugar into the 
preserving pan with just sufficient water to keep it 
from burning. When melted and clear add the 
cherries, and let them boil gently fifteen minutes, 
after which put in the other fruits. Boil very gently 
for an hour. This is a delicious jam. 
K 145 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

352. Three- Fruit Jam 

Two pounds of stoned juicy cherries, one pound 
each of raspberries and red currants, three pounds of 
sugar. Make the jam as above. 

353* Raspberry Juice 

Warm several pounds of ripe raspberries in a pre- 
serving pan, stir them well, and press the juice 
through a cloth. Weigh the juice, and to each pound 
allow the same quantity of sugar, and boil gently till 
reduced to half the quantity, removing any scum 
that may rise. Have ready some small wine bottles, 
perfectly clean and dry, and slightly warmed. Fill 
them with the juice, and when it is cold cork the 
bottles, using new corks, and seal them. Keep the 
bottles in a cool place. This juice is often used as a 
sauce to blanc-mange ; it is also a favourite drink in 
summer mixed with iced soda-water. 

354. Ctierry Juice 

To two pounds of Morello cherry juice one pound 
of sugar. The cherries should be crushed in a 
marble mortar with the stones, and the juice pressed 
through a cloth. Boil the sugar as for apricot 
compote, and when clear add the juice, boiling gently 
for fifteen minutes. Bottle as above. 

355- Apple Juice 

Wash twelve and a half pounds of ripe, juicy apples, 
cut them in slices with the peel, and put in the pre- 

146 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

serving-pan with a pint of water. Boil them till 
quite soft, then strain them through a cloth. Con- 
tinue to simmer the juice, and when it becomes thick 
stir constantly with a wooden spoon. When it has 
the consistency of jelly it is done. 



356. Pickled Cucumber 

Lay ten fresh cucumbers in a stone jar and mix 
a small handful of fresh dill with them. Pour over 
them two quarts of ice-cold water, in which two and 
a half ounces of salt have been dissolved. Cover the 
cucumbers with a wooden lid and put a weight on 
the lid. Keep them in a warm kitchen and take off 
the scum occasionally. They will be fit for use in a 
week. 

357. Pickled Cucumbers (Another Way) 

Choose fifteen nice, fi-eshly-pickled cucumbers, 
wash them and cover them with salt for forty-eight 
hours. Drain and wipe them dry and put them side 
by side in a wide stone pan as closely as they will 
lie. Strew over them the following ingredients: 
Half a pound of shallots, one ounce of mustard seed, 
half an ounce of garlic, a tablespoonful each of basil, 
dill, and estragon, a capsicum or two, and a saltspoon- 
ful of Cayenne pepper. Boil sufficient white wine 
vinegar to cover the cucumbers, and pour it on to 
them boiling. Put a lid on the pan, and in a fortnight 
boil up the vinegar again, but pour it on the 
cucumbers when cold. Cover the jar again closely, 
and the cucumbers will be ready in six weeks. 

147 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

358. Sauerkraut 

Take twelve very fresh, firm, white summer 
cabbages of medium size. Remove the coarse leaves 
and stalk and shred as finely as possible. In 
Germany this is done with a machine. Put it into a 
large bowl and mix it thoroughly with three-quarters 
of a pound of salt. The cabbage is usually put into 
a new oaken cask or a white wine cask, but if made 
in small quantities it is best to use a stone jar. Rub 
the inside of the jar well with strong vinegar, line it 
with the large leaves of the cabbage, and fill it with 
the shredded cabbage, pressing it together as closely 
as possible; it should fill the jar. Sprinkle salt 
on the top, cover it with a few cabbage leaves 
and a clean cloth. Put on the lid and weigh it down, 
and leave the jar in a temperately heated room. The 
cabbage will soon begin to work. Every now and 
then poke a thin, very clean stick into it to help the 
process of fermentation. When it has fermented, 
which may be known by the sour smell, put the jar 
in a cool place. Keep it well and tightly covered, 
taking out two or three pounds at a time as needed, 
and always closing the jar again carefully. To cook 
the sauerkraut, wash three pounds thoroughly and 
drain it. Put half a pound of good lard in a sauce- 
pan with a small, finely-minced onion. Melt the lard 
slowly and put in the sauerkraut, which has been 
separated well with two forks. Stir it thoroughly, then 
add a small bottle of white wine or champagne and a 
saltspoonful of sugar. Put the lid on the saucepan 
and simmer till the cabbage is tender, which will take 

148 



COMPOTES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

two to three hours ; then thicken with a little corn 
flour mixed in cold water. Should the sauerkraut 
dry up in course of cooking more wine must be added. 
Sauerkraut is generally served with roast pheasant. 
A pretty way to serve it is in a hollow pineapple. 



149 



CUPS, PUNCH, AND CONFECTIONERY 

359. May Cup 

In many households the preparation of cups is con- 
sidered a fine art. Much time and pains are ex- 
pended by the master of the house in making them 
for his guests, it being a task that usually de- 
volves upon him and one upon which he prides him- 
self. Put into a glass bowl two and a half ounces of 
lump sugar, a large bottle of good Mosel wine, and a 
little bunch of young woodruff (gathered in April or 
May), freshly picked and washed in very cold water. 
Cover the bowl, and after about twenty minutes taste 
the wine. The flavour imparted by the young wood- 
ruff is very delicate and aromatic, but it must not 
become too strong. Half an hour is long enough to 
leave it in the bowl. Add a bottle of soda-water and, 
if desired very good, put to the cup a small bottle of 
champagne. It is needless to say that the cup must 
be set on ice until needed. Every kind of " Bowie " 
should be made two or three hours before being 
served ; champagne or soda-water, however, must be 
added at the last moment. Only good wine should 
be used for these cups. 

360. Strawberry Cup 

Put into the bowl one pound of wild strawberries 
and stir them with three-quarters of a pound of fine 
white sugar and a small cupful of water. Cover the 

150 



CUPS, PUNCH, AND CONFECTIONERY 

bowl closely and leave it for seven hours, then pour 
in six or seven bottles of good Mosel or Rhine wine, 
stir again, and set on ice for an hour. 

361. Pineapple Cup 

Cut a large pineapple into very thin slices; put 
them into a bowl with half a pound of crushed lump 
sugar — the fruit and sugar in layers. Pour over the 
fruit a glass of Madeira, and leave it, covered closely, 
for twenty-four hours. Add ten bottles of good 
Mosel, one of Burgundy, and more sugar if desired. 
This cup can be made very well with tinned pine- 
apple, the juice being used as well. 

362. Peach Cup 

Skin, stone, and cut in thin slices two pounds of 
fine juicy peaches, and proceed as above. The 
Burgundy may be omitted if preferred. 

363. Egg Punch 

Beat the yolks of four perfectly fresh eggs with 
two and a quarter ounces of powdered sugar and 
three-quarters of a pint of water in a saucepan to a 
froth. Then add a quarter of a pint of Jamaica rum, 
the same quantity of water, and a dessertspoonful of 
lemon juice, and whisk to the point of boiling. 

364. Jubilee Punch 

Boil two and a quarter pints of water with four 
ounces of lump sugar till it is reduced to half the 
quantity, then mix with it a small bottle of Rhine 



CUPS, PUNCH, AND CONFECTIONERY 

wine, two dessertspoonfuls of the best rum, about an 
ounce of pounded pineapple, and a tablespoonf ul of 
the pineapple juice. This punch may be drunk either 
hot or cold. If preferred cold, it must be placed on 
ice for some hours. 

365. Wine Punch 

Two bottles of Mosel, half that quantity of weak 
tea, one bottle of Burgundy, four tablespoonfuls of 
rum, and four ounces of white sugar. Mix every- 
thing over the fire to boiling point, if desired hot. If 
it is to be drunk cold, the punch must be set on ice 
for several hours. 

366. Teetotaler's Punch 

This is a capital non-alcoholic punch. It may be 
served either hot or cold, but is better iot. Put three 
and a half pints- of hot water into a saucepan ; add 
half a pound of loaf sugar, the thinly-peeled rind of 
one lemon and the juice of two, a small stick of 
cinnamon, and nine cloves. Boil for five minutes, 
remove from fire, and add three cups of strong tea 
and three tablespoonfuls of cherry or raspberry juice. 
Strain through a fine sieve and serve. 

367. Marzipan 

The following is an excellent recipe for this 
delicious sweetmeat: One pound of sweet almonds, 
eleven bitter almonds, one pound of white powdered 
sugar, a little rosewater. Blanch and grate the 
almonds; mix them with the sugar and about a 

152 



CUPS, PUNCH, AND CONFECTIONERY 

tablespoonful of rosewater. Knead until the paste is 
smooth and does not break when twisted. Let it 
stand all night in a cold place. Knead it again next 
day, adding a very little more rosewater, then make 
the marzipan into any fancy shapes that may occur 
to you — knots, hearts, rolls, etc. Make some of it 
into shapes capable of holding some icing. The 
marzipan must now be lightly baked, but only with 
overhead heating. This can be done in the following 
manner : Place two bricks at some distance from each 
other upon the range when there is no fire. Rest a 
baking-sheet or an old iron tray upon the bricks and 
put a pile of small pieces of charcoal on the tray. 
Set these on fire and keep them glowing by means of 
a bellows. Cover another tray with buttered paper, 
fill it with marzipan, and slip it under the coals, 
between the bricks. The marzipan should only be 
slightly browned on the top. Fill any shallow forms 
with an icing made by stirring powdered sugar with 
a little rosewater and lemon juice for fifteen minutes. 
The mixture must be fairly dry to begin with; it 
becomes fluid by stirring. Put it into the marzipan 
shapes after they have become cold. Kept in a 
closely-covered jar in a cold place the marzipan will 
keep good for weeks. 

368. Burnt Almonds 

Dissolve some lump sugar in a very little water 
with some powdered cinnamon, and bring it to the 
boil in a frying-pan. Drop the almonds, which must 
be merely wiped and not skinned, into the boiling 
sugar, and shake them until thickly coated with it. 

153 



CUPS, PUNCH, AND CONFECTIONERY 

Toss them on to a buttered baking-sheet and bake in 
a well-heated oven for two hours. 



369. Chocolate Truffles 

A quarter of a pound of unsalted butter, half a 
pound of sweet grated chocolate, three ounces of 
chocolate crumbs, and a tablespoonful of cocoa. Cream 
the butter, mix it with the grated chocolate and the 
cocoa, and stir it well to a perfectly smooth paste. 
Shape little balls the size of a marble and roll them in 
the chocolate crumbs. Keep them in a cool place. 



Printtd by MORBISON h Qm Lwitid, Edinburgh 



A NEW SERIES OF RECITERS 

96 pages large 4to, double-columns, clear type on good 
paper, handsome cover design in three colours, 6d. net. 
Also in cloth, 1/- net. 

THE FIRST FAVOURITE RECITER 

Edited by Alfred H. Miles. Valuable Copyright and 
other Pieces by Robert Louis Stevenson, Sir Edwin 
Arnold, Austin Dobson, Sir W. S. Gilbert, Edmund 
Gosse, Lord Lytton, Coulson Kernahan, Campbell 
Rae-Brown, Tom Gallon, Artemus Ward, and other 
Poets, wits, and Humorists. 

Mr. Miles' successes in the reciter world are without parallel. Since 
he took the field in 1882 with his Al Series, he has been continually 
scoring, reaching the boundary of civilisation with every hit. For 
nearly 30 years he has played a famous game, and his score to date is 
a million odd, not out I The secret is, he captains such wonderful 
elevens, and places them with so much advantage in the field. Who 
could not win with such teams as those named above. ? 

Uniform with the above in Style and Price : 

THE UP-TO-DATE RECITER 

Edited by Alfred H. Miles. Valuable Copyright and 
other Pieces by great Authors, including Hall Caine, 
Sir A. Conan Doyle, Robert Buchanan, William 
Morris, Christina Rossetti, Lord Tennyson, Robert 
Browning, Mark Twain, Bret Harte, Max Adeler, and 
other Poets and Humorists. 

" An ideal gift for your girls and youths for Christmas. It is just as 
admirable a production for grown-ups, and many a pleasant hour in the 
cold evenings can be spent by the fire with ' The Up-to-date Reciter." 
—Star. 

" A very handy collection of recitations has been gathered here by 
Mr. Alfred H. Miles. The Editor has aimed at including poems and 
prose pieces which are not usually to be found in volumes of recitations, 
as well as a few of the old favourites . . . The grave and gay 
occasions are equally well provided for. A sign of the times is here, too, 
shown by the inclusion of such pieces as * Woman and Work ' and 
' Woman,' both from the chivalrous pen of the Editor." — The Bookman. 

" A marvellous production for sixpence, excellent in every respect." 
—Colonial Bookseller. 



BALLADS OF BRAVE WOMEN. Records of the 

Heboid in Thought, Action and Endueance. 
By ALrKED H. Miles and other writers. 
Large crown 8vo, red limp, 1/- net ; cloth, gilt, 1/6 net ; 
paste grain, gilt (boxed), 3/- net ; Persian yapp, gilt top 
(boxed), 4/- net. 

" Ballads of Brave Women " is a collection of Poems suitable for 
recitation at women's meetings and at gatherings and entertainments 
of a more general character. Its aim isto celebrate the bravery of women 
as shown in the pages of history, on the field of war, in the battle of 
life, in the cause of freedom, in the service of humanity, and in the 
face of death. 

The subjects dealt with embrace Loyalty, Patriotisoa, In War, In 
Domestic Life, For Love, Self-Sacrifice, For Liberty, Labour, In 
Danger, For Honour, The Care of the Sick, In Face of Death, etc., by 
a selection of the world's greatest writers, and edited by Alfred H. 
Miles. 

" The attention which everything appertaining to the woman's 
movement is just now receiving has induced Mr. Alfred H. (iles to 
collect and edit these ' Ballads of Brave Women.' He has made an 
excellent choice, and produced a useful record of tributes to woman's 
heroism in thought, action and endurance." — Pall Mall Gazelle. 

MY OWN RECITER 

Alfred H. Miles. Original Poems, Ballads and 
Stories in Verse, Eyrical and Dramatic, for Reading 
and Recitation. Crown Svo, 1/- net. 

DRAWING-ROOM ENTERTAINMENTS 

A book of new and original Monologues, Duologues, 

Dialogues, and Playlets for Home and Platform use. 

By Catherine Evelyn, Clare Shirley, Robert Overton, 

and other writers. Edited by Alfbbd H. Miles. 

In crown Svo, red limp, 1/- net ; cloth gilt, 1/6 net ; 

paste grain, gilt (boxed), 3/- net ; Persian yapp, gilt 

(boxed), 4/- net. 

Extract from Editor's preface, " The want of a collection of short 

pieces for home use, which, while worthy of professional representation 

shall not be too exacting for amateur rendering, and shall be well 

within the limits of drawing-room resources, has often been pressed 

upon the Editor, and the di£Bculty of securing such pieces has alone 

delayed his issue of a collection. 

" Performances may be given in drawing-rooms, school rooms, and 
lecture halls, privately or for charitable purposes unconditionally, 
except that the authorship and source must be acknowledged on any 
printed programmes that may be issued, but permission must be 
previously secured from the Editor, who, in the interests of his con- 
tributors reserves all dramatic rights for their performance in theatres 
and music halls or by professionals for professional purposes." 



THE LAUGHTER LOVER'S VADE-MECUM 

Good stories, epigrams, witty sajdngs, jokes, and 

rhymes. In F'cap 8vo (6i x 3J), cloth bound, round 

corners, 1/6 net ; leather, 2/- net (uniform with Diner'e- 

Out Vade-Mecum). 

Whoever wishes to secure a repertoire of amusing stories and smart 

sayings to be retailed for the delight of his family and friends, cannot 

possibly do better than get "The Laughter Lover's Vade-Mecum " ; 

and those who seek bright relief from worries little and big should take 

advantage of the same advice. 

THE DINER'S-OUT VADE-MECUM 

A Pocket " What's What " on the Manners and Customs 

of Society Functions, etc., etc. By Alfred H. 

Miles. In Fcap. 8vo (6J x 3i), cloth bound, round 

corners, 1/6 net. ; leather, 2/- net. 

This handy book is intended to help the diffident and inexperienced 

to the reasonable enjoyment of the social pleasures of society by an 

elementary introduction to the rules which govern its functions, public 

and private, at Dinners, Breakfasts, Luncheons, Teas, At Homes, 

Receptions, Balls and Suppers, with hints on Etiquette, Deportment, 

Dress, Conduct, After-Dinner Speaking, Entertainment, Story-Telling, 

Toasts and Sentiments, etc., etc. 

A new Edition reset from new type. 

COLE'S FUN DOCTOR 

First series. One of the two funniest books in the 
world. By E. W. Cole ; 576 pp., cr. 8vo, cloth, 2/6. 

The mission of mirth is well understood, " Laugh and Grow Fat " is 
a common proverb, and the healthiness of humour goes without saying. 

This book, therefore, should find a place in every home library. It is 
full of fun from beginning to end. Fun about babies ; fun about bad 
boys ; fun about love, kissing, courting, proposing, flirting, marrying ; 
fun about clergymen, doctors, teachers, ; fun about lawyers, judges, 
magistrates, jurymen, witnesses, thieves, vagabonds, etc., etc. It is 
doubtful if any man living could read any page without bursting into 
a hearty laugh. 

COLE'S FUN DOCTOR 

Second series. The other of the two funniest books in 
the world. By E. W. CoLB ; 440 pp., crown 8vo, 

cloth, 2/6. 

Dr. Blues had an extensive practice until the Fun Doctor set up 
in opposition, but now Fun Doctors are in requisition everywhere. 

" The Second Series of Cole's Fun Doctor is as good as the first. It 
gparkles thoroughout, with laughs on every page, and will put the 
glomiest curmudgeon into cheery spirits. . . . it is full of fun." — 
Evening Standard, 



A New Series of Books for Boys and Girls 
by ALFRED H. MILES. 

Editor of the famous "52 Stories" Series. 

" Alfred H. Miles is always a safe guide where boys' reading is 
concerned. — Daily Chronicle. 

"... the healthy atmosphere which characterises all the 
books of Alfred H. Miles. — Lady's Pictorial. 

In large crown 8vo, handsome cloth gilt, 384 pages, fully illustrated, Bl- 
each volume. 

THE SWEEP OF THE SWORD. 

A Battle Book for Boys. Dedicated by special permission to 
Field-Marshall Earl Roberts, V.C. With a photogravure frontis- 
piece, full-page illustrations of world-famous battle pictures, 
printed on art paper, and other illustrations in the text. 
Truth : " Truly a stupendous volume, and there is quality as wellas 
quantity to recommend it." 

IN THE LION'S MOUTH : 

Fierce Fights with Wild men. Wild Animals and Wild Nature. 
By Clive Fenn, Theodore Roosevelt, Frank R. Stockton, Ena 
Fitzgerald, F. W. Calkins, Rowland Thomas and other writers. 

WHERE DUTY CALLS OR DANGER : 

Records of Courage and Adventure for Girls. By Evelyn 
Everett-Green, Grace Stebbing, Margaret E. Sangster, Ena 
Fitzgerald, E. W. Tomson, F. W. Calkins and other writers. 

'TWIXT LIFE AND DEATH on Sea and Shore. 
A Book for Boys. 

HEROINES OF THE HOME and the World of Duty. 
A Book for Girls. 

A BOOK OF BRAVE BOYS All the World Over. 

A BOOK OF BRAVE GIRLS At Home and Abroad 

IN THE TEETH OF ADVENTURE Up and Down 
the World. 



THE BOY'S BOOK of Sports, Pastimes, Hobbies and 
Amusements 
By E. Keble Chatteeton. For boys of the ages of ten to seven- 
teen. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 5s. 
' It is something in the nature of a boy's encyclopsedia — in the 
bicghtest sense of the word." — The Observer. 



CONTINENTAL COOKERY for the English 
Table 

By Mrs. Edith H. Siepen. 

Crown %vo, 2/6 net. 

Special attention is given to those dishes which are not familiar, and 
tasty methods are explained for coutdng vegetables, preparing gravies 
and salads, and making delicious cakes. 

THE FLOWING BOWL 

A treatise on drinks of all kinds and of all periods, 
interspersed with sundry anecdotes and reminiscences. 
By Edwakd Spencer (" Nathaniel Gubbins "). 
Fourth edition, crown %vo, cloth gilt, 2/6 net. 

This book, by the brilliant " Nathaniel Gubbins," Trhose name is 
associated with the Sporting Times, has been described as " a vivacious 
chronicle of every drink that was ever drunk on land or sea." It 
gives nearly 400 recipes, interspersed most delightfully with illustrative 
anecdotes and reminiscences. 

CAKES AND ALE 

A dissertation on banquets, the whole interspersed with 
various recipes, more or less original, and anecdotes 
mainly veracious. By Edward Spencer ("Nathaniel 
Gubbins "). 

Fourth edition, crown %vo, cloth gilt, 2/6 net. 

A writer in the Manchester Despatch says that " The Flowing Bowl," 
and its companion volume " Cakes and Ale," are " two of the most 
interesting books on eating and drinking in the language." As " The 
Flowing Bowl " deals with drinking, so does this with eating, giving a 
very lively description varied with numerous recipes. 

THE ALDINE RECITERS 

Edited by Alfred H. Miles. 

In crown Ho, double columns. 128 pp. Price 6d. net each. 

The Aldine Reciters are the cheapest Reciters ever published, as they 
contain more value for money than anything previously attempted, 
and include the cream of the Poetry of the nineteenth century, selected 
with a view to platform and school use. 

The English Recitee. The Scotch Reciter. 

The American Reciter. The Modern Reciter. 

The Victorian Reciter. The Shakespeare Reciteu. 



TWO SHILLING NET NOVELS 

7« crown 8ro, cloth gilt, with illustrated wrapper. 



8 
27 
33 
43 
16 

2 

3 
29 
23 
41 
37 
22 
30 
39 
38 
24 
61 
14 
12 
32 
60 

6 
11 

4 
46 
64 
26 
44 
40 
42 
34 
21 
10 
62 
19 
46 
28 

7 
68 

1 
16 
36 
18 
26 
13 
81 
48 



CHEERFUI, CRAFT (2na ediaon) R. Andom 

NEIGHBOURS OF MINE (2nd edition) R. Andom 

IN FEAR OP A THRONE (3rd edition) R. Andom 

THEACTIVITIESOFI,AVIEJUTT(2ndedition)MAROUBRiTBia Armiger Barclay 
THE REDEEMER (2nd edition) Rene'bazin 

LOVE'S OLD SWEET SONG (2nd edition) Clipion Bdjgham 

BETWEEN TWO STOOLS (5th edition) Rhoda Broughton 

THE CONSORT (3rd edition) Mrs. Everard Cotes (Sara Jeanette Duncan) 



YOUNG NICK AND OLD NICK (2nd edition) 

PRETTY BARBARA (2nd edition) 

THE PRICE OF FRIENDSHIP (2nd edition) . 

GALBRAITH OF WYNYATES (2nd edition) 

CLIVE LORIMER'S MARRIAGE (2nd edition) 

DUCKWORTH'S DIAMONDS (2nd edition) 

THE SHE- WOLF (2nd edition) 

THE UNWORTHY PACT (2nd edition) 

IMPERTINENT REFLECTIONS (5th edition) 

THE BRIDE OF LOVE (2nd edition) 

THE WHITE OWL (2nd ediUon) 

THE LOVELOCKS OF DIANA (2nd edition) 

THE CHEERFUL KNAVE (4th edition) 

THE CELEBRITY'S DAUGHTER (3rd edition) 

THE DOLL (4th edition) 

THE IRRESISTIBLE MRS. FERRERS (6th edition) 

THE WOMAN HUNTER (4th edition) 

THE SECOND WOMAN (3rd edition) 

THE FOUR FACES (8th edition) 

LYING LIPS (2nd edition) 

RALPH RAYMOND (2nd edition) 

THE HONOUR OF THE CLINTONS (4th edition) 

LOVE'S CROSS ROADS (2nd edition) 

LOVE BESIEGED (3rd edition) 

THE BUNGALOW UNDER THE LAKE (2nd edition) 

THE THREE ANARCHISTS (6th edition) 

A GREY LIFE (7th edition) 

COUNTESS DAPHNE (revised edition) 

THE STROLI<ING SAINT (5th edition) 

THE LION'S SKIN (2nd edition) 

THE JUSTICE OF THE DUKE (2nd edition) 

THE CURSE OF THE NILE (6th edition) 

THE UNHOLY ESTATE (5th ediUon) 

THE FREE MARRIAGE (2nd ediUon) 

BRIGHT SHAME (2nd edition) 

THE ARTISTIC TEMPERAMENT (2nd edition) 

THE RIDING MASTER (6th edition) 

THE CAREER OF BEAUTY DARLING (8Ui edition) 

TROPICAL TALES (70i edition) 

BRAVE BRIGANDS (2nd edition) 



S. R. Crockett 

Anthony Dyixinoton 

E. Everett-Green 

E. Everett-Green 

E. Everett-Grken 

E. Everett-Green 

Maxime Formont 

Dorothea Gerard 

Cosmo Hamilton 

Kate Horn 

Kate Horn 

Kate Horn 

B. Keble Howard 

Violet Hunt 

Violet Hdnt 

Arabella Kenealy 

Arabella Kenealy 

Norma Lorimer 

William Le Quedx 

WnxiAM Le Queux 

Ernest Mansfield 

Archibald Marshall 

L. T. Meade 

Charles B. Pearcb 

Charles B. Pearcb 

Madd Stepney Rawson 

" Rita" 

" RITA " 

Rafael Sabatini 

Rafael Sabatini 

Rafael Sabatini 

Douglas Sladeh 

Douglas Sladen 

Keiohley Snowden 

Kbigbley Snowden 

JANB Wardle 

DOLF Wyllardb 

Dolf Wyllardb 

Dole Wyllardb 

May Wynne 



