Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



r 




^4l5[% «i^ 



v.e 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 




«5 



»» 



\ Gift of 

I Mrs. Wilbur D, Raymond 



. \ 



\ 



***"* 



'i 






J 



BAKING POWDER 



A Healthful 

Convenient, Leavening 

Agent 



By 
THOMAS G. ATKmSON,B. Sc. (Lond.), M.D., L. R. G. P. (Lond.) 

Professor of Physiology, Jenner Medical College, Chicago, Illinois; 

Formerly Professor of Physiology and Physiological Chemistry, 

Chicago College of Medicine and Surgery, and in the 

American Medical College, St. Louis, Missouri. Sta£f 

Editor American Journal of Clinical Medicine. 



THE COMMONWEALTH PRESS 
Publishers of School Books 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 






Copyright 1915 
Thomas G. Atkinson, B. Sc, M. D. 



) . 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Pages 

Chapter I. Introduction 1-2 

Leavening Agents. Disadvantages of Yeast. Advantages of 
Baking Powders. Sources of Carbon Dioxid. 

Chapter II. The Ingredients of Baking Powder 3-13 

Sodav Ammonium Carbonate. Magnesium Carbonate. Other 
Substances Necessary. The Acid Substance. Tartaric Acid 
and Cream of Tartar. Acid Phosphate. "Alum." Starch. 
White of Eggs. 

Chapter III. Choice of an "Acid" Ingredient. .14-26 

Apparent Difference in Baking Powders. Chemical Action. 
Amount of Gas Set Free. The Amount of the Residues. The 
Healthfulness of the Residues. Keeping Qualities. Speed of 
Action. Properly Balanced Action. 

Chapter IV. The Manufacture and Use of Bak- 
ing Powder 27-33 

Manufacturing Appliances. The Use of Baking Powder. How 
to Measure. Care of Baking Powder. Self-Rising Flour. 

Chapter V. The Determination of Available 

Carbon Dioxid 35-39 

Harrison's Method. Absorption Method. 

Chapter VI. Conclusion 40-41 

Cost of Baking Powder. Baking Powder a Necessity. 

Questions 42-45 

Answers 46-51 

Appendix 52-58 

Photographic reproduction of Bulletin No. 103, United States 
Department of Agriculture, Contribution from the Referee 
Board of Consulting Scientific Experts. Ira Remsen, Chairman. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page i 

CHAPTER I 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

THE common leavening agents in use in the home 
are yeast and baking powder. Yeast is a 
microscopic plant which, in the leavening process, 
produces changes which finally result in the breaking 
up of sugars into alcohol and carbon dioxid gas- 
Baking Powder is a mixture of several substances 
which produce this same gas by chemical action. This 
gas, by forming in small bubbles throughout the dough 
mass, lightens or leavens it. Carbon dioxid gas is 
sometimes* called carbonic acid gas. This is the gas 
which is present in all carbonated waters, whether 
natural, or artificial as in soda fountain waters. 

DISADVANTAGES OF YEAST 

IN the case of yeast, the fermentation which produces 
the gas is never of a single kind, as many different 
fermentations are going on at the same time. It is 
impossible, commercially, to control these different 
fermentations so that they will always exist in the 
same proportions; hence, we find that the flavors from 
different bakings vary greatly and are sometimes ob- 
jectionable. Moreover, several hours must be allowed 
for the process of fermentation before the food can be 
placed in the oven. Fermentation does not take place 
readily in the presence of large quantities of butter, 
lard or eggs. 



Page 2 Domestic Science Text Book 

ADVANTAGES OF BAKING POWDER 

WITH a properly compoundecf baking powder, 
on the other hand, the chemical reaction will 
always be the same, and any influence which it may 
exert upon the flavors of the finished food will always 
be the same. Baking powder has, moreover, these two 
further advantages over yeast: The gas is given off at 
once upon the addition of water or in the oven during the 
heating; there is no waiting. And the presence of but- 
ter, lard or eggs does not hinder the chemical action. 
The leavening, from whichever source, is always 
the result of the same gas, carbon dioxid, and in the 
study of baking powder we are interested in learning 
how this gas is produced by chemical action. 



SOURCES OF CARBON DIOXID 

CARBON dioxid is found in nature combined 
chemically with many metals, and these com- 
binations are known as salts of carbonic acid, or 
more commonly as carbonates. Those with which one 
is most familiar are chalk, marble and limestone, 
all of which are different forms of calcium carbonate. 
If any of these are heated to a very high tempera- 
ture, carbon dioxid gas is set free and lime remains; 
but this very high temperature is never reached in 
baking. Baking soda is another carbonate with which 
all are familiar. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 3 

CHAPTER II 

THE INGREDIENTS OF BAKING POWDER 

SODA 

OODA is the carbonate which is used at home for 
^ cooking purposes; it is also commonly known as 

saleratus, or baking soda. This is the carbonate used 
almost exclusively in the manufacture of baking pow- 
der and always named on the label as soda. It is some- 
times referred to as the alkali of the baking powder. 
It is a white crystalline substance of very high purity, 
being as free from impurities as the granulated sugar 
used at the table. It is manufactured from common 
salt through the action of acid ammonium carbonate. 

The reaction is represented by the following equa- 
tion : 

NaCl + NH^ HCOs = NaH CO3 + NH^ CI 
Salt Acid Ammonium Soda Ammonium 

Carbonate Chloride 

Soda, when heated, readily gives off carbon dioxid 
gas, and hence may be, and often is, used in cooking 
without the addition of any other substance for the 
purpose of leavening. The heat, however, does not 
drive off all of the gas. The reaction which takes 
place is represented by the following formula: 



2NaH COs 


Na^ CO3 + 


H2O + CO2 


Soda 


Normal Sodium 


Water Carbon 




Carbonate 


Dioxid 



Page 4 Domestic Science Text Book 

The residue of normal sodium carbonate thus left 
in the bread gives it a disagreeable, alkaline taste, and 
also colors the bread an objectionable yellow; hence, 
soda by itself is unsatisfactory for use as a leavening 
agent. 

AMMONIUM CARBONATE 

AMMONIUM carbonate has been sometimes used 
as a leavening agent. This, upon being heated, 
breaks up into two different gases, ammonia gas and 

carbon dioxid gas. Some of the ammonia gas remains 
in the bread when cooked ; therefore, its use in baking 

powder has been almost entirely discontinued. 



MAGNESIUM CARBONATE 

MAGNESIUM carbonate is the only other sub- 
stance at present used for the purpose of fur- 
nishing carbon dioxid gas. The heat of the oven is not 
sufficient in this case to cause all the gas to be set free. 
Magnesium carbonate is a very light powder. One 
pound will occupy as much space as six pounds of 
soda. The purpose of those who use this ingredient in 

the manufacture of baking powder is mainly to add to 
the bulk of the powder and thus make the thoughtless 

purchaser believe she is getting more for her money. 



Domestic Science Text Book p*«« ^ 

OTHER SUBSTANCES NECESSARY 

IT will be seen from what has just been said, that 
none of these carbonates are, of themselves alone, 
satisfactory for baking purposes. Something else is 
necessary. 

If one has ever dropped a little vinegar on some 
soda, he has noticed that a gas was set free. This is 
carbon dioxid gas. Vinegar contains an acid, acetic 
acid, and it is the action of this acid upon the soda that 
sets free the gas. Any soluble acid will have this same 
action on soda, hence, if we unite such an acid with 
the carbonate, soda, we have the necessary substances 
with which to produce carbon dioxid gas. 

THE ACID SUBSTANCE 

FOR the making of baking powder, both acid and 
carbonate, however, must be dry substances, and 
not liquid, as acetic acid or vinegar is. The acid should 
also dissolve in water. There are many such dry acids, 
most of them organic substances. Citric acid, the prin- 
cipal acid contained in lemons, is one of these. Tar- 
taric acid is another. 

Beside the true acids, there are some salts which 
have an acid nature and which are called acid salts. 
Of these, calciimi acid phosphate, commonly called acid 
phosphate, is one, and potassium acid tartrate, com- 



Page 6 Domestic Science Text Book 

monly known as cream of tartar, is another. There 
are some salts which are not acid salts (inasmuch as 
all of the hydrogen atoms of the acid have been re- 
placed by a metal) which nevertheless act as very weak 
adds. The most common of these is sodium aluminum 
sulphate, sometimes called "Alum." 

Any of these three kinds of substances, the acid, the 
acid salt, or the salt with acid properties, acts upon soda 
and sets free carbon dioxid gas. The action takes place 
almost as quickly as the "acid" or salt dissolves. These 
substances just mentioned, acid phosphate, "alum," 
tartaric acid and cream of tartar, together with the 
soda, are the active principles in baking powder. In 
addition to these there is generally a quantity of starch 
and sometimes dried white of egg. Soda has been 
studied. The other substances must now be considered. 



TARTARIC ACID AND CREAM OF TARTAR 

TARTARIC acid is manufactured from Argol, 
which is the sediment that separates out at the 
bottom of the wine vat during the fermentation. This 
substance is colored by the color from the grapes, and 
is a mixture of tartaric acid, calcium tartrate, cream of 
tartar and all kinds of organic impurities. This mix- 
ture is dissolved in water, precipitated with powdered 
chalk and calcium chloride, filtered and then the pre- 
cipitated calcium tartrate is dissolved in sulphuric acid. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 7 

This solution is again filtered and treated with some 
decolorizing agent, such as bone black or infusorial 
earth, and the subsequent clear, colorless solution evap- 
orated and the tartaric acid allowed to crystallize. 
Cream of tartar is also obtained from the same sedi- 
ment, Argol. It is decolorized by heating with animal 
charcoal, filtered and recrystallized. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

CALCIUM Acid Phosphate is prepared from the 
same source as is much of the "Phosphate," used 
at soda fountains. The bones from healthy cattle are 
heated in large revolving cylinders until they are thor- 
oughly charred. In this condition the mass is black 
and is known as bone black, although in reality it con- 
sists of both calcium phosphate and charcoal. This 
substance is used to decolorize the juices of the cane in 
the manufacture of cane sugar. In the manufacture 
of phosphate it is again heated to a very high tempera- 
ture whereby all charcoal is burned off and only the 
calcium phospate remains. This is then dissolved in 
dilute sulphuric acid and the calcium acid phosphate 
thereby obtained, purified by filtration. It is then fur- 
ther purified, concentrated, crystallized, and dried to a 
white powder. 

A more recent process is the manufacture of phos- 
phate for food purposes from phosphate rock. This 



Page 8 Domestic Science Text Book 

material was not formerly used on account of the great 
difficulty of excluding from the finished acid phosphate 
the harmful impurities, fluorides, idways found in the 
rock. Bone phosphate is the better on this account 
and is always used by the careful manufacturer of 
high-grade baking powder. 

Cidcium acid phosphate for baking powder is pre- 
pared in two degrees of fineness, powdered and granu- 
lar. The granular* is much more expensive but has 
the great advantage of making a baking powder that 
will keep longer than one made from powdered phos- 
phate. 



"ALUM" 

THE so-caUed "Alum" used in baking powder is 
not the alum which is sold at the drug store by 
that name. The common alum of trade, which is also 
used as medicine, contains potassium, an element that 
is toxic in very small quantities, and water of crystal- 
lization; it is, in fact, potassium alimiinum sulphate, 
combined with water of crystallization, K Al (SO*)* 
12(H20). The so-called "alum" of baking powder 
is a different thing and is more properly named 
sodium aluminum sulphate, being a mixture of sodium 
sulphate and alimiinum sulphate, both of them harm- 



*The acid phosphate as found, in Calumet Baking Powder is 
of the granular type. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 9 

less and non-toxic. It contains neither potassium nor 
water of crystallization. The term alum has been 
used for this article on baking powder labels at the 
request of some food commissioners who felt that this 
word would be better understood by the common 
people as showing in a general way the character 
of the substance. Unfortunately, it has largely had the 
very different effect of misleading the public into 
the erroneous idea that it actually is the alum of com- 
merce and of medicine — a mistake of which certain 
manufacturers have not failed to take advantage in 
decrying baking powders containing alum. 

It is prepared by mixing solutions of the two sul- 
phates, sodium sulphate and alimiinum sulphate, con- 
centrating the mixture and fusing the resulting dried 
mass. This leaves a mixture which for our present 
purposes we may designate by the formula: 

Na Al (804)2 

Sodium Aluminum Sulphate 

There is no potassium in this substance at all, as 
there is in the common alum, and no ammonia as in 
the less common ammonium alum. 



Page 10 Domestic Science Text Book 

STARCH 

WE also find that besides the soda and "acid," 

starch is used in baking powder. This starch 

is corn starch of the highest grade of purity and 
specially prepared for food purposes. 

The starch serves three purposes, two of which play 
an important part in keeping the baking powder from 
spoiling, while the third adds to the efficiency of its 
use. 

First: It separates the soda from the acid or acid 
acting salt and thus by mechanically separating them 
retards such chemical action as could be brought about 
by moisture. The air is never dry. It always contains 
moisture. This is very noticeable on rainy days, but 
it escapes attention in fair weather. Not only is carbon 
dioxid set free when water or milk is poured on the 
baking powder, but even the moisture in the air gradu- 
ally causes the change. Moisture from any source 
thus spoils the powder. 

Second: Starch absorbs water and thus prevents 
moisture from bringing the active ingredients in con- 
tact with each other. In this way it aids materially 
in keeping the powder from spoiling. Starch is, for 
these reasons, a necessary ingredient of baking powders, 
and most especially necessary in the case of straight 
phosphate powders, which, even when starch is present, 
deteriorate very rapidly. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page ii 

Third: Starch idso dilutes the strength of the bak- 
ing powder, so that it may be made to produce the 
amount of gas desired for efficiency and for conven- 
ience in household methods of measurement. 

The laws of a few States require that a baking pow- 
der shall produce at least 10% of its weight of carbon 
dioxid gas. Almost all baking powders are made 
stronger than this. The majority of those upon 
the market yield 12% of gas, while the best produce 
between 14% and 15%. 

WHITE OF EGGS* 

THERE is one ingredient mentioned above, as 
being sometimes used in baking powder, which 
has not yet been discussed. That is Dried White of 
Eggs, sometimes called egg albumen. It is prepared 
by drying the white of fresh hens' eggs at a low tem- 
perature, and then grinding to a fine powder. Fourteen 
pounds of whole eggs will produce about one pound of 
this dry powder. It dissolves easily in cold water and 
the viscuous, egg-white nature of this solution holds the 
bubbles of gas as they are set free from the baking 
powder. White of eggs is used by many manufac- 
turers of baking powder. This increases the efficiency 
of the carbon dioxid gas evolved by a baking powder to 
an extent of 2.5% to 8.2% when used in strong baking 



t 

*Calumet and Crescent Baking Powders are the two most 
t> widely known that contain white of eggs. It is used in about thirty 

different brands of baking powder. 



Page 12 Domestic Science Text Book 

powders. It is extremely beneficial in producing light 
biscuits when the oven temperatures are not properly 
controlled or when the dough has to stand for some 
time before baking. 

The amount of dried white of eggs used in baking 
powders is very small, being 15/100 of 1%. Even in 
this small proportion it has the effect above mentioned. 
It also makes possible a simple test whereby the fresh- 
ness of baking powder may be determined, by the sales- 
man in testing the stock upon the retailers' shelves, by 
the grocer himself, or by the housewife in the home. 
Both the increase in lightness and the possibility of 
the test are due to the viscuous nature of the white of 
eggs, whereby the bubbles of gas are imprisoned as 
soon as they are set free by chemical action. This test 
is described by one manufacturer as follows : 

"First take an ordinary drinking glass holding one 
half pint, or in other words, the quantity that is usually 
known in the household as "one cupful." All that is 
needed is this empty glass, which must be dry, an ordi- 
nary teaspoon and a little water of the ordinary room 
temperature (not ice water nor hot water.) Place 2 
level teaspoonsful of the powder in the dry glass, to 
which add the same quantity ( 2 teaspoonsful ) of water, 
quickly; stir rapidly for a moment (while counting 
five), just long enough to thoroughly moisten the pow- 
der; remove the spoon and watch the mixture rise. 
Note the action of the powder, (it) rises slowly and 



Domestic Science Text Book Pag© is 

evenly, requiring 2 minutes to show the full strength. 
If the powder is of full strength, and you have pro- 
ceeded properly, the gas released will form bubbles suf- 
ficient to half fill the glass. 

"Caution: — ^Don't attempt to make the mixture rise by continued 
stirring, as whipping or beating the mixture breaks the gas bubbles 
that are formed and allows the gas to escape. Allow the powder 
to rise of its own strength." 

Manufacturers make the following use of this test. 
Whenever complaints are made to the grocer or when 
goods appear to have been stored in damp places, or 
too near the stove, the salesman tests the baking pow- 
der as above described and if it is foimd to have de- 
teriorated, it is at once exchanged for fresh goods with- 
out cost to the retailer.* Without this simple test it 
would be necessary to send the goods complained of to 
the factory for chemical analysis. As a result of such 
tests by the salesmen, deteriorated goods may be en- 
tirely removed from the market so that the consumer 
will never receive a baking powder which does not do 
its work perfectly. Of course^ the above test cannot 
he made unless the white of eggs is present. 



*The Calumet Baking Powder Company, more than any other 
company, uses this method in testing its goods on the grocer's shelf to 
keep its powder in perfect condition. 



Page 14 Domestic Science Text Book 

CHAPTER III 

CHOICE OF AN "ACID" INGREDIENT 

IT has been seen that there are several different sub- 
stances available to set the carbon dioxid gas free 
from the soda, but the question arises, "How shall one 
decide which is best for that purpose?" 

APPARENT DIFFERENCE IN BAKING 

POWDERS 

THE principal difference between different baking 
powders is in the "acid" used, some containing 
one, some another p,nd some a combination of two of 
these "acids." This difference is apparent to anyone 
reading the labels. All the ingredients are named there. 

The first things to consider are: 

( 1 ) Which is the most healthful ? 

(2) Which will set free the most gas? 

(8) Which will make a powder that will keep best? 

(4) And, which gives off its gas at a speed best 
adapted for cooking purposes ? 

The study of the first two of these questions involves 
a knowledge of chemical action that takes place be- 
tween each of the "Acids" and the soda. From the 
chemical equation we can determine just how much of 



Domestic Science Text Book Page is 

the "acid" ingredient is necessary to set free all the 
gas from the soda and also just how much gas is set 
free, and just how much soluble residue is left from the 
reaction. 



CHEMICAL ACTION 

THE following equations show the formulae of the 
"acids" and soda, and of the substances produced 
by the chemical reaction. Underneath each formula is 
the name of the substance. Underneath each name is 
the number of parts by weight that react or result from 
the chemical reaction. Underneath these is given the 
per cent of soluble residue and the per cent of carbon 
dioxid gas produced. 



HgC^H^Oe + 2NaHC08 = Na^C^H.Oe + ^CO^ + SHjO 



Tartaric Soda 


Sodium 


Carbon Water 


Acid 


Tartrate 


Dioxid 


150 168 


194 


88 S6 




61% 


27.7% 


KHC^H^Oe + NaHCOg — 


: KNa C^H^Oe 


+ CO, + H,0 


Cream of Soda 


Rochelle Salts 


Carbon Water 


Tartar 




Dioxid 


188 84 


210 


44 18 




77.2% 


16.2% 



Page 16 Domestic Science Text Book 

3CaH4(P04)2 + 8NaHC03 = CaaCPOJ^ + 4Na2HPO^ -| 8CO2 
Calcium Acid Soda Calcium DiSodium Carbon 

Phosphate Phosphate Phosphate Dioxid 

702 672 310 568 352 

41.3% 25.6% 

+ 8H2O (Water), 144. 



2NaAl(SOj2 + 6NaHC03 = 2A1(0H)8 + 4Na2S04 + 6CO2 
"Alum" Soda Aluminum Sodium Carbon 

Hydrate Sulphate Dioxid 

484 504 156 568 264 

57.5% 26.7% 

The amount of "acid" and soda given in each case 
show the proportions by weight in which they should 
be mixed to make the best baking powder. If more 
"acid" is used just that much "acid" would be left in 
the food unchanged. If more soda were used, just 
that amoimt would be unacted on by the "acid" and 
would leave the food alkaline and yellow. 

Put in words, the above equations represent the 
chemical action as follows: 

One hundred and fifty parts by weight of tartaric 
acid act upon 168 parts by weight of soda. Both com- 
pounds are completely changed and there is formed 
194 parts of sodium tartrate, 88 parts of carbon dioxid 
gas and 86 parts of water. The weight of the sodium 
tartrate is 61% of the sum of the weights of tartaric 
acid and soda, and the carbon dioxid is 27.7%. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page n 

One hundred and eighty-eight parts of cream of tar- 
tar act upon 84 parts of soda. Both compounds are 
completely changed and there is formed 210 parts of 
Rochelle Salts, 44 parts of carbon dioxid gas and 18 
parts of water. The weight of the Rochelle Salts 
formed is 77.2% of the sum of the weights of cream of 
tartar and soda, and the weight of the carbon dioxid 
gas is 16.2%. 

Seven hundred and two parts by weight of acid phos- 
phate act upon 672 parts of soda. Both compounds 
are 'completely changed and there is formed 810 parts 
of insoluble calcium phosphate, 568 parts of sodium 
phosphate, 352 parts of carbon dioxid gas and 144 
parts of water. The weight of the soluble sodium 
phosphate is 41.8% of the sum of the weights of acid 
phosphate and soda, and the carbon dioxid gas is 25.6%. 

Four hundred and eighty-four parts by weight of 
"alum" act upon 504 parts by weight of soda. Both 
compounds are completely changed. There is no 
"alum" and no soda left. There is formed 156 parts 
of insoluble alimiinum hydrate, 568 parts of sodiimi 
sulphate and 264 parts of carbon dioxid gas. The 
weight of sodium sulphate is 57.5% of the weight of 
"alum" and soda, and the carbon dioxid gas is 26.7%. 

The above chemical actions show what takes place 
between the "acid" substance and the soda. The per- 
centages given show how much soluble residue would 
be left and how much gas produced if a baking powder 
were made without adding any other svbstance. 



Page 18 Domestic Science Text Book 

AMOUNT OF GAS SET FREE 

THE different "acids" with soda set free the fol- 
lowing amounts of gas : 

Tartaric acid 27.7% 

"Alum" 26.7% 

Acid phosphate 25.6% 

Cream of tartar 16.2% 

Each one produces more gas than is desired for ordi- 
nary household purposes and methods of measurement. 
In fact, another substance, starch, is added, which plays 
no part in the production of gas but in the presence 
of which the same weight of the mixture produces less 
gas than before. Enough starch is generally added to 
reduce the gas strength of the powder to between 12% 
and 15%, The amount of gas that can be produced 
by an "acid" acting on soda gives us no information as 
to the strength of a baking powder containing that 
"acid," for the reason that starch is always added, and 
in different proportions by every manufacturer. (There 
is one baking powder sold in the dry, mountain States 
that contains no starch.) 

THE AMOUNT OF THE RESIDUES 

THE per cent of soluble residue shown in the pre- 
ceding equations by the different "acids" acting 
on soda, are as follows: 

"Acid" Soluble Residue 

Acid phosphate 41.S% Sodium acid phosphate 

"Alum" 57.5% Sodium sulphate 

Tartaric acid. 61.0% Sodium tartrate 

Cream of tartar 77.2% Rochelle salts 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 19 

Inasmuch as the powders always contain added 
starch* and are reduced in gas strength, a fairer com- 
parison of the amount of the different residues may be 
obtained if one compares the amoimts of soluble resi- 
due left from the different kinds of powders of the 
same gas strength. The following table shows the 
number of parts by weight of soluble residue produced 
by 100 parts of a baking powder that would produce 
127o of gas. 

Kind of Powder Residue 

Acid phosphateff 19.4 parts Sodium acid phosphate 

"Alum"** 25.8 parts Sodium sulphate 

Tartaric a«id 26.4 parts Sodium tartrate 

Cream of tartarf 57.2 parts Rochelle salts 

This shows that Cream of Tartar powders, or the 
mixture of Cream of Tartar and Soda used in many 
households, leaves more than twice as much objection- 
able residue as any other kind of baking powder for 
the same amount of leavening. 

THE HEALTHFULNESS OF THE 

RESIDUES 

THE healthfulness of these substances is discussed 
in Bulletin No. 108 of the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, professional paper, entitled 

^Shillings' is a baking powder that does not contain starch. 

**Bon Bon and Good Luck are types of baking powder con- 
taining only "alum" as an acid ingredient. 

f The principal powders leaving Rochelle salts in the food are 
Cleveland, Royal, Price's and Shillings'. 

tfRumford baking powder is the most prominent of this class. 



Page 20 Domestic Science Text Book 

"Alum in Foods," this being the decision of the Referee 
Board after a long extended investigation. The mem- 
bers of this board were selected by the President of the 
United States because their high scientific knowledge, 
the eminent positions they occupy, and the complete 
facilities for investigation at their command, were such 
as to render their conclusions respect-impelling and 
final. The following are a few quotations from the 
report : 

"Alum, as such, is not present in the food when 
eaten." 

"There is no evidence in our results to indicate that 
the occasional and ordinary use of bread, biscuits, or 
cake prepared with aluminum baking powder tends to 
injure the digestion. The amoimt of saline cathartic 
that would be ingested imder conditions of normal diet 
would be very small and would provoke no catharsis 
or symptoms of any kind." 

"In short, the board conclude that alum baking pow- 
ders are no more harmful than any other baking pow- 
ders" 

"We must not, however, be oblivious to the fact," 
says Dr. Taylor, who conducted part of these investiga- 
tions, "that a saline cathartic residue results from the 
reaction of every form of known baking powder now 
commonly employed. The use of cream of tartar or 
tartaric acid baking powder leaves in the alimentary 
tract a residue of tartrates which exhibit the action of 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 21 

a saline cathartic and of diuresis (excessive excretion 
of urine) as well. The so-called phosphate baking 
powder leaves as a residue of reaction sodium 
phosphate, again a saline cathartic. And aluminum 
baking powder leaves as a residue of reaction sodium 
sulphate, a saline cathartic. Apparently, therefore, at 
present at least, the use of baking powder is associated 
with the introduction into the alimentary tract of a 
certain amount of saline cathartic, the salt diflpering 
with the use of the particular type of baking powder." 

This last paragraph from* the report shows the char- 
acter of the residues from the different kinds of pow- 
der to be as follows : 

Kind of Powder Character of Residue 

"Alum" Cathartic 

Phosphate Cathartic 

( Cathartic 
Cream of tartar ) and 

C Diuretic 

If one uses 9 grams of a 12% baking powder to a 
pint of flour and makes therefrom 8 biscuits, then the 
number of such biscuits that it would be necessary to 
eat to take in the food enough of the residue from dif- 
ferent powders to equal the minimum dose as given in 
the U. S. Dispensatory is shown by the following table: 

Dose in Grams Kind of Powder No, Biscuits 

31,1 Phosphate 142 

15.5 "Alum" 53 

17.7 Cream of tartar 28 



Page 22 Domesttc Science Te xt Book 

From the above facts it will readily be seen that 
there is no basis in fact for the continual advertise- 
ment by the manufacturers of cream of tartar baking 
powder that alum baking powders are injurious, and 
that the cry against "alum" is merely an unjustified 
appeal to the desire for health in order to sell their 
own baking powder, which produces not only cartharsis 
but diuresis as well. 

It is this latter eflPect which is most worthy of re- 
mark and study, for it indicates (what is, indeed, the 
fact) that the tartrates are absorbed into the blood and 
excreted through the kidneys, while sodium sulphate 
exercises what slight action it has upon the intestinal 
tract alone. • 

The quantity of residue in either case is so small, 
as shown by the above table, that its eflPect upon the 
body is probably inconsiderable and in this respect 
alone the "alum" powder would have the advantage, 
even if the residue were identical, since its residue, 
having regard to its dosage, is only about one-half that 
of the tartar powder. 

But in quality the diflPerence is still more marked. 
Recent experiments* have shown that tartrates, in 
larger quantities, have an injurious eflPect upon the 
kidneys, often causing nephritis. Whether small, con- 
tinued doses have a proportionately mischievous eflPect, 
is still a matter for investigation. Certainly no such 
action has been ascribed to the non-toxic sodium sul- 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 23 

phate. Whatever question, therefore, may yet remain 
as to the healthfulness of the respective residues is 
plainly in favor of the "alum" product. 



♦Journal American Medical Association^ Vol. LXII, No. 8, Feb. 
21, 1914, p. 616. Underbill, F. P.: The Influence of Tartrates on 
Pblorbizin Diabetes, Proc. Soc. £xper. Biol, and Med., 1912, IX, 
123; The Influence of Sodium Tartrate on tbe £limination of 
Certain Urinary Constituents During Pblorbizin Diabetes, Jour. 
Biol. Cbem., 1912, XII, 115. Underbill, F. P.; Wells, H. G., and 
Goldscbmidt, S.: Tartrate N!epbritis, witb Fspecial Reference to 
Some of tbe Conditions Under Wbicb It May Be Produced, Jour. 
Exper. Med., 1918, XVIII, 322. Salant, W., and Smith, C. S.: 
The Toxicity of Sodium Tartrate, with Special Reference to Diet 
and Tolerance, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol, and Med., 1913, X, 170. 
Pearce, R. M., and Ringer, A. I.: A Study of Experimental 
Nephritis Caused by tbe Salts of Tartaric Acid, Jour. Med. Re- 
search, 1913, XXIX, 57. 

Added Potassium Salts in Food, A. Cressy, Morrison, N. Y. 



KEEPINQ QUALITIES. 

ATTENTION has already been called to the fact 
that the chemical action which sets free the car- 
bon dioxid gas and which should take place only in 
the dough, is in fact brought about to some extent by 
the moisture of the air. We have also seen that the 
starch present aided in two diflperent ways in retarding 
such action. The "acid" used is also a very important 
element aflPecting the keeping qualities of a baking 
powder. Baking Powders in which acid phosphate is 
the only "acid" ingredient, spoil most rapidly. There 
is a comparatively small amount of this kind of baking 



Pag<^24 Domestic Scienc e Text Book 

powder on the market because of this fact. The house- 
wife cannot depend on the goods being of proper 
strength when the goods are purchased. When pur- 
chased in the best condition, they are liable to deterior- 
ate to an inefficient mass, even in the home, before the 
contents of the can are entirely used. Deterioration of 
any baking powder is often marked by caking or the 
formation of lumps. Cream of Tartar Baking Powder 
has good keeping qualities, but the powders containing 
"alum" keep best of all. 

SPEED OF ACTION 

THE total amount of gas from a baking powder 
may be produced either immediately on the addi- 
tion of cold water, or only after a long time and after 
application of heat. This is because the "acid" dis- 
solves more quickly or more slowly in water. The 
amoimt of gas that is given off quickly before the mix 
is placed in the oven can be shown in the following 
manner : 

Three level teaspoonsful of baking powder are placed 
in a glass, a little white of egg added, and three tea- 
spoonsful of water added. The whole is then imme- 
diately stirred imtil all of the baking powder is mois- 
tened.. If this is done with the "alum" baking powder 
it wiU be foimd that very little gas is given off. A 
powder in which phosphate is the only "acid" ingredi- 
ent acts very quickly as does also one containing tar- 
taric acid or cream of tartar. The speed of action or 



Domestic Science Text Book Pagc 25 

the amount of gas thus given oflp is very important with 
reference to the handling of the baking. 

A baking powder that gives off nearly all of its gas 
in the cold, as does a straight phosphate or a tartaric 
acid and a cream of tartar baking powder will pro- 
duce a large dough biscuit before being placed in the 
oven. The dough in this case is already much dis- 
tended and the gluten of the flour wiU not hold much 
more gas without breaking and allowing the gas to 
escape. Practically all of the gas has been set free 
before it is placed in the oven. If placed in an oven 
of a low temperature, any jarring of the floor or slam- 
ming of the door of the oven is likely to cause a fallen 
cake. This danger applies especially to straight phos- 
phate and to cream of tartar and tartaric acid pow- 
ders. 

Note. — Most of the widely advertised "pure cream 
of tartar" baking powders contain tartaric acid.* 

On the other hand a biscuit prepared from a straight 
"alum" powder which gives off almost none of its gas 
in the cold, would produce a flat dough biscuit, which, 
if placed in the oven, would have very little siu-face 
upon which the heat could act to penetrate the soggy 
mass axid cause the powder to set its gas free. As a 
result, if placed in a very hot oven, the high tempera- 



♦Cleveland, Royal and Price Baking Powders contain tartaric 
acid. Shillings' is a straight cream of tartar powder. 



Page 26 Domestic Science Text Book 

ture would crust the outside of the biscuit before the 
gas had been liberated, thus resulting in small, heavy, 
poorly leavened biscuits. 

PROPERLY BALANCED ACTION 

A STUDY of the keeping qualities and of the 
speed of action has resulted in the production 
of baking powders containing a combination of two of 
these "acids." The most notable are those contain- 
ing phosphate and "alum." The aim has been to 
produce a baking powder with a correctly balanced 
action, giving oflf a proper amount of gas in the cold, 
with a sufficiently large amoimt of gas that will only 
be given oflp on heating the mix in the oven, and, 
at the same time, a powder that will not easily 
spoil. As a result of such consideration and exten- 
sive experiments, baking powders have been pro- 
duced superior to any made with a single "acid" ingre- 
dient. Properly proportioned powders, of the "phos- 
phate-alum" type, are not only the best in keeping 
quality, but, when they contain sufficient phosphate,* 
have also the best balanced speed of action, and insure 
the housewife against the dangers either of fallen bis- 
cuits on the one hand or of biscuits, which have crusted 
over too quickly to obtain the desired lightness, on the 
other hand. 



*Calumet Baking Powder is the principal powder of this type. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 27 

' CHAPTER IV 

THE MANUFACTURE AND USE OF BAK- 
ING POWDER 

THE manufacture of the diflPerent ingredients nec- 
essary to make a good baking powder has now 
been considered. The manufacture of baking powder 
itself begins with the ingredients as they are received 
from the different manufacturers. There is a general 
impression that the manufacture of baking powder con- 
sists of merely weighing out and mixing the diflPerent 
ingredients. This opinion is shared by most of the 
small, and even by some of the large manufacturers. 
It is, however, far from the truth. 

The manufacture of baking powder requires the 
greatest care and most thorough chemical supervision. 
A perfect baking powder cannot be made by one who 
relies upon the manufacturer of the ingi'edients to 
always furnish him goods of the same purity, the same 
dryness, or the same strength. 

In the study of chemical action it was seen that where 
a certain weight of soda was used, a fixed amount of 
the acid ingredient was necessary to set free aU the 
gas. If more acid were used, just that much acid 
would be left unchanged in the finished food. If less 
acid were used, then to that extent there would remain 
soda (or sodium carbonate, an alkaline residue), ren- 
dering the food yellow and disagreeable to the taste. 



Page 28 Domestic Science Text Book 

The excess of acid is especially undesirable on account 
of the physiological effect of such soluble substances. 
Accordingly, the first work of a manufacturer of bak- 
ing powder is to test the ingredients he purchases and 
determine their strength. For this a well-equipped 
laboratory is essential. The weights of the ingredients 
are then adjusted so that the reaction will be complete 
and so that the product turned out today will be the 
same, as that turned out yesterday, neither more acid 
nor more alkaline. Only by knowing the exact 
strength of the different ingredients can the mix be 
thus perfectly proportioned. 

It is because these quantitative relations between 
the amount of soda and the amount of acid substances 
used must exist for the production of a proper and 
perfect baking powder, that the custom of mixing soda 
and Cream of Tartar still used in many homes is so 
objectionable. It is safe to say that the proper pro- 
portions are never obtained in the home except by acci- 
dent, and not more than once in a thousand times. A 
good baking powder is, therefore, from this considera- 
tion alone, much to be preferred to such a mixture. 
It is also customary in some homes to use soda and 
sour milk in place of baking powder. Here again 
the proper proportion is impossible. In general, too 
much soda is used, as the milk ordinarily contains in- 
sufficient sourness (lactic acid) to set free all the car- 
bon dioxid gas from the soda. 



Domestic Science Text Book Pagc 29 

Besides the analysis for strength, the manufacturer 
must also take every precaution, by analyses, to deter- 
mine that the ingredients are of proper dryness. This 
is particularly true with reference to the starch used, 
as starch rapidly absorbs moisture, and even though in 
perfect condition when it left the starch factory, may 
have absorbed sufficient moisture during transit to be 
unsuitable for the manufacture of baking powder. 

To introduce wet starch in the manufacture of bak- 
ing powder would have the same eflPect as to pour water 
upon the powder itself. The powder would be spoiled 
at once, before reaching the consimaer. This same pre- 
caution with reference to moisture must be taken with 
reference to the other ingredients, as these are fre- 
quently shipped in rainy weather and in leaky cars. 

Then, too, it is necessary to analyze all the ingre- 
dients for other accidental impurities which may have 
been introduced. Chemical analysis is always carried 
out to make sure that heavy metals, and other objec- 
tionable substances, are absent from each ingredient. 

MANUFACTURING APPLIANCES 

THE manufacturing appliances in use vary accord- 
ing to the size of the plant and the progressive- 
ness of the manufacturer. The object of these should 
be not only increased convenience, but above all, the high- 
est order of sanitation. Baking powder is a food prod- 



Page 30 Domestic Science Text Book 

uct and the progressive manufacturer treats it as such. 
He insists on the most modern sanitary buildings, free 
from dust, flooded with sunlight and fitted with the 
latest specially-constructed machinery, so that none of 
the ingredients nor the powder itself ever comes in con- 
tact with the human hand. This perfect protection 
should be demanded in every food product. The ma- 
chinery in such a building consists of tightly enclosed 
elevators and conveyors so constructed that the powder 
is completely protected from moisture and contamina- 
tion. Large, almost airtight bins are used for tem- 
porary storage of the ingredients, which empty directly 
into special containers standing on modem, accurate 
scales. A single container is used for each ingredient 
and no other substance ever enters it. These are emp- 
tied by gravity into the mixers through fine screens, so 
that any lumps are removed. These tightly closed 
mixers contain many flights of conveyors working in 
diflPerent directions, so that all the ingredients are per- 
fectly mixed. From the mixer the powder passes by 
gravity into screw conveyors, which carry it to the auto- 
matic filling and weighing machines (a further sani- 
tary protection), where it is weighed into the can. 
There then remains the labeling of the cans and the 
boxing and packing to make it ready for shipment. 
The modern manufacturer of baking powder pays 
strict attention to the health and hygiene of his em- 
ployes. They are clothed in white uniforms and re- 
quired to keep scrupulously clean. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 31 

THE USE OF BAKING POWDER 

THE use of baking powder has become very gen- 
eral throughout the United States. The Memo- 
rial of the American Baking Powder Association pre- 
sented in Congress in 1900 shows that at that time there 
was produced annually baking powders of the different 
types, as foUowS: 

Ton9 used per annum • ^f9' concerns 

Alnm 50^000 544 alum and alum-phosphate 

Cream of tartar 9^000 10 

Phosphate 800 1 

The directions for the use of baking powder in gen- 
eral call for two heaping teaspoonsful to a quart of 
flour. This amount is unnecessary with the stronger 
powders, and makes a poorer instead of a better bis- 
cuit. The housewife will obtain better results if she 
uses the smaller proportion called for in the directions 
given by the manufacturer. With the stronger baking 
powders one heaping teaspoonful to a quart of flour is 
a great sufficiency. To use more than directed means 
to introduce an unnecessary amount of the residues in 
the finished food. 

HOW TO MEASURE 

ALWAYS measure the baking powder by the level 
teaspoonful. Scrape the straight edge of a knife 
across the spoon, keeping the blade pressed to the sides 
of the bowl. In this way you will always get the same 
amount. 



!!flf Domestic Science Text Book 

A rounding teaspoonful = 2 level teaspoonsful. 
A heaping teaspoonful = 4 level teaspoonsful. 

One cannot expect to get the same result each time 
she cooks, unless she is accurate. 

CARE OF BAKING POWDER 

T)^^7iV6r Powder should always he kept in a dry, 
J-* cool place. We have seen in the study of soda 
that heat alone will cause this ingredient to lose a por- 
tion of its gas; hence, it is essential that the finished 
powder should be kept in a cool place. It has also 
been seen that moisture from any source will bring 
about the reaction between the soda and "acid," which 
it is desired should take place only in the dough. These 
precautions in storage should be taken even before the 
can is opened. 

The cans used for baking powder are not hermetic- 
ally sealed, and moisture from the air will gradually 
work its way into them. All baking powders will spoil 
if subjected to moist conditions of storage. The ab- 
surd claim of some manufacturers that their goods will 
not spoil is an insult to the intelligence of the consumer. 
If moisture will not spoil the baking powder when it 
is in the can, moisture will not activate the baking pow- 
der (set free the carbon dioxid) when water or milk 
is added to the dough. If a manufacturer truthfully 
represents that his baking powder will not spoil, then 
he is selling something that is useless. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 33 

SELF-RISING FLOUR 

SELF-RISING flour is nothing more than a mix- 
ture of flour and salt with soda and an "acid" in- 
gredient, or in other words, with ingredients such as 
are used in making a baking powder. This mixing is 
almost always done without any chemical control of 
the purity or strength of the ingredients or of the pro- 
portioning of the ingredients. The soda and "acid" 
are purchased of the manufacturers, with a formula 
for mixing them. The formula is never changed, 
no matter how much the purity or strength of the 
ingredients may vary. Such a product subjects the 
user thereof to every inconvenience and disappoint- 
ments as to flavor and color in the finished food, such as 
would result from the use of the cheapest baking pow- 
der, manufactured without chemical control. Inas- 
much as excessive quantities of the soda and acid are 
frequently added, the housewife is also preparing food 
containing excessive amounts of residue, when she uses 
self -rising flour. 

Because of the large amount of water contained in 
flour, and the lack of protection from atmospheric mois- 
ture through the use of cloth bags as containers, the 
keeping qualities of the self -rising mixture are seriously 
impaired. 



;e 34 Domesttc SciencB Text Book 



HwxWoa'i Apparatus 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 35 

CHAPTER V 

THE DETERMINATION OF AVAILABLE 

CARBON DIOXID 

MR. BENJAMIN HARRISON has devised the 
following rapid volumetric method for this de- 
termination r* ( See cut. ) 

"In determining the percentage of available carbon 
dioxid in a baking powder, one-half gram of the sample 
is weighed into the small flask which is then put in 
place on the apparatus. The stopcock is now turned 
so as to connect the flask with the eudiometer, and the 
gases put imder atmospheric pressure by bringing the 
saturated salt solution in the leveling bulb even with 
the solution in the eudiometer. The stopcock is now 
turned so as to connect with the tube leading into the 
air, and the gases in the eudiometer driven out by rais- 
ing the leveling bulb. The stopcock is turned again 
so as to connect the flask and eudiometer, and the 
leveling bulb lowered to the table, giving a slight vac- 
uum in the flask. 

"Two cubic centimeters of previously boiled, distilled 
water are now run into the flask from the small grad- 
uated burette, and the apparatus shaken or rotated so 
as to mix the water thoroughly with the powder. Heat 



■^Proceedings of the Seventeenth Annual Convention of the As- 
sociation of American Dairy Food and Drug Officials^ 1913, p. 158. 



P»g<^ 36 Domestic Science Text B ook 

is then gently applied to the flask until the water just 
reaches the boiling point. Care must be taken here not 
to char the powder or boil oflF the water. The whole 
apparatus is allowed to cool to room temperature, the 
gas in the flask and eudiometer brought under atmos- 
pheric conditions by raising the solution in the leveling 
bulb and its volume read. The temperature and baro- 
metric pressure are also taken. 

"We now have a volume which represents the gas 
from the baking powder plus two cubic centimeters from 
the water added. Experiment has shown that the equiva- 
lent of one cubic centimer of carbon dioxid is retained 
by the water and powder in the small flask, so if we 

subtract one cubic centimeter from the observed read- 
ing we have the available gas equivalent of the sample 
taken. The corrected volume of the gas is reduced to 
O'' C. and 760 nmi. pressure, and the number of cubic 
centimeters found multiplied by the weight of one cubic 
centimeter of carbon dioxid, giving the weight of car- 
bon dioxid in the sample. This weight, if divided by 
five-tenths and multiplied by one hundred, gives the 
percentage of available carbon dioxid in the sample. 

"In the Journal of the American Chemical Society , 
Vol. 31, February, 1909, on page 287, is a table by 
Prof. S. W. Parr, giving the weight of one cubic centi- 
meter of carbon dioxid at various temperatures and 
pressures, which saves considerable calculation." 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 37 

The above method has been found to be accurate to 
within one or two-tenths of 1%, and is sufficiently ac- 
curate for abnost all work. 

A more accurate method is the one in which the 
amount of gas set free is absorbed by a caustic potash 
solution, or by soda lime and then weighed. 

ABSORPTION METHOD* 

THIS method is carried out by the use of Knorr's 
apparatus, the potassium hydroxide solution used 
has a specific gravity 1.27. This is prepared by dis- 
solving 36.8 grams of solid potassium hydroxide in 
100 cubic centimeters of water. The apparatus is 
shown in the accompanying illustration. The solution 
in "F" and "J" is the potassium hydroxide solution 
just mentioned. "E" and "H" contain concentrated 
sulphuric acid. "C" contains soda lime. The small 
tubes of "E" and "F" are filled with calcium chloride 
and "L" contains layers of calcium chloride, and soda 
lime. 

The analysis is conducted as follows: 

Place 7/10 of a gram of the baking powder in the 
perfectly dry distilling flash "A." Weigh the tubes 
"F" in which the carbon dioxid is to be absorbed and 
"H" and attach to the apparatus. 



*Methods of Analysis, Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists. Bureau of Chemistry Bulletin No. 107 (Revised), p. 169. 



Page 38 DomcsHc Science Text Book 



Modified Knorr ApparXu* 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 39 

Nearly fill the tube "B" with recently boiled distilled 
water and place the tube "C" in position. Then start 
the aspirator at such a rate that the air passes through 
the Liebig bulbs at about the rate of 2 bubbles per sec- 
ond. Open the stopcock of the funnel "B" and allow 
the water to run slowly into the flask, care being taken 
that the evolution of gas shall be so gradual as not to 
materially increase the current through the Liebig bulb. 

After all the water has been introduced, continue 
the aspiration and gradually heat the contents of the 
flask to boiling, the cock in tube "B" being closed. 
Continue the boiling for a few minutes. After the wa- 
ter has begun to condense in "D," remove the flame, 
open the valve in tube "B" and allow the apparatus to 
cool while continuing the aspiration. Air should be 
drawn through the apparatus for a considerable time 
in order to completely remove all the carbon dioxid 
from flask "A." The whole operation should take at 
least two hours. Tubes "F" and "H" are then re- 
moved from the apparatus and weighed. The total in- 
crease in weight is due to the carbon dioxid set free 
from the baking powder. 



Page 40 Domestic Science Text Book 

CHAPTER VI 

COST OF BAKING POWDER 

THE cost of any material used for a piece of work 
must be figured on the cost of that material for 
a single unit of the work to be done. 

So account must be taken in the case of baking pow- 
der, both of the cost per pound of the powder itself 
and the amount of work it will do. The price per 
pound varies from 10 cents to 50 cents. The amount 
of work each powder will do can be compared after a 
determination of the amount of available gas, or after 
scientific, comparative bakings. Neither of these is 
necessary, however. We may take it for granted that 
the manufacturer in giving directions for the use of 

his powder has taken the strength into consideration in 
stating what amount of baking powder should be used. 
The directions uniformly give the amount to be used 
to leaven one quart of sifted flour. The amount of 
baking powder to be used as stated on the labels 
varies from one heaping teaspoonful, or two rounded 
teaspoonsful, to two heaping teaspoonsful. Some man- 
ufacturers use the term "rounded teaspoonful" and 
others "heaping teaspoonful." One can always com- 
pare these by remembering that — 

2 level teaspoonsful = 1 rounded teaspoonful. 
4 level teaspoonsful = 1 heaping teaspoonful. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 4i 

An example of the diflFerenee in cost of baking pow- 
der is the following: 

"A." sells baking powder at 50 cents per pound 
and directs that you use 2 heaping teaspoonsful to the 
quart of flour. 

"B." sells baking powder at 25 cents per pound and 
directs that you use 2 rounded teaspoonsful to the 
quart of flour. 

What does it cost to leaven a quart of flour with 
"A.'s" powder as compared with that of "B.'s"? 

Answer — Four times as much. 

Caution. — Never use more baking powder than rec- 
onmiended by the manufacturer. By following direc- 
tions you will get the best results. 

BAKING POWDER A NECESSITY 

IN conclusion it should be stated that baking powder 
has done much to lighten and decrease the horn's of 
labor of the housewife. It has made possible the easy 
and rapid production of many new, dainty and nutri- 
tious foods. The best powder may be piu-chased at 
a moderate price and the wholesomeness of the food 
prepared therefrom need not be questioned. That it is 
a convenience that cannot be dispensed with is appre- 
ciated most by those who use it most intelligently. 



Page 42 DomesHc Science Text Book 

QUESTIONS 

1. Name two common leavening agents. 

2. What is yeast? 

3. What is baking powder? 

4. What is the active leavening agent produced by both yeast 

and baking powder? 

5. Name three disadvantages in the use of yeast. 

6. Name three advantages in the use of baking powder. 

7. What are the natural sources of carbon dioxid gas? 

8. What is soda? 

9. How is it made? 

10. What happens when soda is heated? 

11. Why is its use alone unsatisfactory as a leavening agent? 

12. Why is the use of ammonium carbonate unsatisfactory as a 

leavening agent? 

13. What is the purpose of magnesium carbonate in cheap baking 

powders ? 

14. What substance with soda is necessary in baking powder for 

the production of carbon dioxid? 

15. What two conditions must the acid and alkali fulfill? 

16. Name an acid commonly found in so-called cream of tartar 

baking powder. 

17. Name two acid salts in baking powder. 

18. Njame a salt which acts as an acid to soda but which is 

neither an acid nor an acid salt. 

19. What substances other than acid and soda are used in baking 

powder ? 

20. What is the source of tartaric acid? 

21. How is- it purified? 

22. How is cream of tartar obtained? 

23. What are the sources of calcium acid phosphate? 

24. What is the process of making bone phosphate? 

25. Why is bone phosphate preferable to rock phosphate? 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 43 

26. What advantage has granular phosphate over powdered 

phosphate ? 

27. In what powder is the phosphate of the granular type ? 

28. What is alum? 

29. What is the so-called "alum" of baking powder? 

30. What is the difference between these two? 

31. Why is the latter called "alum"? 

32. How is it made? 

33. What three purposes does starch serve in baking powder? 

34. What per cent of gas do good baking powders produce? 

35. What are the most widely known baking powders that contain 

white of ^%%^ 

36. What is dried white of ^%%} 

37. Does it increase the efficiency of baking powder? 

38. If so, to what extent? 

39. How much ^^'g albumen is generally used in baking powder? 

40. What other purpose does ^%ig albumen serve in baking powder ? 

41. Describe the water-glass test. 

42. To what use is this test put? 

43. What company uses this test most in testing its goods on the 

grocer's shelves? 

44. What must be present in baking powder to make the water- 

glass test? 

45. What constitutes the difference between the classes of baking 

powder ? 

46. What four items should be considered in the choice of an 

acid ingredient? 

47. Why should chemically equivalent amounts of acid and alkali 

be used in baking powder? 

48. What is formed by the action of tartaric acid on soda? 
49.' What is formed by the action of cream of tartar on soda? 
50. What is formed from the action of calcium acid phosphate on 

soda ? 
5\, What is formed by the action of "alum" on soda? 



Page 44 Dofmstic Sctefice Text Book 

52. If the different substances be mixed with soda in proper pro- 

portions^ which mixture will produce the least amount 
of gas? 

53. How much? 

54. How much gas will the mixture of "alum" and soda produce? 

55. How much gas will the mixture of calcium acid phosphate and 

soda produce? 

56. What is the purpose of starch in baking powder in relation 

to the amount of gas? 

57. What baking powder contains no starch? 

58. What class of baking powders leave the greatest amount of 

objectionable residue? Name four such powders. 

59. Name two baking powders having only "alum" as an acid 

ingredient. 

60. Is "alum" present in foods prepared from "alum" baking 

powder ? 

61. Do "alum" baking powders injure digestion? 

62. What is the final decision of the Remsen Board as to the 

harmfulness of "alum" baking powder? 

63. What is the nature of the residue from every baking powder 

when taken in very large quantities? 

64. What residue is left from cream of tartar baking powders? 

65. What residue is left from phosphate baking powder? 

66. What residue is left from "alum" baking powder? 

67. What baking powder is most liable to produce catharsis? 

68. Which then is the least desirable from a health standpoint? 

69. Is the cry against "alum" in baking powders based on preju- 

dice or fact? 

70. What is the effect of tartrates on the kidneys? 

71. What is the effect of other baking powder residues? 

72. Why are there not more straight phosphate baking powders. 

on the market? 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 45 

73. What is the most prominent baking powder of the straight 

phosphate class? 

74. What causes baking powder to spoil in the cans? 

75. What baking powders keep best of all? 

76. What causes the difference in the speed action of baking 

powder? 

77. What is the disadvantage in the use of straight phosphate 

and cream of tartar baking powders? 

78. Name three so-called pure cream of tartar baking powders 

that contain tartaric acid. 

79. Name a cream of tartar baking powder. 

80. What is the disadvantage in the use of straight "alum" 

baking powder? 

81. What is the best and most common type of combination 

powders ? 

82. Which is the leading powder of this type containing suf- 

cient phosphate? 

83. What is its action? 

84. Why is chemical supervision necessary in the manufacture 

of baking powder? 

85. What would be the result of the use of wet starch in the 

manufacture of baking powder? 

86. What attention should be given to sanitation in baking powder 

factories ? 

87. What class of baking powder is in widest use? 

88. What is meant by level teaspoonful? 

89. What is equivalent to a "rounding" teaspoonful? 

90. What is equivalent to a "heaping" teaspoonful? 

91. Why should baking powder be kept in a cool dry place? 

92. Why will baking powder eventually spoil? 

93. What caution should be borne in mind in the use of baking 

powder ? 

94. What has baking powder done for the housewife? 



Page 46 DomesHc Science Text Book 



ANSWERS 

1. Yeast and baking powder. 

9. Yeast is a microscopic plant which in the leavening process 
breaks up sugars into carbon dioxid gas and alcohol. 

3. Baking powder is a mixture of substances which produce 

carbon dioxid gas by chemical action. 

4. Carbon dioxid gas. 

5. (a) The different fermentations resulting from yeast produce 

different and sometimes objectionable flavors. 

(b) It takes several hours for fermentation to take place before 
the dough can be put in the oven. 

(c) Yeast does not act readily in the presence of large quan- 
tities of butter^ lard or eggs. 

6. (a) With a good baking powder the action is always the same^ 

and therefore the flavors are always the same. 

(b) The gas is given off at once on the addition of water^ or 
in the oven; there is no delay. 

(c) The action takes place readily in the presence of butter, 
lard or eggs. 

7. Carbon dioxid occurs in nature combined with metals, as 

carbonates, such as chalk, marble and limestone. It is set 
free from these by means of acids. 

8. Soda is saleratus or cooking soda, sometimes called the alkali 

of baking powder. It is chemically known as sodium bi* 
carbonate. 

9. Soda is made from common salt by the action of acid am- 

monium carbonate. 

10. On heating, soda breaks up, giving off carbon dioxid gas and 

leaving normal sodium carbonate. 

11. Normal sodium carbonate is left in the food. It produces an 

objectionable flavor in the food and colors it yellow. 

12. Ammonium carbonate leaves traces of ammonia gas in the food. 
18. Magnesium carbonate is used as a filler because of its extreme 

light weight. The great volume of such powder often 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 47 

makes the purchaser think she is getting more haking 
powder. 

1 4. An acid or an acid-acting salt to release the carhon dioxid gas. 

15. The acid and alkali should be dry substances and dissolve 

readily in water. 

16. Tartaric acid. 

17. Calcium acid phosphate and cream of tartar. 

18. Sodium aluminum sulphate^ sometimes called "alum." 

19. Cornstarch and white of egg. 

20. Tartaric acid is made from argol^ the sediment from wine vats. 

21. It is purified by treating with chalk and calcium chloride^ 

and filtering the resulting mixture of the calcium salt. 
The calcium tartrate is dissolved in sulphuric acid, after 
which the solution is filtered and the tartaric acid allowed 
to crystallize. 

22. Cream of tartar is also obtained from argol, the source of 

tartaric acid. The chemical treatment of this, however, 
differs from that of tartaric acid. 

23. Calcium phosphate is obtained from the bones of' healthy 

cattle and sometimes from natural rock. 

24. The bones are burned and then treated with sulphuric acid. 

The solution is purified by filtration, crystallized and dried. 

25. Phosphate from bone is preferable to that from rock because 

it does not contain the harmful impurities, fluorides, 
present in rock. 

26. . Granular phosphate makes a baking powder which will keep 

better than that made from the powdered phosphate. 
Granular phosphate is more expensive. 

27. In Calumet Baking Powder. 

28. Alum is potassium aluminum sulphate with water of crystal- 

lization. 

29. The so-called "alum" is a mixture of sodium sulphate and 

aluminum sulphate with no water of crystallization. 



Page 48 Domesttc Science Text Book 

30. Alum contains potassium and water of crystallization. It is 

used as a medicine. The so-called "alum" of baking 
powder contains neither potassium nor water of crystal- 
lization and has no medicinal use. 

31. The latter is called "alum" because some food commissioners 

thought this word better showed the general character- 
istics of the substance to the public. 
3^. It is made by mixing solutions of sodium sulphate and alumi- 
num sulphate^ concentrating the mixture and fusing the 
resulting mass. 

33. Starch serves three purposes in baking powder: 

(a) To separate the soda and the acid mechanically. 

(b) To absorb water from the air and prevent deterioration 
of the baking powder. 

(c) To dilute the baking powder to a strength convenient 
for purposes of household measurement. 

34. Good baking powders produce from 12%, to 15% available gas. 

35. Calumet and Crescent Baking Powders. 

36. Dried white of egg is the dried white of fresh hen*s eggs. 

37. It does materially increase the eflSciency of the baking powder. 

38. From 2^% to 3 2/10% when used in strong powder. 

39. Baking powders generally contain 15/100 of 1%. 

40. Egg albumen furnishes a means of estimating the strength of 

the baking powder. 

41. Take an ordinary drinking glass holding one-half pint^ or in 

other words, the quantity that is usually known in the 
household as "one cupful." All that is needed is this 
empty glass, which must be dry, an ordinary teaspoon 
and a little water of the ordinary room temperature (not 
ice water nor hot water) ; place two level teaspoons ful of 
the powder in the dry glass, to which add the same quan- 
tity (two teaspoonsful) of water, quickly; stir rapidly for 
a moment (while cfounting five), just long enough to thor- 
oughly moisten the powder; remove the spoon and watch 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 49 

the mixture rise. Note the action of the powder. 

42. This test is used to insure the freshness of the grocer's stock 

and protect the consumer. Deteriorated goods are detected 
by this test and replaced with fresh by the manufacturers 
free of charge. 

43. The Calumet Baking Powder Co. 

44. White of ^gg must be present before the test can be made. 

45. The difference between baking powders is in the "acid" or 

"acids" used to release the carbon dioxid from the soda 
and in the proportions of the same. 

46. The four items to be considered in the selection of an acid 

for a baking powder are the healthfulness of the residues^ 
the amount of gas it will release^ the keeping qualities of 
the resulting baking powder and the speed of action. 

47. Chemically equivalent amounts of acid and alkali should be 

used in baking powder because an excess of acid leaves 
that much acid unchanged in the food and an excess of 
soda causes an alkaline flavor and a yellow color in the 
foods. 

48. Sodium tartrate^ carbon dioxid gas and water. 

49. Rochelle salts^ carbon dioxid gas and water. 

50. Calcium phosphate^ sodium acid phosphate^ carbon dioxid gas 

and water. 

51. Aluminum hydrate^ sodium sulphate^ and carbon dioxid gas. 

52. Cream of tartar and soda sets free the least amount of gas. . 

53. 16.2%. 

54. 26.7%. 

55. 25.6%. 

5Q, Starch is then added to baking powder to reduce the amount of 
gas given off. Without starchy too much gas would be 
evolved in the case of "alum" and phosphate powders. 

57. Shillings'. 

58. Cream of tartar baking powder leaves the largest amount of 

objectionable residues; 77.2% Rochelle salts when no 



Page SO Domestic Science Text Book 

starch is present; 57.2% Roehelle salts is left from a 
powder producing 12% of gas. Shillings'^ Royal, Price's 
and Cleveland Baking Powders. 

59. Bon Bon and Good Luck. 

60. No. 

61. No. 

62. Alum baking powders are no more harmful than any other 

baking powders. 
QS. A saline cathartic. 
64. Roehelle salts, which act as a saline cathartic and a diuretic 

as well. 
Q5, Sodium phosphate, a mild cathartic. 
%%, Sodium sulphate, a mild cathartic. 
'67. Cream of tartar or tartaric acid baking powders are twice 

as likely to produce catharsis as any other baking powder. 

68. Cream of tartar or tartaric acid powders. 

69. The cry against "alum" is based on prejudice. 

70. Tartrates produce nephritis. 

71. The residues from other baking powders have been declared 

to be non-injurious. 

72. Because straight phosphate baking powders keep only for 

a short time. 

73. Rumford Baking Powder. 

74. Moisture from the air or from any other source, or excessive 

heat. 

75. The baking powders containing "alum" keep the best of all. 

76. The difference in the solubility of the acid constituents in 

water. 

77. Straight phosphate and cream of tartar powders give off their 

gas quickly, therefore are liable to cause fallen biscuits 
if the oven is not at the optinimum temperature. 

78. Cleveland, Royal and Price's. 

79. Shillings'. 

80. Straight alum baking powder gives off practically no gas in the 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 51 

cold resulting in small^ heavy and poorly leavened biscuits 
if placed in too hot an oven. 

81. "Alum"-phosphate is the best and most common type of com- 

bination powders. 

82. Calumet Baking Powder. 

83. The best "alum"-phosphate powders give off the proper 

amount of gas in the cold with sufficiently large amount 
of additional gas when placed in the oven. They keep 
best and produce better results in cooking. 

84. To insure a perfect product, always of the same strength, 

neither acid nor alkaline, and above all to insure its purity. 

85. Wet starch in baking powder would cause its immediate 

spoilage. 

86. Baking powder is used in the preparation of foods, and there- 

fore its manufacture should be carried on under the 
strictest sanitary conditions. 

87. "Alum**-phosphate powders have the widest use. 

88. A straight knife blade moved over the spoon filled with 

powder, keeping the blade pressed to the sides of the 
bowl, leaves a level teaspoonful. 

89. Two level teaspoonsful are equivalent to a rounding teaspoon- 

ful. 

90. Four level teaspoonsful are equivalent to a heaping teaspoon- 

ful. 

91. Baking powder should be kept in a cool dry place. Moisture 

will spoil the powder, and heat decomposes the soda. 

92. Baking powder will eventually spoil because the cans are not 

hermetically sealed and moisture enters from the air. 

93. One should always follow the directions given by the manu- 

facturer, using no more than is recommended, for different 
baking powders are of different strengths. 

94. Baking powder has lightened and decreased the labor of the 

housewife. It has made possible the easy and rapid pro- 
duction of dainty and healthful foods. 



Page 52 



PHOTOGRAPHIC REPRODUCTION OP BULLETIN NO. 103 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OP AGRICULTURE 




BULLETIN OF THE 

u^KepmfMDiiii 



No. 108 



CootrilMitmi from die Referee Board of dotaJtiiig 

Ranen. Qjainn— . April 29, 1914. 




(PIOFESSIONAL PAPER.) 



ALUM IN FOODS. 

EXPLANATORY STATEBCENT. 

A report on the influence of aluminum compounds on the nutrition 
and health of man has been submitted by the Referee Board of Con- 
sulting Scientific Experts, in answer to questions put to it by the 
department. The report of the "board itself, signed by each member, 
is brief, but it is accompanied by three elaborate reports giving the 
results of three sets of extensive experiments on human subjects 
conducted independently by three members of the board. To get 
the board's conclusions before the public at this time, it is considered 
advisable to publish its findings, but to omit the extensive reports 
of the three experimenters, giving only their final conclusions. 

QUESTIONS SUBMITTED TO REFEREE BOARD. 

Tlie questions submitted to the board were as follows: 

1. Do ahiminnm ' compounda, when used in foods, affect injuriously the nutritive 
value of auch foods or render them injurious to health? 

2. Does a food to which aluminum compounds have been added contain any added 
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient which may render the said food 
injurious to health? (a) In large quantities? (6) In small qtikitities? 

3. If ahiminum compounds be mixed or packed with a food, is the quality or 
strength o) said food thereby reduced, lowered, or injuriously affected? (a) In laige 
quantities? (6) In small quantities? 

CHARACTER OF EXPERIMENTS CONDUCTED. 

In order to base their report upon first-hand knowledge, the board 
instituted three sets of expeiiments, each independent of the others. 
One set of experiments was conducted by Dr. RusseU H. Chittenden, 
of the Sheffield Scientific School, Yale University, New Haven; 
another by Dr. Alonxo E. Taylor, of the Medical School of the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; -and the third by Dr. John H. 
Long, of the Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago. In 

1 Alomfawnn to a synonym for atumimum, the metal oaed for ceeUag ntanOa aad oUier 
Alnm or aodhim atomlnnm snlphate to a mlt of tUs 

«UMS*-M 



Page 53 



2 BULLETIK 103y U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGBIGULTUBE. 



^Bch. case tests were made on healthy young men by including 
aluminum in some fonn in their food. The food was all carefully 
measured and weighed and the amounts of its principal ingredients 
were determined by analysis. The excretions of the men's bodies 
(both urine and feces) were carefully collected, examined, and ana- 
lyzed. Daily records of body weight, temperature, respiration, and 
p\]lse were kept for each man, and notes were made of any unusual 
symptoms. Any disturbance in health or physiological processes 
was thus detected. 

Each experiment included three periods, in the first and last of 
which no aluminum was administered. During the middle period 
aluminum compounds were administered, the "dose" increasing as 
the experiment progressed. In this way the effect of large quanti-' 
ties was compared with that of small quantities. In Dr. Chitten- 
den's and Dr. Taylor's experiments some of the men who served as 
''control" subjects received no aluminum at any time, so that any 
disturbances due to other caused might be checked up. 

Dr. Chittenden's experiments included 12 men and continued 
from January 15 to Jime 22, 1912. During '130 days the diet con- 
tained bread raised with an alum bftking powder made in the labo- 
ratory.* The dose of aluminum compound was increased from time 
to time, at first by increasing the quantity of bread and lat«r by in- 
creasing the quantity of the baking powder used in making the bread. 
In this way the alum' used per man per day was increased from 
0.578 gram ' (8.920 grains) at the beginning to 2.287 grams * (35.295 
grains) at the close of the dosage period; the actual aluminum con- 
tained in this dosage ranged from 0.065 gram (1.003 grains) to 0.257 
gram (3.966 grains) per man per day. Eight men used the alum 
bread, while four had no aluminum in their food. 

Dr. Long's experiments ran from February 8 to June 7, 1911, and 
included six men, all of whom received the dosage. Baking powder 
bread was not used, but instead for 40 days a mixture of the same 
composition as the residue left in such bread by alum baking powder 
was administered in the form of a powder in water or milk. For 30 

1 Thi& bread was made fresh every day and contained in one baking of two loaves approximately 

Sifted flour quarts.. 2 

Baking powder (25 per cent caldned alum) beaping teaspoonfuls. . 4 

Salt (approximately one rounded teaspoonfiil) .....ounce.. %■ 

Butter .....'....■...•. do.... 1 

Water, sufficient quantity. 
Latar In tbeexperiment a greater proportion of alum baking powder was used In the making of the bread 
In ocder to facilitate administering largef amounts of ahim. 

s Tha term "alom" aa used under the heading '' Character of ezperimants oonduoted ' refers to the cal- 
oinad sodio aluminie sulphate commonly used in alum baking powders and not to the ordinary orystallized 



• SquiTalant to approximately two'thirds of a lavel teaapoonfttl of baking powder containing 25 per cent 
^falom. All the flguMi in this and suoeeeding footnote iBQst of neoesslty be approximate, since taaspooM 
twy In siM and baking powden in oomposltlMi. 

•Approximately eqniviilant to 2| level teaspoonfols of alum baking powder. 



Page 54 



ALUM IK FOODS. 



days the quantitj of alum used was'? ^uuns* (30.866 grains) a day for 
each man; in the next 10 days the cfoee was doubled. Afterwards 
for 30 dayrthe baking pdwder residti^ was treated so as to wash out 
everything except the compounds of ahjminum with hydrogen and 
oxygen (aluminum hydroxide), the dose at first being the .amount 
obtained from 4 grams? (61.732 grains) of alum per man per day, 
which was increased in the second 10 days to 6 grams* (92.698 grains) 
and in the third 10 days to 10 grams (154.330 ^ains) of alum. Finally, 
in a period of 10 days, the dose was the sodium sulphate consumed 
when 4 grams of alum were used, this compound being the cathartic 
ingredient which is left in bread by aluiii baking powder.*^ 

Dr. Taylor conducted experiments with a squad of eight men from 
'October 8, 1911, to May 10, 1912, with an intermission from December 
16 to January 14. In this case also the powder was not used in 
bread, but was administered in wafers or dissolved in water. Six 
of the subjects took the aluminum compounds, while the other two 
took milk sugar, the men themselves not knowing which they were 
taking. There were two groups of experiments in which the whole 
squad took part. In the experiments of the first group, which ran 
from October 8 to December 16, tests were made .wjth alum alone. 
The dose at first wiis such as to give each man 0.1 granri* (1.5433 
grains) o{ aluminum a day and was increased from time to time until 
the daily dose^was 0.298 gram * (4.599 grains) of aluminum for each 
man. The sdqohd group ran from January 14 to May 10. Tests 
were made with the residue from alum bfl(king powder; tests were 
also made with certain aluminum compounds (aluminum hydroxide 
and aluminum chloride) which may be found in the residues from 
alum baking powders of different kinds, and with sodium sulphate^ 
the purgative salt left in bread by alum baking powders. Ihe 
smallest dose of the compounds containing aluminum gave each man 
0.227 gram ' (3.503 grains) of aluminum a day, .while the larg^t dose 
gave 0.969 gram * (14.954 grains) of aluminum a (day. The dose of 
the purgative salt (sodium sulphate), in which there b no aluminum^ 

> Approximately cqalTaUnt to 3^ level teaspoonfuls of alum twkiog powder. Equlvalea . >o about 0.2S 
gram (3.44 grains) of aluminum. 

' Approximately equivalent to 4| level teaspopnfub of alum baking powder. 

■Approximately equivalent to &j\ level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. -These amounts of alum 
are equivalent to about 0.44 gram (6.8C grains), O.eTgraip (10.29 grains), and 1.11 grams (17.15 grains) of 
aluminum. 

* Editorial note: Sodium sulphate or Glauber's salt is a substance derived from the interaction of alum 
and baking soda in making bread with alum baking powdery and is of itself a cathartic, formerly much used 
medicinally. Cream of tartar baking powder, when used in bread, by a similar interaction produces a 
cathartic substance known as sodium tartrate. Phosphate baking powders when used In making bread 
produce a cathartic substance known as sod ium phosphate. Cream of tar tar and phosphate baking powders 
produce catharsis, similar to that produced by alum baking powders, when used in qaaatltiei. 

* Approximately equivalent to a level teaspoonftil of alum baking powder. 
'Approximately equivalent to 3 level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. 
'Approximately equivalent to 21 level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. 
'Approximately equivalent to 10 level teaspoonfuh of alum baking powd«. 



Page 55 



BULLETIN 103, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AQBICULTUBB. 



w«8 5«23 grams * (80.714 grains) per man per day. Following these 
experiments four men took 1 gram (15.433 grains) of aluminum a day 
each fol* several days,' and then their blood was tested to detect any 
aluminum that might be present in it. No aluminum was found in 
the blood. As a further indirect test to determine whether aluminum 
was resorbed, one man took for five days enough aluminum hydroxide 
to furnish 0.660 gram (10.186 grains) of aluminum a day and another 
took enough to give 0.540 gram (8.334 grains) a day for five days. 
The men were fed a diet of low and known phosphorus content and 
the excrementa analyzed for phosphorus, in order to detect, if {Pos- 
sible, signs of abstraction of this element from the tissues by resorbed 
aluminum. This test failed to demoiLstrate resorption of alummum, 

CONCLUSIONS OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTIGATORS. 

Dr. Ohittenden concludes from his experiments that small quan- 
tities of aluminum compounds, and even comparatively large 
quantities, when taken daily with the food, have no effect upon the 
general health and nutrition of the body. ''In other words," as he 
Slums up his conclusions, "aluminum compounds when used in foods — 
as in bread — in such quantities as were employed in - our experi- 
ments do not affect injuriously the nutritive value of such foods or 
render them injurious to health, so far as any evidence obtained in 
our experimental work indicates.'' 

Dr. Long, in concluding his report, calls attention to the fact that 
alum is rather generally used in the manufactiure of cucumber pickles. 
Thk is an old practice which had its origin in the household rather 
than in the factory and is still common in the household. The harden- 
ing effect of the alum is believed to help in keeping the pickles. In 
the factory the cucumbers are first soaked for several weeks in strong 
brine, then in fresh water overnight, this process being sometimes 
repeated. Then the cucumbers are put into an alum liquor in which 
the. weight of akim used is about one-fourth of 1 per cent of the weight 
of the cucumbers. The cucumbers and liquor are heated up to 120° 
or 140^ F., then cooled and allowed to stand for from 6 to 24 hours. 
Then comes a bath in fresh water and afterwards the final treat- 
ment with vinegar. The vinegar takes out some of the alum from 
the pickles, so that usually the alumJeft m them amounts to less than 
two-tenths of 1 per cent. 

Alum is also used in the preparation of maraschino cherries, and 
perhaps some other fruits. But the quantities of aluminum that 
inight be consumed either in pickles or in the fruits referred to are so 
small, compared with the quantities actually consumed in baking 
powders, that thestudj^ of afann baking powders may be taken to cover 
the entire field. 

>AI)0utoii*-aftli«iinM0fOlnb>ri\iflit. <8w*omt«^ p. t.) 
■ThUMRwpoodt to «OTroxtaMmy 10 hwl 1iM><Mwlliil» of >lnm baklhc powder. 



Page 56 



ALUM IN FOODS. (> 

Alum, as such, is not present in the food when eaten. In the 
process of baking, the alum and soda in baking powder break up and 
recombine into several compounds. One product is the carbonic acid 
gas, which does the work of leavening. This gas passes off, leaving 
in the bread an aluminum compound and a compound called sodium 
sulphate. Dr. Long concludes that the cathartic action of large resi- 
dues from the alum and soda combination — ^for instance, the residue 
left when the large dos0of alum, 4 grams ' (61.732 grains), was used — 
must be considered obj^tionable when administered daily. But this 
is much above the^oonsumption in actual practice, and amounts of 
alum not above 2 grams * (30.866 grains) a day — ^a liberal allowance — 
do not appear to be harmful in any practical sense. Since the quan- 
tities of aluminum compounds consumed with other foods are insig- 
nificant compared with the quantities consumed in foods prepared 
with baking powder, the findings from the study of baking powder 
residues must be hdd to cover all cases. Keeping in mind that the 
aluminum compounds actually in the food when consumed are <;om- 
paratively inert, Dr. Long dedares that "it can not be said that 
when mixed with foods in the small quantities actually considered 
necessary, they add a poisonous or deleterious substance, or injur- 
iously affect the quality of the food with which they are used.'' 

Dr. Taylor's conclusions agree in effect with those of his associates. 
He says, "We have had, unquestionably, evidences of the catharsis 
caused by the administration of large doses of baking powder." 
With the large doses used in his experiments, the stools are increased 
in weight and frequency, the movements are loose, and colic is apt 
to attend the evacuations. This condition is the result 'of sodium 
sulphate, which, though not an aluminum compound, is a residue of 
the alum baking powder. But with very largo doses of aluminum 
compounds occasional dry colic may also be noted. 

"I personally," says Dr. Taylor, "do not believe that it would bo 
healthful for anyone, in camp or out of camp, to live upon a diet of 
baking powder biscuits. I do not believe that the regular ingestion 
of sodium sulphate in doses of from 3.5 to 5 grams • (54 to 77 grains) 
per day, with the normal diet, resulting in distinct looseness of the 
bowels, is a procedure to be recommended. Prolonged administra- 
tion of saline cathartics even in small dose tends to leave behind a 
condition of constipation; and it is certainly the experience of the 
medical profession that the practice of the regular administration of 
saline cathartics is not to be recommended. This aspect of the ques- 
tion is of course not pecuhar to aluminum baking powder, but applies 
to all baking powders, since to a greater or less extent a saline cathartic 
remains as the residue of the reactions of all known "baking powders, 

> Approximately equivalent to 4j^ level teaspoonfals of alum taking powder. 
* Approximately equivalent to 2) level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. 
•One^tefath to one-sixth ounce of Olauber't salt. 



Page 57 



6 BULLETIN 103, U &. DEPARTMENT OF AGBICULTUSB. 

SB demonstrated m direct (eete with different baking {K>wders on 
human subjects.' ' There is no evidence in our results to mdicate that 
the occasionat and ordinary use of bread; biscuits, or cake prepared 
with alununum baking powder tends to injure the digestion. The 
amount of saline cathartic that would be ingested under conditions 
of normal diet would be very small: and would provoke no catharsis 
or symptoms of any kind." 

One other effect of ti^e administration of compounds of aluminum 
is noted by Dr Taylor, namely, a distinct decrease of phosphates in 
the urine and a corresponding hicrease of phosphates in the stools. 
But^the extent of this change is too alight for it to hate any material 
meaning or effect. 

€X>NCXUSIONS OF THE SBFEREE BOABD. 

With the results of these independent experiments agreeing so well,' 
the Referee Board were enabled to draw up a unanimous report, signed 
by all the members, namely: Ira Remsen, president of Johns Hop- 
l^SiB University, chairman; Russell H. Chittenden, professor of 
physiological chemistry in Yale University and director of the Shef- 
field Scientific School; John H. Long, professor of chemistry in the 
Northwestern Univeniity Medical School;, Alonzo E. Taylor, Benja- 
min Rush professor of physiolo^cal chemistry in the University of 
Pennsylvania; and Theobald Smith, professor of comparative path- 
ology in Harvard Univei^ty. 

In their report the board first define ibm uttderstaizding of the 
terms "smaB quantity" and ''large quantity," as appMed to fthmd 
powders, as follows; 



By the term "small quantity" We uxidentand such an amountaamaybeiligeMedin 
the nofmal cue of hiacaits, pastry, or othet articlea leavened nith baking powder, as 
these foods are practically utod la th« wHimry American family. Thie amoimt win 
not areaagiB mote than 25 to 75 milUgnnnH * (0.38 to 1.16 grains) of ^timim^m dAily 
for the days of consumption of such articUs. 

• ** We must not, however, be oblivious to the fact," savB Dr. Taylor, 
who conducted part of these investigations, ''that a saline cathartic 
residue results iram the reaction of every form of known baking pow- 
der now commonly emplo^red. The use of cream of tartar or ^taric 
acid bakins powder leaves in the alimentary tract a residue of tartrates 
which exhibit the action of a saline cathartic and of diuresis [excessive 
excretion of urine] as well. The so-caJled phosphate baking powder 
leaves as a residue of reaction sodium pnospnate, again a saline 
cathartic. And aluminum baking powder leaves as a residue of 
reaction sodiuin sulphate, a saline cathartic. Apparently therefore, 
at present at least, the use of baking powder is associated with the 
introduction into tne alimentary- tract of a certain amount of saline 
cathartic, the salt differing with the use of the particular type of 
baking powder." 

iThiils inOTfitma l tly •qnirahnt t»«a>-qBirtir to Uiwe^Mrtwiola i>y<i tWM!popnlBl«f ihaa iMJda^ 



Page 58 



ALUM IN FOODS. 



By the term "laige quantity '* we understand Buch an amount of aluixdnum as would 
be ingested only under very unusual conditions, as for example, where the flour con- 
eumption is mainly in tlic form yf biscuits or other articles leavened with aluminum 
baking powders. Tlus amount niay rcacli 150 to 200 milligrams * (2 31 to 3 09 grains) 
of aluminum per day A person subsisting mamly on baking-powder biscuits, as may 
happen in camp life, might ingest an amount in excess of 200 milligrams per day. 
With this possibility in mind, we have also studied the effects of amounts up to and 
exceeding l^OOO milligrams ' (15 4 grains^ of aluminum per day 

With this understanding of the terms, the board give the following 
answers to the questions subriittcd to them 

. Aluminum compounds when used in the form of baking powders in foods have not 
been found to affect injuriously the nutritive value of such foods 

Aluminum compounrls when added to foods in the form of baking powders, in small 
quantities, have not been found to contribute any poisonous or other deleterious effect 
wjiich may render the said food inj urious to health. The same holds true for the amount 
of aluminum which may be included in the ordinary consumption of aluminum 
baking ptowders furnishing up to 150 milligrams (2 31 grains) of aluminum daily. 

Aluminum compounds when added to foods, in the form of baki^ig powders, in large 
quantities, up to 200 milligrams (3 09 grains) or more per day, may provoke mild 
catharsis 

Very large quantities of aluminum taker with foods in the form of baking powders 
usually provoke catharsis This action of aluminum baking powders is due to the 
sodium sulphate which results from the reaction 

The aluminum itself has not been found to exert any deleterious action injurious 
to health, beyond the production of occasional colic when very large amounts have 
been ingested. 

When aluminum compounds are mixed or packed with a food, the quality or strength 
of said food has not been found to be thereby reduced, lowered, or injuriously affected. 

In short, the board conclude that alum baking powders are no 
more harmful than any other baking powders, but that it is wise 
to be moderate in the use of foods that are leavened with baking 
powder.* 

> This is approximately equivalent to 1} to 2 level teaspoonfols alum baking powder. 
•Approximately equivalent to 10 level teaspoonfuls alum baking powder. 
•See footnotes, pages 3 and 0. 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

or THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PKOCUKED rBOM 

THE SVPERINTEMDENT OF DOCUMEHTS 

OOVERNMENT PIUNTIKO OmCI 

WASlllNOTOM, D. C. 

AT 

« CENTS PER COPY 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



?r^.!^^5^ir?» R PrixottO 



APR 11 1919 



BAKING POWDER 



A Healthful 
Convenient, Leavening 

Agent 



By 

Thomas G. Atkinson, B.Sc. (Lend.) , M.D., L.R.C.P. 

(Lond.) 

Professor of Physiology, Jenner Medical College, Chicago, 

Illinois; Formerly Professor of Physiology and 

Physiological Chemistry, Chicago College of 

Medicine and Surgery, and in the American 

Medical College, St. Louis, Missouri. 

Staff Editor American Journal of 

Clinical Medicine, 



THE COMMONWEALTH PRESS 
Publishers of School Books 



CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 






Copyright 1915 
Thomas G. Atkinson, B. Sc, M. D. 



&,-n <,| r.M.-i'-hAti 



> <* d 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Pages 

Chapter I. Introduction 1-2 

Leavening Agents. Disadvantages of Yeast. Advantages of 
Baking Powders. Soiy"ces of Carbon Dioxid. 

Chapter II. The Ingredients of Baking Powder 3-13 

Soda. Ammonium Carbonate. Magnesium Carbonate, 
other Substances Necessary. The Acid Substance. Tartaric 
Acid and Cream of Tartar. Acid Phosphate. "Alum." 
Starch. White of Eggs. 

Chapter III. Choice of an "Acid" Ingredient. . 14-26 

Apparent Difference in Baking Powders. Chemical Action. 
Amount of Gas Set Free. The Amount of the Residues. The 
Healthfulness of the Residues. Keeping Qualities. Speed of 
Action. Properly Balanced Action. 

\ 

Chapter IV. The Manufacture and Use of Bak- 
ing Powder 27-33 

Manufacturing Appliances. The Use of Baking Powder. 
How to Measure. Care of Baking Powder. Self -Rising 
Flour. 

Chapter V. The Determination of Available 

Carbon Dioxid 35-39 

Harrison's Method. Absorption Method. 

Chapter VI. Conclusion 40-41 

Cost of Baking Powder. Baking Powder a Necessity. 

Questions 42-45 

Answers 46-51 

Appendix 52-58 

Photographic reproduction of Bulletin No. 103, United States 
Department of Agriculture, Contribution from the Referee 
Board of Consulting Scientific Experts. Ira Remsen, 
Chairman. 



887343 



Domestic Science I'ext Book Page i 

CHAPTER I 

IJEAVENING AGENTS 

THE common leavening agents in use in the home 
are yeast and baking powder. Yeast is a 
microscopic plant which, in the leavening process, 
produces changes which finally result in the breaking 
up of sugars into alcohol and carbon dioxid gas. 
Baking Powder is a mixture of several substances 
which produce this same gas by chemical action. This 
gas, by forming in small bubbles throughout the dough 
mass, lightens or leavens it. Carbon dioxid gas is 
sonjetimes called carbonic acid gas. This is the gas 
which is present in all carbonated waters, whether 
natiu'al or artificial, as in soda fountain waters. 

DISADVANTAGES OF YEAST 

IN the case of yeast, the fermentation which produces 
the gas is never of a single kind, as many different 
fermentations are going on at the same time. It is 
impossible, commercially, to control these different 
fermentations so that they will always exist in the same 
proportions ; hence, we find that the flavors from differ- 
ent bakings vary greatly and are sometimes objection- 
able. Moreover, several hours must be allowed for the 
process of fermentation before the food can be placed 
in the oven. Fermentation does not take place readily 
in the presence of large quantities of butter, lard or 
eggs. 



Page 2 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

ADVANTAGES OF BAKING POWDER 

WITH a properly compounded baking powder, 
on the other hand, the chemical reaction will 
always be the same, and any influence which it may 
exert upon the flavors of the finished food will always 
be the same. Baking powder has, moreover, these two 
further advantages over yeast : The gas is given off at 
once upon the addition of water or in the oven during the 
heating; there is no waiting. And the presence of but- 
ter, lard or eggs does not hinder the chemical action. 

The leavening, from whichever source, is always 
the result of the same gas, carbon dioxid, and in the 
study of baking powder we are interested in learning 
how this gas is produced by chemical action. 

SOURCES OF CARBON DIOXID 

CARBON dioxid is found in nature combined 
chemically with many metals, and these combina- 
tions are known as salts of carbonic acid, or more 
commonly as carbonates. Those with which one is 
most familiar are chalk, marble and limestone, all of 
which are different forms of calcium carbonate. If 
any of these are heated to a very high temperature, 
carbon dioxid gas is set free and lime remains; but 
this very high temperature is never reached in baking. 
Baking soda is another carbonate with which all are 
familiar. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 3 

CHAPTER II 

THE INGREDIENTS OF BAKING POWDER 

SODA 

SODA is the carbonate which is used at home for 
cooking purposes; it is also commonly known as 
saleratus, or baking soda. This is the carbonate used 
almost exclusively in the manufacture of baking pow- 
der and always named on the label as soda. It is some- 
times referred to as the alkali of the baking powder. 
It is a white crystalline substance of very high piu-ity, 
being as free from impurities as the granulated sugar 
used at the table. It is manufactiu-ed from common 
salt through the action af acid ammonium carbonate. 

The reaction is represented by the following equa- 
tion: 

NaCl + NH^ HCO3 = NaH CO3 + NH, CI 
Salt Acid Ammonium Soda Ammonium 
Carbonate Chloride 

Soda, when heated, readily gives off carbon dioxid 
gas, and hence may be, and often is, used in cooking 
without the addition of any other substance for the 
purpose of leavening. The heat, however, does not 
drive off all of the gas. The reaction which takes place 
is represented by the following formula: 

2NaHC03 = Na^COe + H^O + CO^ 
Soda Normal Sodium Water Carbon 

Carbonate Dioxid 



Page 4 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

The residue of. normal sodium carbonate thus left 
in the bread gives it a disagreeable, alkaline taste, and 
also colors the bread an objectionable yellow; hence, 
soda by itself is unsatisfactory for use as a leavening 
agent. 



AMM03^^IUM CARBONATE 

AMMONIUM carbonate has been sometimes used 
as a leavening agent. This, upon being heated, 
breaks up into two different gases, ammonia gas and 
carbon dioxid gas. Some of the ammonia gas remains 
in the bread when cooked; therefore, its use in baking 
powder has been almost entirely discontinued. 



MAGNESIUM CARBONATE 

MAGNESIUM carbonate is the only other sub- 
stance at present used for the purpose of furn- 
ishing carbon dioxid gas. The heat of the oven is not 
sufficient in this case to cause all the gas to be set free. 
Magnesium carbonate is a very light powder. One 
pound will occupy as much space as six pounds of 
soda. The purpose of those who use this ingredient in 
the manufacture of baking powder is mainly to add to 
the bulk of the powder and thus make the thoughtless 
purchaser believe she is getting more for her money. 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 5 

OTHER SUBSTANCES NECESSARY 

IT will be seen from what has just been said, that 
none of these carbonates are, of themselves alone, 
satisfactory for baking purposes. Something else is 
necessary. 

If one has ever dropped a little vinegar on some 
soda, he has noticed that a gas was set free. This is 
carbon dioxid gas. Vinegar contains an acid, acetic 
acid, and it is the action of this acid upon the soda that 
sets free the gas. Any soluble acid will have this same 
action on soda, hence, if we unite such an acid with 
the carbonate, soda, we have the necessary substances 
with which to produce carbon dioxid gas. 



THE ACID SUBSTANCE 

FOR the making of baking powder, both acid and 
carbonate, however, must be dry substances, and 
not liquid, as acetic acid or vinegar is. The acid should 
also dissolve in water. There are many such dry acids, 
most of them organic substances. Citric acid, the prin- 
cipal acid contained in lemons, is one of these. Tar- 
taric acid is another. 

Beside the true acids, there are some salts which 
have an acid nature and which are called acid salts. 
Of these, calcium acid phosphate, commonly called acid 
phosphate, is one, and potassium acid tartrate, com- 



Page 6 Domestic Science Text Book 

\ 

monly known as cream of tartar, is another. There 
are some salts which are not acid salts (inasmuch as 
all of the hydrogen atoms of the acid have been re- 
placed by a metal ) which nevertheless act as very weak 
acids. The most common of these is sodium aluminum 
sulphate, sometimes called "Alum." 

Any of these three kinds of substances, the acid, the 
acid salt, or the salt with acid properties, acts upon soda 
and sets free carbon dioxid gas. The action takes place 
almost as quickly as the "acid" or salt dissolves. These 
substances just mentioned, acid phosphate, "alum," 
tartaric acid and cream of tartar, together with the 
soda, are the active principles in baking powder. In 
addition to these there is generally a quantity of starch 
and sometimes dried white of egg. Soda has been stud- 
ied. The other substances must now be considered. 



TARTARIC ACID AND CREAM OF TARTAR 

TARTARIC acid is manufactured from Argol, 
which is the sediment that separates out at the 
bottom of the wine vat during the fermentation. This 
substance is colored by the color from the grapes, and 
is a mixture of tartaric acid, calcium tartrate, cream of 
tartar and all kinds of organic impurities. This mix- 
ture is dissolved in water, precipitated with powdered 
chalk and calcium chloride, filtered and then the pre- 
cipitated calcium tartrate is dissolved in sulphuric acid. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 7 

This solution is again filtered and treated with some 
decolorizing agent, such as bone black or infusorial 
earth, and the subsequent clear, colorless solution evap- 
orated and the tartaric acid allowed to crystallize. 
Cream of tartar is also obtained from the same sedi- 
ment, Argol. It is decolorized by heating with animal 
charcoal filtered and recrystallized. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

CALCIUM Add Phosphate is prepared from the 
same source as is much of the "Phosphate," used 
at soda fountains. The bones from healthy cattle are 
heated in large revolving cylinders until they are thor- 
oughly charred. In this condition the mass is black 
and is known as bone black, although in reality it con- 
sists of both calciimi phosphate and charcoal. This 
substance is used to decolorize the juices of the cane in 
the manufacture of cane sugar. In the manufacture 
of phosphate it is again heated to a very high tempera- 
ture whereby all charcoal is burned off and only the 
calcium phosphate remains. This is then dissolved in 
dilute sulphuric acid and the calcium acid phosphate 
thereby obtained, purified by filtration. It is then fur- 
ther purified, concentrated, crystallized, and dried to a 
white powder. 

A more recent process is the manufacture of phos- 
phate for food purposes from phosphate rock. This 



Page 8 Domestic Science ^ext Book 

material was not formerly used on account of the great 
difficulty of excluding from the finished acid phosphate 
the harmful impurities, fluorides, always found in the 
rock. Bone phosphate is the better on this account and 
is always used by the careful manufacturer of high- 
grade baking powder. 

Calcium acid phosphate for baking powder is pre- 
pared in two degrees of fineness, powdered and granu- 
lar. The granular* is much more expensive but has 
the great advantage of making a baking powder that 
will keep longer than one made from powdered phos- 
phate. 

"ALUM'' 

THE so-called "Alum" used in baking powder is 
not the alum which is sold at the drug store by 
that name. The common alima of trade, which is also 
used as medicine, contains potassium, an element that 
is toxic in very small quantities, and water of crystal- 
lization; it is, in fact, potassium alimainum sulphate, 
combined with water of crystallization, K Al (804)2 
12(H20). The so-called "alimi" of baking powder 
is a different thing and is more properly named 
sodium aluminum sulphate, being a mixture of sodiima 
sulphate and alimainum sulphate, both of them harm- 



*The acid phosphate as found in Calumet Baking Powder is 
of the granular type. 



Domestic Science l!ext Book Page 9 

less and non-toxic. It contains neither potassium nor 
water of crystallization. The term alimi has been 
used for this article on baking powder labels at the 
request of some food commissioners who felt that this 
word would be better understood by the conmion people 
as showing in a general way the character of the sub- 
stance. Unfortunately, it has largely had the very dif- 
ferent effect of misleading the public into the erroneous 
idea that it actually is the alum of commerce and of 
medicine — a mistake of which certain manufacturers 
have not failed to take advantage in decrying baking 
powders containing alum. 

It is prepared by mixing solutions of the two sul- 
phates, sodium sulphate and aluminum sulphate, con- 
centrating the mixture and fusing the resulting dried 
mass. This leaves a mixture which for our present pur- 
poses we may designate by the formula : 

Na Al (SOJ2 

Sodium Alununum Sulphate 

There is no potassiimi in this substance at all, as there 
is in the common alimi, and no ammonia as in the less 
common ammonium alum. 



Page 10 Domestic Science T'ext Book 

STARCH 

WE also find that besides the soda and "acid," 
starch is used in baking powder. This starch 
is corn starch of the highest grade of purity and spe- 
cially prepared for food purposes. 

The starch serves three purposes, two of which play 
an important part in keeping the baking powder from 
spoiling, while the third adds to the efficiency of its 
use. 

First: It separates the soda from the acid or acid 
acting salt and thus by mechanically separating them 
retards such chemical action as could be brought about 
by moisture. The air is never dry. It always contains 
moisture. This is very noticeable on rainy days, but 
it escapes attention in fair weather. Not only is carbon 
dioxid set free when water or milk is poured on the 
baking powder, but even the moisture in the air gradu- 
ally causes the change. Moistiu-e from any source thus 
spoils the powder. 

Second: Starch absorbs water and thus prevents 
moisture from bringing the active ingredients in con- 
tact with each other. In this way it aids materially 
in keeping the powder from spoiling. Starch is, for 
these reasons, a necessary ingredient of baking powders, 
and most especially necessary in the case of straight 
phosphate powders, which, even when starch is present, 
deteriorate very rapidly. 



Domestic Science Text Book Page n 

Third: Starch also dilutes the strength of the bak- 
ing powder, so that it may be made to produce the 
amount of gas desired for efficiency and for conven- 
ience in household methods of measuremerit. 

The laws of a few States require that a baking pow- 
der shall produce at least 10% of its weight of carbon 
dioxid gas. Almost all baking powders are made 
stronger than this. The majority of those upon the 
market yield 12% of gas, while the best produce be- 
tween 14% and 15%. 

WHITE OF EGGS* 

THERE is one ingredient mentioned above, as 
being sometimes used in baking powder, which 
has not yet been discussed. That is Dried White of 
Eggs, sometimes called egg albumen. It is prepared 
by drying the white of fresh hens' eggs at a low tem- 
perature, and then grinding to a fine powder. Fourteen 
pounds of whole eggs will produce about one pound of 
this dry powder. It dissolves easily in cold water and 
the viscous, egg-white nature of this solution holds the 
bubbles of gas as they are set free from the baking 
powder. White of eggs is used by many manufac- 
turers of baking powder. This increases the efficiency 
of the carbon dioxid gas evolved by a baking powder to 
an extent of 2.5% to 3.2% when used in strong baking 



*Calumet and Crescent Baking Powders are the two most 
widely known that contain white of eggs. It is used in about thirty 
different brands of baking powder. 



Page 12 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

powders. It is extremely beneficial in producing light 
biscuits when the oven temperatures are not properly 
controlled or when the dough has to stand for some 
time before baking. 

The amount of dried white of eggs used in baking 
powders is very small, being 15/100 of 1%. Even in 
this small proportion it has the effect above mentioned. 
It also makes possible a simple test whereby the fresh- 
ness of baking powder may be determined, by the sales- 
man in testing the stock upon the retailers' shelves, by 
the grocer himself, or by the housewife in the home. 
Both the increase in lightness and the possibility of the 
test are due to the viscous nature of the white of eggs, 
whereby the bubbles of gas are imprisoned as soon as 
they are set free by chemical action. This test is de- 
scribed by one manufacturer as follows : 

"First take an ordinary drinking glass holding one 
half pint, or in other words, the quantity that is usually 
known in the household as *^one cupful." All that is 
needed is this empty glass, which must be dry, aft ordi- 
nary teaspoon and a little water of the ordinary room 
temperature (not ice water nor hot water.) Place 2 
level teaspoonsful of the powder in the dry glass, to 
which add the same quantity ( 2 teaspoonsful ) of water 
quickly; stir rapidly for a moment (while counting 
five), just long enough to thoroughly moisten the pow- 
der; remove the spoon and watch the mixture rise. 
Note the action of the powder. It rises slowly and 



Domestic Science l!ext Book Page 13 

evenly, requiring 2 minutes to show the full strength. 
If the powder is of full strength, and you have pro- 
ceeded property, the gas released will form bubbles suf- 
ficient to half fill the glass. 

"Caution: — Don't attempt to make the mixture rise by continued 
stirring, as whipping or beating the mixture breaks the gas bubbles 
that are formed and allows the gas to escape. Allow the powder 
to rise of its own strength/*. 

Manufacturers make the following use of this test. 
Whenever complaints are made to the grocer or when 
goods appear to have been stored in damp places, or 
too near the stove, the salesman tests the baking pow- 
der as above described and if it is found to have deterior- 
ated, it is at once exchanged for fresh goods without 
cost to the retailer.* Without this simjple test it would 
be necessary to send the goods complained of to the 
factory for chemical analysis. As a result of such tests 
by the salesmen, deteriorated goods may be entirely 
removed from the market so that the consumer will 
never receive a baking powder which does not do its 
work perfectly. Of course, the above test cannot he 
made unless the white of eggs is present. 



*The Calumet Baking Powder Company, more than any other 
company, uses this method in testing its goods on the grocer's shelf 
to keep its powder in perfect condition. 



Pa^ 14 Domestic Science T'ext Book 

CHAPTER III 

CHOICE OF AN "ACID" INGREDIENT 

IT has been seen that there are several different sub- 
stances available to set the carbon dioxid gas free 
from the soda, but the question arises, "How shall one 
decide which is best for that purpose?" 

APPARENT DIFFERENCE IN BAKING 

POWDERS 

THE principal difference between different baking 
powders is in the "acid" used, some containing 
one, some another and some a combination of two of 
these "acids." This difference is apparent to anyone 
reading the labels. All the ingredients are named there. 

The first things to consider are: 

( 1 ) Which is the most healthful ? 

( 2 ) Which will set free the most gas ? 

( 3 ) Which will make a powder that will keep best ? 

(4) And, which gives off its gas at a speed best 
adapted for cooking purposes ? 

The study of the first two of these questions involves 
a knowledge of chemical action that takes place be- 
tween each of the "Acids" and the soda. From the 
chemical equation we can determine just how much of 



Domestic Science Text Book Page 15 

the "acid" ingredient is necessary to set free all the 
gas from the soda and also just how much gas is set 
free, and just how much soluble residue is left from the 
reaction. 



CHEMICAL ACTION 

THE following equations show the formulae of the 
"acids" and soda, and of the substances produced 
by the chemical reaction. Underneath each formula is 
the name of the substance. Underneath each name is 
the number of parts by weight that react or result from 
the chemical reaction. Underneath these is given the 
per cent of soluble residue and the per cent of carbon 
dioxid gas produced. 



Tartaric 


Soda 


i-^ 0-2 ^^4 ■■■■■■ 4 ^^6 

Sodium 


Carbon 


^xA2V^ 

Water 


Acid 




Tartrate 


Dioxid 




160 


168 


194 
61% 


88 

27.7% 


36 



KHC4H4O0 + NaHCOg = KNa C^H^Oe + CO2 + Hfi 
Cream of Soda Roehelle Salts Carbon Water 

Tartar Dioxid 

188 84 210 44 18 

77.2% 16.2% 



Page 16 



Domestic Science l!ext Book 



8CaH4(POj2 + 8NaHC03 = Ca3(POj2 + 4Na2HPO^ + SCOj 



Calcium Acid 


Soda 


Calcium 


DiSodium 


Carbon 


Phosphate 




Phosphate 


Phosphate 


Dioxid 


702 


672 


810 


568 
41.8% 


852 

25.6% 




+ 


8H2O (Water), 


144. 





2NaAl(SOj2 + 6NaHC03 
"Alum" Soda 



484 



504 



= 2Al(OH)3 + 4Na2S04 + eCO^ 

Aluminum Sodium 'Carbon 

Hydrate Sulphate Dioxid 

156 568 264 

57.5% 26.7% 



The amount of "acid" and soda given in each ease 
show the proportions by weight in which they should 
be mixed to make the best baking powder. If more 
"acid'' is used just that much "acid" would be left in 
the food unchanged. If more soda were used, just 
that amount would be unacted on by the "acid" and 
would leave the food alkaline and yellow. 

Put in words, the above equations represent the chem- 
ical action as follows: 

One hundred and fifty parts by weight of tartaric 
acid act upon 168 parts by weight of soda. Both com- 
pounds are completely changed and there is formed 194 
parts of sodium tartrate, 88 parts of carbon dioxid gas 
and 36 parts of water. The weight of the sodium tar- 
trate is 61% of the sum of the weights of tartaric acid 
and soda, and the carbon dioxid is 27.7%. 



Domestic Science T'ext Book Page i? 

One hundred and eighty-eight parts of cream of tar- 
tar act upon 84 parts of soda. Both compounds are 
completely changed and there is formed 210 parts of 
Rochelle Salts, 44 parts of carbon dioxid gas and 18 
parts of water. The weight of the Rochelle Salts 
formed is 77.2% of the sum of the weight of cream of 
tartar and soda, and the weight of the carbon dioxid 
gas is 16.2%. 

Seven hundred and two parts by weight of acid phos- 
phate act upon 672 parts of soda. Both compounds 
are completely changed and there is formed 310 parts 
of insoluble calcium phosphate, 568 parts of sodium 
phosphate, 352 parts of carbon dioxid gas and 144 
parts of water. The weight of the soluble sodium phos- 
phate is 41.3% of the sum of the weights of the acid 
phosphate and soda, and the carbon dioxid gas is 25.6%. 

Four hundred and eighty-four parts by weight of 
"alum" act upon 504 parts by weight of soda. Both 
compounds are completely changed. There is no "alum" 
. and no soda left. There is fonned 156 parts of insoluble 
aluminum hydrate, 568 parts of sodium sulphate and 
264 parts of carbon dioxid gas. The weight of sodium 
sulphate is 57.5% of the weight of "alum" and soda 
and the carbon dioxid gas is 26.7%. 

The above chemical actions show what takes place 
between the "acid" substance and the soda. The per- 
centages given show how much soluble residue would 
be left and how much gas produced if a baking powder 
were made without adding any other substance. 



Page 18 Domestic Science T!ext Book 

AMOUNT OF GAS SET FREE 

THE different "acids" with soda set free the fol- 
lowing amounts of gas : 

Tartaric acid 27.7% 

"Alum". 26.7% 

Acid phosphate 25.6% 

Cream of tartar 16.2% 

Each one produces more gas than is desired for ordi- 
nary household purposes and methods of measurement. 
In fact, another substance,* starch, is added, which plays 
no part in the production of gas but in the presence 
of which the same weight of the mixtiu-e produces less 
gas than before. Enough starch is generally added to 
reduce the gas strength of the powder to between 12% 
and 15%. The amount of gas that can be produced 
by an "acid" acting on soda gives us no information 
as to the strength of a baking powder containing that 
"acid," for the reason that starch is always added, and 
in different proportions by every manufacturer. (There 
is one baking powder sold in the dry, mountain States 
that contains no starch. ) 

THE AMOUNT OF THE RESIDUES 

THE per cent of soluble residue shown in the pre- 
ceding equations by the different "acids" acting 
on soda, are as follows: 

"Acid" Soluble Residue 

Acid phosphate 41.3% Sodium acid phosphate 

"Alum" 67.6% Sodium sulphate 

Tartaric acid 61.0% Sodium tartrate 

Cream of tartar 77.2% Rochelle salts 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 19 

Inasmuch as the powders always contain added 
starch* and are reduced in gas strength, a fairer com- 
parison of the amount of the different residues may be 
obtained if one compares the amounts of soluble resi- 
due left from the different kinds of powders of the 
same gas strength. The following table shows the 
number of parts by weight of soluble residue produced 
by 100 parts of a baking powder that would produce 
12% of gas. 

Kind of Powder Residue 

Acid phosphate tt 19.4 parts Sodium acid phosphate 

**Alum"** 25.8 parts Sodium sulphate 

Tartaric acid 26.4 parts Sodium tartrate 

Cream of tartarf 67.2 parts Rochelle salts 

This shows that Cream of Tartar powders, or the 
mixture of Cream of Tartar and Soda used in many 
households, leaves more than twice as much objection- 
able residue as any other kind of baking powder for 
the same amount of leavening. 

THE HEALTHFULNESS OF THE 

RESIDUES 

THE healthfulness of these substances is discussed 
in Bulletin No. 103 of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, professional paper, entitled "Alum 

*Shillings' is a baking powder that does not contain starch. 

**Bon Bon and Good Luck are types of baking powder con- 
taining only "alum" as an acid ingredient. 

tThe principal powders leaving Rochelle salts in the food are 
Cleveland, Royal, Price's and Shillings'. 

ttRumford baking powder is the most prominent of this class. 



Page 20 Domestic Science l!ext Book 

in Foods/* this being the decision of the Referee Board 
after a long extended investigation. The members of 
this board were selected by the President of the United 
States because their high scientific knowledge, the 
eminent positions they occupy, and the complete facil- 
ities for investigation at their command, were such as 
to render their conclusions respect-impelling and 
final. The following are a few quotations from the 
report : 

"Alum, as such, is not present in the food when 
eaten." 

"There is no evidence in our results to indicate that 
the occasional and ordinary use of bread, biscuits, or 
cake prepared with aluminum baking powder tends to 
injure the digestion. The amount of saline cathartic 
that would be ingested under conditions of normal diet 
would be very small and would provoke no catharsis 
or symptoms of any kind." 

"In short, the board conclude that alum baking 
powders are no more harmful than any other baking 
powders." 

"We must not, however, be oblivious to the fact," 
says Dr. Taylor, who conducted part of these investiga- 
tions, "that a saline cathartic residue results from the 
reaction of every form of known baking powder now 
commonly employed. The use of cream of tartar or 
tartaric add baking powder leaves in the alimentary 
tract a residue of tartrates which exhibit the action of 



Domestic Science ^ext Book Page 21 

a saline cathartic and of diuresis (excessive excretion 
of urine) as well. The so-called phosphate baking 
powder leaves as a residue of reaction sodium 
phosphate, again a saline cathartic. And aluminum 
baking powder leaves as a residue of reaction sodium 
sulphate, a saline cathartic. Apparently, therefore, at 
present at least, the use of baking powder is associated 
with the introduction into the alimentary tract of a 
certain amount of saline cathartic, the salt differing 

with the use of the particular type of baking powder." 

I 

This last paragraph from the report shows the char- 
acter of the residues from the different kinds of powder 
to be as follows: 

Kind of Powder Character of Residue 

"Alum" Cathartic 

Phosphate Cathartic 

Cathartic 

Cream of tartar • and 

' Diuretic 

If one uses 9 grams of a 12% baking powder to a 
pint of flour and makes therefrom 8 biscuits, then the 
number of such biscuits that it would be necessary to 
eat to take in the food enough of the residue from dif- 
ferent powders to equal the minimum dose as given in 
the U. S. Dispensatory is shown by the following table: 



Dose in Grams 


Kind of Powder 


No, Biscuits 


31.1 
15.5 
17.7 


Phosphate 

"Alum" 

Cream of tartar 


142 
58 

28 



Page 22 Domestic Science ^ext Book 

From the above facts it will readily be seen that 
there is no basis in fact for the continual advertise- 
ment by the manufacturers of cream of tartar baking 
powder that alum baking powders are injurious, and 
that the cry against "alum'' is merely an unjustified 
appeal to the desire for health in order to sell their 
own baking powder, which produces riot only cartharsis 
but diuresis as well. 

It is this latter effect which is most worthy of re- 
mark and study, for it indicates (whait is, indeed, the 
fact) that the tartrates are absorbed into the blood and 
excreted through the kidneys, while sodium sulphate 
exercises what slight action it has upon the intestinal 
tract alone. 

The quantity of residue in either case is so small, 
as shown by the above table, that its effect upon the 
body is probably inconsiderable and in this respect alone 
the "alum" powder would have the advantage, even 
if the residue were identical, since its residue, having 
regard to its dosage, is only about one-half that of the 
tartar powder. 

But in quality the difference is still more marked. 
Recent experiments* have shown that tartrates, in 
larger quantities, have an injurious effect upon the 
kidneys, often causing nephritis. Whether small, con- 
tinued doses have a proportionately mischievous effect, 
is still a matter for investigation. Certainly no such 
action has been ascribed to the non-toxic sodium sul- 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 23 

phate. Whatever question, therefore, may yet remain 
as to the healthfulness of the respective residues is 
plainly in favor of the "alum" product. 



* Journal American Medical Association, Vol. LXII, No. 8, Feb. 
21, 1914, p. 616. Underbill, F. P.: The Influence of Tartrates on 
Pblorhizin Diabetes, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol, and Med., 1912, IX, 
123; The Influence of Sodium Tartrate on the Elimination of 
Certain Urinary Constituents During Pblorhizin Diabetes, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 1912, XII, 116. Underbill, F. P.; Wells, H. G., and 
Goldscbmidt, S.: Tartrate Nephritis, with Especial Reference to 
Some of the Conditions Under Which It May Be Produced, Jour. 
Exper. Med., 1913, XVIII, 322. Salant, W., and Smith, C. S.: 
The Toxicity of Sodium Tartrate, with Special Reference to Diet 
and Tolerance, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol, and Med., 1913, X, 170. 
Pearce, R. M., and Ringer, A. I.: A Study of Experimental 
Nephritis Caused by the Salts of Tartaric Acid, Jour. Med. Re- 
search, 1913, XXIX, 57. 

Added Potassium Salts in Food, A. Cressy, Morrison, N. Y. 



KEEPING QUALITIES. 

ATTENTION has already been called to the fact 
that the chemical action which sets free the car- 
bon dioxid gas and which should take place only in 
the dough, is in fact brought about to some extent by 
the moisture of the air. We have also seen that the 
starch present aided in two different ways in retarding 
such action. The "acid" used is also a very important 
element effecting the keeping qualities of a baking 
powder. Baking Powders in which acid phosphate is 
the only "acid" ingredient, spoil most rapidly. There 
is a comparatively small amount of this kind of baking 



Page 24 Domestzc Science ^ext Book 

powder on the market because of this fact. The house- 
wife cannot depend on the goods being of proper 
strength when the goods are purchased. When pur- 
chased in the best condition, they are liable to deteriorate 
to an inefficient mass, even in the home, before the 
contents of the can are entirely used. Deterioration of 
any baking powder is often marked by caking or the 
formation of lumps. Cream of Tartar Baking Powder 
has good keeping qualities, but the powders containing 
"alum" keep best of all. 

SPEED OF ACTION 

THE total amount of gas from a baking powder 
may be produced either immediately on the addi- 
tion of cold water, or only after a long time and after 
application of heat. This is because the "acid" dis- 
solves more quickly or more slowly in water. The 
amount of gas that is given off quickly before the mix 
is placed in the oven can be shown in the following 
manner : 

Three level teaspoonsful of baking powder are placed 
in a glass, a little white of egg added, and three tea- 
spoonsful of water added. The whole is then immedi- 
ately stirred until all of the baking powder is moistened. 
If this is done with the "alum" baking powder it will 
be foxmd that very little gas is given off. A powder 
in which phosphate is the only "acid" ingredient acts 
very quickly as does also one containing tartaric acid 
or cream of tartar. The speed of action or the amount 



Domestic Science ^ext Book Page 25 

of gas thus given off is very important with reference 
to the handling of the baking. 

A baking powder that gives off nearly all of its gas 
in the cold, as does a straight phosphate or a tartaric 
acid and a cream of tartar baking powder will produce 
a large dough biscuit before being placed in the oven. 
The dough in this case is already much distended and 
the gluten of the flour will not hold much more gas 
without breaking and allowing the gas to escape. Prac- 
tically all of the gas has been set free before it is placed 
in the oven. If placed in an oven of a low temperature, 
any jarring of the floor or slamming of the door of 
the oven is likely to cause a fallen cake. This danger 
applies especially to straight phosphate and to cream 
of tartar and tartaric acid powders. 

Note. — Most of the widely advertised "pure cream 
of tartar" baking powders contain tartaric acid.* 

On the other hand a biscuit prepared from a straight 
"alum" powder which gives off almost none of its gas 
in the cold, would produce a flat dough biscuit, which, 
if placed in the oven, would have very little surface 
upon which the heat could act to penetrate the soggy 
mass and cause the powder to set its gas free. As a 
result, if placed in a very hot oven, the high tempera- 



*Clevelaiid, Royal and Price Baking Powders contain tartaric 
acid. Shillings' is a straight cream of tartar powder. 



Page 2« Domestic Science Text Book 

ture would crust the outside of the biscuit before the 
gas had been liberated, thus resulting in small, heavy, 
poorly leavened biscuits. 

PROPERLY BALANCED ACTION 

A STUDY of the keeping qualities and of the speed 
of action has resulted in the production of baking 
powders containing a combination of two of these 
"acids." The most notable are those containing phos- 
phate and "alum." The aim has been to produce a 
baking powder with a correctly balanced action, giving 
off a proper amount of gas in the cold, with a sufficiently 
large amount of gas that will only be given off on 
heating the mix in the oven, and, at the same time, a 
powder that will not easily spoil. As a result of such 
consideration and extensive experiments, baking pow- 
ders have been produced superior to any made with a 
single "acid" ingredient. Properly proportioned pow- 
ders, of the "phosphate-alum" type, are not only the 
best in keeping quality, but, when they contain sufficient 
phosphate,* have also the best balanced speed of action, 
and insure the housewife against the dangers either of 
fallen biscuits on the one hand or of biscuits which 
have crusted over too quickly to obtain the desired 
lightness, on the other hand. 



'Calujnet Baking Powder is the principal powder of this type. 



Domestic Science Text Book rage 27 

CHAPTER IV 

THE MANUFACTURE AND USE OF 

BAKING POWDER 

THE manufacture of the different ingredients nec- 
essary to make a good baking powder has now 
been considered. The manufacture of baking powder 
itself begins with the ingredients as they are received 
from the different manufacturers. There is a general 
impression that the manufacture of baking powder con- 
sists of merely weighing out and mixing the different 
ingredients. This opinion is shared by most of the small, 
and even by some of the large manufacturers. It is, 
however, far from the truth. 

The manufacture of baking powder requires the 
greatest care and most thorough chemical supervision. 
A perfect baking powder cannqt be made by one who 
relies upon the manufacturer of the ingredients to 
always furnish him goods of the same purity, the same 
dryness, or the same strength. 

In the studv of chemical action it was seen that where 
a certain weight of soda was used, a fixed amount of 
the acid ingredient was necessary to set free all the 
gas. If more acid were used, just that much acid would 
be left unchanged in the finished food. If- less acid 
were used, then to that extent there would remain soda 
(or sodium carbonate, an alkaline residue), rendering 
the food yellow and disagreeable to the taste. The 



Page 28 DotTiestic Sczence T'ext Book 

excess of acid is especially undesirable on account of 
the physiological effect of such soluble substances. 
Accordingly, the first work of a manufacturer of baking 
powder is to test the ingredients he purchases and de- 
termine their strength. For this a well-equipped lab- 
oratory is essential. The weights of the ingredients 
are then adjusted so that the reaction will be complete 
and so that the product turned out today will be the 
same as that turned out yesterday, neither more acid nor 
more alkaline. Only by knowing the exact strength 
of the different ingredients can the mix be thus perfectly 
proportioned. 

It is because these quantitative relations between 
the amount of soda and the amount of acid substances 
used must exist for the production of a proper and 
perfect baking powder, that the custom of mixing soda 
and Cream of Tartar 'still used in many homes is so 
objectionable. It is safe to say that the proper pro- 
portions are never obtained in the home except by acci- 
dent, and not more than once in a thousand times. A 
good baking powder is, therefore, from this considera- 
tion alone, much to be preferred to such a mixture. It 
is also customary in some homes to use soda and sour 
milk in place of baking powder. Here again the proper 
proportion is impossible. In general, too much soda 
is used, as the milk ordinarily contains insufficient sour- 
ness (lactic acid) to set free all the carbon dioxid gas 
from the soda. 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 29 

Besides the analysis for strength, the manufacturer 
must take every precaution, by analyses, to determine 
that the ingredients are of proper dryness. This is 
particularly true Avith reference to the starch used, as 
starch rapidly absorbs moisture, and even though in 
perfect condition when it left the starch factory, may 
have absorbed sufficient moisture during transit to be 
unsuitable for the manufacture of baking powder. 

To introduce wet starch in the manufacture of baking 
powder would have the same effect as to pour water 
upon the powder itself. The powder would be spoiled 
at once, before reaching the consumer. This same pre- 
caution with reference to moisture must be taken with 
reference to the other ingredients, as these are frequently 
shipped in rainy weather and in leaky cars. 

Then, too, it is necessary to analyze all the ingredients 
for other accidental impurities which may have been 
introduced. Chemical analysis is always carried out to 
make sure that heavy metals, and other objectionable 
substances, are absent from each ingredient.- 

MANUFACTURING APPLIANCES 

THE manufacturing appliances in use vary accord- 
ing to the size of the plant and the progressiveness 
of the manufacturer. The ob j ect of these should be not 
only increased convenience, but above all, the highest 
order of sanitation. Baking powder is a food product 



Page 30 Domestic Science ^ext Book 

and the progressive manufacturer treats it as such. He 
insists on the most modem sanitary buildings, free from 
dust, flooded with sunlight and fitted with the latest 
specially-constructed machinery, so that none of the 
ingredients nor the powder itself ever comes in contact 
with the human hand. This perfect protection should 
be demanded in every food product. The machinerj'^ 
in such a building consists of tightly enclosed elevators 
and conveyors so constructed that the powder is com- 
pletely protected from moisture and contamination. 
Large, almost airtight bins are used for temporary 
storage of the ingredients, which empty directly into 
special containers standing on modern, accurate scales. 
A single container is used for each ingredient and no 
other substance ever enters it. These are emptied by 
gravity into the mixers through fine screens, so that 
any lumps are removed. These tightly closed mixers 
contain many flights of conveyors working in different 
directions, so that all the ingredients are perfectly mixed. 
From the mixer the powder passes by gravity into screw 
conveyors, which carry it to the automatic filling and 
weighing machines (a further sanitary protection), 
where it is weighed into the can. There then remains 
the labeling of the cans and the boxing and packing to 
make it ready for shipment. The modern manufacturer 
of baking powder pays strict attention to the health and 
hygiene of his employes. They are clothed in white 
uniforms and required to keep scrupulously clean. 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 31 

.THE USE OF BAKING POWDER 

THE use of baking powder has become very general 
throughout the United States. The Memorial 
of the American Baking Powder Association presented 
in Congress in 1900 shows tliat at that time there was 
produced annually baking powders of the different 
types, as follows: 

Tons used per annum ^fs* concerns 

Alum 60,000 544 alum and alum-phosphate 

Cream of tartar 9,000 10 

Phosphate 300 1 

The directions for the use of baking powder in general 
call for two heaping teaspoonsful to a quart of flour. 
This amount is unnecessary with the stronger powders, 
and makes a poorer instead of a better biscuit. The 
housewife will obtain better results if she uses the 
smaller proportion called for in the directions given hy 
the manufacturer. With the stronger baking powders 
one heaping teaspoonful to a quart of flour is a great 
sufficiency. To use more than directed means to intro- 
duce an unnecessary amount of the residues in the 
finished food. 

HOW TO MEASURE 

ALWAYS measure the baking powder by the level 
teaspoonful. Scrape the straight edge of a knife 
across the spoon, keeping the blade pressed to the sides 
of the bowl. In this way you will always get the same 
amount. 



Page 32 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

A rounding teaspoon ful = 2 level teaspoonsful. 
A heaping teaspoonf ul =^ 4 level teaspoonsful. 

One cannot expect to get the same result each time 
she cooks, unless she is accurate. 

CARE OF BAKING POWDER 

BAKING Powder should always he kept in a dry, 
cool place. We have seen in the study of soda 
that heat alone will cause this ingredient to lose a portion 
of its gas ; hence, it is essential that the finished powder 
should be kept in a cool place. It has also been seen 
that moisture from any source will bring about the 
reaction between the soda and "acid," which it is de- 
sired should take place only in the dough. These pre- 
cautions in storage should be taken even before the can 
is opened. 

The cans used for baking powder are not hermet- 
ically sealed, and moisture from the air will gradually 
work its way into them. All baking powders will spoil 
if subjected to moist conditions of storage. The absurd 
claim of some manufacturers that their goods will not 
spoil is an insult to the intelligence of the consimier. 
If moisture will not spoil the baking powder when it 
is in the can, moisture will not activate the bakng pow- 
der (set free the carbon dioxid) when water or milk 
is added to the dough. If a manufacturer truthfully 
represents that his baking powder will not spoil, then 
he is selling something that is useless. 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 33 

SELF-RISING FLOUR 

SELF-RISING flour is nothing more than a mixture 
of flour and salt with soda and an "acid" ingredient, 
or in other words, with ingredients such as are used 
in making a baking powder. This mixing is almost 
done without any chemical control of the purity or 
strength of the ingredients or of the proportioning of 
the ingredients. The soda and "acid" are purchased 
of the manufacturers, with a formula for mixing them. 
The formula is never changed, no matter how much 
the purity or strength of the ingredients may vary. Such 
a product subjects the user thereof to every inconven- 
ience and disappointments as to flavor and color in the 
finished food, such as would result from the use of the 
cheapest baking powder, manufactured without chem- 
ical control. Inasmuch as excessive quantities of the 
soda and acid are frequently added, the housewife is 
also preparing food containing excessive amounts of 
residue, when she uses self -rising flour. 

Because of the large amount of water contained in 
flour, and the lack of protection from atmospheric mois- 
ture through the use of cloth bags as containers, the 
keeping qualities of the self -rising mixture are seriously 
impaired. 



Domestic Science Text Book 



Harrison's Apparatus 



Domestic Science Texi Book Page 35 

CHAPTER V 

THE DETERMINATION OF AVAILABLE 

CARBON DIOXID 

MR. BENJAMIN HARRISON has devised the 
following rapid volumetric method for this deter- 
mination:* (See cut.) 

"In detennining the percentage of available carbon 
dioxid in a baking powder, one-half gram of the sample 
is weighed into the small flask which is then put in 
place on the apparatus. The stopcock is now turned 
so as to connect the flask with the eudiometer, and the 
gases put under atmospheric pressure by bringing the 
saturated salt solution in the leveling bulb even with 
the solution in the eudiometer. The stopcock is now 
turned so as to connect with the tube leading into the 
air, and the gases in the eudiometer driven out by rais- 
ing the leveling bulb. The stopcock is turned again 
so as to connect the flask and eudiometer, and the level- 
ing bulb lowered to the table, giving a slight vacuum 
in the flask. 

"Two cubic centimeters of previously boiled, distilled 
water are now run into the flask from the small grad- 
uated burette, and the apparatus shaken or rotated so 
as to mix the water thoroughly with the powder. Heat 



^Proceedings of the Seventeenth Annual Convention of the As- 
sociation of American Dairy Food and Drug Officials, 1913, p. 168. 



Pa«e 36 Domestic Science T'exi Book 

IS then gently applied to the flask until the water just 
reaches the boiling point. Care must be taken here not 
to char the powder or boil off the water. The whole 
apparatus is allowed to cool to room temperature, the 
gas in the flask and eudiometer brought under atmos- 
pheric conditions by raising the solution in the leveling 
bulb and its volume read. The temperature and baro- 
metric pressure are also taken. 

"We now have a volume which represents the gas 
from the baking powder plus two cubic centimeters from 
the water added. Experiment has shown that the equiv- 
alent of one cubic centimeter of carbon dioxid is retained 
by the water and powder in the small flask, so if we 
subtract one cubic centimeter from the observed reading 
we have the available gas equivalent of the sample taken. 
The corrected volume of the gas is reduced to 0° C. 
and 760mm. pressure, and the number of cubic centi- 
meters found multiplied by the weight of one cubic 
centimeter of carbon dioxid, giving the weight of carbon 
dioxid in the sample. This weight, if divided by five- 
tenths and multiplied by one hundred, gives the per- 
centage of available carbon dioxid in the sample. 

"In the Journal of the American Chemical Society, 
Vol. 31, February, 1909, on page 237, is a table by 
Prof. S. W. Parr, giving the weight of one cubic centi- 
meter of carbon dioxid at various temperatures and 
pressures, which saves considerable calculation." 



Domestic Science T^ext Book ^^^^ ^"^ 

The above method has been found to be accurate to 
within one or two-tenths of 1%, and is sufficiently accu- 
rate for almost all work. 

A more accurate method is the one in which the 
amount of gas set free is absorbed by a caustic potash 
solution, or by soda lime and then weighed. 

ABSORPTION METHOD* 

THIS method is carried out by the use of Knorr's 
apparatus, the potassium hydroxide solution used 
has a specific gravity 1.27. This is prepared by dis- 
solving 36.8 grams of solid potassium hydroxide in 100 
cubic centimeters of water. The apparatus is shown 
in the accompanying illustration. The solution in "F" 
and "J" is the potassium hydroxide solution just men- 
tioned. "E'' and "H" contain concentrated sulphuric 
acid. "C" contains soda lime. The small tubes of "E" 
and "F" are filled with calcium chloride and "L" con- 
tains layers of calcium chloride, and soda lime. 

The analysis is conducted as follows: 

Place 7/10 of a gram of the baking powder in the 
perfectly dry distilling flash "A." Weigh the tubes 
F" in which the carbon dioxid is to be absorbed and 
H" and attach to the apparatus. 






*Methods of Analysis, Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists. Bureau of Chemistry Bulletin No. 107 (Revised), p. 169. 



Page 38 Domestic Science 'text Book 



Modified Knorr Apparatus 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 39 

Nearly fill the tube "B" with recently boiled distilled 
water and place the tube "C" in position. Then start 
the aspirator at such a rate that the air passes through 
the Liebig bulbs at about the rate of 2 bubbles per sec- 
ond. Open the stopcock of the funnel "B" and allow 
the water to run slowly into the flask, care being taken 
that the evolution of gas shall be so. gradual as not to 
materially increase the current through the Liebig bulb. 

After all the water has been introduced, continue 
the aspiration and gradually heat the contents of the 
flask to boiling, the cock in tube "B" being closed. Con- 
tinue the boiling for a few minutes. After the water 
has begun to condense in "D," remove the flame, open 
the valve in tube "B" and allow the apparatus to cool 
while continuing the aspiration. Air should be drawn 
through the apparatus for a considerable time in order 
to completely remove all the carbon dioxid from flask 
"A." The whole operation should take at least two 
hours. Tubes "F" and "H" are then removed from 
the apparatus and weighed. The total increase in weight 
is due to the carbon dioxid set free from the baking 
powder. 



Page 40 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

CHAPTER VI 

COST OF BAKING POWDER 

THE cost of any material used for a piece of work 
must be figured on the cost of that material for 
a single unit of the work to be done. 

So account must be taken in the case of baking pow- 
der, both of the cost per pound of the powder itself and 
the amount of work it will do. The price per pound 
varies from 10 cents to 50 cents. The amount of work 
each powder will do can be compared after a determina- 
tion of the amount of available gas, or after scientific 
comparative bakings. Neither of these is necessary, 
however. We may take it for granted that the manu- 
facturer in giving directions for the use of his powder 
has taken the strength into consideration in stating what 
amount of baking powder should be used. The direc- 
tions uniformly give the amount to be used to leaven 
one quart of sifted flour. The amount of baking powder 
to be used as stated on the labels varies from one heap- 
ing teaspoonful, or two rounded teaspoonfuls, to two 
heaping teaspoonsful. Some manufacturers use the 
term "rounded teaspoonful" and others "heaping tea- 
spoonful." One can always compare these by remem- 
bering that— 

2 level teaspoonsful = 1 rounded teaspoonful. 
4 level teaspoonsful = 1 heaping teaspoonful. 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 41 

An example of the difference in cost of baking pow- 
der is the following: 

"A." sells baking powder at 50 cents per pound and 
directs that you use 2 heaping teaspoonsf ul to the quart 
of flour. 

"B/' sells baking powder at 25 cents per pound and 
directs that you use 2 rounded teaspoonsful to the quart 
of flour. 

What does it cost to leaven a quart of flour with 
"A.'s" powder as compared with that of "B.'s"? 

Answer — Four times as much. 

Caution — Never use more baking powder than rec- 
ommended by the manufacturer. By following direc- 
tions you will get the best results. 

BAKING POWDER A NECESSITY 

IN conclusion it should be stated that baking powder 
has done much to lighten and decrease the hours of 
labor of the housewife. It has made possible the easy 
and rapid production of many new, dainty and nutri- 
tious foods. The best powder may be purchased at 
a moderate price and the wholesomeness of the food 
prepared therefrom need not be questioned. That it is 
a convenience that cannot be dispensed with is appre- 
ciated most by those who use it most intelligently. 



!■*«« 42 Domestic Science Text Book 



QUESTIONS 

1. Name two common leavening agents. 

2. What is yeast? 

8. What is baking powder? 

4. What is the active leavening agent produced by both yeast 

and baking powder? 

5. Name three disadvantages in the use of yeast. 

6. Name three advantages in the use of baking powder. 

7. What are the natural sources of carbon dioxid gas? 

8. What is soda? 

9. How is it made? 

10. What happens when soda is heated? 

11. Why is its use alone unsatisfactory as a leavening agent? 

12. Why is the use of ammonium carbonate unsatisfactory as a 

leavening agent? 
18. What is the purpose of magnesium carbonate in cheap baking 
powders ? 

14. What substance with soda is necessary in baking powder for 

the production of carbon dioxid? 

15. What two conditions must the acid and alkali fulfill? 

16. Name an acid commonly found in so-called cream of tartar 

baking powder. 

17. Name two acid salts in baking powder. 

18. Name a salt which acts as an acid to soda but which is neither 

an acid nor an acid salt. 

19. What substances other than acid and soda are used in baking 

powder ? 

20. What is the source of tartaric acid? 

21. How is it purified? 

22. How is cream of tartar obtained? 

28. What are the sources of calcium acid phosphate? 

24. What is the process of making bone phosphate? 

25. Why is bone phosphate preferable to rock phosphate? 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 43 

26. What advantage has granular phosphate over powdered 

phosphate ? 

27. In what powder is the phosphate of the granular type? 

28. What is alum? 

29. What is the so-called "alum" of baking powder? 

30. What is the difference between these two? 

31. Why is the latter called "alum"? 

32. How is it made? 

83. What three purposes does starch serve in baking powder? 

34. What per cent of gas do good baking powders produce? 

36. What are the most widely known baking powders that contain 
white of ^^g^ 

36. What is dried white of Qgg} 

37. Does it increase the eflSciency of baking powder? 

38. If so, to what extent? 

39. How much tgg albumen is generally used in baking powder? 

40. What other purpose does egg albumen serve in baking powder ? 

41. Describe the water-glass test. 

42. To what use is this test put? 

43. What company uses this test most in testing its goods on the 

grocer's shelves. 

44. What must be present in baking powder to make the water- 

glass test? 
46. What constitutes the difference between the classes of baking 
powder ? • 

46. What four items should be considered in the choice of an acid 

ingredient? 

47. Why should chemically equivalent amounts of acid and alkali 

be used in baking powder? 

48. What is formed by the action of tartaric acid on soda ? 

49. What is formed by the action of cream of tartar on soda ? 

60. What is formed from the action of calcium acid phosphate on 

soda? 

61. What is formed by the action of "alum" on soda? 



Page 44 DotHestic Science T'ext Book 

62. If the different substances be mixed with soda in proper pro- 
portions, which mixture will produce the least amount 
of gas? 

58. How much ? 

54. How much gas will the mixture of "alum" and soda produce? 

55. How much gas will the mixture of calcium acid phosphate and 

soda produce? 

66. What is the purpose of starch in baking powder in relation 

to the amount of gas? 

67. What baking powder contains no starch? 

68. What class of baking powders leave the greatest amount of 

objectionable residue? Name four such powders. 

69. Name two baking powders having only "alum" as an acid 

ingredient. 

60. Is "alum" present in foods prepared from "alum" baking 

powder ? 

61. Do "alum" baking powders injure digestion? 

62. What is the final decision of the Remsen Board as to the harm- 

fulness of "alum" baking powder? 
68. What is the nature of the residue from every baking powder 
when taken in very large quantities ? 

64. What residue is left from cream of tartar baking powders? 

65. What residue is left from phosphate baking powder? 

66. What residue is left from "alum" baking powder ? 

67. What baking powder is most liable to produce catharsis ? 

68. Which then is the least desirable from a health standpoint? 

69. Is the cry against "alum" in baking powders based on preju- 

dice or fact? 

70. What is the effect of tartrates on the kidneys ? 

71. What is the effect on other baking powder residues? 

72. Why are there not more straight phosphate baking powders on 

the market? 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 45 

73. What is the most prominent baking powder of the straight 

phosphate class? 

74. What causes baking powder to spoil in the cans ? 

75. What baking powders keep best of a\\} 

76. What causes the difference in the speed action of baking 

powder } 

77. What is the disadvantage in the use of straight phosphate and 

cream of tartar baking powders } 

78. Name three so-called pure cream of tartar baking powders that 

contain tartaric acid. 

79. Name a cream of tartar baking powder. 

80. What is the disadvantage in the use of straight "alum" baking 

powder } 

81. What is the best and most common type of combination 

powders } 

82. Which is the leading powder of this type containing sufficient 

phosphate ? 

83. What is its action .'^ 

84. Why is chemical supervision necessary in the manufacture of 

baking powder? 
86. What would be the result of the use of wet starch in the 
manufacture of baking powder? 

86. What attention should be given to sanitation in baking powder 

factories ? 

87. What class of baking powder is in widest use? 

88. What is meant by level teaspoonful? 

89. What is equivalent to a "rounding" teaspoonful? 

90. What is equivalent to a "heaping" teaspoonful? 

91. Why should baking powder be kept in a cool dry place? 

92. Why will baking powder eventually spoil ? 

93. What caution should be borne in mind in the use of baking 

powder ? 

94. What has baking powder done for the housewife? 



Page 46 Domestic Science Hext Book 

ANSWERS 

1. Yeast and baking powder. 

2. Yeast is a microscopic plant which in the leavening process 

breaks up sugars into carbon dioxid gas and alcohol. 

8. Baking powder is a mixture of substances which produce car- 
bon dioxid gas by chemical action. 

4. Carbon dioxid gas. 

6. (a) The different fermentations resulting from yeast produce 
different and sometimes objectionable flavors. 

(b) It takes several hours for fermentation to take place before 
the dough can be put in the oven. 

(c) Yeast does not act readily in the presence of large quan- 
tities of butter, lard or eggs. 

6. (a) With a good baking powder the action is always the same, 

and therefore the flavors are always the same. 

(b) The gas is given off at once on the addition of water, or 
in the oven; there is no delay. 

(c) The action takes place readily in the presence of butter, 
lard or eggs. 

7. Carbon dioxid occurs in nature combined with metals, as car- 

bonates, such as chalk, marble and limestone. It is set 
free from these by means of acids. 

8. Soda is saleratus or cooking soda, sometimes called the alkali 

of baking powder. It is chemically known as sodium 
bi-carbonate. 

9. Soda is made from common salt by the action of acid am- 

monium carbonate. 

10. On heating, soda breaks up, giving off carbon dioxid gas and 

leaving normal sodium carbonate. 

11. Normal sodium carbonate is left in the food. It produces an 

objectionable flavor in the food and colors it yellow. 

1 2. Ammonium carbonate leaves traces of anunonia gas in the food. 
18. Magnesium carbonate is used as a filler because of its extreme 

light weight. The great volume of such powder often 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 47 

makes the purchaser think she is getting more baking 
powder. 

14. An acid or an acid-acting salt to release the carbon dioxid gas. 

16. The acid and alkali should be dry substances and diss'olve 
readily in water. 

16. Tartaric acid. 

17. Calcium acid phosphate and cream of tartar. 

18. Sodium aluminum sulphate^ sometimes called "alum." 

19. Cornstarch and white of egg, 

20. Tartaric acid is made from argol^ the sediment from wine vats. 

21. It is purified by treating with chalk and calcium chloride, and 

filtering the resulting mixture of the calcium salt. The 
calcium tartrate is dissolved in sulphuric acid, after which 
the solution is filtered and the tartaric acid allowed to 
crystallize. 

22. Cream of tartar is also obtained from argol, the source of 

tartaric acid. The chemical treatment of this, however, 

differs from that of tartaric acid. 
28. Calcium phosphate is obtained from the bones of healthy 

cattle and sometimes from natural rock. 
24. The bones are burned and then treated with sulphuric acid. 

The solution is purified by filtration, crystallized and dried. 
26. Phosphate from bone is preferable to that from rock because 

it does not contain the harmful impurities, fluorides, 

present in rock. 

26. Granular phosphate makes a baking powder which will keep 

better than that made from the powdered phosphate. 
Granular phosphate is more expensive. 

27. In Calumet Baking Powder. 

28. Alum is potassium aluminum sulphate with water of crystal- 

lization. 

29. The so-called "alum" is a mixture of sodium sulphate and 

aluminum sulphate with no water of crystallization. 



Page 48 Domesttc Science T^ext Book 

80. Alum contains potassium and water of crystallization. It is 

used as a medicine. The so-called "alum** of baking 
powder contains neither potassium nor water of crystal- 
lization and has no medicinal use. 

81. The latter is called "alum** because some food commissioners 

thought this word better showed the general character- 
istics of the substance to the public. 

82. It is made by mixing solutions of sodium sulphate and alumi- 

num sulphate^ concentrating the mixture and fusing the 
resulting mass. 
88. Starch serves three purposes in baking powder: 

(a) To separate the soda and the acid mechanically. 

(b) To absorb water from the air and prevent deterioration 
of the baking powder. 

(c) To dilute the baking powder to a strength convenient 
for purposes of household measurement. 

84«. Good baking powders produce from 12% to 15% available gas. 

86. Calumet and Crescent Baking Powders. 

86. Dried white of tgg is the dried white of fresh hen*s eggs. 

37. It does materially increase the efficiency of the baking powder. 

88. From 2^ to 3 2/10% when used in strong powder. 

39. Baking powders generally contain 16/100 of 1%. 

40. ^gg albumen furnishes a means of estimating the strength of 

the baking powder. 

41. Take an ordinary drinking glass holding one-half pint, or in 

other words, the quantity that is usually known in the 
household as "one cupful.** All that is needed is this 
empty glass, which must be dry, an ordinary teaspoon 
and a little water of the ordinary room temperature (not 
ice water nor hot water) ; place two level teaspoonsf ul of 
the powder in the dry glass, to which add the same quan- 
tity (two teaspoonsf ul) of water, quickly; stir rapidly for 
a moment (while counting ^ye^), just long enough to thor- 
oughly moisten the powder; remove the spoon and watch 



Domestic Science T^ext Book Page 49 

the mixture rise. Nate the action of the powder. 
42. This test is used to insure the freshness of the grocer's stock 

and protect the consumer. Deteriorated goods are detected 

by this test and replaced with fresh by the manufacturers 

free of charge. 
48. The Calumet Baking Powder Co. 

44. White of e^gg must be present before the test can be made. 
46. The difference between baking powders is in the "acid" or 

"acids" used to release the carbon dioxid from the soda 

and in the proportions of the same. 

46. The four items to be considered in the selection of an acid 

for a baking powder are the healthfulness of the residues, 
the amount of gas it will release, the keeping qualities of 
the resulting baking powder and the speed of action. 

47. Chemically equivalent amounts of acid and alkali should be 

used in baking powder because an excess of acid leaves 
that much acid unchanged in the food and an excess of 
soda causes an alkaline flavor and a yellow color in the 
foods. 

48. Sodium tartrate, carbon dioxid gas and water. 

49. Rochelle salts, carbon dioxid gas and water. 

60. Calcium phosphate, sodium acid phosphate, carbon dioxid gas 

and water. 

61. Aluminum hydrate, sodium sulphate, and carbon dioxid gas. 
52. Cream of tartar and soda sets free the least amount of gas. 
68. 16.2%. 

64. 26.7%. 

56. 26.6%. 

5Q, Starch is then added to baking powder to reduce the amount of 
gas given off. Without starch, too much gas would be 
evolved in the case of "alum" and phosphate powders. 

67. Shillings'. 

68. Cream of tartar baking powder leaves the largest amount of 

objectionable residues; 77.2% Rochelle salts when no 



Pa«o 50 Domestic Science T^ext Book 

starch is present; 67.2% Rochelle salts is left from a 
powder producing 12% oi gas. Shillings', Royal, Price's 
and Cleveland Baking Powders. 
69. Bon Bon and Good Luck. 

60. No. 

61. No. 

62. Alum baking powders are no more harmful than any other 

baking powders. 
68. A saline cathartic. 
64. Rochelle salts, which act as a saline cathartic and a diuretic 

as well. 
6b, Sodium phosphate, a mild cathartic. 

66. Sodium sulphate, a mild cathartic. 

67. Cream of tartar or tartaric acid baking powders are twice 

as likely to produce catharsis as any other baking powder. 

68. Cream of tartar or tartaric acid powders. 

69. The cry against "alum" is based on prejudice. 

70. Tartrates produce nephritis. 

71. The residues from other baking powders have been declared 

to be non injurious. 

72. Because straight phosphate baking powders keep only for 

a short time. 
78. Rumford Baking Powder. 
74. Moisture from the air or from any other source, or excessive 

heat. 
76. The baking powders containing "alum" keep the best of all. 

76. The difference in the solubility of the acid constituents in 

water. 

77. Straight phosphate and cream of tartar powders give off their 

gas quickly, therefore are liable to cause fallen biscuits 
if the oven is not at the optinimum temperature. 

78. Cleveland, Royal and Price's. 

79. Shillings'. 

80. Straight alum baking powder gives off practically no gas in the 



Domestic Science ^ext Book Page 51 

cold resulting in small^ heavy and poorly leavened biscuits 
if placed in too hot an oven. 

81. "Alum"*-phosphate is the best and most common type of com- 

bination powders. 

82. Calumet Baking Powder. 

88. The best "alum"-phosphate powders give off the proper 
amount of gas in the cold with sufficiently large amount 

of additional gas when placed in the oven. They keep 

best and produce better results in cooking. 
84. To insure a perfect product, always of the same strength, 

neither acid nor alkaline, and above all to insure its purity. 
86. Wet starch in baking powder would cause its immediate 

spoilage. 

86. Baking Powder is used in the preparation of foods, and there- 

fore its manufacture should be carried on under the 
strictest sanitary conditions. 

87. "Alum"-phosphate powders have the widest use. 

88. A straight knife blade moved over the spoon filled with 

powder, keeping the blade pressed to the sides of the 
bowl, leaves a level teaspoonf ul. 

89. Two level teaspoonsful are equivalent to a rounding teaspoon- 

ful. 

90. Four level teaspoonsful are equivalent to a heaping teaspoon- 

ful. 

91. Baking powder should be kept in a cool, dry place. Moisture 

will spoil the powder, and heat decompose the soda. 

92. Baking powder will eventually spoil because the cans are not 

hermetically sealed and moisture enters from the air. 

98. One should always follow the directions given by the manu- 
facturers, using no more than is recommended, for different 
baking powders are of different strengths. 

94. Baking powder has lightened and decreased the labor of the 
housewife. It has made possible the easy and rapid pro- 
duction of dainty and healthful foods. 



Page 52 



PHOTOGRAPHIC REPRODUCTION OF BULLETIN No. 103 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 




BULLETIN OF THE 

ffiMMKIOfA 




No. 103 



CoDtribtttion from die Referee Board of Counltiog Scientific Ezpciti, In 
Renaen, Chairmui. April 29, 1914. 




(PROFESSIONAL PAPER.) 



ALUM IN FOODS. 

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT. 

A report on the influence of aluminum compounds on the nutrition 
and health of man has been submitted by the Referee Board of Con- 
sulting Scientific Experts, in answer to questions put to it by the 
department. The report of the board itself, signed by each member, 
is brief, but it is accompanied by three elaborate reports giving the 
results of three sets of extensive experiments on human subjects 
conducted independently by three members of the board. To get 
the board's conclusions before the public at this time, it is considered 
advisable to publish its findings, but to omit the extensive reports 
of the three experimenters, giving only their final conclusions. 

QUESTIONS SUBMITTED TO REFEREE BOARD. 

The questions submitted to the board were as follows: 

1. Do aluminum * compounds, when used in foods, affect injuriously the nutritive 
value of euch foods or render them injurious to health? 

2. Does a food to which aluminum compounds have been added contain any added 
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient which may render the said food 
injurious to health? (a) In large quantities? (6) In small qOUn titles? 

3. If aluminum compounds be mixed or packed with a food, is the quality or 
strength oi said food thereby reduced, lowered, or injuriously a£fected7 (a) In large 
quantities? (6) In small quantities? 

CHARACTER OF EXPERIMENTS CONDUCTED. 

In order to base their report upon first-hand knowledge, the board 
instituted three sets of experiments, each independent of the others. 
One set of experiments was conducted by Dr. Russell H. Chittenden, 
of the Sheffield Scientific School, Yale University, New Haven; 
another by Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor, of the Medical School of the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; -and the third by Dr. John H. 
Long, of the Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago. In 

I Aluminum is a synonym for aluminium, the metal used for cooking utensils and other ImptenuDti. 
Atom or sodium aluminum sn4>hate is • salt of this metaL 

410I2*-14 



Page 53 



2 BULLETIN 103, U. S. DEPARTMENT OP AORICULTUBB, 



each case tests were made on healthy young men by including 
aluminum in some form in their food. The food was all carefully 
measured and weighed and the amounts of its principal ingredients 
were determined by analysis. The excretions of the men's bodies 
(both urine and feces) were carefully collected, examined, and ana- 
lyzed. Daily records of body weight, temperature, respiration, and 
pulse were kept for each man, and notes were made of any unusual 
symptoms. Any disturbance in health or physiological processes 
was thus detected. 

Each experiment included three periods, in the first and last of 
which no aluminum was administered. During the middle period 
aluminum compounds were administered, the "dose" increasing as 
the experiment progressed. In this way the effect of large quanti- 
ties was compared with that of small quantities In Dr. Chitten- 
den's and Dr Taylor's experiments some of the men who served as 
"control" subjects received no aluminum at any time, so that any 
disturbances due to other caused might be checked up. 

Dr. Chittenden's experiments included 12 men and continued 
from January 16 to June 22, 1912. During '130 days the diet con- 
tained bread raised with an alum baking powder made in the labo- 
ratory.* The dose of aluminum compound was increased from time 
to time, at first by increasing the quantity of bread and later by in- 
erea^ting the quantity of the baking powder used in making the bread. 
In this way the alum * used per man per day was increased from 
0.678 gram » (8.920 grains) at the beginning to 2.287 grams * (35.295 
grains) at the close of the dosage period; the actual aluminum con- 
tained in this dosage ranged from 0.065 gram (1.003 grains) to 0.257 
gram (3.966 grains) per man per day. Eight men used the alum 
bread, while four had no aluminum in their food. 

Dr. Long's experiments ran from February 8 to June 7, 1911, and 
included six men, all of whom received the dosage. Baking powder 
bread was not used, but instead for 40 days a mixture of the same 
composition as the residue left in such bread by alum baking powder 
was administered in the form of a powder in water or milk. For 30 

1 This bread was made fresh every day and contained in one baking of two loaves approximately- 
Sifted flour quarts.. 2 

Baking powder (25 per cent calcined alum) heaping teaspoonfUls. . 4 

Salt (approximately one rounded teaspoonful) ounce.. J- 

Butter '....:...-. do.... 1 

Water, suflOcient quantity. 
Lftter in tb^experiment a greater i»t>portioa of alum baking powder was used in the making of the bread 
In order to facilitate administering larger amounts of ahim. 

> Tha t«rm "alum" as used under the heading " Character of experiments conducted ' refers to the cal< 
oined sodio aluminic sulphate commonly used in alum baking powders and not to the ordinary crystallized 
•bun. 

• Equivalent to approximately two-thirds of a level teaspooxxful of baking powder containing 26 per cent 
mitiam. All the ttgatn ja this and sxiceeeding footnotes must of necessity be approximate, sinoc teaspooiM 
nry In sise and baking powders in composition. 
•AppMzinMtely eqalviilmi to 2| level teaspoonfols of alum baking powder. 



Page 54 



ALUM IN ^OQDS. 



days the quai^tity of alum used was'^'^^ma^ (30.866 grains) a day for 
each maD; in the next 10 days th<r cfeee was doubled. Afterwards 
for 30 days-the baking pdw^er residtt^ was treated so as to wash out 
everything^ except the compounds of 'ahiminum with hydrogen and 
oxygen (aluminum hydroxide), the dose at first being the amount 
obtained from 4 grams* (61.732 grains) of alum per man per day, 
which was increased in the second 10 days to 6 grams' (92.598 grains) 
and in the third 10 days to 10 grams (154.330 ^ains) of alum. Finally, 
in a period of 10 days, the dose was the sodium sulphate consumed 
when 4 grams of alum were used, this compound being the cathartic 
ingredient which is left in bread by aluih baking powder.^ 

Dr. Taylor conducted experiments with a squad of eight men from 
October 8, 191 1, to May 10, 1912, with aix intermission from December 
16 to January 14. In this case also the powder was not used in 
bread, but was administered iji wafers or dissolved in water. Six 
of the subjects took the aluminum compounds, while the other two 
took milk sugar, the men themselves not knowing which they were 
taking. There were two groups of experiments in which the whole 
squad took part. In the experiments of the first group, which ran 
from October 8 to December 16, tests were made .with alum alone. 
The dose at first was such as to give each man 0.1 gram* (1.5433 
grains) o| aluminum a day and was increased from time to time until 
tiie daily doseiwas 0.298 gram * (4.599 grains) of aluminum for each 
maiv. The sSqohd group ran from January 14 to May 10. Tests 
were made with the residue from alum baking powder; tests were 
also made with certain aluminum compo^inds (aluminum hydroxide 
and aluminum chloride) which may be found in the residues from 
alum baking powders of different kinds, and with sodium sulphate^ 
the purgative salt left in bread by alum baking powders. Ihe 
smallest dose of the compounds containing aluminum gave each mfin 
0.227 gram * (3.503 grains) of aluminum a day, .while the largest dose 
gave 0.969 gram * (14.954 grains) of aluminum a day. The dose of 
the purgative salt (sodium sulphate), in which there is no aluminum^ 

1 Approximately cqaivaluit to ^ lenrd teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. Equlvalen . ^o about U.22} 
gram 0.44 grains) of aluminum. 
^ Approximately equivalent to 4} level teaspoonfub of alum baking powder. 

* Approximately equivalent to 6|^ level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. These amounts of alum 
are equivalent to about 0.44 gram (6.86 grains), 0.67 gram (10.29 grains), and 1.11 grams (17.15 grains) of 
aluminum. 

* Editorial note: Sodium sulphate or Glauber's salt is a substance derived from the interaetion of ahim 
and baking sod&in making bread with alum baking powdery and is of Ibself a cathartic, formerly much used 
medicinally. Cream of tartar baking powder, when used in bread, by a similar interaction produces a 
cathartic substance known as sodium tartrate. Phosphate baking powders when used in making bread 
produce a cathartic substance known as sodium phosphate. Cream of tartar and phosphate baking powder* 
produce catharsis, similar to that produced by alum baking powders, when used la quaatltiaa. 

* Approximately equivalent to a level teaspoonful of alum baking powder. 
•Approximately equivalent to S level teaspoonfuls of alum baking powder. 
' Approximately equivalent to 2i level teaspo<mfnIs of alum baking powder. 
*Appnizimately equivalent to 10 level teaspooofta^ of alum baking powder. 



Page 55 



BULLETIN 103, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AQRICULTUBB. 



was 5.23 grams * (80.714 grains) per man per day. Following these 
experiments four men took 1 gram (15.433 grains) of aluminum a day 
each fot* several days,' and then their blood was tested to detect any 
aluminum that might be present in it. No aluminum was found in 
the blood. As a further indirect test to determine whether aluminum 
was resorbed, one man took for five days enough aluminum hydroxide 
to furnish 0.660 gram (10.186 grains) of aluminum a day and another 
took enough to give 0.540 gram -(8.334 grains) a day for five days. 
The men were fed a diet of low and known phosphorus content and 
the excrementa analyzed for phosphorus, in order to detect, if ])os- 
sible, signs of abstraction of this element from the tissues by resorbed 
aluminum. This test failed to demonstrate resorption of alummum. 

CONCLUSIONS OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTIGATORS. 

Dr. Chittenden concludes from his experiments that' small quan- 
tities of aluminum compounds, and even comparatively large 
quantities, when taken daily with the food, have no effect upon the 
general health and nutrition of the body. "In other words," as he 
sums up his conclusions, "aluminum compounds when used in foods — 
as in bread — in such quantities as were employed in - our experi- 
ments do not affect injuriously the nutritive value of such foods or 
render them injurious to health, so far as any evidence obtained in 
our experimental work indicates.'' 

Dr. Long, in concluding his report, calls attention to the fact that 
iJum is rather generally used in the manufacture of ciucumber pickles. 
^Ilus IB an old practice which had its origin in the household rather 
than in the factory and is still common in the household. The harden- 
ing effect of the alum is believed to help in keeping the pickles. In 
the factory the Cucumbers are first soaked for several weeks in strong 
brine, then in fresh water overnight, this process being sometimes 
repeated. Then the cucumbers are put into an alum liquor in which 
the. weight of akim used is about one-fourth of 1 per cent of the weight 
of fih& cucumbers. The cucumbers and liquor are heated up to 120° 
or 140° F., then cooled and allowed to staind for from 6 to 24 hours. 
Then comes a bath in fresh water lind afterwards the final treat- 
ment with vinegar. The vinegar takes out some of the alum from 
the pickles, so that usually the alum4eft in them amounts to less than 
two-tenths of 1 per cent. 

Alum is also used in the preparation of maraschino cherries, and 
perhaps some other fruits. But tlie quantities of aluminum that 
might be consumed either in pickles or in the fruits referred to are so 
small, compared with the quantities actually consimied in baking 
powders, that thestud;^ of ahjm baking powders may be taken to cover 
the entire field. 



lAboatoiM-flftlioiiiiMcrOlMibar^atft. ifim*KaaaU,p.t.) 

» Thtt ecfWBpoudB to approxtartjy 10 hyl i B—ponnft i lB of atom baklhe powdar. 



Page 56 



ALUM IN FOOPS. 



Alum, as such, is not present in the food wken eaten. In the 
process of baking, the alum and soda in baking powder break up and 
recombine into several compounds. One product is the carbonic acid 
gas, which does the work of leavening. This gas passes oflF, leaving 
in the bread an aluminum compound and a compound called sodium 
sulphate. Dr. Long concludes that the cathartic action of large resi- 
dues from the aliim and soda combination — ^for instance, the residue 
loft when the large dose of alum, 4 grams * (61.732 grains), was used — 
must be considered objectionable when administered daily. But this 
is much above the eonsumption in actual practice, and amounts of 
alum not above 2 grams * (30.866 grains) a day — a liberal allowance — 
do not appear to be harmful in any practical sense. Since the quan- 
tities of aluminum compounds consumed with other foods are insig- 
nificant compared with the quantities consumed in foods prepared 
with baking powder, the findings from the study of baking powder 
residues must be hold to cover all cases. Keeping in mind that the 
aluminum compounds actually in the food when consumed are -com- 
paratively inert. Dr. Long declares that ''it can not be said that 
when mixed with foods in the small quantities actually considered 
necessary, they add a poisonous or deleterious substance, or injur- 
iously affect the quality of the food with which they are used." 

Dr. Taylor's conclusions agree in effect with those of his associates. 
He says, " We have had, unquestionably, evidences of the catharsis 
caused by the administration of large doses of baking powder.'' 
With the large doses used in his experiments, the stools are increased 
in weight and frequency, the movements are loose, and colic is upt 
to attend the evacuations. This condition is the result of sodimn. 
sulphate, which, though not an aluminum compound, is a residue of 
the alum baking powder. But with very largo doses of aluminum 
compounds occasional dry colic may also be noted. 

"1 personally," says Dr. Taylor, "do not believe that it would be 
healthful for anyone, in camp or out of camp, to live upon a diet of 
baking powder biscuits. I do not believe that the regular ingestion 
of sodium sulphate in doses of from 3.5 to 5 grams • (54 to 77 grains) 
per day, with the normal diet, resulting in distinct looseness of the 
bowels, is a procedure to be recommended. Prolonged administra- 
tion of saline cathartics even in small dose tends to leave behind a 
condition of constipation; and it is certainly the experience of the 
medical profession that the practice of the regular administration of 
saline cathartics is not to be recommended. This aspect of the ques- 
tion is of course not peculiar to aluminum baking powder, but applies 
to all baking powders, since to a greater or less extent a saline cathartic 
remains as the residue of the reactions of all known haking powders, 

1 Approximately equivalent to 4) level teaspoonfuls of ahim baking powder. 
> Approximately equivalent to 2i level teaspoonfuls of altim baldnc powd«r. 
■On»«ichth to on»«Uth ounce of OUQber'i salt. 



Page 57 



6 



BULLBTIH 103, U S. DEPABTBfENT OF AGBICULTUBB. 



as demonstrated in direct tests with different baking powders on 
human subjects ' There is no evidence in our results to mdicate that 
the occasional and ordinary use of bread, biscuits, or cake prepared 
with aluminum baking powder tends to injure the digestion. The 
amoimt of saline cathartic that would be ingested under conditions 
of normal diet would be very small and would provoke no catharsis 
or symptoms of any kind." 

One other effect of the administration of compounds of aluminum 
is noted by Dr Taylor, namely, a distinct decrease of phosphates in 
the urine and a corresponding hicrease of phosphates in the stools. 
But the extent of this change is too slight for it to hate any material 
meaning oi* effect. 

CONCLUSIONS OF THE BEFEBEE BOABD. 

With the results of these independent experiments agreeing so well, 
the Referee Board were enabled to draw up a unanimous report, signed 
by all the members, namely: Ira Remsen, president of Johns Hop- 
kkis University, chairman; Russell H. Chittenden, professor of 
physiological chemistry in Yale University and director of the Shef- 
field Scientific School; John H. Ldng, professor of chemistry in the 
Northwestern University Medical School; Alonzo E. Taylor, Benja- 
min Rush professor of physiological chemistry in the University of 
Penssylvtmia; and Theobald Smith, professor of comparative path- 
ology in Harvard Univei^ity. 

In thMr report the board first define tbeir understaadliig of the 
terms "small quantity'' and "large quantity,'' as appMed to alum 
baking powders, as follows: 

By the term "small quantity " We uiidenUnd such an amount ae may be iHgeMed in 
the normaf (ue of biactiits, pastry, or other articles leavened with baking powder, as 
these foods are practically u«ed iA tlW ordinary Ameriean ftouly. This amount will 
not terengfi mote than 25 to 7S.mil]igKms ' (0.38 to 1.16 grains) of it]iimii\i ai« daily 
for the days of consumption ol such artielee. 



* *'We must not, however, be oblivious to the fact," says Dr. Taylor, 
who conducted part of these investigations, *'that a saline cathartic 
residue results from the reaction ol every form of Imown baking pow* 
der now conmienly emplojred. The use of cream of tartar or tartaric 
acid baking powder leaves in the alimentary tract a residue of tartrates 
which exhibit the action of a saline cathartic and of diuresis [excessive 
excretion of urine] as well. The so-called phosphate baking powder 
leaves as a residue of reaction sodium pnospnate, again a saline 
cathartic. And aluminum baking powder leaves as a residue of 
reaction sodiuin sulphate, a saline cathartic. Apparently therefore, 
at present at least, the use of baking powder is associated with the 
introduction into tne alimentary- tract of a certain amount of saline 
cathartic, the salt differing with the use of the particular type of 
baking powder." 

s TlUsls apprazinurtflly •qoiTalsDt t» «i»^ii«rtcr to thr^ 



Page 56 



ALUM IN FOODS. 



B / the term "large quantity ** wc uDdersiand such an amount of aluimnum as would 
be ingested only under very unusual conditions, as :or example, where the flour con- 
eumption is mainly in the form of biscuits or other articles leavened with aluminum 
baking powders. Tlus amount may roach \bO to 200 milligrams * (2 31 to 3 09 grains) 
of aluminum per day A person subsisting inamly on bakins>;-powder biscuits, as may 
happen in camp life, might ingest an amount in excess of 200 milligrams per day. 
With this possibility in mind, we have also studied the effects of amounts up to and 
exceeding 1^000 milligrams ' (15 4 grains^ of aluminum per day 

With this unclcrstanding of the terms, the hoard give the following 
answers to the questions subnitted to thorn 

Aluminum compounds when used in the form of baking powders in foods have not 
been found to affect injuriously the nutntive value of such foods 

Aluminum compounds when added to foods in the form of baking powders, in nmall 
quantities, have not been found to contribute any poisonous or other deleterious effect 
wjiich may render the said food injurious to health. The same holds true for the amount 
of aluminum which may be included in the ordinary consumption of aluminum 
baking powders furnishing up to 150 milligrams (2 31 grains) of aluminum daily. 

Aluminum compounds when added to foods, in the form of baki^ig powders, in large 
quantities, up to 200 mUligrams (3 09 grains) or more per day, may provoke mild 
catharsis 

Very large quantities of aluminum taker with foods in the form of baking powders 
usually provoke catharsis This action of aluminum baking powders is due to the 
sodium'sulphate which results from the reaction 

The aluminum itself has not been found to exert any deleterious action injurious 
to health, beyond the production of occasional colic when very large amounts have 
been ingested. 

When aluminum compounds are mixed or packed with a food, the quality or strength 
of said food has not been found to be thereby reduced, lowered, or injuriously affected. 

In short, the board conclude that alum baking powders are no 
more harmful than any other baking powders, but that it is wise 
to be moderate in the use of foods that are leavened with baking 
powder.' 

i This is ai>proxIinately equivalent to 1) to 2 level teaspoonfuls alum baking powder* 
•Approximately eqaivalent to 10 level teaspoonXuls alufh baking powder. 
•See footnotes, pages 3 and S. 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

or THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PROCVKED FSOM 

THE SVFERINTENDENT Or DOCUMENTS 

eOVEKNMENT PRINTINO OmCB 

WASHINGTON, D. C 

AT 

$ CENTS PER COPY 



YC 18635 




887343 






/■ 



/ 




THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 




