
4S 




Class / / 


\ ,,: 


Rnnk . 


3 6 


GopvrightN" 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSITS 



COOK BOOK 365 

No. 2 



Bv 

MARY SHELLEY PECHIN 




Copyright. 1915, by 
Mary Shelley Pechin. 



Published By 

THE BURROWS BROS. CO. 



"Due nourishment we seek, not gluttonous 
ddighC -MtUon. 



**To be a good cook means the 
knowledge of all fruits, herbs, balms and 
spices and of all that is healing and sweet 
in fields and groves, savory in meats; it 
means carefulness, inventiveness, watch- 
fulness, willingness and readiness of ap- 
pliance; it means the economy of great- 
grandmothers, the science of modern 
chemists, it means more tasting and no 
wasting. ' ' — Rtiskin. 



Wherefore do ye spend money for that 
which is not bread, and your labor for that which 
satisfieth not? — Isaiah Iv. 2. 



APR 30 1911 



'CIA398799 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PAGE 

The Nutritive Value of Foods 5 

Soups 8 

Fish 24 

Beef - 51 

Veal 64 

Tripe 73 

Mutton 74 

Lamb 79 

Pork 82 

Game 109 

Chickens and Poultry 89 

Eggs 114 

Savories 122 

Vegetables 129 

Cocktails 162 

Beverages 163 

Sauces 169 

Catsups and Pickles 188 

Salads 195 

Bread, Biscuits, etc 206 

Cakes 220 

Sandwiches 237 

Cereals 240 

Pastry, etc 249 

Ice Cream, etc. 276 

Preserves, Jams, etc 284 

Chafing Dish ., 296 

Breakfasts 300 

Food for Invalids ^ 305 

Nuts, etc 320 

Leftovers 324 

Breading, Crumbs, etc 325 

Cheese 327 

Things Worth Remembering 334 



The Nutritive Value of Foods. 

The following discussion of food values is largely the work of Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards, the most distinguished teacher of Domestic Science, whose 
work has done much to rouse interest in this important question, which is 
now engaging the attention of the general public. 

"Food supplies the wants of the body in several ways : It either — 
' "First. Is used to form the tissues and fluids of the body ; 

"Second. Is used to repair the wastes of tissue ; 

"Third. Is stored in the body for future consumption ; 

"Fourth. Is consumed as fuel, its potential energy being transformed into 
heat or muscular energy or other forms of energy required by the body ; or 

"Fifth. Is being consumed to protect tissue or other food from consump- 
tion." 

We may regard food as the element of life upon which the power of man 
to sustain himself wholly depends. 

The food of men must be suitable to the kind of work and to the intensity 
of the work — so that it may be assimilated. Each human being must have 
the true proportion of Proteid, of Fat and of Starch, with lesser proportion 
of the mineral salts ; else, even with an abundance, he may not be well 
nourished. 

As a rule the food of men and women is served without the slightest atten- 
tion to proportions or to waste, following only under the pressure of neces- 
sity, a sort of blind instinct. 

The cook's art can make savory the valuable food materials, but it can not 
make one pound of potato worth as much for nutrition as one pound of 
rice, or can it make one pound of sugar or of fat to yield the nitrogen which 
is found in meats and legumes. 

The final object of food is nutrition. It is well worth our while to study 
food and food substances in order that we may know what to value and what 
to avoid and to know the food value of some of the common dishes as found 
on our tables without obscuring this value by the fancy garnishings or the 
many handlings so common in the modern recipes. 

Among foods containing at least three-fourths of their weight in water 
are: 

Asparagus Cucumbers 

Cabbage Green Corn 

Celery Milk 

Cherries Onions 

Cream Oysters 



6 Cook Book 365~No. 2. 

Pears String Beans 

Potatoes, boiled Tomatoes 

Strawberries Tripe 

Among foods which contain as much fat as does milk are : 

All meats, except very lean Oatmeal 

Only a few fish, like catfish Cornmeal 

and salmon Chestnuts 

Butter Peanuts 

Cream Cocoanuts 

Cheese Walnuts 
Eggs 

Among food substances which contain as much sugar as is found in milk 
are: 

Honey Syrups 

Fried fruits Beets 

and ripe bananas 

But the adult has added starch to the sugar. This is not really in a sep- 
arate class, because both come under the general term, carbohydrates. Also 
starch yields a sugar — must, in fact, be changed into sugar before it is a 
food for the human body. It belongs to the concentrated foodstuffs and is 
found in the seeds of all the grains that we eat. Before eaten, it should be 
cooked in much water, as in the case of cereals in order to be wholesome. 

Foodstuffs which contain as much mineral salts as does milk are : 
All lean meats Most cereals 

Cheese Vegetables and fruits 

Eggs 

The common foodstuffs contain the proteids or nitrogenous substances, 
taking milk as a well known example. To make the statement general, we 
find the following to be rich in nitrogen as most of them are rich in fat : 

All the meats Dried figs 

All fish All nuts 

All cheese Chocolate 

Eggs Beans 

All cereals Peas 

All breads and crackers Lentils 

Dried apricots 

"Proteid" means that which furnishes new material to take the place of 
that used up in the wear and tear of the active parts of the organism, as 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 7 

well as that which is essential to the building of new tissue. Hence the 
growing child needs more in proportion to its body weight than an adult. 
"Fat" and "carbohydrate" (starch, sugar, etc.) contain no nitrogen and 
therefore can not take the place of proteid, but they may to a certain extent 
replace each other, especially in adult life. 

Caloric is a unit measure of heat used to denote energy -giving power of 
food. The following dietary estimates, based on food as purchased may be 
of interest : 

Per Day. Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrates. Calorics. 

Grams Grams Grams 

Man at hard labor 150 150 500 4060 

Man at light labor 125 125 400 3310 

Woman at light labor 100 100 320 2650 

Child of nine years 78 45 280 1890 

Americans take far more fat in proportion to carbohydrate than any other 
nation. They are more active. Whether their activity follows from the use 
of fat is not known, only suspected. 

Individual bodily condition also affects food utilization to an unknown 
extent, so that no one can rely on mathematical calculations of food quanti- 
ties without at the same time taking careful record of bodily weight and 
efficiency. 

Various other facts are needed before reliable estimates can be made; 
such as wastes in preparation, losses in cooking, in serving and in the por- 
tions taken away with the plates. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Soups. 

Soup is intended to prepare for a dinner, therefore, the rich, thick soups, 
which are really a meal in themselves, should be omitted when a dinner of 
several courses is to follow. A light soup however, is a most excellent 
preparation for dinner, it is readily assimilated and excites the appetite. 

Light, nutritious soups and broths should, therefore find a frequent place 
on every table. 

Stock being the basis of all meat soups and sauces, it is essential that we 
should have a proper knowledge of the most complete and economical 
method of extracting from a certain quantity of meat the very best possible 
stock or broth. 

Meat is composed of fibres, fat, gelatine, osmazome and albumen. The 
fibres are inseparable and constitute the remains of the meat after long cook- 
ing. Fat is dissolved by boiling; gelatine is dissolved and is the basis and 
most nutritious portion of the stock ; when it is abundant, the stock when 
cold becomes a jelly. Osmazome is that part of the meat which gives flavor 
and perfume to the stock. When meat is roasted the osmazome appears to 
have a higher perfume, and so when you use the remains of roast meat in 
your soup you have always a finer flavor. Albumen is of the nature of the 
white of eggs. 

Bones ought always to form a large part of the stock. They contain gela- 
tine and a fat-like marrow, so by breaking the bones in pieces you obtain 
the best results. 

Beef makes the best stock. Unless fowls are old and fat they give but 
little flavor to soup. Old pigeons make an excellent stock. The best stock 
is obtained from the freshest meat. When the meat simmered in the stock- 
pot is to be used as a meat course at dinner or for other meals it is more 
economical to have it in one piece. The stock-pot should always be kept 
covered, and the contents should gently simmer, the vegetables being 
removed when tender. The contents of the stock-pot should be carefully 
skimmed and strained, and above all, the stock -pot should be kept absolutely 
clean. 

On the score of expense, it can safely be said that soup is an economy for 
much can be used in making a soup, that would otherwise be thrown away. 

A rich nourishing soup, which contains some meat, vegetables, a little 
butter and possibly milk, furnishes a good mid-day meal, when accompanied 
by good bread and butter, with a small handful of raisins, dates or nuts for 
a finish, is really a better meal than a heavier one, if a return to work is 
necessary afterwards. 

It is a mistake that soup must always have some meat as a basis — delicious 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 9 

and very nourishing soups can be made without meat. Fish heads can be 
used to furnish a stock, in which vegetables can be cooked. The heads care- 
fully cleaned contain much nourishment — these are usually thrown away. 
Asparagus, beans, beets, carrots, corn, cauliflower, cabbage, celery, onions, 
potatoes, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, all are excellent in soups. Always 
add one teaspoonful of sugar to all soups. 

Bouillon. 

Four pounds of fresh, lean beef, from the shin or leg, three carrots, three 
leeks, one small turnip, one head of celery, one bunch of parsley, one bay 
leaf, one onion with four cloves stuck in it, one garlic clove, one teaspoonful 
of sugar. Cut the beef into pieces, and put it into six quarts of cold water, 
four pepper corns, one and one-half tablespoon fuls of salt ; let it come to the 
boiling point, carefully remove all the froth and fat, then let it simmer (not 
boil) slowly for an hour. Skim again, then add the vegetables, do not cut 
them into pieces, simmer for three hours, that is, kept at the boiling point, 
then remove the vegetables and meat and strain the soup. When needed 
remove the fat and re-heat the soup, not boiling it however. The fat is 
excellent for frying purposes. The vegetables can be warmed over adding 
some butter and a little cream, or they can form a basis for a soup again, 
by putting them through a strainer, adding to them some of the bouillon with 
a small lump of butter, the soup will be thick and cloudy, but with the addi- 
tion of some toasted crackers will serve as a good lunch. 

Cold Bouillon. 

There is nothing more refreshing than a cupful of cold bouillon. It rests 
while it strengthens. Be careful in preparing it to remove every particle of 
fat. It is served at luncheons, broken into small pieces and placed in bouillon 
cups, or any pretty cups which may be available. Please remember that hot 
bouillon must be served very hot and cold bouillon ice-cold. 

Remember always in making clear soups that quick boiling and careless 
skimming result in cloudy soup. With good bouillon you really have the 
foundation of all soups made with meat. 

Asparagus Soup. 

When asparagus is too old to use as a vegetable is the time to make it into 
a delicious soup. Boil the asparagus in water, until tender, then rub it 
through a sieve, add if you have it, some good stock to the water, chicken 
stock is perhaps the best. Fry in the frying pan one large onion, sliced with 
one tablespoonful of butter and when light brown, add one tablespoonful 
flour. Stir well and add the stock and asparagus pulp, cook together five 
minutes, then add one pint of cream or rich milk in which you have beaten 



10 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

two egg yolks, add one saltspoonful salt, a little grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, let all boil once, then strain into the tureen, serve with little 
cubes of fried bread. 

Artichoke (Jerusalem) Soup. 

Two slices of lean ham, one-half head of celery, one onion, four pounds 
of artichokes, one pint of milk, or one-fourth pint cream and balance in 
milk, one teaspoon ful salt, a pinch of cayenne, one teaspoon ful sugar, a little 
grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of butter, three pints of white stock. 
Cut the ham and the vegetables into pieces, place the butter in soup kettle, 
when hot fry the ham and vegetables in it, just color them for about fifteen 
minutes, stir carefully all the time to prevent burning. Wash the artichokes 
well, pare off the skins, cut them in pieces and add them with one-half of 
the stock to the other ingredients in the kettle ; when the vegetables are 
tender, put in the balance of the stock, stir well, add the seasoning and when 
all have cooked ten minutes, mash through a sieve, then return to the soup 
kettle, add the milk, or cream, which must be hot, and serve. Serve fried 
bread cut in small pieces with the soup. This soup can be made equally 
acceptable by using all milk in place of the stock. 

Brown Soup Stock. 

Six pounds of beef from the shin (three pounds of meat and three pounds 
of bone), six quarts of cold water, one-half teaspoonful of pepper corns, 
six cloves, one bay leaf, three sprigs of parsley, three of thyme, three of 
sweet marjoram, one carrot, one turnip, one large onion, two stalks of celery, 
all cut fine, one tablespoonful salt. Wipe the meat with a clean, damp 
cloth — never wash meat for soup; cut the meat into small pieces, break up 
the bones ; fry one-third of the meat with the marrow from the bones ; put 
the rest of the meat with the bones into the soup kettle, add the water, let it 
stand one-half hour, then add the fried meat and cook all slowly, never 
boiling, only simmering, for six hours. Cover the soup tightly. One and 
one-half hours before finishing the soup, add the vegetables, then strain and 
cool quickly. The next day remove the fat before using the stock. 

If a good nourishing soup only is desired, add any well broken bones, of 
turkey, game, chicken and pieces of roasted meat. The soup may not be 
quite so clear but it will be better, but remember, simmer, not boil the stock 
and strain carefully. 

Baked Bean Soup. 

It is always economy to make a much larger dish of baked beans than will 
be used at one time. Reserve a portion for salad and put the rest over the 
fire with a quart of water, some soup vegetables and herbs ; simmer an hour 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 11 

and press through a sieve ; return to the fire, stir in a teaspoonful of flour 
wet with milk to prevent settling, and dilute the soup to the proper con- 
sistency with hot milk. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One pint of black beans, soak over night in three quarti of water; boil 
them three hours with any bones or meats you have, or with one pound of 
lean beef and a slice of salt pork, two onions, sliced, when the beans are very 
soft, rub the soup through a sieve, add a little spice and cloves, if liked. Cut 
up one lemon into thin slices and put in tureen with three hard boiled eggs, 
sliced and one gill of port or sherry (this addition is not necessary). 

Bread Panada Soup. 

Three pints of water, add three tablespoon fuls of bread broken in small 
pieces, one saltspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of butter. Put these on 
a very hot fire and stir constantly for twenty minutes. Mix together the 
yolks of four eggs with one teacupful of cream or milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter, put the boiling hot soup into the tureen and pour into it the eggs 
and butter, stir well and serve at once. 

Baked Soup. 

Two pounds of any kind of meat trimmings or odd pieces, left from din- 
ner, two onions, two carrots, two ounces of rice, one pint of split peas, one 
teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, one teaspoonful sugar, four quarts of 
cold water. Cut the vegetables and meat into pieces, add all to water, put 
into a jar, cover closely and bake for four hours. This soup is good and 
nourishing and can be made and cooked in the oven, when the top of the 
stove is needed for other things. 

Bouillon with Danish Dumplings. 

Take one pint of milk, when hot, add one-half pound of pastry flour, or 
best white flour, which has been made into a smooth paste with one pint 
of cold milk. Stir this into the hot milk, keep stirring until it thickens and is 
smooth, then add one-half tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg. Stir together and remove from fire, let the mixture cool, 
when it is cold, add two eggs, beaten together until light, one teaspoonful 
salt, and beat all well together. When needed, cut the mixture into small 
pieces and drop them into boiling water for five minutes or until they seem 
well heated. 

The pieces can be cut out in fancy shapes, or can be molded into little 
balls, before putting into the hot water. Have the bouillon hot and in the 
tureen, then put in the little dumplings. 



12 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Clam Bouillon. 

Chop two cups of clams fine and put in a saucepan over the fire in their 
own liquor. Scald and skim, add two cups of hot water, one tablespoonful of 
chopped celery, one-half bay leaf, one sprig of parsley and a little white 
pepper. Bring to a boil, strain through cheese cloth and serve in cups with 
whipped cream on the top, or the cream may be heated and added to the 
bouillon without whipping. Clam bouillon can be made from the clam 
bouillon sold in bottles and is most excellent and nourishing. 

Calf's Head or Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take the water in which the head was boiled, add two pounds of veal, 
one onion, cut in pieces, two tablespoon fuls of finely cut up carrots, one 
turnip cut fine, three stalks of celery, one blade of mace, four cloves, twenty 
pepper corns, one bay leaf, two sprigs of parsley. Put all these into the 
frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, fry until brown, then put into 
the soup kettle with the stock and veal ; cook slowly for two hours, strain 
and return soup to kettle, add two lemons, cut in very thin slices (leave out 
the seeds), one wine glassful of sherry, or port wine, a saltspoonful of 
salt, a pinch of pepper. Mix two tablespoonfuls of fiour to a soft paste 
with a little cold water, stir into the soup, add one tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, let all come to the boiling point, then add some egg and force meat 
balls. 

Any of the soup left over can be re-heated. The veal can be made into 
a stew for luncheon the next day or served cold. See recipes for egg and 
force meat balls. 

Carrot Soup. 

Put two ounces of butter or clarified dripping into a stewpan with an 
ounce of bacon, two small onions sliced, a stick of celery, cut up into small 
pieces, and six good-sized carrots cut into slices ; cover the pan 
and let the vegetables simmer gently for ten minutes. Then 
add three pints of cold stock, a small blade of mace, salt and black 
pepper; let the stock boil up, draw the pan to the side of the stove where 
the contents may simmer until the carrots are quite tender. When they are 
ready, strain the soup and rub the vegetables through a sieve, put into the 
soup, then pour all back into the saucepan, and when it has boiled up, stir 
in a tablespoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with a little cold 
milk, and let the soup boil for a few moments. Add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, and serve, accompanied by little squares of fried bread. 

Celery Soup. 

Take one quart of good stock either made from veal or the water in 
which chickens have been boiled ; put on the fire one-half cupful of rice and 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 13 

one pint of milk and grate into this the white part and the roots of two heads 

of celery; let all cook slowly, add more milk if the rice becomes too stiff; 

when it is tender mash through a colander and add to the stock, with one 

teaspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, a pinch of cayenne and let all 

boil up once. Serve. Be sure to have the stock hot before adding the rest 

of the soup. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

Put two slices of fat salt pork and one tablespoon ful of flour into the 
frying pan, stir well together and when hot, put in one chicken, cut into 
small pieces, fry these pieces until well browned, then put them into the 
soup kettle (with the exception of the pork), add one pint of tomatoes, one 
pint of okra sliced, one onion, cut in pieces, one saltspoonful salt and two 
quarts of cold water. Cook these together for four hours very slowly, 
remember the soup must not boil. When the soup is needed, take out the 
chicken pieces, cut up all the breast or white pieces into small dice, return to 
the soup kettle, let the soup come to the boiling point and serve hot. Boiled 
rice cooked separately, can be served with the soup. 

Chicken Broth, 

Take one-half of an old chicken, remove the fat and skin, break up and 
pound the meat and bones then place all in a stewpan and add one quart of 
cold water with one tablespoon ful of cut leeks or one small onion, twenty 
blanched almonds, one blade of mace, and a saltspoonful of salt. Stir the 
broth until it boils, then skim carefully; after that remove from the hot 
fire to the cooler part of the stove and let the broth simmer for two hours, 
strain the broth and put away to cool, unless it is desired at once. Serve 
with slices of hot toast. The almonds can be omitted and a little grated 
nutmeg put in their place. 

Clam Soup. 

Take thirty clams, boil them in their own juice for five minutes, drain, 
put the juice on one side while you chop the clams very fine. Put into sauce- 
pan, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two ounces of flour, which must be 
smoothly blended together, then add one pint of milk, the clam juice, a little 
pinch of cayenne, stir constantly ; when smooth, add the clams and serve 
very hot. Toasted crackers can be served with the soup. 

Claret Soup. 

Soak one cup of sago in a little cold water for a few hours or until soft, 
add to one quart of boiling water, one-half cup of sugar, boil all these 
together, add one lemon, sliced very thin, one small stick of cinnamon, one 
pint of claret. Boil all these together, for two minutes and serve hot. If 
any of the soup is left, it can be served cold the next day. 



14 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Consomme. 

Four pounds of beef, cut in pieces, one chicken that has been roasted for 
one-half hour, cut into pieces, add four quarts of cold water, put all into soup 
kettle, and one ounce of salt. As soon as the water comes to boiling point, 
skim, then add one small turnip, one leek, one onion with four cloves stuck 
in it, one-half of a bay leaf, one teaspoonful sugar. Boil all very slowly for 
four hours, strain, return to the soup kettle, with the white of one egg, 
beaten very light, let all come to boiling point and strain again. 

Consomme can be served with toasted crackers, or with royal custard ; when 
the custard is used it is called "Consomme royal."" To prepare this, take two 
yolks of eggs and one whole egg, beat slightly together, add one- fourth pint 
of milk, one-fourth pint of consomme, a little salt ; mix well together and 
bake in a small cup or mold, until the custard is solid, when it is cold, cut it 
into small dice and serve in the hot soup. Serve consomme in small soup 
plates or bouillon cups as a generous quantity is not desired at a formal 
dinner or luncheon. 

Cock-a-Leeky Soup. 

One scrag end of mutton or a small knuckle of veal and four large leeks 
cut in pieces. Simmer these in three quarts of water for one and one-half 
hours, then season with a saltspoonful of salt and pinch of pepper, add four 
more leeks and boil all for one hour longer, and serve all together. The 
quantity of leeks are divided so that the first ones will cook to a pulp and 
thicken the soup, while the others retain their form. If you have the water 
in which a leg of mutton or a chicken has been boiled, it will answer as well 
as the meat. 

Corn Soup. 

One quart of cold water, cook in it the kernels from six large ears of 
green corn, scrape the cobs well to obtain all the corn ; boil until the corn is 
perfectly soft, then mash through the sieve. Take one tablespoonful of 
butter, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour until smooth, and to one pint 
of hot milk, add one teaspoonful sugar, salt and pepper, then put all with the 
corn in the soup kettle and boil the soup for one minute. 

Corn Chowder. 

Pare and slice one large potato and one onion and place in the soup kettle 
with one tablespoonful of butter. When brown, put a layer of onion, cover 
it with one cupful of corn, then the sliced potatoes, add enough water to 
cover all and simmer gently until the onions and potatoes are tender. Then 
add one quart of milk, one-third of a cup of cream. Remove from the fire 
as soon as the milk is hot and stir into the chowder the yolk of one egg 
beaten, and one tablespoonful of parsley chopped fine and one teaspoonful of 
sugar. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 15 

Crecy Soup. 

One pound of carrots, sliced, four leeks cut fine, one onion sliced, one-half 
pound of butter, made hot in frying pan, add the vegetables and fry them 
in it for five minutes, then place in soup kettle and add one quart of chicken 
broth and one-fourth pound of bread crumbs ; simmer all until the vegetables 
are cooked, then press all through a sieve, return to soup kettle, add one 
quart more of chicken broth, simmer for one hour, skim ofif the fat and serve. 
Fried bread cut into small pieces should be served with the soup. 

Coloring for Soups. 

One cup of brown sugar, six cloves, one cup hot water, let all boil until 
the liquid is quite dark in color, bottle and use a little when needed. 

Another way is to take onions, slice them, place in a moderate oven, and 
leave until they are quite black chips, not burned — these are bottled and 
added to soup to color it. 

Cucumber Soup. 

Two large cucumbers, two onions, one quart of water, cook these together 
slowly until the vegetables are soft, then rub them through a sieve, return 
to water, add one pint of boiling milk. Mix together until smooth one table- 
spoonful butter and two tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one teaspoonful salt, pinch of pepper — stir into the hot soup, cook two min- 
utes, serve with bread, cut into small pieces and fried. 

Squash soup can be made in the same manner. 

Fish Soup. 

Put into the frying-pan one-half pound of butter, four carrots cut fine, 
three onions sliced, two heads of celery, cut fine, two shallots, cut fine or one 
clove of garlic, three cloves, one bay leaf, one little bunch of thyme and 
parsley ; fry all these until they are brown ; then add one pint of white wine 
and three quarts of boiling water, one teaspoonful of salt, and one salt- 
spoonful of pepper ; put with these six pounds of any good fish, let all sim- 
mer for two hours ; when finished, strain through a fine sieve ; serve hot. 

Flemish Soup. 

One dozen sliced potatoes, two heads of celery, two onions, four pounds 
of shin of beef, four quarts of water, simmer these for three hours, then 
add one teaspoonful salt, pinch of pepper, one pint of hot milk or cream 
and one teaspoonful sugar, strain and serve. 

Game Soup. 

Take the trimmings and bones of any cold game, break into small pieces 
and place in soup kettle ; add two quarts of stock, if you have it, or else two 



16 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

quarts of cold water, one carrot, one onion, one small turnip, one head of 
celery, all cut into small pieces. Let the soup come to the boiling point, 
skim, then place it on the back of the stove to simmer for three hours, then 
remove the fat and strain, return to the soup kettle. While the soup is 
making, boil two tablespoonfuls of barley until soft, take one-half of the 
cooked barley and add to it the yolks of three hard boiled eggs moistened 
with one tablespoonful of cream, stir into the soup slowly, adding last 
the rest of the barley. 

Glaze. 

This is one of the most valuable aids to good cooking — it will keep for 
years. It is not always possible to have stock in the house at all times, 
especially in summer — with glaze one does not need to have it. 

Take six pounds of lean beef, the leg is best ; part of a knuckle of veal, 
with the beef to weigh six pounds ; cut all into small pieces with one-half a 
pound of lean ham; do not let any of the outside of the ham go in the soup 
pot. Put all into the soup kettle with five quarts of water, three onions with 
two cloves stuck in each, one carrot and one head of celery ; let all come to the 
boiling point, then skim, and place on the back of the range and let all sim- 
mer for six hours — it is now an excellent foundation for clear soups or 
gravies by adding one teaspoonful of salt, but do not add any salt, if it is 
intended to reduce to glaze; just strain the stock through the colander, place 
in an earthen crock, put back the meat and vegetables with four quarts of 
boiling water and boil all four hours longer, then strain and place in another 
crock or bowl ; next morning take the two stocks, heat them and strain again, 
then unite them in one large pot and let it boil as fast as possible, be sure not 
to cover it ; when it is reduced to three pints put it into a smaller pot and 
boil until it is thick and of a brown color ; be very watchful that it does not 
burn, as this is the dangerous time. When you have only a little over a pint, 
pour it into small jars or into sausage skins which have been well cleansed, 
or it can be poured on tins and dried by exposure until it is dry ; if put into 
jars do not cover them until the glaze leaves the sides of the jar. To put the 
glaze into the sausage skins, tie one end very tight and pour the glaze 
through a funnel, into the skin, tie up the other end and hang it to dry; 
when the glaze is needed, cut a slice off this. 

If you live in the country and raise pigs for your own use take some of 
the hocks to make the glaze in place of beef — it makes excellent glaze. To 
use glaze, cut a thick slice from the sausage skin, and dissolve in hot water, 
add some salt, and any finely cut cooked vegetables. To decorate with glaze, 
melt a piece of glaze in a cup over hot water and with a stiff brush dipped 
into the glaze paint the article, if your toast does not look brown as it should, 
put a little glaze over it after it is cooked. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 17 

Left Over Fish for Soup. 

Put into the frying pan two tablespoon fuls of butter. When hot add a 
carrot, sUced, three onions, sUced, one head of celery (the coarse outside 
stalks) cut fine; three cloves, a little bunch of thyme and parsley. Fry these 
together for a few minutes, but not to brown them. Put into soup kettle 
with three quarts of boiling water. Use the water in which the fish was 
boiled, if you have it, and all the bones of the fish. There should be about 
five pounds of fish for this soup. A cheap kind of fish will make excellent 
soup. Cook for three hours, strain, return to soup kettle, add one cup of 
thin cream or milk and one tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper. 
Serve slices of hot buttered toast with this soup. A fish soup can be taken 
by any one who has poor digestion or by an invalid. 

Milk Soups. 

Many nourishing soups can be made with milk without the addition of 
meat stock. Perhaps the one used generally is tomato soup. It is necessary 
to add at the time of serving a piece of good, sweet butter to the hot soup. 
Nearly all vegetables can be used to make soups, and in summer their use is 
recommended as nourishing and economical. 

CORN — Cut from the cob and boil until tender in a little water, add 
water enough to hot milk to make the required quantity needed, with one 
tablespoonful of flour stirred with one tablespoonful of good butter, a little 
salt and pepper. This sounds very simple, but is a good soup. 

Beets, lettuce, spinach, celery, cauliflower, onions, and carrots, all make 
good soups and one recipe will serve for almost all. The vegetables should 
be cooked in a little water until perfectly soft, then mashed through a coarse 
sieve, adding to this enough hot milk with the piece of butter and salt and 
pepper. A little cream is always a desirable addition. By using the water 
in which the vegetables are cooked adding it to the milk all values are pre- 
served of the vegetables. One teaspoonful of sugar should always be added. 

Mutton Soup. 

One neck of mutton, cut into pieces, three carrots, two turnips, two 
onions, all sliced, a small bunch of sweet herbs, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one teaspoonful salt, one pinch of pepper, three pints of cold water. 
Simmer all these for four hours, then skim, pass the soup through the sieve, 
return to kettle and make very hot. Add a cupful of barley which should 
have been cooked separately while the soup was making. 

Minestrone — A Favorite Italian Thick Soup. 

Three quarts of boiling water, well salted, one piece of salt pork the size 
of an egg ; one large clove garlic ; chop the garlic fine with the pork ; this is 



18 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

absolutely essential; one handful of lima beans, one-half carrot, one-half a 
small turnip, both chopped fine, add these to the water and boil for twenty 
minutes, then add two large tomatoes (stewed and strained), two potatoes, 
chopped fine, one ear of corn, the kernels cut off; one-half a medium sized 
cabbage — use pieces of the leaves as large as your hand, but remove the 
thick stem, one-half a pint of rice ; boil slowly, covered one-half an hour or 
until the rice and cabbage are done, no longer, as the cabbage becomes 
watery if cooked too much. 

Normandy Soup. 

One knuckle of veal, one quart of white button onions, four quarts cold 
water, one-half loaf of bread, one quart of cream or one-half cream and 
one-half milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one teaspoon salt, one pinch of pepper. Put the veal, well cracked, into the 
soup kettle with the water and onions, let all simmer for two hours, skim, 
and add the bread cut in slices, simmer slowly for two hours more, remove 
the knuckle and press the ingredients through a sieve. Rub the butter and 
flour to a smooth paste, stir it into the soup until it thickens, then add the 
cream, which should be hot, salt and pepper. 

Onion Soup. 

Fry six large onions in some butter or good dripping until they are brown, 
then stir in with the onions, one tablespoonful of flour, add one quart of hot 
water; stew the onions till tender, add one teaspoon ful of salt and one tea- 
spoonful sugar ; when the onions are done, strain the soup into a hot tureen 
and stir quickly into it the yolks of two eggs in which put one tablespoonful 
of cream. Put into the soup tureen two slices of hot toast before pouring 
in the soup. 

Onion Soup Baked. 

Place in a dish which will stand the heat, some slices of bread with the 
crusts left on. Fry three onions in a pan with one tablespoonful of butter 
until brown, put these on the bread, and then fill up the dish with some good 
consomme or stock ; sprinkle on the top some grated cheese, cover the dish 
and let the soup bake in the oven for ten minutes ; the soup is really better 
served in the same dish. If this is not liked, be sure the tureen is hot before 
the soup is poured into it, and that it is served at once. 

Oxtail Soup. 

Cut the oxtail into small pieces, put these into the soup kettle with enough 
cold water to cover, when this boils, remove from fire, strain off the water, 
wash off the meat, put it into the soup kettle and add two quarts of stock, 
or water if you have no stock, add four onions, in which stick four cloves, 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 19 

some strips of celery, cut up, three carrots, one turnip, two leeks, a small 
bunch of herbs, one blade of mace, twelve pepper corns, let all boil gently 
for four hours, then strain the stock, remove the meat from the vegetables. 
Skim off all the fat, put it in small pan, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Take all the vegetables, mash them through a rather coarse sieve — 
add the pieces of meat, re-heat, add the flour, to thicken and if desired a 
wine glass of sherry can be added. Serve plain boiled rice with the soup. 

Oyster Chowder. 

Two slices of salt pork, cut fine, one onion sliced, one pint of oysters, one 
pint of sliced potatoes, one quart of rich milk, one-half cup of fine cracker 
crumbs, a little salt and pepper. 

Cook the potatoes until they are tender; fry the onion and salt pork 
until they begin to color, strain them into the oysters; cook the oysters in 
their own liquor until they are plump, add the potatoes, cracker crumbs, and 
last of all the milk. Keep it hot, and stand for one-half hour where it will 
not cook, to ripen — this chowder depends on two things — the richness of 
the milk, and the ripening process. 

Oyster Soup. 

One quart of oysters, one quart of milk, one-half pint of cream, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one dessertspoonful of flour. 

Put into the stewpan the oysters in their own liquor, do not let them boil ; 
stir together in another stewpan the butter and flour. When mixed, add the 
milk, let them boil and then add the oysters drained from the liquor, add the 
cream, a little salt, pepper and two blades of mace. If convenient, add two 
tablespoonfuls of clam juice, it gives a delicious flavor to the soup. 

Pea Soup. 

One pint of fresh or canned peas, boil them until they are perfectly soft 
in one pint of water, then mash them through a sieve. Add to the pulp and 
liquor one pint of cream or one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, a 
little salt and pepper and one tablespoonful of butter. Let these all come 
to boiling point. Serve hot, with toasted crackers. Some whipped cream 
added is an addition. 

Dried Pea Soup. 

Soak one pint of yellow split peas over night. Next morning place them 
in the soup pot with two quarts of water, with just a little bit of soda, add 
one carrot cut fine, one turnip cut in pieces, one onion sliced, one head of 
celery, cut fine ; when the vegetables are tender add one teaspoonful salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar. Strain the soup 



20 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

through a colander, rubbing the vegetables well, then return to the soup pot, 
and keep hot. Fry some bread until brown in butter, cut into pieces and 
serve with the soup. 

Pea Soup from Old Green Peas. 

Peas which are too old to be acceptable when served as a vegetable make 
a delicious soup. Wash the pods carefully, boil them for fifteen minutes, 
remove them from the water and boil in this water the peas. Add one 
onion, one teaspoon ful of sugar, a little salt and enough hot water to make 
the amount of soup necessary for the family. If you have a slice of boiled 
ham, a lean slice, or a bit of ham bone, put them in with the peas. When the 
peas are soft, mash them through a sieve, add to the soft paste one table- 
spoonful of flour. Stir this paste into the hot soup with two tablespoon fuls 
of butter, or, if you have cream, one tablespoonful of butter and one-half 
cup of cream. The flour mixed well with the peas prevents their settling. 
If you have plenty of milk, use milk in place of the water. Serve little 
squares of fried bread with the soup. 

Gouffe's Pot-Au-Feu. 

Take four pounds of lean beef, put it in the soup kettle with six quarts 
of water to simmer for three hours, just before the soup reaches the boiling 
point, add one wineglass of cold water, then skim, then when it is ready to 
boil again, repeat the cold water and skim. Do this three times, the reason 
for this is to keep the soup from actually boiling until all the scum has risen 
to the surface, if having boiled once, it is impossible to make the soup 
clear. After three hours' simmering, add six ounces of carrots, six ounces 
of turnips, six ounces of onion, one-half ounce of celery, one clove, one 
teaspoonf ul salt ; the vegetables must simmer for two hours, then strain the 
soup and cool rapidly. If consomme is wished, boil some of this stock 
down to one-half the quantity. The meat and vegetables can be used in 
various hashes and stews, but the real strength of both meat and vegetables 
is gone, though palatable dishes can be made of them by adding some butter 
when re-heated. 

Potato Soup. 

Boil the potatoes, rub them through the colander into two quarts of rich 
hot milk, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one onion, a little salt and 
pepper; cook one-half hour, then stir in one tablespoonful of butter — ^beat 
two eggs with one-half teacup of cream, stir in quickly, and serve with fried 
bread cut in small cubes. 

Pumpkin Soup. 

Two pounds of yellow pumpkin, take off the rind and remove the seeds, 
cut into small pieces ; put into the stewpan with one tablespoonful of sugar, 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 21 

a little salt and one pint of boiling water ; simmer together until the pumpkin 
is tender, then drain and mash through a colander ; put back into the stew- 
pan, add one quart of boiling hot milk, boil for a minute longer, then pour 
into the soup tureen over a slice of bread. 

Quenelles for White and Clear Soups. 

One tablespoonful of butter, when melted add one dessertspoonful of 
flour and one tablespoonful of cream so as to make a thick cream, add one 
tablespoonful of grated cheese, a little salt, pepper and nutmeg; beat the 
mixture until it is smooth and firm, and leaves the sides of the saucepan. 
Let cool. Mold into quenelles with a teaspoon dipped in hot water when 
needed, poach them in hot stock or water and serve in the tureen. 

Rice and Tomato Soup. 

Five cups of brown soup stock; cook in this, one-half cup of rice until 
it is tender. Cook together one bay leaf, two cups of strained and stewed 
tomatoes, two slices of onion, ten peppercorns, two stalks of celery, cut fine ; 
cook for one-half hour, then strain into the stock, add one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce ; rub together one-half tablespoonful of butter and one 
and one-half tablespoon fuls of cornstarch; stir this into the soup and cook 
for fifteen minutes, add one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and serve 
hot. 

Souffle Balls— To Serve in Soup. 

Cook one-half cup of cold milk with one tablespoonful of butter, when 
the milk is at boiling point, add a scant cup of pastry flour and stir well, 
let it boil until the mixture leaves the sides of the boiler, then let it cook 
about ten minutes, adding two unbeaten eggs, one after the other, beating 
them in until the paste is smooth, then cool. Roll out the paste when cold 
until it is a scant one- fourth of an inch thick, cut into very small balls, the 
size of large peas, and fry them in hot fat. They should swell up into hollow 
tender souffles. 

Turnip Soup. 

This is perhaps unusual, but the soup is good. Boil six good sized turnips 
until tender in a very little water, then pour off this water and add one quart 
of good stock, either of lamb or mutton, finish cooking the turnips in this, 
then remove from the kettle, mash until smooth, add one cupful of mashed 
potato, a little pinch of grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful pepper, one teaspoonful sugar and one sprig of mint, return to 
soup kettle, stir well into the stock, strain. Serve with some small squares 
of fried bread. 



22 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

Soup a la Reine. 

One chicken, one ounce of sweet almonds, one cup of bread crumbs, one- 
half pint of cream, one lump of sugar, two quarts of good veal stock. Boil 
the chicken until it is tender, then remove from the soup kettle, pull off the 
meat from the bones, pound it with the almonds in the mortar ; when smooth, 
return to the soup kettle with the bread crumbs and let all simmer for one 
hour, then rub through the sieve, add the sugar, a little salt, and the cream 
made hot, take the crust of the loaf and place in the tureen; pour over 
the soup. 

Cream of Spinach. 

Wash and pick over the spinach carefully and put it on to cook until soft 
and tender, then press enough through a sieve to make a generous pint of 
the pulp, add to this one quart of rich chicken or any good, white stock; 
when it becomes very hot, take one tablespoon ful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch or flour and rub together until smooth, stir this 
into the soup and continue to stir until very smooth. Season with salt and 
white pepper; return to the soup pot and add a cup of cream, beat all the 
time after the cream is added with an egg-whip — this you will find makes 
it very light. Serve immediately ; it should be very hot. 

Cream of Asparagus, Cream of Celery, Cream of Beets, Cream of Com, 
Cream of Lettuce and Cream of Green Peas are all made in the same 
manner. 

Tomato Soup. 

Boil one can of tomatoes or four large raw ones in one quart of boiling 
water for twenty minutes, then add one pint of sweet milk, a pinch of soda, 
one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
let the mixture come to boiling point, then strain and add eight small 
crackers, rolled fine. 

Tomato Cream Soup. 

One quart of canned or three quarts of ripe tomatoes ; boil slowly for one 
hour, then strain, add a little chicken broth if convenient, one saltspoonful 
of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, a small pinch of soda; boil five 
minutes and add one pint of whipped cream. Stir together and serve 
at once. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Boil three pints of broth with two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, when well 
mixed cover the stewpan and let the soup simmer for a half hour then 
skim, add tablespoonful of butter, one cup of cream, a little salt. 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 23 

Vegetable Soup. 

One quart of good stock, two carrots, cut fine, two onions cut fine, one 
potato cut fine, one turnip cut fine, one bunch of parsley, one teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pepper. Cook the vegetables in the stock until tender, and then 
serve all together. The stock can be omitted and water substituted or milk. 
Vegetable soups, clear and thick, are extremely palatable ; being agreeable 
and wholesome, especially in warm weather, when fresh vegetables are 
abundant and full of juice and fragrance. Nutritious and palatable soup 
may be made from fish of the cheaper sorts, using fish in place of meat for 
the stock. 

Vegetable soup can be made without the stock, using water in its place, 
and increasing the amount of vegetables a little, adding at the last one table- 
spoonful of butter. 

Veal or Mutton Broth. 

To each pound of meat and bones add one pint of cold water, skim and 
add one teaspoonful of salt, six peppercorns, one blade of mace, one bunch 
of sweet herbs, two carrots, cut in pieces, two onions cut fine, one potato, 
one turnip cut fine, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-half cup of rice; boil 
slowly together for four hours, strain and let it cool, then skim off the fat, 
and re-heat. 

White Stock. 

One knuckle of veal, any cold poultry, four slices of ham, three carrots, 
two onions, one head of celery, twelve peppercorns, one teaspoonful salt, one 
blade of mace, one bunch of sweet herbs, four quarts of water, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Cut the veal, put it and the trimmings of poultry and 
the ham into the soup kettle with the butter, moisten with one-half pint of 
water and simmer until the gravy flows, then add the four quarts of water 
and the remainder of the ingredients ; simmer slowly for five hours, skim, 
and then strain through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use, but it is better 
to let it cool so that when cold all the fats can be removed, the fat can be 
used for frying purposes, the soup when needed re-heated, never boiled 
again. 



24 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 



Fish. 



One of the father's of the church, St. Augustine said "Fishes were spared 
from the malediction because it was not the fish of the sea, but the fruits 
of the earth which contributed to the fall of the first parent." 

Fish should have a place on our table as frequently as possible ; it is next 
to meat in nourishment ; it is easier of digestion ; it is a good brain food and 
in most places it is cheaper than meat. 

It is often deficient in flavor, but this can be remedied by rubbing a little 
vinegar over it and adding a small bunch of sweet herbs with an onion to 
the water in which it is cooked. While boiling certainly extracts some of the 
juices of the fish, yet this water can be used as the basis of a fish soup. 

As fish contains but little fat, it is easily digested and is especially adapted 
to all those upon whom there are great demands for nervous energy. 

Salmon is the fish that contains the most nutritive qualities and is richer 
than meat. 

Fish should be perfectly fresh, perfectly cleaned, and as far as possible, 
perfectly cooked. Perfectly fresh fish feel firm and hard, the eyes bright — 
the reverse of these proves the fish not fresh and therefore unwholesome. 
Wash fish, never soak it, wipe with a cloth wet in salted water, wrap fish in a 
dry cloth, keep sprinkled with salt and keep cool. If there are scales, remove 
them by scraping from the tail to the head with a sharp knife. 

Small fish, like smelts, are opened under the gills and the insides squeezed 
out with the thumb and forefinger. Usually fish are put into salted boiling 
water, but after the fish is put into the water, do not let the water boil hard — 
the fish breaks easily. Salmon, mackerel, or oily fish, are better put on in 
cold water and brought quickly to the boiling point — then simmered. 

To fry fish, after it is cleaned, dry it (be sure it is dry), and lay on a 
board, and with a small brush apply a coating of beaten egg then roll the 
fish in bread or cracker crumbs, cover both sides ; another way is to lightly 
flour the fish before putting it in the pan, watch and turn as soon as one side 
is browned then remove to a hot platter as soon as the other side is browned. 

To fry in deep fat, have a hot fire and plenty of fat. This may be of 
lard or beef drippings — the fat must be of a very high temperature before 
the fish is put into it. When a blue smoke comes from the fat it is about 
right — or throw into the fat a small piece of bread, if it browns instantly, 
the fat is ready, four or five minutes will fry the fish, unless it is a large 
one — then stick a fork in the thick part, if it comes out easily, the fish is 
done. Smelts or small brook trout will fry perfectly in three minutes. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 25 

Remember about the hot fat, if it is lukewarm, the result is it soaks into 
the food. 

Fish is better fried than boiled; water extracts the juices and flavor; 
always use a deep kettle with plenty of fat for frying. 

Roasted or baked fish are always good, and Sir Henry Thompson advises 
that fish be so prepared. He says: "Even a coarse kind of fish if baked 
with a few slices of bacon will yield a good nutritious meal, which will 
cost only one-third of an average meat meal. 

"To bake, place the fish in a tin vessel only slightly deeper than its own 
thickness, with a lid to prevent the escape of the flavor ; the dish to be well 
buttered, placed in a closed oven and the fish served in the original dish if 
possible." 

See that the fish is thoroughly clean and dry, sprinkle salt and pepper 
both inside and outside of the fish — it is well to put a greased paper over the 
fish, a good hot oven will bake a good sized fish in 20 minutes, if the fish is 
stuffed, a little longer time is necessary. 

While pure olive oil is undoubtedly the best frying medium for fish as 
for many other articles of food, beef drippings come next to it, then lard. 

After using, the fat should be strained, poured into a clean bowl and put in 
a cold place — the impurities will sink to the bottom of the bowl and the fat 
will be clean and ready for use again. Of course care must be exercised that 
the fat is not allowed to burn. 

Fat in which fish has been fried can only be used afterwards for fry- 
ing fish. 

Baked Fish with Sauce. 

In a pan containing two inches of water, put two tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar, one teaspoonful of scrapped onion, one-half bay leaf, a little bunch 
of sweet herbs, thyme, s. marjoram, summer savory, six pepper corns, one 
pint of tomatoes, either fresh or canned. 

Put in the fish, baste frequently with the water, when the fish is cooked 
and well browned — for a large fish one-half hour will be required, less time 
for a smaller one ; take out the fish, place on a hot platter. Strain the gravy, 
add to the strained gravy one tablespoonful of butter and three tablespoon- 
fuls of cracker crumbs, garnish the fish with slices of lemon and sprigs of 
parsley. 

Fish with Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers are always acceptable with fish. They should be perfectly 
fresh, rendered digestible by slicing several hours before they are to be used, 
covered with ice to crisp and chill them. They should be slightly dusted 
with pepper, drained and a little good vinegar added, before serving. 

Fish with Bacon. 

Almost any fish is appropriately served with slices of bacon, cut very thin 
and fried crisp. 



26 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Fish Boiled in Court Bouillon. 

Put on the bottom of a fish kettle a bed made of sliced carrots, onions, one 
lemon, some parsley, thyme, bay leaf and one tablespoonful of whole pepper 
grains. On this bed place the fish and cover with half white wine and 
half cold water, or water with three wine glasses of good vinegar. Have a 
moderate fire and as soon as the liquid boils, take off the kettle and remove 
the fish. Serve with a white sauce. The bouillon can be strained and 
used several times, but be sure to re-boil it every three days. 

Boiling Fish. 
In boiling delicate fish, such as salmon, cod or halibut, plunging into boil- 
ing water tends to break the fish ; it should be put first into water that is on 
the point of boiling, kept at this temperature for a few minutes and then 
allowed to fall several degrees and cooked at about 180 degrees F. The 
fish will then be delicate and keeps its form. 

Boiled Cod with Sauces. 

Three pounds of fresh cod, boil the cod for twenty minutes wrapped in a 
piece of cheese cloth, place a few slices of lemon on the fish to keep the fish 
white, put one onion with four cloves stuck in it in the water and a table- 
spoonful of salt. When the fish is cooked, remove from fire, take off the 
cloth, place fish on hot platter, decorate the fish with slices of hard 
boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. 

To make the white sauce, put two tablespoon fuls of butter in a double 
boiler, when hot stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, when smooth add one 
cup of hot milk or cream, stir well, add two hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 

Oyster Sauce. Boil the oysters for the sauce in their own liquor until 
they frill or curl a little, then add them to the white sauce, omitting the eggs. 

Fish Chowder 1. 
Take a cod of six or eight pounds, clean it well, leaving the skin on. 
Cut it into thick slices of a pound and a half each, preserving the head 
entire. Cut a pound and a half of clear fat salt pork into thin slices. Cut 
into thick slices twelve potatoes. Fry the pork first in the largest kettle 
you have. Leave the fat, take out the pieces of pork and add to the fat a 
little water. Cover the bottom of the kettle with a layer of fish, then a layer 
of potatoes ; add two tablespoonfuls of salt and one teaspoonful of pepper, 
then put in the pork, a layer of fish and the remainder of the potatoes. Put 
in enough water to cover all that is already in the kettle, and place it over a 
good fire to boil for twenty-five minutes. Have a quart of boiling milk 
ready and ten hard crackers split and dipped in cold water. After these 
have been added let the whole boil five minutes longer. An onion may be 
added for any who desire that flavor. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 27 

Fish Chowder 2. 

Put one-half pound of sliced salt pork in the bottom of a soup kettle and 
fry until brown, remove pork from kettle and put in layers of potatoes, 
onions and fish all sliced, seasoning each layer well with salt and pepper, 
using about three pounds of fish and one quart each of potatoes and onions. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly for half an hour, then add two 
pounds of pilot biscuit soaked for two minutes in warm water and boil the 
soup five minutes longer, and serve. 

Cod or Haddock make the best chowder. The fish must be skinned and 
well cleaned. The addition of one can of tomatoes is liked by many. 

Maryland Chowder — 3. 

There is nothing better for a chowder than a large cod or haddock. Two 
pounds of fish, one-half pound of water crackers, two ounces of butter, one 
pint of oysters or clams, one gill of cream, one gill of water, one onion sliced, 
one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of mace, one-third teaspoonful of cayenne. Put the water into the soup 
kettle, then the onion, one-half the fish, the skin side down ; sprinkle in one- 
half of the oysters or clams, cover all with part of the butter in small lumps 
and one-half of the crackers, the rest of the fish, oysters, seasoning, butter 
and crackers ; pour over the cream having first boiled it. If the oysters have 
much liquor, you do not need the water; if the chowder is too dry add a 
little more water, cover closely and cook one-half hour, serve on a platter; 
milk may be used instead of cream. One-half pound of bacon or salt pork 
gives a good flavor. To be eaten on plates with a fork, not as a soup. 

Codfish, Creamed. 

Soak two cupfuls of cod fish for one hour in lukewarm water, then drain 
and pick all the fish into small bits, carefully taking out the bones, cook in 
a little water for 15 minutes, melt three tablespoon fuls of butter in the 
double boiler, add as it melts two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring well until 
it froths up, then remove to a cooler part of the stove and add slowly one 
and one-half cupfuls of milk, put on hot part of stove and boil until the 
sauce is thick, put in the fish drained from the water in which it has been 
cooked, add a pinch of pepper, and the yolk of one egg well beaten. Serve 
on pieces of toast. Plain boiled potatoes are usually served with creamed 
cod fish, but any sort of prepared potatoes are equally good. 

Clams, Raw. 
Serve on powdered ice, same as oysters. 



28 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Quohogs Clam Cakes. 

One pint of quohogs chopped fine, two eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little salt, just enough flour to stick them together. Do not use 
the liquor that comes with the quohogs. Fry on griddle or drop in hot fat ; 

Stuffed Clams. 

Chop your clams very fine, add as much bread crumbs soaked in milk as 
you have clams ; season with salt, pepper and parsley ; mix well and add the 
yolk of one egg. Put one tablespoonful of butter into the saucepan, when 
hot add the clam mixture, fry and add one tablespoonful of tomato sauce; 
fill the clam shells, keep warm until served. 

Crabs can be served in the same manner. 

Clam Fritters. 

An excellent breakfast fish is clam fritters. Chop fine two dozen clams, 
make a batter with one pint of flour, in which has been sifted a level tea- 
spoonful of baking powder ; add a cup of sweet milk and nearly as much of 
the clam liquor, and two eggs beaten light, beat hard until it is a smooth 
batter, then stir in the chopped clams ; put plenty of lard in the frying pan 
and let it become boiling hot; put in the batter by the spoonful and cook 
slowly, when one side is browned turn the fritters and brown the other side. 
The batter may be cooked on a griddle like pancakes if preferred. 

Cream of Crab. 

Put one large tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, let it brown, then stir 
in one tablespoonful of flour, when thick put in one pint of milk, a little 
cayenne, one saltspoonful of salt and one blade of mace; add two cups of 
crab meat and let all boil together for fifteen minutes, add lastly one-half 
teacupful of cream and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Crabs are in season in May, June, July and August. 

Crabs must be boiled alive, like lobsters. 

Boil twelve crabs, when cold take out the meat. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of cream in the double boiler, when hot add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter as soon as this sauce thickens, add the crab meat, 
one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, one -half 
saltspoonful of cayenne, one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice, the finely 
mashed yolks of four hard boiled eggs ; fill the shells, which must be washed 
clean and dried, with the mixture, closely to the edge of the shells ; take the 
beaten yolk of an egg and baste the crabs well with it, and then sprinkle with 
bread crumbs ; fry for two minutes in deep boiling fat ; only put two shells 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 29 

at a time in the fat. If the fat is not convenient omit the tgg and pour over 
each shell a little melted butter and bake in the oven for five minutes. 

Soft-Shell Crabs. 

Clean crabs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, tgg and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat and drain. Being light, they will rise to top of fat and should 
be turned while frying. Soft-shell crabs are usually fried. Serve with sauce 
tartare. To clean a crab. Lift and fold back the tapering points which are 
found on each side of the back shell, and remove the spongy substance that 
lies under them. Turn crab on its back and with a pointed knife remove 
the small piece at lower part of shell, which terminates in a point; this is 
called the apron. 

Place on hot dish, serve hot. 

Creamed Baked Cod. 

Three pounds of fresh cod, one pint of cream, two tablespoon fuls of but- 
ter, one even tablespoonful of flour, yolk of one egg, one saltspoonful of salt 
and pepper. Boil the fish twenty minutes in water and then pick it fine with 
a silver fork. Heat the cream in a double boiler; mix the butter and flour 
together and add to the cream when boiling hot ; when thick, take it off the 
stove, stirring constantly and add the yolk beaten with one tablespoonful of 
water, then add the fish; mix together and put into a dish, cover the top 
with cracker crumbs and pour melted butter over the top ; bake until brown. 

Fish, Creamed. 

Boil a white fish, about three pounds for fifteen minutes, then take from 
the water and let it cool ; when cool, mince it very fine after having carefully 
removed all the bones; butter a baking dish. Boil one pint of milk; stir 
together three tablespoon fuls of flour, and two tablespoon fuls of butter; 
when smooth stir into the hot milk with three sprigs of parsley, two onions 
minced fine, and the yolk of one egg beaten light. Place a layer of the fish 
in the dish, then a layer of the sauce, and so on until the dish is full. 
Spread a thin layer of bread crumbs, which have been lightly buttered, over 
the top, and bake for one-half hour. 

Fish Chops. 

These can be made with salmon or any other fish. 

Take one-half pound of cooked fish, carefully remove all the bones and 
particles of skin, shred very fine ; add to the fish two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful pepper, one-half teaspoonful of cayenne and one tea- 
spoonful of onion juice. Boil one cupful of milk; when boiling stir into it 
three tablespoon fuls of flour, well mixed with one tablespoonful of butter; 



30 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

when thick remove from the fire and add the yolks of three eggs ; stir them 
well into the milk, add the fish, place on the fire again for two minutes, then 
add one teaspoon ful of lemon juice. Spread the mixture on a platter and 
let it rest on the ice for several hours to become stiff; when required take 
one tablespoonful of the mixture, form into a chop, and make all of the mix- 
ture into chops ; roll each one in beaten egg, then into fine crumbs, and fry 
in deep hot fat for two minutes ; serve with a tomato or Hollandaise sauce. 

Fish Cream Cutlets. 

Chop, with a silver knife, one pound of uncooked halibut rather fine, add 
one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls of minced almonds, a drop or two 
of onion juice, a dash of cayenne, and the unbeaten white of one egg. Mix 
well, and stir in a half pint of whipped cream. This cream must be stiff and 
firm. Put this mixture into small cutlet shaped molds. Stand them in a 
steamer, and cook about ten minutes. Turn carefully from the molds. Cover 
the bottom of the serving dish with cream sauce On it, arrange the cutlets, 
put a sprig of double parsley in the "bone" end and serve very hot. 

Soft-Shell Crabs, Fried. 

Remove the spongy part and the sand bags from the sides ; wash, wipe dry 
and drop into deep hot fat; cook for five minutes, take them from the fat, 
with a skimmer, sprinkle over them a little salt and serve very hot. 

Only fry two crabs at one time in the fat. 

Soft-Shell Crabs, Broiled. 
Wash, dry, remove the spongy parts and sand bags, brush the crabs over 
with melted butter or with cream; lay them on a hot broiler and cook for 
five minutes ; serve on hot toast. 

Eels. 

Be sure to buy country eels, rather than city ones, don't select the large 
eels, one pound ones are better than larger ones. Skin and clean the eels 
carefully, do not leave any of the fat on the inside, then cut them into two- 
inch lengths, put into sauce pan cover with cold water, add one teaspoonful 
salt and some sprigs of parsley, stew slowly for one hour. Take one table- 
spoonful of butter blend with it one tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper, 
moisten with a little cold water, stir into the stewpan from which you will 
have removed the eels. Let the sauce boil once, then turn it over the eels, 
serve them in rather a deep dish. 

Frogs' Legs, Fried. 
Place the frogs' legs in boiling water with one teaspoonful of salt and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice ; let them remain for five minutes, then drain, 
wipe dry, dip in fritter batter and fry in deep boiling fat. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 31 

Frogs* Legs, Stewed. 

Scald the legs, then put into the stewpan with hot water enough to cover 
them ; add a little salt, pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, one tablespoonf ul of 
lemon juice, one-half an onion, one bay leaf and one carrot; stew until 
tender, then take from the pan. Strain the liquor and add one-half cup of 
cream ; let this boil, then pour it over the frogs. 

Fish Hash. 

Use any fish left from dinner carefully looked over that no bones remain. 
Chop the fish until quite fine, add the same amount of cold boiled potatoes as 
fish, also cut into small pieces, season with salt and pepper. Put a few slices 
of salt pork in the frying pan, when brown remove the pork, take some of the 
hot fat and stir into the fish and potatoes, then put all into the pan, brown 
and turn one-half over on the other half, take from pan. Place the slices 
of fried pork around the hash with some sprigs of parsley, if convenient. 

Halibut Steaks. 

Wash and wipe the steaks. 

Beat two eggs, add one tablespoonful of hot water to them. Have some 
cracker crumbs dry and very fine, dip each steak into the beaten eggs, then 
into the bread crumbs, season the bread crumbs with a little salt and pepper. 
Fry the steaks in hot lard, good beef drippings, or olive oil. The steaks 
can be broiled over a clear fire on a buttered broiler, but it is no easy task 
to broil fish as the drippings smoke making the kitchen disagreeable. 

Hot Halibut, or Cod Pie. 

Two pounds of fresh halibut or cod; remove all bones and chop the fish 
fine ; butter a china baking dish, sprinkle on the bottom two tablespoonf uls of 
chopped parsley and shallots, then place a layer of the fish, a little salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, some bits of butter and slices of hard boiled eggs (two 
eggs will be enough for the pie) then add another layer of fish, seasoning, 
butter and eggs ; fill the dish and then pour in enough good white sauce, 
one tablespoonful of white vinegar or white wine, cover the dish with a good 
paste, puff or plain. Make a hole in the center of the cover ; bake slowly for 
an hour and a half in moderate oven. 

Turbans of Halibut. 

Slices of halibut with the bones removed may be cut into fillets and rolled 
to make little "turbans." Pour over the "turbans" some lemon juice, a little 
melted butter with salt and pepper, leave them on a dish for an hour or so 
with this dressing, then roll, fastening each together with wooden toothpicks 



32 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

buttered to facilitate removing. Bake the fish for twenty minutes and 
arrange on a platter, with brown potato balls in the center. 

Fried tomatoes are acceptably served with turbans of fish. 

Almost any fish is appropriately served with thin slices of fried bacon. 

Fish Kedjeree. 

Take some cold boiled fish, cut it into small pieces (a pair of scissors will 
be found useful in the kitchen), season with salt and pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls of cold boiled rice, one small cup of milk, mix together. Put three 
tablespoon fuls of butter in sauce pan, when melted, put in the fish and rice, 
and cook until heated. Cut the whites of two hard boiled eggs into dice, 
add them to the fish, then put all on a hot platter and sprinkle over it the 
grated yolks of the eggs. 

This makes a breakfast or supper dish of "left overs." 

Lobster — To Bake. 

Cut the lobster in the same manner as for broiling, remove the stomach 
and intestines, place in a baking pan, with a little butter spread over ; when 
about half cooked sprinkle a few bread crumbs over and some melted but- 
ter ; bake thirty minutes and serve hot. 

To Boil a Lobster. 

Put one-fourth of a pound of salt to each gallon of water. Be sure that 
the lobster is alive; select a heavy one and one that keeps in motion. As 
soon as the water boils, drop in the lobster and boil for twenty-five minutes ; 
skim the water, remove the lobster from the pot and cool. 

Lobster— To Broil. 

Cut down the back with a sharp knife (you will find a line on the shell), 
remove the stomach and intestines ; place on the broiler — shell side down — 
and broil for twenty-five minutes ; put a little melted butter on the lobster 
to keep it from drying. When cooked serve with butter, salt and pepper, or 
with a sauce. 

Lobster Bisque. 

One lobster, chop the meat very fine ; put one pint of cream in the stew- 
pan, when hot add the lobster meat, one-half tablespoonful of butter, three 
crackers rolled fine, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, one saltspoonful of 
salt ; let all come to the boiling point then remove from the fire and add one 
tablespoonful of Madeira or Sherry wine. Serve at once. 

Creamed Lobster. 
Take the meat from a boiled lobster cut it into small pieces mix two table- 
spoonfuls of butter one tablespoonful of flour, when hot stir into the mix- 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 33 

ture, the lobster, a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, one teacup of 
cream and one teaspoonful of sherry, stir well together and cook for ten 
minutes, then serve either in the shell of the lobster, which must be care- 
fully washed and dry, or in a covered dish. 

Lobster Cutlets. 
Cut the meat from the lobster into small pieces, place in stew pan on the 
fire one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, stir together, 
when smooth and thick, add the yolk of two eggs and one teacupful of 
cream, a little cayenne, salt, and the lobster, stir well and cook for five 
minutes, then spread the mixture on a platter, when cold and firm form into 
cutlets. Dip these first into bread crumbs, made very fine, then into a 
beaten egg then into the crumbs. Place in ice box two hours ; when needed 
fry in deep hot fat. Serve with tartar sauce. A small piece of claw should 
be stuck into the end of each cutlet to resemble a bone. 

Lobster a la Creole. 

One pint of highly seasoned stock, add one cup of tomatoes, one garlic 
clove, let these cook together for ten minutes, strain and return to the fire. 
Take one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour, well mixed 
together and stir into the stock, add some sliced mushrooms and some fresh 
green peppers chopped fine and the seeds removed, the sauce should be of 
the consistency of thick cream. Have the meat of the lobster cut into pieces, 
cook it in the sauce long enough to become very hot, or a better plan is to 
warm it in a little of the stock before it is thickened, then add the balance of 
the stock. 

Deviled Lobster. 

Cook one lobster, take out the meat and cut into fine pieces ; put into stew 
pan one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, stir until they 
are smooth and add one tablespoonful of mustard, one saltspoonful of 
cayenne and one pint of milk ; when the mixture is hot, stir in the lobster 
meat, let these cook together for five minutes, then fill small individual 
dishes and sprinkle fine bread crumbs over the tops with bits of butter and 
cook in the oven for five minutes before serving. 

A lobster tail is curled under if fresh, or if alive when boiled. 

Lobster, Newburg. 
The meat from two lobsters cut into one-inch pieces ; put the lobster into 
the sauce pan with one ounce of butter, a little salt, one-half saltspoonful 
of cayenne and two truffles chopped fine; cook together for five minutes, 
then add one wine glass of sherry. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a bowl 
with one-half pint of cream, add to the lobster, stir all together for two 
minutes longer ; serve very hot. The truffles can be omitted. 



34 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel. 

Split the fish down the back, broil on a well-greased gridiron until the 
inside flesh is white and the outside skin brown ; place on a hot platter, the 
skin side uppermost ; put over the fish some Maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Fish in a Mold. 

Take two pounds of any white fish, stew it in four ounces of butter until 
it is cooked (about ten minutes), then rub it through a sieve and beat it 
after, until smooth. Put one cupful of grated bread crumbs into one cupful 
of hot milk, cover and let it stand until the milk is absorbed ; when cool 
put it through a sieve, season with one teaspoon ful salt, a pinch of pepper, 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, then add four well beaten eggs, mix all and 
pour into a well buttered fish mold. Steam for one hour, or place the mold 
tightly covered in a sauce pan, and boil in water to almost cover the mold. 
When cooked turn out on a hot dish and serve with the following sauce 
strained over it : 

The yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful lemon juice, one teaspoonful salt 
and two tablespoonfuls of butter, melted together (not boiled), to this add 
one pint of cream sauce and stir over the fire until well mixed. Add a table- 
spoonful of butter, bit by bit, and strain at once over the fish. 

To make this cream sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a sauce- 
pan, when hot add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir together until smooth 
and thick, add three tablespoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, one-half tablespoon ful of lemon juice, lastly add the yolks of two 
eggs, add a little hot milk if the sauce is too thick and just before serving 
add one-half tablespoonful of butter. If the flavor of tarragon vinegar is 
liked, it can be used instead of the cream. It is better to make this sauce in 
a double boiler. 

Fried Small Fish. 

Do not split the fish ; clean them, dip them in beaten egg and bread crumbs, 
or in flour seasoned with salt and pepper ; have some fat hot in the pan, put 
in the fish, cook them for ten minutes, turn and brown on the other side, 
and serve. For the fat take some slices of salt pork and fry in the pan ; 
when all the fat is out remove the pork and fry the fish in the fat. Serve on 
hot dish. 

Fried Perch, Smelt, Porgy or Any Small Fish — Cuban. 

After each fish is cleaned, put into it a thin slice of fat salt pork, three 
slices of onion and a little green pepper, or red pepper, with the seeds 
removed; add a sprig of mint if obtainable; tie up the fish or skewer it, 
bread it and dip in beaten egg and fry. The heat drives the flavoring into 
the fish. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 35 

Pan fish are apt to break in pieces when fried. They will not break if 
done in this way ; fry first in the pan some thin pieces of salt pork, when 
cooked take out. Roll the fish, after cleaning, in corn meal or fine bread 
crumbs, fry in the hot fat and turn carefully. Fish in scraps is not appetiz- 
ing, in appearance at least. It is lukewarm fat that causes fish to break. 
Plunging into deep hot fat cooks the surface of all the pan fish, trout, smelts, 
butter fish, sun fish, perch, etc., perfectly, by cooking the surface at once. 
Smelts and brook trout will cook in three minutes, the larger sorts in eight 
to ten minutes. 

Fish Pie. 

Four pounds of haddock or bass, boil with plenty of salt in the water; 
take ofif the skin and bones, then flake the fish. Boil one quart of cream or 
milk, add one tablespoonful of flour stirred into cream until perfectly 
smooth, add one tablespoonful of parsley and one-half an onion chopped 
fine, also one-fourth pound of butter, after all is boiled add a little cayenne ; 
grease a pan, put in it layers of fish, sauce ; let the last layer be of the sauce, 
strew on the top a thin layer of bread crumbs ; bake one-half hour. 

Fish Pudding. 
Cold boiled fish makes an excellent pudding ; salmon is particularly good. 
To one pint of fish add two well beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little salt and paprika. Mix them 
well together, breaking the fish into medium sized pieces. Turn the mix- 
ture into a bowl that has been well buttered and sprinkled with crumbs. 
Place the bowl in a pan of hot water and put into a hot oven. Bake twenty 
minutes and turn out on a heated dish, serve a cream sauce over it. 

Fish Pudding with Rice. 
Butter a deep pie dish, lay in it filleted fresh cod or haddock, cover with 
brown sauce (same as white only made with browned flour), then a little 
minced onion, which has been previously scalded, some chopped parsley, then 
more fish, then sauce, then fish, until the dish is full. Cover the dish with 
cold boiled rice, sprinkle over melted butter, one teaspoonful salt and pinch 
of pepper. Bake the pudding about one hour. 

"When the angel made Shad 

The devil was mad. 
They proved such a source of delight 

So to anger the giver 
He jumped into the river 

And put in the bones out of spite." 

Broiled Shad. 
Split the shad on the back, remove the roe and the spine, have the grid- 
iron hot and greased, broil the shad for twenty minutes, unless a very thick 



36 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

one, when thirty minutes will be required. Put on platter, and put into the 
oven for five minutes, spread over some butter and serve with lemons 
cut into thin slices about the platter. 

Broiled Shad with Maitre D'Hotel Butter. 
Split the shad, broil until cooked, place on hot platter and serve with 
Maitre d'hotel butter. 

Planked Shad. 
The famous Planked Shad of the Delaware River are usually split down 
the back ; when the fish is split, proceed as for Planked White Fish. 

Shad-Roes. 

Boil the roes in slightly salted water with two tablespoon fuls of vinegar ; 
boil for ten minutes, remove from fire, drain, place on dish, cover with 
plate and heavy weight and cool. 

To broil grease the broiler and cook the roes five minutes, turn and cook 
five minutes, remove from broiler, pour over melted butter, garnish with 
parsley, chopped fine, or slices of bacon, fried crisp and brown. 

Croquettes of Shad-Roes. 
Two shad-roes, put them into a sauce pan with boiling water, slightly 
salted, let them cook slowly for fifteen minutes, then take from the fire, 
pull off the fine skin and mash them. Put one tablespoon ful of butter into 
the sauce pan, add two tablespoon fuls of flour ; when hot, add one-half pint 
cream, stir until perfectly smooth and thick ; remove from the fire and stir 
in at once the yolks of two eggs, add to this mixture one tablespoon ful of 
chopped parsley, one saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one-half a grated 
nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of cayenne, juice of one lemon and the shad- 
roes. Mix well together, spread on a platter to cool. When cold flour your 
hands and make the mixture into croquettes. Have one egg beaten, dip the 
croquettes into the egg first, then roll in fine bread crumbs, then in the egg 
again. Let them stand in the ice-box for fully an hour before frying, then 
have your fat very hot (see general directions for frying), when they are 
a golden brown color, drain them on folded brown paper. Serve with 
slices of lemon and a Tartar Sauce. 

To Boil Salmon. 
Salmon should be perfectly fresh ; in fact, any fisherman will tell you it 
should be eaten by the side of the river from which it was taken, but we find 
it very good in our markets. To boil salmon a slice should be plunged into 
boiling water, just enough to cover it and boiled for ten minutes. Serve 
with a drawn butter sauce. For this sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the sauce pan. When hot stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour. Let these 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 37 

cook together for two minutes, stirring all the time ; then add one-half pint 
of the water in which the salmon was boiled, with a little salt ; boil all these 
together for a minute, then stir another tablespoon ful of butter, stir until 
the butter has disappeared, then add the beaten yolks of four eggs. Remove 
the pan from the fire while you add the eggs. When they are well mixed 
return the sauce pan to the fire until the sauce thickens. Then add one 
tablespoon ful of lemon juice and a very little cayenne. The sauce should 
be of a yellow color and thick like custard. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Take a slice of salmon weighing two or three pounds, have the gridiron 
hot and greased, place the salmon on it, turn often to prevent burning. Cook 
ten minutes, butter on both sides, then place on hot platter, add a little salt 
and pepper. 

Deviled Salmon. 

Two pounds of cooked salmon, two tablespoon fuls of butter, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of mustard, one-half teaspoonful of 
cayenne, one pint of milk. Put the butter into the sauce pan, when it bub- 
bles, add the flour, mix well together and then add the milk ; when the mix- 
ture is smooth and creamy, add the mustard which must be made into a 
soft paste before adding, and the cayenne. Put the salmon into a pudding 
dish, pour over the mixture, and on top of this spread a thin layer of bread 
crumbs and a few bits of butter. Bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 

Coquilles of Salmon. 

One pound of cold salmon ; break it up into small bits, put in a sauce pan 
with a pinch of pepper, saltspoonful of salt and about a pint of white sauce, 
one teaspoonful of anchovy paste stirred into one tablespoonful of thick 
cream until very smooth, then stir all well together and when hot fill ramekin 
cups or paper souffle cases, or small cups with the mixture, put finely sifted 
bread crumbs in which mix a little soft butter over, put the fish into the 
oven to become very hot. Serve on separate plates, with a small napkin 
under each cup, the very pretty little paper napkins will answer. 

Cold Halibut can be prepared in the same way. Also cold, only if cod 
is used, leave out the anchovy paste and use the soft part of small oysters, 
which must be cooked five minutes in their own juice, drained and mixed in 
the white sauce. 

Salmon SoufHe. 

A very good souffle can be made from canned salmon, if the fresh fish is 
not obtainable. Prepare the same as chicken souffle, only leave out the onion 
juice. 



38 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Butter a baking dish ; put a layer of cooked fish on bottom, season with a 
little salt and pepper, add a layer of oysters, pour over a little melted 
butter, a few drops of lemon juice, then another layer of fish, a few fine 
bread crumbs, also seasoned with a little salt and pepper ; a few tablespoon- 
fuls of the oyster juice. The last layer to be of bread crumbs with some 
melted butter-cracker crumbs can be used. Bake about twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with a white sauce flavored with one teaspoonful of onion juice and 
one hard boiled tgg chopped fine. 

Fried Scallops. 

Wash the scallops, drain them well, then dip them into fine cracker crumbs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, then into an egg beaten and again into the 
crumbs; fry in smoking hot fat. A Mayonnaise dressing is delicious with 
fried scallops. 

Scallops, Poulet au Creme. 

Two tablespoon fuls of milk flavored with a little onion water or juice. 
Into this put one quart of scallops, chopped fine and the breast of one small 
boiled chicken, cut fine. Add a pint of cream, a lump of butter rubbed with 
a tablespoon ful of flour, pepper and salt. Let this boil two or three minutes 
until of the consistency of cream and serve. 

Fried Smelts. 

Draw the smelts at the gills, wipe them dry, dip them in beaten eggs, 
then in bread crumbs ; fry in hot, deep fat. Serve them crisp and dry with 
Tartar Sauce. 

Cream Salmon or Trout. 

Have the head and tail cut off, put the fish into boiling water which has 
been slightly salted and simmer for five minutes, then remove from the 
fire and drain. Put the fish into a stew pan with a little mace, nutmeg, 
cayenne, all mixed together ; then cover the fish with cream, adding bits of 
butter. Keep the pan covered and let the fish stew for ten minutes, then dish 
the fish ; keep it hot while you make the sauce. Take one dessertspoonful of 
flour mixed smooth with milk; stir this into the cream, add the juice of one 
lemon, let this just boil, then strain, and pour over the fish. 

Stevi^ed Terrapin (Washington) 

Put the terrapins into boiling water and then simmer them until the feet 
are tender to the touch. Remove from the water, clean and pick them from 
the shells, cut into pieces ready for the dressing. To prepare the dressing, 
take one pound of butter to three terrapins, melt the butter, when hot add 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 39 

the terrapins with one saltspoonful of pepper, but no salt. Take for each 
terrapin the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, mash the yolks perfectly smooth 
and add one wine glass of Madeira wine, a little at a time, until the yolks 
are reduced to a thin paste ; it may be necessary to add more wine, add one- 
half nutmeg grated; place the paste over the terrapins (it should just cover 
them) and made very hot. The greatest care should be taken not to break 
the gall bladder, as the whole dish will be spoiled if even a drop of the 
gall should touch it. 

To Fry Brook Trout or Any Other Small Fish. 

Clean the fish and let them lie for a few minutes on a clean towel, season 
some cornmeal with salt and pepper, roll the fish in this and fry them in 
two-thirds butter and one-third lard; drain on a sieve or on coarse brown 
paper and serve quickly. 

Timbales of Fish. 

To every half pound of fresh fish, add one cup of bread crumbs, and one- 
half cupful of sweet milk, boil the crumbs and milk together, pound the 
fish to a smooth paste, gradually adding the crumbs and milk, then add one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, three drops of onion juice; when 
all the mixture is smooth, fold in quickly the beaten whites of five eggs. 
Have the timbale tins greased, pour in the mixture, cover them with white 
paper and steam for twenty minutes ; serve with a white sauce. 

Baked White Fish. 

Bone the fish and cut into small squares or rounds, place them in a deep 
plate and put bits of butter over, some green peppers chopped fine and a lit- 
tle salt; pour over some white wine, cover the dish closely and bake the 
fish for one-half hour ; serve with the following sauce : 

Cook one tablespoon ful of butter until it is a delicate brown, put in one 
teaspoonful of capers and one teaspoonful of flour, either add a little more 
wine or drain the sauce from the fish into the butter, then pour it over the 
fish and serve hot. 

Broiled White Fish. 

Split the fish down the back, remove the backbone ; have the gridiron hot 
and greased, the fire clear; broil for five minutes, turn, cook five minutes, 
then again for five minutes, serve on hot platter, with melted butter over 
and some chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper; garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

Planked White Fish. 

The plank should be made of some hard wood and always heated before 
the fish is placed on it. The fish should be cut on the under side, boned, 



40 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

washed and wiped dry. Take off the line of opaque looking fat around 
each edge. One hour before cooking rub the fish with a little olive oil and 
sprinkle over it one teaspoonful of brown sugar, to which add a little 
cayenne and one saltspoonful of salt. While the fish is cooking it should 
be well basted with melted butter; cook for half an hour; when served, 
garnish with slices of lemon and cucumber. Shad can be planked in the 
same manner. 

White Fish with Oysters. 
A white fish baked with oysters is a very good way of cooking this fish. 
Don't split the fish, which should weigh about five pounds ; wipe dry inside 
and outside and rub well with salt, pepper and flour. Take one pint of 
oysters, drain them and roll them in well-seasoned bread crumbs; fill the 
fish with the oysters, put slices of salt pork over it and bake for twenty 
minutes ; baste frequently with the water which comes from the fish ; 
serve hot with a tomato sauce. For this sauce take one cupful of tomatoes, 
cook with one bay leaf ; add one tablespoonful of flour rubbed into one 
tablespoonful of butter. Strain as soon as the sauce has thickened and 
keep hot until serving. 

Salt Fish— To Freshen Codfish. 

Cover the fish with cold water and let it heat gradually, when it boils the 
fish will part easily from the bones, then remove from the stove, drain and 
when cool pick it into fine bits. 

Codfish Balls. 

Cut the fish in pieces and soak an hour in lukewarm water, then you 
can remove the skin and bones easily; then put on the stove in cold water 
and when it begins to boil change the water and repeat twice, this removes 
the salt sufficiently; then let it cook slowly until very tender. As soon as 
the fish is ready, the potatoes (which must be cooked at the same time), 
must be well mashed and added to the fish while hot, with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and one egg. You must have twice as much potatoes as 
fish, one cup of fish, two of potatoes. Mix well together, moisten with milk 
until of the consistency that will hold together, then mold into balls and fry 
in boiling lard, or if you prefer you can fry out slices of salt pork and cook 
the fish balls in it. Serve with thin slices of bacon fried until crisp. 

Codfish Cakes. 

Wash and boil one quart of potatoes, putting them on the fire in cold 
water enough to cover them, and a tablespoonful of salt. Put one and a half 
pounds of salt codfish on the fire in plenty of cold water and bring it slowly 
to a boil ; as soon as it boils throw off that water and put it again on the 
fire with fresh cold water ; if the fish is very salty change the water a third 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 41 

time. Free the fish from skin and bones; peel the potatoes, mash them 
through a colander with a potato masher, season them with a quarter of a 
saltspoonful of pepper and an ounce of butter; add the yolks of two eggs 
and the fish; mix well and make into cakes, using a little flour to prevent 
sticking to the hands. Fry them a golden brown in enough smoking hot fat 
to nearly cover them ; observe that in frying any article of food, it will not 
soak fat if the latter be hot enough to carbonize the outside at once, and 
smoking hot fat will do that. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Soak the codfish for fifteen hours in a large quantity of cold water, skim 
the fish, pick it all from the bones, cut it in small dice pieces. Take a large 
skillet, put the fish one inch deep in this, pour over cold water to cover the 
fish, let it simmer, but not boil, for two hours. About twenty minutes before 
serving pour off the water and cover the fish with milk ; add one-half pound 
butter to one quart of fish, add a little pepper, a very little salt ; let the fish 
boil, then take one tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little water, 
stir into the milk while it is boiling; then just when ready to serve the fish 
add two eggs well beaten; do not let the eggs boil. The fish can be pre- 
pared at any time, but must be kept covered with cold water; do not let it 
stand after draining. 

Codfish SoufHe. 

To one cup of stale bread crumbs, add one-half cupful of milk, place 
these in the double boiler and stir constantly until the mixture is boiling 
hot, then remove from the fire and add the yolks of two well beaten eggs 
and one saltspoonful of salt and the same amount of pepper, then add one 
cupful of shredded codfish, when well mixed, add the whites of two eggs 
beaten until very stiff, then place the mixture in a well buttered baking dish 
and bake in a hot oven for five minutes or until the souffle is a golden brown. 

Codfish on Toast — Cuban. 

One teacup of freshened codfish shredded fine, fry one onion and one 
tablespoonful of butter until brown, then put in the codfish with enough 
cold water to cover it, add one-half can of tomatoes or six fresh tomatoes ; 
cook all slowly for one hour, add a little salt and pepper. Have ready slices 
of hot toast and pour on them the codfish. 

Salt Fish. 
Soak the fish in cold water for two days, changing the water several 
times ; when required, dry it well ; fry in the pan with one tablespoonful of 
butter, two onions sliced ; fry until yellow, remove the bones from the fish, 
season with pepper, one teaspoonful of mustard and one tablespoonful of 
vinegar ; mix with the onions and cook for ten minutes and serve very hot. 
Fish should always be split open for broiling. 



42 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

To Freshen Salt Fish. 

Lay the fish in cold water with the skin side up, otherwise the salt sinks 
into the skin and the fish will not freshen. 

Croutes of Haddock. 

Take a finnan haddock about a pound in weight, free it from skin and 
bones, and put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, a well beaten yolk of egg, a little pepper and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Stir these ingredients over the fire for five minutes, by which time 
the fish will be smooth. Pile this on some small rounds of hot buttered 
toast. Sprinkle the tops lightly with some finely minced parsley, a little 
cayenne, and serve. 

Finnan Haddie. 

One pound of finnan haddie, put into a pan and cover with boiling water, 
let it boil for five minutes, drain oflf the water from the pan, add one-half 
tablespoonful of butter, stir the fish in this, so as to season both sides. 
Serve hot. 

Herrings on Toast. 

Cut three good bloaters down the backs, bone them, put them in spiced 
vinegar for ten minutes, then dust pepper and salt on the white side; dip 
each one into heated fat and broil them over a clear fire ; when ready serve 
on toast and add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Be sure to serve the fish very hot. 

Pickled Herrings. 

Take twenty-four best fresh roe herrings, have them well cleaned, place 
them in a large stone crock, putting first a layer of herrings, then cover them 
with salt, a few cloves, a little allspice, mace and whole pepper corns ; then 
another layer of herrings ; repeat this until the crock is full ; cover the whole 
with vinegar. Place on the range, and let all simmer, but not boil, for 
twelve hours, then the preparation is ready to use; but will keep for weeks 
if kept covered with vinegar and the crock tightly closed. 

Salt Mackerel— To Boil. 

Soak the fish, skin side upward, for twenty-four hours ; drain, cook in 
boiling water for five minutes ; pour off the water and cover the fish with 
sweet milk, cook for fifteen minutes ; remove the fish, thicken the milk with 
one tablespoonful of flour and one-half tablespoonful of butter rubbed 
together ; saltspoonful of pepper, pour this sauce over the fish and serve hot. 

Salt Mackerel, Broiled. 

The fish from Norway are the finest. Soak the mackerel for two days in 
cold water, change the water two or three times, wipe dry. Broil over a 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 43 

clear fire, place on hot dish, pour one pint of boiling water on the fish, let it 
stand for a minute, then pour it off; put on the fish a little butter, lemon 
juice and minced parsley, and serve. 

The boiling water poured on and oft' removes all taste of oil from the 
fish. Do not drink any liquids while the fish is being eaten; if this rule is 
observed the fish will not be apt to disagree with any one, or prove indigesti- 
ble — and salt fish is really a valuable food. 

Deviled Sardines. 

Take six sardines and spread over them on both sides some made mustard 
and a dash of cayenne, broil them and serve on hot buttered toast; garnish 
with slices of lemon. 

Sardines, Maitre D'Hotel. 

Take six sardines, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, one thin slice of 
onion, pounded fine, one tablespoonful of Chili vinegar, half a pint of 
melted butter, and a round of toast ; scrape the sardines, arrange them neatly 
on the toast, and put the above sauce over them, adding a squeeze of lemon 
juice and cayenne to it. 

Sardines with Eggs. 

Fry some bread in boiling lard or butter ; cut it into fingers ; scale and wipe 
some sardines, make them hot in the oven, and place one on each finger of 
bread; then pour over them the following sauce: The yolks of four eggs, 
well whipped, half an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of common vinegar, a mustard spoonful of made mustard 
and a little salt. These must be well stirred over the fire till the sauce 
thickens, but it must not boil. 

Kippered Salmon. 
Rub the salmon with an equal mixture of salt and sugar; let this fish 
stand twelve hours, then smoke it for twelve hours. Put the fire far away 
from the fish, so that the smoke will blow over the fish steadily. 

Smoked Salmon. 
Cut the salmon into small portions, cover with well-oiled paper, broil over 
clear hot fire, turn frequently ; as soon as the salmon is hot it is ready to 
serve. Remove the paper, add a little butter to each piece if the salmon 
seems dry. 

Souced Salmon. 
Boil the salmon ; to one pint of liquor in which it is boiled add one pint 
of vinegar with all kinds of whole spices, a little cayenne ; pour this mixture 
over the salmon ; leave for twenty-four hours before serving. 



44 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Oysters. 



Angels on Horseback. 
Take very thin slices of fat bacon, cut all the rind off. Then take an 
oyster (or two if very small), pour on it two drops of essence of anchovy, 
four of lemon, and a grain of cayenne and roll it in the slice of bacon. Tie 
them together. When there are sufficient of these rolls, put them on a small 
skewer and fry them ; when cooked take each one off the skewer and place 
it on a small piece of toast. This is a dish which must be served very hot. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Dry large oysters on a napkin ; roll them in fine cracker crumbs, then into 
melted butter and again into the crumbs, add a very little salt and pepper 
with the crumbs ; broil them on a wire gridiron well greased ; they are done 
as soon as they are a light brown; pour over them some melted butter, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and some finely chopped parsley. Serve with 
slices of lemon. 

Oysters in Blankets. 

Take large oysters, season with cayenne, wrap up each one in a thin 
piece of bacon, fasten with a little wood toothpick; fry them for a few 
minutes, serve very hot. 

Baked Oysters with Sherry. 

Fifty oysters ; put one-third in a deep dish ; add a tablespoonful of melted 
butter and cover with bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper; then 
put one-half of the remaining oysters in and proceed as above, then the 
balance; pour in sherry enough to cover the oysters, add a layer of bread 
crumbs and one tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake until colored brown, 
serve hot. 

Browned Oysters on Toast. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with a little flour. Season twenty-four oysters 
and dip in the batter. Brown the oysters in hot butter. Then add the 
oyster liquor to the flour and eggs, stir into the butter, simmer three minutes, 
pour over the oysters and serve on toast 

Oysters in Bread Loaf — " Peacemakers," New Orleans. 

Select large fat oysters, drain and wipe them dry with a clean cloth, then 
dip each oyster into either cracker, or bread crumbs, then into egg yolk, 
beaten light with one tablespoonful warm water added, then into crumbs 
again. Have the fat very hot, place the oysters in the frying basket, or 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 45 

directly into the fat, fry until brown, about two minutes. Take a long 
narrow loaf of fresh bread, remove the inside, fill with the fried oysters, 
sprinkle a little salt over the oysters, close up the opening and serve. These 
are called "Peacemakers," when they are brought home by detained hus- 
bands at night. 

Oysters with Celery. 

Twenty-five oysters ; take one tablespoon ful of butter, when hot, add one 
tablespoonful of flour; when these bubble add the oysters and one-half cup 
of chopped celery, a little salt and pepper. Cook for five minutes in the 
double boiler over hot fire, remove from fire and serve on hot toast well 
buttered. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Blanch twenty-five oysters and drain them ; take one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of flour; stir together in the saucepan until smooth, 
then add one cup of cream, a little salt and pepper and one-half teaspoon ful 
of nutmeg; when the mixture boils, add the oysters, cook for five minutes. 

Oyster Cutlets— 1. 
Mix about half a pound of veal with the same weight of large stewing 
oysters; chop all very fine, then pound them together in a mortar, adding 
two ounces of finely chopped veal suet and three tablespoon fuls of bread 
crumbs which have been soaked in the liquor from the oysters ; season with a 
little salt, white pepper and a teaspoon ful of lemon juice and one table- 
spoonful of cream. Now add the beaten yolks of two eggs and mix 
thoroughly, pounding all a little more, and make up into the shape of small 
cutlets. Fry them in butter after dipping them in egg and bread crumbs. 
Drain them well and send to table very hot. Garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

Oyster Cutlets— 2. 

Two dozen oysters, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one-fourth 
pint of cream, three eggs, pepper, salt and bread crumbs. Melt the butter, 
add the flour, the yolks of three eggs, pepper and salt. Cut the oysters in 
half, and cook about five minutes in the sauce, but do not let them boil; 
turn on to a dish to cool, when cold, form into cutlets. Cover with the 
whites of the eggs, and fry in boiling hot fat ; serve very hot. 

Oysters a la Chamberlin. 
Melt two tablespoon fuls of butter in a pan, quickly add some of the 
oyster juice and a cupful of celery chopped very fine, half a cup of cream 
stirred in and a teaspoonful of paprika. When all has come to a boil turn 
in the oysters and the rest of the juice and cook for not more than four or 
five minutes. Just before serving in hot soup plates, stir a glass of sherry 
into the sauce. 



46 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

The whole secret of this dehcious dish Hes first of all, of course, in the 
delicate flavor of the Lynnhaven oyster, and then in the quickness with which 
they are cooked, the whole performance not taking more than six minutes 
and the oysters coming out fat and tender. 

Oysters on Crackers. 

Can be easily prepared. Take little butter crackers or any small round 
crackers that will split readily ; split them ; dip the pieces in hot water and 
then spread each half thickly with soft butter. Lay half the pieces upon 
a biscuit tin and place an oyster upon each piece ; put a few drops of lemon 
juice upon each oyster and sprinkle them with salt and pepper and a dash of 
mace. Cover the oysters with the remaining buttered halves of the crackers, 
brush the tops with melted butter, place them in a hot oven and bake them 
from five to ten minutes and serve as soon as they are taken from the oven. 

Curry of Oysters. 

Three pints of oysters, including the juice; one tablespoonful of grated 
cocoanut, one apple cut fine, one small onion, cut fine, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one-half a cup of cream, one tablespoonful of curry powder, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Fry the 
cocoanut, apple and onion in the butter until they are soft, then add the 
oysters and let all come to the boiling point, then add slowly the cream 
with the curry and flour rubbed together into the cream ; let all boil, and 
take from the fire in a minute, then add the lemon juice. Serve at once as 
the oysters harden by long cooking. Serve with boiled rice. Lobsters, 
Crabs and Shrimps can be cooked in the same way. 

Oyster Cocktail — (To Serve Before a Dinner.) 

The juice of two lemons, half cup of tomato catsup, four drops of 
Tabasco sauce, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt; mix together. Fill small punch glasses with oysters, pour over 
the sauce. Serve hot toasted crackers with the oysters. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

One quart of oysters, stew them for three minutes in their own liquor, 
then drain them ; when they are cool, slice them, this is a better way than to 
chop them. Prepare a sauce with one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour mixed and cooked in the double boiler, a few drops 
of lemon juice, or one tablespoonful finely chopped shallots or onion, let 
these cook together for five minutes, if the sauce is too thick, add a little 
of the oyster liquor, then add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful minced parsley, then put in the oysters and 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 47 

cook all for five minutes, remove from the fire, spread the mixture on 
platter to cool. When cold, make into balls, flattened on each end and about 
one inch thick. Roll these in beaten &gg yolk, then in cracker or bread 
crumbs, have the fat deep and very hot, place the croquettes in the frying 
basket not to crowd them, fry for two minutes, when finished, serve with 
slices of lemon as a garnish. 

Fried Oysters. 
Take fifty large oysters, try always to obtain large oysters for frying, 
wipe them dry with a clean towel. Beat one tgg lightly, add one teaspoonful 
of warm water. Roll cracker or bread crumbs very fine, sift them, and add 
one teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and one-fourth teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg. Dip each oyster into the tgg, then into the crumbs, flatten them, 
place on platter and place in refrigerator for two hours^ or where it is 
cold. Put plenty of fat in the frying kettle, when very hot, place the 
oysters in the basket, or else just into the fat, do not crowd them, in two 
minutes they will be cooked. Serve on hot platter, garnish with slices of 
lemon and sprigs of parsley, or with small pickles, chow-chow or celery 
salad. 

Fried Oysters in Tomato Sauce. 

Select large oysters, drain and wipe dry with a coarse towel, then dip 
them into this mixture. Cook one cupful of tomatoes, drain off the water, 
when hot add one tablespoonful of flour moistened with a little of the oyster 
juice, one saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, a little grated nutmeg, four 
drops of onion juice, stir well, the batter should be very thick, it is wise to 
cook it in the double boiler, when cooked strain and let it cool. When cold 
dip each oyster in the sauce and then into fine bread crumbs, place on platter 
and set on ice to harden. They should wait at least three hours before 
cooking, when needed, cook as directed for fried oysters, serve hot, garnish 
with pickles, chow-chow, celery, parsley or lemon slices. 

Oysters can be fried on the griddle instead of in deep fat, have the 
griddle or skillet very hot, put a little butter on the griddle and fry the 
oysters, be careful they do not burn. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 
One hundred oysters, one- fourth pound of butter. Brown the butter, 
then put in the oysters and let simmer for ten minutes ; rub one tablespoonful 
of flour and butter together, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little 
salt and pepper, and add just before serving three yolks of eggs well 
beaten. 

Oyster Gumbo. 

Four ounces of salt pork cut into small pieces, four ounces of chopped 
onion, one clove garlic, one-half grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, six ounces 



48 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

of finely chopped green peppers, one little bunch of chevril, eight ounces 
of cut okra, eight ounces of rice, one teaspoonful gumbo powder, eight 
ounces of flour, one hundred and fifty oysters. Fry the pork until brown, 
add onions, garlic, rice, nutmeg, salt, pepper, stir in the flour made into a 
soft batter with some of the oyster juice, the gumbo powder, two quarts of 
good stock, let all boil together for about twenty minutes, then add the 
chevril, okra and oysters. Cook twenty minutes and serve very hot. 

Oysters a la Poulette. 
One pint of oysters, put them into a stewpan and let them come to the 
boiling point, but do not let them boil. Place in another stewpan one 
tablespoon ful of butter, when melted add one tablespoon ful of flour, stir 
until these boil. Mix with one-half a cup of cream the yolks of two eggs, 
a little cayenne and salt; pour this mixture into the stewpan with the 
butter and flour slowly, and stir constantly until it boils, then remove from 
the fire and strain over the oysters, and serve hot. 

Oyster Pourette. 

Boil fifty oysters in their own juice, drain them and add one cupful rolled 
crackers, two yolks of eggs, one large tablespoonful of butter, one wine 
glass of sherry, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Cook in double 
boiler over hot fire for six minutes, stirring well and serve on hot but- 
tered toast. 

Oyster Filling for Patties. 

Cook the oysters in the double boiler, drain before cooking. Put one 
cupful of cream in boiler, when hot, add one tablespoonful butter, mixed 
with one tablespoonful of flour, stir well, add a little salt and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of either powdered mace or grated nutmeg. Cook these together 
until the sauce is thick, then fill the patty shells. Serve hot. 

Oysters on Toast. 
Have one quart of fine large oysters. Put these into a stewpan in their 
own liquor and heat. Then remove from the stewpan, pour off the liquor, 
put oysters back and cook them for five minutes longer in this sauce. Mix 
together three tablespoon fuls of butter with two tablespoon fuls of flour, 
when smooth add one tablespoonful lemon juice, a very little cayenne, pinch 
of pepper and one saltspoonful of salt. Stir this mixture with the oysters, 
until it is cooked. Have some slices of hot toast, pour the oysters on them 
and serve at once. 

Oyster Salad. 

Boil one hundred oysters in a little of their own liquor, or in half liquor 
and half milk — the milk makes the oysters whiter than the liquor alone; 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 49 

let the oysters boil for five minutes, remove from the fire, drain them care- 
fully, pour over them a French salad dressing and place them on the ice. 
When required drain them from the salad dressing and pour over a mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

One quart of oysters, well drained, place in baking dish a layer of 
oysters, then a layer of bread crumbs, season the crumbs with salt, pepper 
and bits of butter, do not economize on the butter. Alternate these layers 
until the dish is full, cover the top with crumbs well moistened with melted 
butter — a few spoonfuls of cream can be added, if desired. Bake for 
twenty minutes and serve in the same dish. A napkin should be placed 
around the dish. 

Other oyster recipes will be found with chafing dish recipes. 

Clams. 

Clams are considered as next to oysters — there are two kinds, hard and 
soft shelled. Small quahaugs or little neck clams are served at dinners after 
oysters have retired for a season, and are served on the half shell in the 
same manner as oysters. 

Clam Broth. 

This is an article which away from the seaboard states is not half appre- 
ciated. All through the early spring, when appetite flags, it is a most valu- 
able breakfast adjunct. It should be served as a first course or after fruit 
(if fruit as a first course is persistently held to as a breakfast necessity), 
and it will be found most stimulating to the appetite. It is said to digest 
almost immediately, besides being nutritious and an appetizer. For a sum- 
mer dinner, when one does not wish to wholly omit soup, a small cup of 
clam-broth is exactly the thing. 

Get the clams in shells, and wash perfectly clean with a brush, then rinse 
several times. To one-half peck add one pint of boiling water, and boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; drain, strain, and add boiling milk or water if it is 
stronger or more salty than desired. In inland states (except in cities having 
good fish-markets, it is better to buy a bottled clam-broth of some good 
brand, preparing according to directions. 

Steamed Clams. 
After washing the shells thoroughly and looking carefully to be sure the 
clams are all alive, place them in a large kettle with a little hot water, and 
steam until the shells begin to open, then remove from fire, take the clams, 
open onto a hot dish and serve with melted butter — usually a little dish 
of melted butter is given to each person. 

Baked Clams. 
Select large clams, wash the shells until perfectly clean, then place the 
clams in a kettle with a very little boiling water, cover and as soon as the 



50 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

clams begin to open, remove from kettle, preserve the shells, look over the 
clams carefully, see that no sand adheres or is in the juice. Place on each 
half shell a small piece of butter, then a clam, and cover with fine bread 
crumbs, sprinkle over the crumbs a little pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice, place the shells in a baking pan, put in hot oven, as soon as the 
crumbs are a light brown, the clams are ready to serve, pass thin slices of 
either white or brown bread buttered, with the clams. 

Clam Filling for Patties. 

Select small clams but do not open them. Wash and scrub to remove sand 
and place them in a deep kettle with one-half of a cupful of water for a 
dozen clams. Cover closely and cook until the shells open. Remove from 
the shells and chop but not too fine. For a dozen patties put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper and stir until melted and mixed, 
add one-half cupful of the strained clam liquor and three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of rich milk, stir until smooth and thick, add one and one-half cupfuls 
of the chopped clams and simmer for three minutes. Take from the fire, 
let stand for a moment then stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, more 
salt if needed and return to the fire for a moment, stir well. Take off, add 
a tablespoon ful of finely chopped parsley, fill the cases which have been 
heated in the oven and they are ready. 

Frogs' Legs. 
Skin the legs, soak them in milk for fifteen minutes, then roll them in 
flour seasoned with a little salt and pepper and fry in deep fat for five 
minutes, remove from fire and serve with stewed potatoes or fried tomatoes, 
or with cucumbers with French dressing. 

Scallops, Fried. 
Dry the scallops on a clean napkin, dip each one in fine cracker crumbs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, then in beaten egg yolk, again in crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat for just long enough for the scallops to become a 
light brown in color, serve on hot toast with Tartare sauce. 

Deviled Scallops. 

Put one quart of scallops into the sauce pan on the fire and let them 
come to the boil in their own liquor, then remove from fire, drain them, save 
the liquor, chop them fine. Put in double boiler three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, mixed with one teaspoonful of made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt, a little cayenne and one cupful of good stock, when this mixture has 
cooked for five minutes, add the chopped scallops and the liquor, stir well. 
Remove from fire and let cool, when cool, put it into a small baking dish, 
or into shells, sprinkle over bread crumbs well moistened with melted butter 
and bake for twenty-five minutes, serve at once. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



51 



Beef 




In selecting beef see that the lean is bright red and the fat a cream white. 
The sirloin and ribs are the prime joints, of the joints the cut next the sir- 
loin is the best cut. The shin or leg of beef is perhaps the most economical. 

In carving beef, cut the sirloin in slices the long way of the joint. Never 
cut meat against the grain. In carving a tongue, cut it the long way — this 
is contrary to the usual, but is the way. A large family should not often 
have to buy any bones for stock, or dripping, carefulness in saving both 
bones and fat marks the careful housekeeper. 

Roasting Meats. 

To roast so as to reduce the loss from cooking, before putting it into the 
oven, see that the oven is hot, the fire clear, for by having the oven very 
hot at first, the meat is seared over and the juices kept in. Put the meat 
into the roasting pan, do not flour the meat and do not put any water in the 
pan — have you not too often seen a roast with a pale, half -boiled look, 
instead of having a crisp brown look? If there is no fat on the meat, 
put perhaps one-half teacupful of water in the pan. Cover the roast. There 
are roasting pans that come with covers — reduce the heat a little after the 
first fifteen minutes. 

Boiling Meats. 

In boiling meats, the water should be boiling hot when the meat is put 
into the kettle. This sears the meat just as the hot air sears the roast. 



52 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Then remove the kettle to the cooler part of the stove so that the meat will 
only simmer. Do not use more water than is just necessary to cover the 
meat, and always save all that is not used for gravy or soup. 

Broiling Meats. 

Broiling is rather a difficult thing to successfully accomplish in a private 
house unless you are so fortunate as to have a small charcoal broiler. The 
gas stove and electric come near to this mode of broiling. One way of 
broiling which is really a good way, is to have a thick iron frying pan. 
When needed let it become nearly red hot, put on the chop, or steak, or 
fish, holding them between two spoons, not using a fork; keep turning 
every minute until six or ten minutes have passed. Of course, this sounds 
like frying the meat, but with frying fats are used. In this way nothing is 
put in the pan but the meat, only the pan must be very hot to successfully 
accomplish this kind of broiling. 

Frying is not considered the best way to cook meat. It is, however, a 
very usual way of cooking it. For certain things it is necessary to fry meat, 
but there is quite too much use made of the frying pan, for generally the 
meat is left to fry until it is hard, tasteless and with the nourishment fried 
out of it. If this does occur, before serving the unappetizing meat, turn a 
little hot water into pan, scrape well all the glaze from the bottom of the 
pan, which is really the best of the meat, into the water and let all simmer 
for a few minutes. Cover the meat and thus save the goodness which 
has fried out of it. 

Meat. 

Never place meat directly on the ice in the refrigerator ; the water draws 
out the juices of meat. 

Never allow meat to remain in the paper in which it is brought from 
the butcher, or in the hot kitchen ; put it at once in a cool place. 

All meat that has been hung long, must be carefully scraped and washed 
off with vinegar and water before using — the outer skin may have acquired 
a stale taste. 

All warmed-over meats, if fried, should either be breaded or else dipped 
into batter and fried. The batter, or egg and bread crumbs form a crust and 
keep the meat tender and juicy; if cold meat is fried without either, it is 
always hard and stringy. 

Meat is cooked in "its own juice," by placing the piece in a stone jar 
with a cover, without any water, and letting it cook on the back of the stove 
slowly and gently. 

All meats cooked at a low degree of heat are rendered tender and pal- 
atable. 

In broiling either meats or fish, be sure that the gridiron is perfectly 
clean, and that it is rubbed with good fat, and is hot before using. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 53 

To Boil Beef. 

Always simmer the meat, in this way meat which otherwise would be 
tough is rendered tender and savory and inexpensive pieces are made 
palatable, juicy and nourishing. 

Boulettes. 

A palatable way of using cold meats, roasted meat only ; mince the meat 
very fine, add a little fat bacon or salt pork ; chop an onion, a teaspoonful of 
herbs, one teaspoonful of parsley together, add one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, juice of one-half lemon, two eggs. 
Mix all well together, make into flat balls about one-half inch thick, fry 
in lard or butter until a light brown. 

Braised Beef. 

Lay a piece of beef of about five pounds in a broad bottomed kettle; 
place sliced onions on the top, a little salt and one cupful of stock or gravy, 
and one cupful of boiling water ; cover the kettle tightly, add more stock or 
water if the gravy sinks too low ; when done — one hour will cook the meat — 
dredge the beef with flour, take it from the kettle, put into a pan and place 
in a hot oven ; as the flour browns, baste the beef with butter-water. Ten 
minutes will be time enough to brown the beef ; strain the gravy, take oil 
the fat, add one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of tomato catsup, 
boil until the gravy is thickened, pour one-half over the meat, serve the 
balance in the gravy-boat. 

Corned Beef. 

The best piece and most economical is from the round, though both the 
rump and brisket pieces are very good. Put the beef into a kettle, cover 
with cold water, bring it to the boiling point, skim carefully and put back on 
the range to simmer — do not let it boil at all; allow twenty-five minutes to 
each pound. Keep the water in which the beef was boiled ; return the beef 
which was left from dinner into this, cover and put away to cool; this 
renders the beef very tender. Do not cook cabbage with the beef, cook 
separately, if both are desired. The water in which the beef was boiled, 
if not too salty, is a good foundation for either split pea, potato or bean soup. 

Corned Beef Hash. 

The corned beef should be quite salt, simmer, not boil, until very tender ; 
when done spread a napkin wrung out in cold water over it to prevent it 
turning black. Potatoes that are mealy are not as good ; boil them with the 
skins on, rather underdone and do not use until cold. Chop the beef very 
fine, the potatoes coarser, twice as much potato as meat. One cup of milk 
or cream (cream is better), tablespoonful butter and pepper into a large 
old-fashioned skillet; when hot add the hash, not more than one and one- 
half inches deep, do not stir it. Keep drawing away from the sides of the 



54 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

pan with a spoon, but not to mash it. Cook for an hour or more, quickly 
at first, then set back on the range to simmer. 

Prepare the beef and potatoes the night before using, pack all into a bowl 
and cover closely, it is ready then for breakfast — do not spare the butter, 
if you use cream not so much butter is necessary. 

Corned Beef with Cream. 
Two cups of cooked corned beef grated, one-half a cup of cream, one 
tablespoon ful of butter, a saltspoonful of pepper. Mix together, heat thor- 
oughly, and serve on toast. 

Corned Beef Hash with Eggs. 

Prepare the corned beef hash, place on hot dish, with poached eggs 
on top. 

Cannetons of Cooked Meat. 

Take one pound of any cooked meat you may have, mince it very fine. 
Mix with the meat one-half pound of cooked or raw ham or bacon, also 
minced, two tablespoonfuls of grated bread crumbs, two teaspoonfuls of 
finely minced parsley, one-half teaspoonful of minced onion, one teaspoon- 
ful salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Mix all these well together, 
adding the yolk of one egg to bind the mixture, should it seem too crumbly, 
add a little stock or another egg yolk. Turn it all out on a moulding board, 
roll it out and divide into eight portions. Make each portion into a little 
roll, and put around it some buttered paper. Place on baking tin and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

Beef with Dumplings. 

An economical yet at the same time an appetizing and nourishing dish 
can be prepared for dinner or supper by using four or five pounds of beef 
from the round or by using a portion from the shin. 

Cut the pieces small, take off all the fat and put into the frying pan, 
when hot fry the meat in it, until brown, it is an addition to fry with the 
meat an onion, put all into the soup kettle, pour a little hot water into the 
frying pan to take up all the browned fat, put it into the kettle, let all boil 
up once, then place on back of the fire to simmer for four or five hours. 
Add some vegetables about one hour before dinner, carrots, onions, turnips, 
potatoes, with a little salt and pepper. Thicken with a little browned flour 
moistened with some cold water or stock. For the dumplings, use two cups 
of flour, in which sift three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one salt- 
spoonful salt, mix together, add one tablespoonful of butter, work it into 
the flour, moisten with one-half cup of milk, more if the paste seems too 
dry, roll out to thickness of one-half inch, cut into small biscuits. These 
biscuits can be baked and then put into the stew or placed in a steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water, they will take fifteen minutes to cook in this 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 55 

way, or they can be put in on top of the stew, in which case there may be 
too much gravy, if so, remove some of it and keep it hot while the dump- 
lings are cooking. 

Beef Dripping, To Prepare. 

Cut the beef suet into small pieces, place in sauce-pan with a very little 
water ; be careful the suet does not burn, as it melts pour into a bowl ; when 
cold all the impurities will be on the bottom of the cake and can be 
scraped off. 

Broiled Fillet of Beef. 

Take one pound of fillet of beef, broil it. After broiling the fillet, place 
a piece of maitre d'hotel butter as big as a walnut on the top. 

Hash on Toast. 

Hash, made as the recipe for corned beef hash of either corned beef 
or roast meat, baked in buttered gem pans, instead of cooking it in the 
skillet ; when baked turn from the pans and serve on slices of hot toast. 

Hamburg Steak. 

Use for the steak the ends of the beefsteak or meat from the round of 
beef, chop very fine two pounds of meat, with a little of the suet, remove 
as much of the meat fiber as possible ; add one saltspoonful of pepper, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of minced onion (this is not neces- 
sary), press the meat together and make into small flat cakes, or in one 
large one; broil for five minutes over a clear fire or cook in the skillet, 
which must be very hot and slightly greased before the meat is put in ; 
five minutes will cook the meat, put melted butter over the steak, and serve 
very hot. 

Hot Pot. 

Cut small pieces of beef from the shank or round, cut potatoes in thin 
slices ; put layer of beef into the kettle, a little salt and pepper, add bits of 
butter, a few drops of onion juice, if onion flavoring is liked, continue the 
beef and potatoes, having potatoes the last layer, until the kettle is nearly 
full, then add a cupful of good stock or hot water. Cover the dish tightly 
and bake for two or three hours ; it is well to serve it in the dish in which 
it is baked. 

Cold Beef. 

Cold beef cut in slices, covered with vinegar over night, then dipped in 
egg well seasoned with salt and a little nutmeg, rolled in bread crumbs and 
fried, makes a lunch dish. 

Always rub the broiler or gridiron with fat before using, and always 
have it hot before putting on the meat or fish to be broiled. Broiling 
requires a brisk fire, free from smoke. 



56 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Mock Hare. 

Three pounds of round steak, one-half pound of salt pork, all chopped 
fine, one onion scraped or grated, two eggs well beaten, six crackers rolled 
fine, one tablespoonful of pepper, one-half tablespoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk or stock, make into two loaves, like bread, scatter cracker 
crumbs over the tops and bits of butter, and baste often. Bake one hour. 
Thicken the gravy with one tablespoonful of butter and flour, then add one 
can of mushrooms. Serve one loaf hot with the mushrooms or a tomato 
isauce, the other loaf can be served cold, sliced thin. The mushrooms can 
be omitted, save all the gravy in the pan for the hot loaf. 

Mock Duck. 

Make a stuffing of grated bread crumbs, add one chopped onion, one 
teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, two leaves of sage, 
cut very fine, saltspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful melted butter, mix 
all these well together and spread the mixture on a round steak, then roll 
the steak up like a roly-poly pudding, tie it, so that the stuffing will not 
come out. Brown a little good dripping in the roasting pan, or casserole, 
put in the roll, add one teacup of stock or hot water, cover closely, it will 
take about two hours to cook, serve hot. Strain the gravy, serve some 
currant jelly or horseradish sauce with the meat. 

A la Mode Beef. 

Ten pounds of the round of beef, rub well with salt, pour over it half 
pint of vinegar, and leave it in this all night. With a larding needle put into 
the beef one pound of fresh or salt pork, cut in thin strips. Mix bread 
stuffing as for chickens, with a pinch of sweet marjoram, sweet basil or 
thyme, one small onion cut in small pieces, one-half teaspoonful all- 
spice, pepper and salt. When you take the beef out of the vinegar 
in the morning sprinkle with red pepper and cut holes to put in the 
dressing. Before you stuff it bind it around with a piece of muslin to 
keep it in shape, and do not take this off until it is cooked. Put it on the 
fire with a very little water to keep from burning. Cut up a carrot and 
strew over it. Cook very slowly about four hours, or until you can run a 
skewer in easily, adding from time to time just enough water to keep the 
meat from burning. Keep closely covered while cooking. When cooked 
put into a round tin pan to make it a good shape. Pour over it one-half 
teacup of cooking wine. Cover and leave to cool. 

If a jelly is desired over the beef, make a good stock with four calves' 
feet or take two pounds of beef, with some bones, one tablespoonful salt, 
one onion, stuck with one clove, one quart of water, boil two hours, skim 
carefully, remove from fire, strain and pour over the beef, if the stock is 
used do not use the wine. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 57 

Marrow Bones. 

If the round of beef is purchased, the bones will make sufficient to serve 
two or three persons. Have the butcher cut them into four-inch lengths, 
cover each end with a stiff paste made of flour, and water mixed, tie up 
each bone in a little cloth, boil twenty minutes, take from fire. Remove 
cloth and take out the marrow, this is easily done with a long skewer, put 
it on hot toast and season with a little salt and pepper. The bones put after- 
wards into the soup kettle. 

Meat Cakes. 

One pound of chopped veal, beef or mutton, one-half pound of bread 
crumbs soaked in water, then squeezed nearly dry, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted fat or butter, one teaspoonful chopped onion, one teaspoonful salt, 
a pinch of pepper, mix all these together (excepting the fat or butter), 
make into cakes, just enough for one person in each cake. Have the fat 
hot in the frying pan, cook the cakes in it first on one side then on the 
other, if cooked meat is used this will only take a few minutes, remove the 
cakes, pour a little hot water into the pan, scrape the bottom well to get 
at the glaze and pour over the cakes. 

Meat Fibrin. 
For enriching sauces and soups. Take four pounds of liver; cut it into 
long, slender strips; roll it in a mixture of the following: One-half ounce 
each of allspice, mace, nutmeg, celery salt, black pepper and cloves, all well 
pounded, after which roll it thickly in flour. It will take longer to dry 
in the oven than any other meat. When quite dry grind it and mix it with 
one-quarter pound of heated salt. Bottle and cork. Use it in the proportion 
of one dessertspoonful to one pint of good stock. 

Baked Liver. 

Have two pounds of liver, cut so as to be quite thick, cut slashes deep 
into it, and fill them with the stuffing, one cupful of bread crumbs, well 
moistened with stock, one saltspoonful of salt and a little cayenne or pepper, 
the yolks of two eggs well beaten — mix together and fill up the slashes in 
the liver. In a small baking tin, heat one tablespoonful of butter, then 
stir in one tablespoonful of flour, when well blended, add one pint of stock, 
cover the liver with slices of salt pork, place all in pan and bake for one 
hour, remove to hot platter and serve glazed onions around it, strain the 
gravy. 

Casseroles. 

There is a very excellent casserole made in iron, with a close fitting lid, 
it is valuable for the long cooking of meats, the earthenware ones are better 
for chickens and other things that are served in the casserole, remember 
not to hurry anything cooking in a casserole, 



58 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

Chuck Steak. 

This steak contains much nutriment. It can be cooked in the casserole, 
browned in a little beef dripping on both sides, a few peeled onions added, 
one teacup ful of water, a little salt and pepper. Cover and cook very 
slowly one and one-half hours. When ready to serve, add one tablespoonful 
of butter and strain the gravy over the meat. Serve with mashed potatoes. 

In roasting any meats with stuffing, if more is prepared than can be used 
conveniently, put the balance into the pan with the roast, it will be found 
an acceptable addition when served with the roast. 

Beef Mold with Macaroni. 
Boil one-half package of macaroni until soft in salted water, drain, and 
put one-half of it into cold water, the other half mix with one-half pound 
of finely minced beef, one-quarter pound of bread crumbs, one tablespoonful 
chopped suet, or butter, one teaspoonful salt, pinch of pepper. Have a mold 
well buttered, put in the beef mixture, cover the mold and steam for one- 
half hour, then remove from fire, take from mold and place on hot dish, 
with the balance of the macaroni, well seasoned, with one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one saltspoonful of salt and pepper. 

Beef Olives. 

Have thin slices cut from the round of beef, slightly beat them to make 
them level, brush over with a beaten egg, sprinkle with some sifted sweet 
herbs; season with a little salt and pepper; roll up the slices and fasten 
with a little wooden toothpick. Put into the stewpan one pint of stock or 
one pint of hot water, in it lay the olives side by side, closely, put over them 
some thin slices of bacon, stew very slowly for two hours; take from the 
pan, remove the toothpicks; thicken the gravy with one-half tablespoonful 
of flour and one-half tablespoonful of butter rubbed together; pour this 
over the olives. A few drops of Worcestershire sauce or tomato catsup can 
be added if liked. 

Ox Heart. 

This is an economical dish; really good. Soak the heart in vinegar and 
water three hours, then cut off the lobes and gristle ; stuff the heart with 
salt fat pork chopped fine, the same amount of fine bread crumbs, a little 
parsley chopped, a little thyme, pepper and salt ; tie up the heart in a cloth 
and let it slowly simmer for two hours, the large end up, then remove from 
the fire, take off the cloth, flour the heart and roast it until it is browned ; 
lay some pieces of fat pork in the pan and some over the heart, make a 
gravy by stirring in the pan a tablespoonful of flour and a teacupful of hot 
water after the heart is removed. 

Ribs of Beef in Casserole. 
Melt in the casserole some good beef dripping about one ounce to every 
pound of beef. When the dripping is hot, put in the ribs of beef and cook 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 59 

until the meat is nicely browned on both sides, then add one good sized 
onion, pinch of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, with two sprigs of parsley, 
one of sweet marjoram, one of thyme, or if the sifted mixed herbs are used, 
use one teaspoonful, cover the beef with stock or with cold water, and 
cook very slowly, allowing twenty minutes to every pound. Keep the 
casserole covered, remember the success of casserole cookery is in the very 
slowness of the cooking. 

Beefsteak. 

Have pan very hot, shave in a little beef suet, as soon as melted, put in the 
steak, turn every minute, add more suet if needed — this will be almost as 
good as broiling and far easier. 

Beefsteak Broiled. 

Have a clear fire, the broiler hot and greased, place the beefsteak on it, 
keep turning every minute to prevent burning ; when cooked, remove to hot 
platter and spread the steak with butter, sprinkle over it some salt and 
pepper. 

Beefsteak can be cooked and then receive different garnishes, which are 
acceptable, and give a decided variety to the steak. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 

Make a crust of one pound of flour, one-half pound of finely chopped 
beef suet, one-half teaspoonful salt, and one-half pint of cold water. Roll 
out the paste until one-half an inch in thickness; line the pudding bowl 
leaving enough of the pastry to fold over the top. Take one pound of 
beefsteak, cut into small pieces, roll in flour with one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of water; fill the pudding 
dish, fold over the crust, and cover the bowl with a clean cloth floured — tie 
it over tightly, put the pudding into boiling water and boil three hours, 
remove the cloth, turn the pudding out ; cut a small hole in it to let out the 
steam, and serve. 

Pot Roast. 

Place the roast in an iron pot without any water, but with a few slices 
of fat pork on the bottom; let the roast brown on one side, then turn it 
on the other; when both sides are browned add one pint of hot water, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley or an onion sliced. The roast requires 
nearly three hours to cook, when done, remove the meat, strain the gravy 
and put back into the pot ; add one tablespoonful of flour, one saltspoonful 
of salt and a little pepper. Serve hot. 

Beef Rolls. 

One pound of lean beef, one-third of a pound of sausage meat, one-third 
of a pound of bread crumbs ; mix the sausage and crumbs together with one 
saltspoonful of salt and one-quarter saltspoonful of pepper. Cut the beef 



60 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

into slices one-half an inch thick, spread the sausage and crumb mixture 
over slices and tie firmly ; dredge with flour, put into the stewpan with one 
onion, cut in pieces, two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup or tomatoes, one- 
half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, two slices of salt pork, one-half 
pint of water ; cover closely and cook for two hours. 

Rolled Beef. 
Cut the bones from the ribs of beef, or take any part of the beef that 
can be made into a long roll — chop very fine together one garlic clove, one 
onion, one-quarter pound of fat salt pork, add one saltspoonful of salt, one- 
quarter saltspoonful of pepper, one-quarter teaspoonful of ground cloves 
(if liked) ; mix these well together and spread over the beef, roll, bind with 
a string or skewers. Put one-half tablespoonful of butter in the stewpan, 
when it is hot, put in the roll of beef, brown, add one wine glass of wine or 
vinegar, one glass of water or stock, one bay leaf, a little pepper and two 
cloves ; let the beef cook slowly for two hours, then remove from the pan, 
skim off the fat from the gravy — put into the gravy a slice of toasted bread — 
in five minutes strain the gravy through a coarse sieve and serve; garnish 
the beef with slices of lemon. 

Roast Beef. 

In roasting meat the oven should always be hot so that the meat will 
brown at once — the gravy which exudes, congeals on the outside and forms a 
glaze; this glaze seals the pores of the meat. Never put water in the pan, 
and do not flour the meat, and never put the salt or pepper on the joint 
before it is cooked or while it is cooking; when the meat is done pour off 
the fat from the pan, remove the meat, pour a little boiling water into the 
pan, carefully scrape off every bit of the glaze on the bottom of the pan, 
add a little salt and pepper, but no flour — the gravy will be thick enough 
without any. Garnish with horseradish sauce. 

Sirloin of Beef. 
The sirloin of beef, about ten pounds, makes three good meals; the thin 
end can be corned ; the fillet is considered the "epicure's piece." The roast 
is a good one and looks well on the table. It is important to remember that 
the smaller the cut to be roasted the hotter should be the fire, for an 
intensely hot fire coagulates the exterior and prevents the drying up of the 
meat juices. Do not apply this to large pieces of meat, for meat is a poor 
conductor of heat, and a large piece of meat exposed to intense heat would 
burn and change to charcoal before the heat had penetrated to the interior. 

A Good Stew— 1. 
Take an earthenware jar, put in the bottom a few slices of bacon, on this 
a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions, some chopped parsley, a little 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 61 

sprinkle of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, if liked, 
then a layer of good beef or mutton, then repeat the vegetables, etc., until 
the jar is filled, finishing with a few slices of bacon; cover tightly and 
place in a deep pan half filled with boiling water and bake for three hours. 

A Good Stew— 2. 

Cut small pieces of meat from the leg, about three pounds; roll all in 
flour until very white, place in stewpan with salt and pepper. Cover with 
cold water; simmer slowly for five hours. This stew will be found very 
good and nourishing. 

Stewed Tongue, Fresh or Smoked. 

Put the tongue into water, enough to well cover it, add a small cupful of 
salt, parboil the tongue, then peel it and rub it well with mace, pepper, 
ginger, cloves and allspice. Strain the first water, put the tongue back into 
it, boil three hours, throw in two large handfuls of raisins, one tablespoonful 
of brown sugar, one-half cup of vinegar. One-half hour before it is done, 
add one lemon cut fine, strain the gravy and serve. It should cook in all, 
four hours. 

As soon as the tongue is boiled tender, remove from the kettle, run cold 
water over it for a minute; this will remove the skin easily. By cooking 
with the tongue, two pepper corns, a little salt, one clove, one-half bay leaf, 
a tomato, and other vegetables, a good soup is obtained. Remove the tongue, 
strain the broth, let cool then skim, reheat when needed. 

Beef Trifles. 

Take a pound of cold roast beef, mince it very finely, mix with it a sea- 
soning of salt and pepper, three ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of finely grated horseradish, six tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, and 
a tablespoonful of minced onion. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, moisten 
well with two beaten eggs. Put the mixture into small well buttered cups or 
molds, bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, then take out and 
garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve with or without horseradish 
sauce. 

Spanish OUa Podrida. 

One pound of beef, one pound of mutton, one pound of lean pork, one- 
half pound of bacon, one handful of green peas. Place all these in a stew- 
pan with enough water to cover and simmer slowly ; as soon as the meats are 
half cooked, add one-half head of cabbage, two pieces of pumpkin, one hand- 
ful of kidney beans, a few potatoes and two sausage ; boil together for one 
hour, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, one garlic clove and a little clove 
and allspice, add one tomato cut in pieces and one onion, boil together one- 
half hour longer and serve. 



62 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Rump Steak. 

Place the steak on the well greased broiler, or in a very hot skillet with a 
little melted suet — ^tum the steak often, season well with salt and pepper, 
cook for fifteen minutes, remove from fire, place on hot dish, spread butter 
over the steak, garnish the steak with grated horseradish. 

Rump Steak, Stuffed and Rolled. 
Two pounds of rump steak, two ounces of suet, three ounces of bread 
crumbs, six olives, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt and 
two eggs. Peel and chop the olives, chop the suet, put into a basin with the 
crumbs, parsley, olives, suet, pepper and salt; mix well with the eggs. 
Spread the mixture on the steak, roll and tie securely; place in a greased 
paper and roast about three-quarters of an hour. 

Swedish Stew. 
A savory dish and one for which the less expensive cuts of meat can be 
used. Put into an earthenware dish or casserole two and one-half pounds 
of beef from the "round," cut into small pieces, cut a good sized carrot in 
small pieces and also one large onion; add three whole cloves, three large 
tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca, one large tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, a little (very little) grated nutmeg, one full 
teaspoon ful of salt, a little pepper; add one pint of cold water; cover the 
dish and bake in a slow oven for five hours. It may be necessary to add a 
little more water, which should be hot. 

Shepherd Pie. 

Cover the bottom of a well greased baking dish, with mashed potatoes, if 
the potatoes seem too stiff, add a little milk, then fill in the dish with beef cut 
into small pieces, add a little onion juice and the gravy left from roast, or 
some hot water seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little melted butter, 
cover the dish with a layer of mashed potato sprinkled over with bits of 
butter, place in hot oven and just reheat the meat and potatoes. Serve hot 
with some pickles. 

Meat Pie with Tomatoes. 

This pie can be made from either cold beef or mutton. Peel the tomatoes, 
and slice them, or if canned tomatoes, drain the liquid from them. Cover 
the bottom of a baking dish with tomatoes, then put a layer of the cold 
meat sliced, dredge with some flour, sprinkle salt and pepper over — repeat 
the tomatoes, meat, seasoning until the dish is nearly full — over the last 
layer put some bits of butter, cover with fine cracker or bread crumbs or 
with a biscuit dough, rolled thin and rather richer than ordinary. A few 
boiled potatoes can be added to the pie, if you have a few oysters add them, 
or a few mushrooms. If bread or cracker crumbs are used a little melted 
butter poured on them improves the pie. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 63 

Meat Turnovers. 

These turnovers can be made of almost any kind of cooked meat; they 
are excellent for luncheon or dinner and are most acceptable in the children's 
lunch basket. 

Make a good rich biscuit dough, or a good pie crust, roll it out to about 
one-half an inch in thickness, cut into rounds about the size of a teacup 
saucer. Mix together any cooked meat, several kinds can be used together, 
mix some melted butter with the meat, a little mashed potato, some salt and 
pepper, fill the rounds with this, wet the edges slightly, pinch them together 
and bake for one-half hour, if not needed for the lunch basket, but for din- 
ner or supper serve a gravy or brown sauce with them. 

A Substitute for Meat. 
Put one-half a cupful of rich milk into the saucepan, when hot, add two 
tablespoon fuls of butter, mixed with one teaspoon ful of flour and two 
ounces of bread crumbs, stir well, and keep on cooking the mixture, stir- 
ring all the time until it thickens, then take from the fire and let it cool. 
When cold, add one-half cupful of mixed nuts very finely chopped, one 
teaspoonful onion juice, two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, one teaspoonful 
salt, a little pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, two unbeaten eggs, and one-half cupful of milk. Beat this mix- 
ture until it is smooth. Have a mold well buttered, fill it with the mixture, 
place the mold in a pan of hot water and cover it, bake for fifteen minutes, 
remove from oven, turn out on a hot dish and serve a white sauce, in which, 
if convenient, put some hot cooked fresh mushrooms. 



64 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Veal. 




Breast of Veal, Fricasseed. 
Lay the breast of veal in warm water to whiten it for a few minutes, 
then cut the meat into small pieces. Put in the stewpan one-half table- 
spoonful of butter, one onion, one carrot, a sprig of thyme and a thin slice 
of lemon peel, a little salt and pepper; dredge the meat with flour, put all 
in the stewpan with one pint of water; simmer for two hours — the meat 
must not brown ; when ready to serve, take out the meat, skim the fat from 
the gravy and add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the juice of one 
lemon, one cup of white bread crumbs, a little salt and nutmeg; stir these 
well into the sauce, cook five minutes and serve with the veal. 

Veal Birds. 

Veal birds are made in Austria from slices of uncooked veal, covered with 
thin slices of bacon and a sage leaf, then tied up and roasted. There is, 
however, no reason why they should not be stewed. A foundation gravy 
is made of a mixture of white stock and cream, flavored with lemon peel, 
parsley, cayenne, and a dash each of salt and nutmeg. The "birds" must 
stew in this for about two hours. 

Cream of Veal. 
Two pounds of veal cutlet, pound until soft and thin, then cut into finger 
lengths and about one inch wide, dip each piece into beaten egg, then into 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 65 

fine bread crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper and a little nutmeg. Put 
one tablespoon ful of butter into the pan; when it is hot put in the veal, 
brown the slices on both sides, and cook fifteen minutes, then place them on 
a hot dish. Pour into the pan two tablespoonfuls of cream, let it boil once, 
then strain over the veal. Serve with slices of lemon. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Have the cutlets free from bone if possible; trim and beat them well 
with the pastry roller until the fibre of the meat is broken; this process 
improves veal, but it is injurious to many other meats. Dip each cutlet in 
flour or in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry for fifteen minutes in good 
fat, either of dripping or lard, not a deep fat. Then remove the cutlets from 
the fat and pour out the fat. Put into the pan one tablespoonful of flour 
and one tablespoonful of butter; cook these together for a minute, then 
add one cup of broth or boiling water, one spoonful of lemon juice, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half a saltspoonf ul of pepper ; strain the gravy over the 
cutlets and serve hot. 

Fried Veal Cutlets with Cream Gravy. 

Take two pounds of veal from the leg, cut into small round pieces; dip 
each piece into flour mixed with one teaspoon ful of salt and a little pepper. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the frying pan, when hot put in the 
cutlets and fry slowly until they are brown and tender, then remove to a 
hot dish. Pour into the pan one teacup of cream, let it just boil, then strain 
over the meat. Serve hot. 

Veal Cutlets with Macaroni. 
Take one-quarter pound of macaroni broken into four-inch pieces; put 
into one pint of boiling water; when boiling put on the back of range to 
simmer for thirty minutes, then pour in one teacupful of cold water, this 
is the correct way to prevent the macaroni from pulping; add one salt- 
spoonful of salt. Make a gravy from some fine stock, thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour, add one tablespoonful of some good catsup, drain the 
macaroni and put it into the gravy. Take the cutlets, roll them in the beaten 
yolk of egg, then into bread crumbs, fry them in fat until they are brown, 
add a sprinkle of thyme over them and a few drops of lemon juice. Place 
the macaroni and cutlets on a hot dish and sprinkle them with paprika. 
Serve the gravy in small dish. 

To Prepare Calves' Brains for Cooking. 

Wash the brains in cold water, drain them, cover again with cold water, 
in which put a tablespoonful of good vinegar or lemon juice and one salt- 
spoonful of salt; let the brains soak in this mixture for twenty minutes. 
Put in the saucepan some boiling salted water, drain the brains and put them 
into the saucepan with one onion, one bay leaf, six peppercorns and six 



66 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

cloves; let them cook for thirty minutes, then drain and put them again 
into cold water ; when cold pinch off all the fibers you can without breaking 
the brains. 

Baked or Fried Calf's Brains. 
Slice the cooked brains, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, then in 
tgg and fry them in a little butter, or bake them in the oven for ten minutes. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach. 
Three pounds of the fillet of veal, take out the bone, trim the piece nicely 
and lard the top with thin strips of salt pork ; put into the stewpan the bone 
and trimmings of veal, with one carrot, one onion, cut fine, a little salt and 
pepper; lay on the top of these the veal, add one-half pint of broth, boil 
until the broth is thick, then add one pint more of broth, and simmer all for 
one and one-half hours; baste the fricandeau every few minutes, when 
cooked, take from the pan. Skim off the fat and strain the gravy and serve 
it over the meat ; place the fricandeau on a bed of cooked spinach. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 
Use four pounds of veal (the fat side of the leg), one pint of broth, four 
ounces of lean ham, one faggot of sweet herbs, one carrot, one onion, one 
bay leaf, one blade of mace, one-fourth pound of fat bacon for larding, 
eight artichoke bottoms, six truffles, four mushrooms. Beat the veal with a 
rolling pin, take off the skin and trim off the rough edges, lard the top 
and sides, cover it with fat bacon, lay it in a stewpan with some trimmings 
of raw veal underneath it, also the onion and carrot, the herbs, mace, the 
lean ham, pepper, add salt and a pint of broth, cover and let it stew 
slowly three hours, then take out the meat, remove all fat from the gravy, 
boil quickly to a glaze and glaze the fricandeau. Make a rich gravy, add the 
mushrooms, truffles and artichoke bottoms, and serve round the meat. 

Calf's Feet. 
Boil four calf's feet in slightly salted water, just enough to cover them, 
when cooked take from the water and remove the bones. When cold, cut 
the meat into small pieces. Fry these in two tablespoon fuls of butter, when 
lightly brown, take out of the pan while the sauce is made in the pan. For 
this, fry two onions, sliced, one garlic clove, one green pepper, sliced, the 
seeds carefully removed, a few mushrooms, a little powdered mace, one 
teaspoonful salt, pinch of pepper, adding boiling milk until the sauce is 
thick, then take from the fire, strain the sauce, add the calf's feet and the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten, the juice of one lemon and one tablespoonful 
of hot water, stir all well together, pour into a buttered tin and put away to 
cool. When needed, cut this into slices, dip in egg yolk and then in bread 
crumbs and fry. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 67 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras — Very Good. 

This is most useful for sandwiches or for serving at afternoon tea. 

Take one pound of fresh calf's liver, boil it in slightly salted water until it 
is perfectly tender, then put it through the meat chopper or else pound it 
until fine and smooth. Moisten it with melted butter, all it will take up. 
It should be a smooth, soft paste. Season well with cayenne, a little wee bit 
of mustard, and a little grated nutmeg. Add one tablespoonful of water, 
in which has been boiled an onion and one clove. Mix all the various 
ingredients together, put in little pieces of cold boiled tongue, or bits cut 
from the cooked gizzards and livers of chickens. These quite successfully 
imitate the truffles found in the famous Strasbourg pates and perhaps are 
quite as genuine. 

Pack the paste in small jars, pour melted butter over the tops, keep cool 
and it will keep perfectly for weeks. 

Italian Cheese. 

One pound and a half of calf's liver, cover it with boiling water for five 
minutes, then dry with a soft cloth and chop it very fine; chop one pound 
of veal and one-half pound of ham fine and mix with the liver, add one 
onion chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, a little cayenne and a pinch of 
powdered sage. Mix all well together and put into a buttered mold, cover 
tightly and steam or boil for three hours, then remove the cover, pour off any 
liquid from the top, pour this into a saucepan and while hot add to it one- 
fourth of a box of gelatine which has been previously soaked in a teacup of 
cold water, stir until the gelatine is dissolved, add a little salt and pepper, 
pour this into the mold over the cheese, it will fill up all the places which 
have shrunk in the cooking; shake the mold so as to have the liquid settle 
around the sides; leave it to cool, when cold turn on a platter and garnish 
with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

Liver and Bacon. 
Cook in a frying pan as many slices of bacon as may be required, place 
them on a hot dish and keep hot. Lay the liver in the frying pan in which 
the bacon was cooked, sprinkle it generously with salt and pepper and cook. 
Place the liver on a hot plate and with a sharp knife cut the meat into thin 
strips, removing all the stringy and gristly parts. Return the liver to the 
frying pan, add a generous piece of butter and more salt and pepper, and 
stir it around with a fork, letting the meat become thoroughly heated. Turn 
it into the center of a hot platter, place the bacon around it and serve. The 
liver and bacon can be cooked in a chafing dish ; follow this recipe. 

Braised Liver. 
Two and one-half pounds of calf's liver, three small onions, one can of 
mushrooms, one bunch of parsley, one-eighth pound of butter, one-half 



68 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

pound of salt pork, one lemon. Lard the liver with the pork, melt the butter 
in the kettle (a small iron one with a tight cover, is the best for this prepara- 
tion), then put in the onions, mushrooms, parsley and lemon; put in the liver, 
cook one hour, place on hot dish, strain the gravy and pour over the liver. 

Baked Calf's Liver. 
Take one liver, pour over it boiling water and skin it ; wash it in several 
waters, lard with bacon or salt pork. Put in a pan a little bit of sliced onion, 
a carrot sliced and a little water, tablespoonful butter, put in the liver, 
which you cover well with onions sliced; sprinkle all with flour, and baste 
often, in a hot oven. Bake one and one-half hours. 

Calf's Liver, Larded. 
The operation of larding is done by passing strips of larding pork, which 
is firm, white, fat salt pork, cut two inches long, and quarter of an inch 
square, in rows along the surface of the liver, placing the strips of pork in 
the split end of a larding needle, and with it taking a stitch about a quarter 
of an inch deep and one inch long in the surface of the liver, and leaving 
the ends of the pork projecting equally; the rows must be inserted regu- 
larly — the ends of the second coming between the ends of the first, and so 
on, until the surface is covered. Put the liver in a pan or in a casserole 
on one ounce of carrot, one ounce of onions and one ounce of salt pork 
sliced, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, three 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, three bay leaves, and six cloves ; two table- 
spoonfuls of brown gravy poured over it and cook in a moderate oven about 
an hour or until it is thoroughly done. 

Calf's Liver with Cream. 

Wash the piece of liver, wipe it dry and cut in slices, half an inch thick, 
season each slice with pepper and salt, and dust with flour. Melt in the 
frying pan one tablespoonful of butter or good dripping, put in the liver 
and fry a light brown, take from the frying pan, cut liver into pieces one- 
half an inch square, pour out most of the fat in the frying pan, return the 
pieces, stir into them one teaspoonful flour and two tablespoonfuls of good 
cream, let all boil once, stirring them all the time and serve on a hot dish. 
Fresh mushrooms can be added and cooked with the liver. 

Calf's Head, Boiled. 
Have the head thoroughly cleaned, scraped and split open; see that the 
ears are clean; then put the head in cold water for an hour. Remove the 
brains ; be careful not to break them and put them into a basin and cover with 
cold water. Put the head into a large enough kettle for the water to entirely 
cover it, bring the water quickly to the boiling point, skim and then put the 
kettle on the cooler part of the stove and simmer the head for three hours ; 
add one teaspoonful of salt and one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, remove 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 69 

from the fire ; take out the large bones and pour over the head either Brown, 
Parsley, Tomato or Bechamel sauce. The water in which the head was 
cooked may be used for mock turtle soup, or a white soup. 

Calf's Head Terrapin. 

One pint of cold calf's head cut into small pieces, one cup of the water in 
which the head was cooked, one-half a teacupful of cream, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little cayenne, two tablespoon fuls of sherry, the yolks of 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour. 

Put the stock into the stewpan or chafing dish, mix the flour and butter 
well together and stir into the boiling stock, stir constantly until thick and 
smooth; add the meat, salt and pepper and cook for five minutes, then 
remove from the fire or put out the lamp of the chafing dish and add the 
sherry. 

Cold chicken, turkey, game and veal are all very good treated in this 
manner. 

French Pie. 

One and one-half pounds of calf's liver, one-half pound of unsmoked fat 
bacon, one-quarter pound of cold roast veal, rabbit, or chicken, one-half tea- 
spoonful of white pepper, one and one-half ounces of gelatine, one onion, 
one pint of stock, a little cayenne, nutmeg, mace and salt. Boil the calf's 
liver till tender; when cold put twice through the mincing machine with 
the onion, season highly with pepper, salt, cayenne, mace and nutmeg. Soak 
the gelatine and melt it with the stock; line a china mold with the bacon 
cut into very thin slices, then put a layer of the cooked meat or poultry, 
next a layer of the pounded liver, and so on, till the mold is full; pour in the 
stock in which the gelatine has been melted, cover the top with bacon, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Do not turn it out of the mold until next day. 

Veal and Ham Pie. 

Two pounds of veal cutlets, cut into small pieces, put a layer on the bottom 
of a deep pie dish, sprinkle over some finely minced herbs, a little grated 
nutmeg, some salt and pepper, a little finely minced lemon peel, cut a hard 
boiled egg into slices, place these on top, then add a sprinkle of finely cut 
boiled ham, repeat all this, lastly pouring in some good stock, cover with a 
good paste, bake about one hour, remove from oven, open a little place on top 
of the pie, pour in some good strong stock, so that when cold this will be a 
stiff jelly. 

Braised Loin of Veal. 

Four pounds of loin of veal, take out the bone and tie the veal round with 
a string; put it into the stewpan with one-half tablespoonful of butter; 
brown it on both sides, and then add one quart of good stock, one carrot cut 
fine, one onion in which stick two cloves, one little bunch of sweet herbs, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. Simmer on a 



70 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

slow fire for two hours ; keep the stewpan half covered. Take out the 
meat, put on the platter and keep warm while you strain the gravy ; skim off 
all the fat, let the gravy boil hard for a few minutes to reduce it, then pour 
over the meat. Serve spinach with veal. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of minced, raw, lean veal; one-half pound of salt pork 
chopped fine, one teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of sage, three Boston crackers, rolled fine; one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Mix all together, shape into a loaf, put a few bits of 
butter on the top and bake one hour slowly; when cold serve, cut in thin 
slices. 

Minced Veal with Poached Eggs. 

Take one pound of cold veal, mince it fine and place in the stewpan, add 
one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, one- 
half saltspoonful of pepper, a little nutmeg. Mix well together and let the 
mixture heat thoroughly. Have slices of hot toast ready ; put the mince on 
the toast and poached eggs on top. 

Baked Sweatbreads. 

Parboil the sweetbreads, then put them into cold water for a few minutes, 
remove the skin and any gristle, lard the sweetbreads with narrow slices 
of salt pork and place in a baking pan. Put into a stewpan the water in 
which the sweetbreads were cooked, add one tablespoonful of browned flour 
and one tablespoonful of butter mixed together; a little salt and pepper, one 
bay leaf, one small onion in which stick two cloves; let all boil for five 
minutes, then strain this over the sweetbreads which bake in the oven for 
twenty minutes. 

Sweetbread Cutlets. 

Soak one pair of sweetbreads in salt and water for an hour, then drain; 
remove any strings and blood, put them in the saucepan with one-half pint 
of good stock, boil for a half hour, drain and let them cool ; cut off all the 
fat and gristle ; chop them fine with one tablespoonful of boiled ham, one- 
half pint of canned mushrooms, or fresh ones ; one saltspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, a little cayenne and a very little grated nutmeg, 
three drops of onion juice. Take one tablespoonful of butter in the sauce- 
pan with one tablespoonful of flour, stir them over the fire ; when they are 
smooth add two tablespoon fuls of cream and one tablespoonful of stiff jellied 
stock, stir together until smooth, then add the sweetbread mixture — it should 
be a soft mass, not at all stiff; pour it onto a plate; when cold form into 
cutlets, dip each one in beaten egg then into fine cracker crumbs — put on the 
ice for an hour or more. When needed, fry them in very hot fat, they only 
require to be browned. Serve green peas. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 71 

Sweetbreads with Asparagus Sauce. 

Two or three sweetbreads, wash well, cook in a little stock, or if not avail- 
able, hot water, a little salt and one onion cut in pieces, one blade of mace. 
Cook about fifteen minutes slowly, then remove from the water, place on a 
plate, cover with another plate with a weight on it to flatten them out, let 
them cool, then place in stewpan, add the stock in which they were boiled 
and cook about ten minutes, remove, place on hot plate, thicken the stock 
with one tablespoonful of flour mixed with two tablespoonfuls of butter 
well blended, when the sauce thickens, add one small cup of hot cream or rich 
milk, add a very little grated nutmeg and one teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
have some asparagus tops or green peas boiled, which add to the sauce 
and serve. 

Sweetbreads with Spanish Sauce. 

Take one pair of sweetbreads ; let them lie in salted cold water for an hour, 
then blanch them. This is done by letting them boil just once and then 
placing them after in cold water for a few minutes. Drain and press them 
between two plates ; take off all skin, fat and gristle ; cut one carrot fine, one 
turnip fine and one onion fine, put these into a saucepan with the sweet- 
breads, add one pint of stock, or hot water, let all stew very slowly for half 
an hour, then remove the sweetbreads to a small pan; boil the liquor very 
rapidly for three minutes to reduce it, baste the sweetbreads with it several 
times, put them into a hot oven to brown, serve on slices of fried bread, 
pour over some Spanish sauce and serve hot. 

Sweetbreads in Oven. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, press them until cold ; put into a small pan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, when hot lay the sweetbreads in, squeeze the juice 
of one lemon over them and cover with a buttered paper ; cook in the oven 
for an hour, the saucepan standing in a baking pan containing hot water; 
lift the paper occasionally and baste the sweetbreads, when cooked remove 
from pan, sprinkle over finely chopped cooked ham or tongue and parsley. 
White sauce can be served with them if desired. 

Fried Sweetbreads — 1. 

Trim and wash thoroughly two sweetbreads ; have the skillet hot, put in 
one-half tablespoonful of butter, when hot add the sweetbreads, fry them 
brown on each side, then set them on the cooler part of the stove to cook 
slowly. 

Fried Sweetbreads — 2. 

Parboil the sweetbreads, when cold remove the skin and any gristle, rub 
the sweetbreads with lemon juice, cut them in slices and dip each slice in 
beaten egg and then into fine breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then fry in deep hot fat for three minutes. 



72 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Make a cream sauce of one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
butter well cooked together and two tablespoon fuls of cream with a little 
nutmeg and two drops of onion juice; serve hot with spinach. 

Sweetbreads — Havanese. 

Fry the sweetbreads without blanching, in butter; when they are evenly 
browned, serve with a tomato sauce, to which add five or six fresh, red 
peppers, chopped fine. Serve with the sweetbreads green peppers stuffed 
with mushrooms, truffles and bread crumbs mixed together, cook the peppers 
in the sauce — skins are easily taken ofif the peppers by placing them in the 
oven for a few minutes, then pull off the skins before stuffing them. 

Sweetbread Patties. 

Sweetbreads boiled, cooked, seasoned and cut in pieces when cold, the 
white meat from a cooked turkey, all make good fillings for patties pre- 
pared the same as chicken patties. 

Truffled Sweetbreads. 
One pair of sweetbreads, three truffles, one-half pint of stock, one table- 
spoonful of flour, a little pepper and salt. Soak the sweetbreads in water 
for two hours, then boil them from ten to fifteen minutes, throw them again 
into cold water for half an hour, then drain. Chop up the truffles and make 
a thick layer of them and place on one of the sweetbreads, put the other 
bread on the top of it. Bind them together and stew gently in the stock for 
half or three-quarters of an hour, season with pepper and salt ; thicken and 
brown the sauce and serve with fried pieces of bread round the dish. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Cut the calf's liver into small pieces; you must first wash the liver and 
let it cook in a hot oven for one-half hour. Shake over the liver one tea- 
spoonful of flour, one teaspoon ful of mustard, a little cayenne, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground cloves. Stir these together 
and add the gravy which came from the liver while in the oven and add 
one small cup of boiling water. Keep all the mixtures hot but not boiling. 
Just before serving add two hard boiled eggs chopped, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one wine glass of wine and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

A little grated nutmeg is always an addition to veal. Also a little lemon 
juice, or thin slices of lemon or thin bacon fried placed around veal chops or 
cutlets. 

Veal Scallops. 

Take thin slices of veal, cut them into pieces about an inch square, season 
with a little salt and pepper and some sweet herbs, dip each piece in the yolk 
of egg, then into bread crumbs ; fry some pieces of salt pork, remove these 
from the pan and put in the scallops, fry them brown and then add one cup 
of stock, one-half cup of cream or milk, one cup of oysters or mushrooms 
and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 78 



Tripe. 



When the tripe comes from the butchers, scrape well, then put on to boil 
in cold water ; as soon as it boils drain off the water and replace with more 
cold water — boil for four hours ; add to the water one onion, one teaspoonful 
of salt, a little cayenne, six pepper-corns and two cloves tied in a little bag, 
one bay leaf, one tablespoonf ul of vinegar ; the tripe when cooked is ready to 
be used for any of the various preparations of tripe. 

Creamed Tripe. 

Prepare the tripe as directed. Cut the tripe into small pieces; put one 
tablespoon ful of butter into the stewpan ; when it is hot add one tablespoon- 
f ul of flour, stir together ; when smooth add one teaspoonful of salt, a little 
cayenne, a little nutmeg, one-half pint of cream and the tripe, and cook for 
five minutes. 

Tripe Cutlets. 

Prepare the tripe as directed. Cut the tripe into pieces large enough for 
one portion; dip each cutlet into beaten Qgg, then into fine bread crumbs, 
have the crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, a little cayenne and a very 
little nutmeg, then into the egg again. Take one tablespoon ful of butter, 
place in a pan ; when hot, put in the cutlets, brown and turn — they are cooked 
as soon as they are brown. Serve hot. 

Fried Tripe. 

Prepare the tripe as directed. Cut the tripe into small pieces, dip them 
in beaten egg, then into bread crumbs ; fry in deep hot fat and serve hot. 

Tripe and Oysters. 

One pound of cooked tripe, one quart of oysters. Cut the tripe into inch 
pieces; drain the oysters, cook the tripe in boiling water for five minutes; 
put the oysters in a pan and let them just come to the boiling point, then 
drain them. Make a white sauce of two tablespoon fuls of butter, two 
tablespoonf uls of flour ; when hot, add one cupful of cream ; when smooth, 
add the tripe and oysters, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Tripe. 

It may not be generally known that stewed tripe is the most easily digested 
of all solid animal food ; it is fully digested in one hour after being eaten. 



74 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 



Mutton. 




In selecting mutton, see that the lean is a clear dark red, and the fat, 
white and firm. The leg should be laid on the platter with the smooth 
flat side uppermost and cut straight across it. 

When a leg is roasted and ready to serve, a very good gravy can be 
made by pouring a little boiling water over it, then remove the leg, place 
on platter and add a little salt to the gravy and serve. 

Lamb. 

If fresh, the neck vein will be a bright blue, the knuckle stiff, the meat 
should smell sweet and fresh. 

Mutton or lamb dripping cannot be used in cooking as it never loses the 
mutton taste. 

Mutton. 
A leg of mutton for boiling should be fresh and not hang as long a time 
as for a roast. 

Breast of Mutton Boiled. 
Place the breast of mutton in the kettle, with just enough hot water to 
cover it ; let it come to the boiling point and then place on the back of the 
stove and let it simmer for three hours ; then remove from the fire and pull 
out the bones. Make a forcemeat of one cup of bread crumbs, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pepper, one-half teacupful of chopped suet; spread this over 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 75 

the breast of mutton, roll it up and fasten with a skewer, dip the roll into 
beaten egg and then into fine bread crumbs, place in the oven and brown, 
basting often with butter- water for twenty minutes or until well browned. 
Serve hot, with stewed onions. 

Sheep's Brain with Brown Sauce. 

Take four sheep's brains — ^be careful not to break them, put into a basin, 
cover with warm water, remove the skin and let them remain for two hours, 
then put them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, cook until they are firm, then 
remove from fire and place in cold water for a few minutes. When needed, 
put the brains into one pint of stock, have one onion stuck with two cloves, 
one sprig of parsley, one slice of salt pork and cook all these twenty-five 
minutes — remove from fire and serve on hot dish, pour over a Brown 
Sauce. 

Breast of Lamb Broiled. 

Put the breast of lamb into cold water with one onion, some parsley or 
celery salt and pepper, two cloves and a little lemon peel; simmer until 
nearly cooked, then take out the meat and let it cool; when cold remove 
bones, divide it into narrow slices, dip each slice into melted butter, then into 
bread crumbs and broil them five minutes and serve. 

Braised Mutton. 

Prepare and cook the same as Braised Beef. 

Cold Mutton. 

Cut the mutton into chops, dip each piece in beaten egg in which put one 
tablespoon ful of milk, then into fine bread crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. 

Lamb Chops Broiled. 
Proceed as for Mutton Chops. 

Lamb Chops Breaded. 

Take as many lamb chops as required. Trim off a little of the fat if 
there seems too much on the chops ; brush over each chop with a little 
melted butter, then at once, while the butter is warm, dip each chop in 
fresh bread crumbs, these crumbs must be fine but not hard. Have your 
gridiron or broiler hot, rub it well with some dripping or with the fat you 
have trimmed off. Have a clear fire, turn the chops every two minutes, 
they will take about eight minutes to cook, they should be nicely browned on 
each side. Have your meat dish hot, when the chops are arranged on it, 
put a little melted butter on each chop and sprinkle over finely chopped 
parsley. 



76 " "" Cook Book 365— No, 2, 

Mutton Chops from Forequarter. 

Try the chops from mutton, not the ones with the small bone, but from 
the fore quarter. Stew them gently in the stewpan, with a little tomato, 
a carrot, an onion or two. Stew very slowly, remember ; then take out the 
chops, dip them in bread crumbs and beaten egg; fry just long enough 
to brown; put on a hot platter and pour over the gravy made from the 
stock they were stewed in ; thickened a little, a few drops of mushroom 
catsup added, or, if this particular catsup is not obtainable, any good catsup 
will answer. 

Slices from Leg of Mutton. 

Cut slices from a leg of mutton after it has hung for two or three weeks, 
cut them one-half an inch thick, season with a little salt and pepper, then 
put in the frying pan or chafing dish with a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
let the butter become hot before putting the mutton in it, and dredge 
the slices with flour, in which has been mixed one-half a small teaspoonful 
of powdered mace; when the mutton is cooked, add one glassful of cur- 
rant jelly, stir this until it is quite dissolved. Add one glassful of port wine, 
remove from the fire, let it stand one minute, then serve very hot. This is 
a good chafing dish recipe. 

Mutton or Lamb Chops Stewed. 
Take the chops either from the loin or neck of mutton or lamb. Have 
them cut rather thicker than for broiling, trim them, remove most of the 
fat. Sprinkle flour, salt and pepper over each chop. Put them into the 
stewpan, with enough cold water to cover and add one tablespoonful of 
rice. Let the chops simmer very slowly for an hour, then remove from the 
pan, strain the gravy and pour over the chops. A few slices of onion and 
carrot can be cooked with the chops, afterwards served with them, season- 
ing the vegetables with a little melted butter. 

Lamb Cutlets. 
Fry lightly in butter two pounds of lamb cutlets or chops, put aside to 
cool. Put in a saucepan one tablespoonful butter, one-half can mushrooms 
or far better some fresh ones, one small onion, one teaspoonful minced 
parsley, one teaspoonful salt a little cayenne and a very little mace. Cook 
together ten minutes, add one cupful of white sauce, one teaspoonful lemon 
juice, one teaspoonful sugar, cook until hot, remove from fire and add the 
well beaten yolks of four eggs. Dip each chop or cutlet in this sauce, well 
covering them and put aside to cool, beat one egg yolk with one tablespoonful 
warm water, dip each chop in the egg, afterwards into fine bread crumbs, 
and fry in a little butter until they are a light brown. Place on hot dish, 
arrange around it — put green peas in the center of dish with the balance 
of the white sauce. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 77 

Crown of Lamb. 

The crown is the side of the lamb with all the ribs turned around in a 
circle to form a crown. The center is filled with the trimmings from the 
bones, when they are "Frenched," and a string is tied around the outside 
to keep the crown in shape and then you proceed as follows : Season the 
lamb with salt and pepper, place it in a roasting pan, put one whole onion 
in center of the crown. Baste the meat all over with melted butter, place 
the pan in a hot oven, roast until the meat begins to brown, then add one 
cup of boiling water or meat stock. Roast, basting very frequently till 
done, which will take about an hour and a half. When done, place the 
meat on a hot dish, garnish with green peas, carrot balls and potato balls. 
Remove all fat from the gravy, mix one tablespoonful of corn starch with a 
little cold water, add it to the gravy, cook and stir five minutes, add suf- 
ficient meat stock or water to make one pint of sauce, cook five minutes, 
strain and serve with the lamb. 

Broiled Chops. 
Remove the fat, beat them with the steak beater, dip in melted butter, 
sprinkle over a little pepper and roll them in pounded cracker or bread 
crumbs, then place over a clear fire and broil eight minutes, four for each 
side; turn them often, serve very hot. A thick chop will take twelve 
minutes to cook; a thin one nine minutes. Always have the gridiron hot 
before putting on the chop. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 
Remove the fat from the bone, beat the chops slightly to level them. 
Have the gridiron hot and greased, the fire bright and clear ; broil the chops 
eight minutes, place them on a hot platter, arrange them neatly, put a small 
piece of butter on each chop and a little pepper and salt. Serve the chops 
very hot. Mutton chops should be broiled over a clear but not fierce fire; 
pour a little olive oil over the chops and sprinkle them with a little pepper 
and salt an hour before broiling them. 

Irish Stew. 
Take two pounds of pieces of mutton (the trimmings of chops and the 
neck make a good stew), two pounds of potatoes cut in pieces, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, two onions may be added if 
liked, and one carrot, all cut in pieces ; add one pint of water ; let the stew 
simmer for two hours ; add one tablespoonful of butter, serve hot. 

Mutton and Lamb Kidneys. 

Fry in butter some slices of bread trimmed free from crusts; split six 

fresh kidneys, after they are washed free from fat and skin. Season them 

well with salt and cayenne, lay them in the pan and fry in a little butter; 

when they have cooked for ten minutes remove from the pan, place on the 



78 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

slices of fried bread ; thicken the gravy with one tablespoonf ul of flour, and 
one teaspoonful of tomato catsup or one teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce and one teaspoonful of sherry or port wine. Serve the kidneys 
very hot. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 
Have the water boiling; put in the leg and let it simmer, not boil, until 
cooked — all meats are more tender if not allowed to boil hard. Allow 
twenty minutes to each pound; put one onion and one bay leaf into the 
water, and a little salt and pepper. Serve with caper sauce. 

Neck of Mutton Boiled. 
Place the neck of mutton in boiling water, to which add one tablespoonful 
of salt ; let it simmer slowly for two hours ; then remove from the stewpan 
and serve with caper sauce, or with parsley or butter sauce. The liquor 
in which the neck was boiled should be strained, and the next day it will 
serve as the foundation for a good broth or soup. 

Minced Mutton on Toast. 

Mince very fine the remains of cold mutton left from the roast or boiled 
mutton, add to the mince one teacupful of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, three drops of onion juice (if 
liked) ; let all become hot, then serve on hot toast. A poached egg may be 
placed on each portion, and will be an addition. 

Mutton Pie with Tomatoes. 

Mutton pie with tomatoes is an excellent way to use cold roast mutton. 
Put a layer of sliced tomatoes (or canned tomatoes) in the bottom of a 
deep baking dish. Over this put a layer of sliced cold mutton, dredged with 
flour, and season with pepper and salt. Fill the dish with alternate layers, 
having tomatoes on the top, sprinkle over with rolled cracker crumbs, and 
bake in a moderate oven one hour. If liked, a little onion or chopped green 
pepper may be used for further seasoning. This is an economical dish, and 
appetizing. 

Left-Overs of Mutton, Lamb or Beef. 

Utilize the "left-overs" of dinner for a toothsome lunch or supper dish. 
If you do not have enough of one thing, take some of another. Into a fry- 
ing pan put a minced onion with some meat stock or gravy and let it cook 
five or ten minutes when you may add two cupfuls of cooked rice, — if this 
is scant piece out with cold hominy, — add the tomatoes left from dinner 
the day before, presumably about a pint. If there is any cold meat separate 
it carefully from gristle, bone and fat, use beef, lamb, veal, chicken chopped 
fine. Season with a little cayenne. Simmer all together for half an hour 
and serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 79 

Lamb Roasted. 

The loin of lamb is the best for roasting. The lamb should be of good 
size. Good lamb being fat, should be placed in the baking pan the ribs 
down. By this means the meat will not be dried in roasting being kept moist 
by the basting. The ribs, too, will flavor the meat — through the medium 
of the basting better in this position. The lamb should be rubbed well with 
pepper, salt and flour, the pan dusted with flour, and this flour allowed to 
brown before any basting is done. 

All good pan-gravies are made after one invariable rule: All but a few 
tablespoonfuls of the fat is poured off, the pan then stood on the top of 
the stove, the flour blended and stirred with it until brown, then the water 
or stock added, also the seasonings. 

Mutton or Lamb Roasted. 

Parboil the leg of mutton or lamb by placing in three pints of hot water, 
with five whole onions; parboil for fifteen minutes; remove the meat and 
place in a roasting pan, put on top and around the leg the onions, which 
will give a delicious flavor to the meat. When cooked, which will be in 
one and one-half hours, remove to a hot dish and serve with the browned 
onions around it. Save the water in which the meat was parboiled. The 
next day, take the bone of the meat, any little bits of the meat not needed 
for a hash, add one carrot chopped fine, one cupful of tomatoes, one-half 
cupful of barley, one teaspoonful salt and you have a good soup. 

Any portion of the meat not used, mince finely through the meat cutter; 
add a little milk to it and a small tablespoonful of butter; heat it, not letting 
it boil or harden; place upon slices of toast and put on each portion a 
poached egg. The eggs should be poached after the mince is on the toast. 
It should be kept hot, for it is better it should wait than that the eggs 
should. The gravy for the meat the first day should be made from the 
juices in the pan after the roast is removed, the fat skimmed off and a little 
flour moistened with water stirred in, scrape the pan well to obtain all the 
glaze from the meat and onion for the gravy. 

Roast Lamb. 

Take a leg of lamb or mutton, place in soup kettle, add one quart of warm 
water and six onions, let the water come to a boil, skim, remove the lamb 
or mutton, place on the baking tin, the onions around and above it, and 
roast as usual. This treatment results in a delicious flavor permeating the 
meat and yet is not strong of onions. 

Roast Mutton — ^1. 
Plain roasted mutton, though delicious, is rather monotonous after a 
while, so the housekeeper might try instead the following recipe: For a 
loin of mutton weighing about five pounds, remove first the bone, spread out 



80 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

the loin rather flat, and take off any fat you see over the meat. Mix together 
six tablespoon fuls of fresh bread crumbs. By fresh bread crumbs is meant 
those which have not been dried and rolled, four tablespoon fuls of finely 
minced suet, four tablespoonfuls of finely minced ham or salt pork, two 
teaspoon fuls of finely minced onions, one teaspoon ful of minced parsley, 
one egg well beaten, and a little salt. Mix into a soft paste. If it seems too 
dry to spread on the loin easily, add a little milk or stock, spread it all over 
the loin evenly, the meat must be skin side down. Roll it up, just as you 
roll a roly-poly pudding, tie it up, place in the baking pan and roast, allowing 
twenty minutes to each pound of meat. Baste it frequently with a little 
butter melted in some hot water; when cooked, remove the string, serve 
with gravy made in the roasting pan, a very little flour being added to the 
juice. Make the gravy quite smooth. Serve currant jelly with the meat. 
This loin is very good and will be found more appetizing than plain 
roasted mutton. Boil the bone with any other bones or scraps of meat cut 
off the loin, for a soup or for a gravy to warm up slices of the mutton the 
next day, if you prefer them hot. 

Here is another way to cook mutton : Remove the skin and fat from a 
leg of mutton, cover it with a clean cloth which you have dipped in vinegar, 
let it hang for two weeks (of course in cold weather). Whenever the cloth 
becomes dry, dip again in vinegar. When ready to use, rub the meat with 
some salt, lard it with little strips of fat salt pork, dredge it with flour 
and place the leg in the roasting pan ; put quite a lot of good dripping under 
and around it, which, as it melts, you use for basting the leg. Allow fifteen 
minutes to the pound in roasting. When ready, remove from the pan. Pour 
off nearly all the dripping and add to the little that is left one cup of sour 
or sweet cream; let this become hot, not boiling it, and serve with the 
mutton. Cooked in this way mutton resembles venison. 

Roast Leg of Mutton — 2. 

Select a good sized leg of mutton of ten pounds ; in winter let it hang for 
three weeks, unless it has been hung for a long time at the butcher's. Before 
roasting, beat the leg well, all over, with the rolling pin; this adds greatly 
to the tenderness and delicacy of the meat. Put a clove or garlic or a few 
slices of shallots into the hock end of the leg, dredge with flour, spread a 
little butter over and roast for one hour and thirty minutes ; baste the mut- 
ton frequently with a little boiling water at first, then from the juice in the 
pan. When the mutton is cooked, place on hot platter, strain the gravy, 
skim off the fat. Serve currant jelly with roast mutton. 

Leg of Mutton Stewed. 
Beat the leg well and rub over a little salt ; grease a tin baking pan with 
butter ; put on the bottom sliced onions, two bay leaves, one carrot sliced, one 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 81 

tablespoonful of vinegar, one-half a pint of water, one saltspoonful of salt, 
one- fourth saltspoonful of pepper. Lay the mutton in the pan and bake 
in a hot oven until it is brown, basting often with the gravy in the pan; 
when brown, put the mutton in a stewpan with all the sauce and vegetables 
and slowly simmer closely covered for two hours ; if the gravy dries away, 
add a little water ; remove the mutton, skim the gravy and strain it over the 
meat. One cucumber stewed in the gravy is an addition. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Trim off all unnecessary fat. Wrap the saddle up well in greased paper, 
tie the paper over the roast in the oven, baste frequently — allow fifteen 
minutes to each pound. Within one-half hour of the time for serving, 
remove the paper, brown the mutton. Serve with a clear gravy, very hot. 

Veal or Lamb Pie. 

Have your dish well buttered. Place first a layer of cold veal or lamb 
cut in small dice, then a layer of cold boiled potatoes cut in small dice, then 
a layer of sliced hard boiled eggs, pepper, salt and a little chopped onion 
and parsley, till the dish is within an inch of the top; add enough stock 
well seasoned to fill the dish ; cover with a pie crust, and bake ten minutes 
or long enough to brown the crust. 



82 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Pork. 




Breakfast Bacon. 

One secret in cooking breakfast bacon so that it will be dry, crisp and of a 
light brown color, is first to cut it very thin, then placing on the ice to thor- 
oughly chill it, the pan must be hot, not scorchingly hot, when the bacon is 
put in it. Shake the pan rapidly while the bacon is cooking, and turn the 
bacon over, it will crisp in three minutes and ready to serve either as a 
garnish, or for breakfast. Some prefer to broil bacon, to do this, use an 
oyster broiler, place the thin slices of bacon on it, broil on one side for two 
minutes, turn and broil on the other. It will be necessary to lift the broiler 
from the stove when the fat runs too freely, drain and return to the fire. 
Be sure to open all the dampers when broiling. 

Slices of bacon are served with veal cutlets, calf's liver, chicken liver, 
beefsteak, with scrambled eggs, game, fried fish, fish balls. A broiled bird 
should have crisp, hot slices of bacon served with it. 

To Cut Bacon. 
Place the piece of bacon on a board, with the rind side down, have a 
sharp knife and cut the bacon in thin slices down to the rind, then when you 
have enough slices cut, run the knife under them, freeing the slices. 

Fried Pork with Cream Gravy. 
Wash one-half of a pound of salt pork, trim off the rind, and with a 
sharp knife, cut in thin slices. Spread in a large spider and place at the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 83 

side of the fire until the fat is well tried out, then draw gradually forward 
until the slices begin to color. Transfer them to a heated platter and keep 
warm. Pour off most of the fat, leaving about two tablespoonfuls in the 
pan; stir into this one cupful of cream or milk and when it comes to the 
boiling point thicken slightly with one heaping teaspoonful of flour blended 
with a little cold milk. Season with pepper, boil up once and pour over the 
pork. Pork or bacon will fry more crisply if kept in a very cold place, or 
nearly frozen until ready to use it. 

Pork Cutlets with Chestnuts. 

Three pounds of the loin of pork, three ounces of butter, lemon juice, 
three tomatoes, one carrot, one turnip, one parsnip, one apple, one ounce of 
glaze, chopped parsley, one pound of chestnuts, pepper and salt. Take a 
very young and tender piece of loin of pork, cut it into delicate cutlets, fry 
the cutlets in two ounces of butter, boil the carrot, turnip, apple, parsnip, and 
cut them into thin strips; keep the vegetables warm. Boil your chestnuts 
very soft and take the shells and skins off. Pound with pepper, salt, and an 
ounce of butter, and rub through a sieve; arrange as a wall on which to 
dish your cutlets. Bake your tomatoes and use them to garnish the dish. 
Fill the center of the chestnut wall with the cut-up vegetables; pour the 
melted glaze round the cutlets ; squeeze the lemon juice over all. 

"Poor Man's Goose." 

Take the liver, heart and sweetbreads of the pig, wash them thoroughly. 
Slice four onions fine, put into the baking pan, with one teaspoonful of 
dried sage ; cut the liver into small pieces, lay them with the onions, cut up 
the heart and then the sweetbreads, pepper all well, and cover with thin 
slices of bacon or salt pork ; set the tin in a good oven, bake for one hour, 
then add one cup of boiling water. Send this to the table in the pan in 
which it was cooked. Pin a clean napkin around the tin. Serve with it, 
plain boiled potatoes. 

The bacon mentioned in Foreign Cook Books, is equivalent to our salt, 
pickled, or mess pork ; not the smoked sides and shoulders we call bacon. 

Children as a rule do not like meat fats; but use bacon fat for frying 
potatoes and they will like it. 

Virginia Liver Pudding. 

Soak the pig's livers over one day and night in salt and water, changing 
the water frequently. Soak the pigs' heads in salt and water for the same 
time, allow two livers to every head. After soaking the livers and heads, 
wash them carefully and boil them until soft, remove the bones from the 
heads, put livers and heads through the meat chopper, season the meat 
highly with salt and pepper, mix together, heat thoroughly and pour into 



84 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

shallow pans. Keep in a cool dry place ; when required, slice in thin slices, 
and fry in a hot pan and serve. 

Pig's Feet Broiled. 

Have the feet well washed and cleansed, then place in a large stewpan, 
cover with boiling water, with one tablespoonful of salt for twelve feet; 
let the water boil once, skim, then place the stewpan on the back of the 
stove and let the feet simmer for six hours. At the end of this time, take 
from the fire, and let the contents become cold. When cold, place in a stone 
crock and if desired pour over two cups of vinegar and two teaspoonfuls of 
whole spice boiled together. When needed dip the feet in flour which has 
been well seasoned with salt and pepper and broil over hot coals for eight 
minutes. 

Pig's Feet Fried. 

Prepare as for broiling, dip them in beaten egg, then into fine crumbs and 
fry in hot fat for six minutes. 

Ham Broiled. 

Slice the ham in thin slices ; have the gridiron hot, put on the ham and 
cook quickly. 

Ham Fried with Eggs. 

Slice the ham in thin slices, fry them in the frying pan; when cooked, 
remove to a dish and keep hot; break the eggs into the hot fat, cook them 
until the white of the egg is set, then put them on the ham and serve. 

Many prefer to use cold boiled ham for broiling or frying. 

Ham Boiled. 

Soak the ham over night, next morning wash it thoroughly, place in kettle 
with hot water to cover it; put one pint of cider vinegar and two onions, 
two bay leaves, a few cloves into the water ; let the ham simmer five hours — 
turn it once. Then take from the kettle, remove the skin, sprinkle fine bread 
crumbs over the ham, in which mix one tablespoonful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of pepper, bake the ham for one-half hour, or, in place of 
putting into the oven, the ham can be put back into a smaller kettle, and 
one pint of white wine poured over it and the kettle tightly closed and the 
ham cooked for one hour longer. 

Livingston Hams. 

For every three hundredweight of hams, seven quarts of fine salt, two 
pounds of brown sugar, one quart of molasses, one-half pound of saltpeter. 
Rub the hams with this mixture once a week until the mixture is exhausted. 
Then change about the hams, putting bottom ones on top, etc. Keep in a 
cool place for two weeks, and then smoke. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 85 

Ham (Baked). 

One ham of twelve pounds, seven pounds of flour. Make the flour into 
a paste with water, completely cover the ham with it ; put into the oven and 
bake four hours. Take the crust off as soon as it comes out of the oven; 
when cold, glaze. 

Barbecued Ham. 

Cut rather thick slices of cold boiled ham and lay them in a frying pan. 
Cook on both sides until they begin to crisp at the edges and then put on a 
hot dish. Add to the fat in the pan four tablespoons of vinegar, a saltspoon- 
ful of English mustard, a teaspoonful of white sugar and a few dashes of 
black pepper. Boil up once, pour over the ham, let it stand covered for a 
couple of minutes and serve. 

If a boiled ham is only to be used cold, and if it is desired to look especi- 
ally nice, plunge the ham into ice cold water at once after taking from the 
kettle and let it become cold in the water. The next day remove the skin, 
sprinkle pepper over the surface — the fat will be white, the lean, rosy red. 

Ham Mousse. 

One pound of ham, only the lean part ; soak in cold water for two hours, 
changing the water several times ; drain and wipe dry ; chop it until per- 
fectly fine and soft in the meat chopper. If convenient add the breast of a 
chicken and chop with the ham ; put in the whites of two eggs, well beaten 
and one cup of stock, or make a small amount of stock by adding to one and 
one-half pints of cold water one carrot, one onion, one blade of mace, two 
pepper corns, one head of celery, a little cayenne and one teaspoonful sugar. 
Cook all these for three hours slowly, strain and put aside to cool before 
using. 

Mix this with the ham, also the yolks of the eggs beaten with one table- 
spoonful of cream. Lastly add one-half pint of whipped cream. Measure 
the cream before it is whipped, put the mixture into a buttered mold and 
set on ice for an hour, or until it is quite chilled. 

One hour before it is required, place the mold in a pan of boiling water, 
cover it with buttered paper and boil for one hour. Serve hot with a white 
sauce. Remove the mousse from the mold; it should slip out easily. Do 
not let the water boil over into the mold. 

Ham Savory. 

Of boiled ham made very fine in the meat grinder, take one pint, 
one quart of cooked potatoes, one pint of white sauce, bread crumbs. Put 
on bottom of baking dish a thin layer of white sauce, on it a layer of the 
ham, then a layer of sliced potatoes, then more white sauce, ham and pota- 
toes. Sprinkle over all fine bread crumbs dotted with bits of butter, cook 
until hot. The white sauce made of one tablespoonful butter, put into dou- 



86 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

ble boiler when hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, when this becomes 
frothy, add one pint of milk, cook until sauce is thick, add to the sauce 
some onion juice, or let an onion cook in the sauce, remove it before using 
the sauce. 

Steamed Ham. 

Put the ham in cold water for twelve hours, wash it thoroughly, rubbing 
with a stiff brush to dislodge any salt on the outside, put into the steamer, 
cover closely and put over fast boiling water, allowing thirty minutes to 
each pound ; keep the water on the steady boil, skin and sprinkle fine bread 
crumbs over the ham, and serve. 

Ham Toast with Curry. 

Take one-half a pound of lean ham, the ends of the ham can be used — 
chop it very fine, or put it through the chopping machine, when fine, add one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoonful of curry powder or 
paste, one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat 
all these together and pour on hot toast and serve at once. 

Pig's Head. 

Boil the head including the tongue in a good sized saucepan with suf- 
ficient water to cover the head, add a little salt; when sufficiently cooked 
the flesh will leave the bones. Chop it very fine while hot, add pepper and 
salt to taste and a little chopped sage, if sage is liked ; put into a bowl, press 
it firmly into the bowl and place a weight on top. Return the bones to the 
stock which, when carefully skimmed, will serve for a good soup of peas, 
oatmeal, etc. ; the fat to be used for frying. Oatmeal is very good in the 
soup, dredge in the meal, carefully stirring all the while. 

Leg of Pork Roasted. 

Take a leg of pork of about seven pounds, roast it, allowing twenty 
minutes to each pound, baste it frequently with the gravy which runs out 
from the leg ; when done place on a platter, pour off the fat in the pan, add 
a little hot water, scrape the pan well ; if the gravy is liked thickened, add 
one tablespoonful of flour, one saltspoonful of salt and a little pepper. 

Stewed Leg of Pork. 

Put into the kettle one leg of young pork, one carrot, cut fine, two onions, 
sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, one tablespoonful of butter and water to 
half cover the leg ; cover the kettle tightly and cook the pork for two hours. 
Turn the leg once. When cooked, remove the pork, add a little boiling 
water to the gravy, thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, add a little salt 
and pepper, and pour this sauce over the pork and serve with fried or stewed 
apples. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 87 

Pork Meat-cake. 
Chop some cold pork very fine; grate two potatoes and one onion; mix 
with the pork ; add two eggs well beaten, a little salt and pepper, and two 
tablespoonfuls of milk ; make into a cake and fry in a little fat. Serve hot. 

Boned Spare-ribs of Pork Stuffed. 

Six pounds from the piece of spare-ribs of pork, it consists of the flat 
bones cut from the loin ; slip out the bones, flatten the meat with chopper, 
dust it with pepper and then spread on it this stuffing: Two well-cooked 
onions, one tablespoonful of dried sage, one pound of chopped apples, a 
little pepper and salt; mix well together. Roll the meat up tightly, fasten 
at each end with string, place in the oven and baste often, it will be cooked 
in one and one-half hours ; dish it very hot — serve with roasted potatoes and 
a dish of good apple sauce. 

Scrapple. 

Boil together six pigs' feet and a jowl until they are so tender you can 
pull out all the bones ; then chop the meat fine. Put into the liquor when 
boiling, enough cornmeal to thicken the mixture, cook all well together, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, then add the meat. Put into shallow dishes, slice 
when needed and fry. 

Sausage. 

For forty pounds of meat, thirteen ounces of salt, four ounces of pepper, 
one ounce of sage. Spread the meat out on a table, and sprinkle the salt, 
pepper and sage over it, stir well ; then grind the meat very fine, by season- 
ing before grinding every bit is well done. It is wise to make the meat up 
into balls and fry, then pack away. If the meat is to be kept, cover well 
with lard. 

Sausage can be kept for several months, perfectly sweet, if after it is pre- 
pared, it is made into small balls (enough for one person) and fried a 
little on each side ; then pack the balls into a stone crock and pour over the 
top some melted lard. Keep the sausage meat in a cool dry place. When 
needed, fry the balls in a very little lard. 

Boiled Sausage. 
Put the sausage into boiling water and cook for ten minutes, serve with 
turkey or chicken. 

Broiled Sausage. 
Have the broiler hot and greased, broil the sausage for five minutes ; serve 
on hot toast. 

Fried Sausage. 
Have the pan very hot ; put in the sausage, fry for ten minutes, turn them 
once, and serve hot. 



88 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Sausage Rolls — 1. 

Make a light biscuit dough with milk, let it rise over night ; in the morn- 
ing roll it out very thin, cut into biscuits, place a sausage in the center of 
each, fold over the dough ; let it rise again ; then bake in hot oven. 

Sausage Rolls — 2, 

Roll out some good pastry, roll out to one-eighth of an inch in thick- 
ness, then cut the paste in five-inch squares; wet the edges with a little 
beaten egg; mince up any cold meat with a little ham, season with salt and 
pepper or use sausage meat. On each square spread two ounces of the 
meat, fold, press the ends together, brush over the rolls slightly with the 
egg, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Send them to the table 
on a napkin. Very good cold. 

Roast Sucking Pig. 

After the little pig is scalded and prepared for cooking, wipe it dry and 
stuff the body with bread crumbs, mixed with one teaspoonful of sage, one 
teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, a little melted butter, all well mixed 
together. Sew up so that the stuffing will not fall out ; cut off the feet and 
place the pig in a pan with an apple in his mouth ; score the skin, baste the 
pig constantly with the gravy that comes from the pig, roast four hours; 
when ready to serve, split open the head and take out the brains; mix the 
stuffing and the brains well together, add one glass of sherry and the gravy 
which has come from the pig, a little nutmeg, one tablespoon ful of lemon 
juice and a little cayenne. Serve this sauce in a gravy boat. Serve apple 
sauce with the pig also. The pig must be well basted at first with hot water, 
in which put a pinch of salt, then pour off the water from the pan and baste 
with olive oil. A Sauce Piquante can be served with the pig. 

Salt Pork for Larding. 

Salt pork used for larding should be cut in very narrow strips and thrown 
into ice-water for a few minutes before using. The ice-water hardens 
the pork. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Chicken. 



Napoleon once said "that more fortunate treaties, more happy arrange- 
ments and reconciHations were due to the famous cook Cambaceres than 
to the crowd of diplomatic nonentities who crowded the anti-chambers of 
the Tuileries." Napoleon was called the enemy of the pleasures of the 
table, yet some of his daily bills show that he did enjoy the good things in 
moderation. It is told of him once after eating the wing of a chicken with 
a sauce tartare, he turned to M. de Cussy, who was always present at the 
Emperor's meals, and said : "I usually find chicken's meat insipid, but this 
is excellent." 

"Sire," replied M. de Cussy, "if your majesty permits, I will have the 
honor of serving you every day in the year a chicken in a different fashion." 

"Well," replied Napoleon, "we will put you to the test." 

Chickens are cooked in numberless ways, and unless a hen is long past 
her usefulness some one way can be found to make even the aged hen 
palatable. In England the "roast fowl" reigns supreme. The average Eng- 
lish cook considers she has done her whole duty by the chicken when it is 
served roasted and with bread sauce. 

The gizzard under one wing, the liver under the other, both hard and 
generally burned. 



90 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Poultry. 



How to Choose and Prepare Poultry. 

An old test in choosing poultry is the condition of the breast bone. Touch 
the end of it and if it bends easily from side to side the bird is under a 
year old, and tender. If not it will serve best in fricassees and stews. The 
skin of the chicken should be firm, smooth and white; the feet short and 
soft, the legs long, smooth and yellow, the spurs small and comb red and 
fresh, while the eyes are bright and full. Pin feathers denote a young 
chicken, while on fowls there are long hairs. The drawing should be done 
as soon as the bird reaches the kitchen. The first step consists in removing 
the pin feathers and hair. This is usually done by holding the bird by the 
head and feet and turning it continually over a flaming newspaper. As there 
is danger of smoking the flesh by this process it is really better to use a small 
quantity of ignited wood alcohol. 

Cut off the head, cut the skin down the back of the neck and fold it over, 
while you carefully remove the crop and windpipe, then cut the neck off 
close, leaving the skin to fold back over the opening. 

Next, cut a small opening under the rump, run the finger around so as to 
remove the entrails. Do the same at the neck. Carefully draw them out in 
one solid mass without any part being broken ; cut around the vent to free 
the large intestines. If by accident the gall sack or the intestines should be 
broken the inside of the chicken must be washed quickly and wiped immedi- 
ately, otherwise, the outside treatment here will suffice. Cut the oil sack 
away from the rump ; cut the gall sack from the liver. 

Cut open the outer coat of the gizzard and draw it away from the inner 
sack, leaving this last unbroken. Open the heart and wash free from blood. 
These inner organs and giblets are to be saved for the gravy. 

Nothing improves a bird more than the drawing of the sinews from the 
legs. This, if done, is accomplished before the entrails are drawn. Bend 
the leg back slightly and carefully cut the skin at the joint just enough to 
expose the sinews ; run a skewer in each of them in turn and carefully draw 
them out. After a little practice has given skill you can get out as many as 
eight. The one on the back of the leg is the one you should be particularly 
persistent about, since it is so large and strong. In turkeys especially these 
sinews are so tough that in cooking they become almost as hard as bones, 
but if removed the drumstick is as tender as any other part. 

If frozen, the fowl should be put into a warm room to thaw several hours 
before needed. Do not soak it to thaw it. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 91 

Baby Chickens. 
Split them down the back and broil or roast them. Remember they require 
a little more time to cook than quail. Serve very hot, with simply melted 
butter, seasoned with salt and pepper ; place each little chicken on a slice of 
hot toast when served. The chickens can be served cold, in which case they 
should be boiled, — or rather simmered one-half hour very gently, and 
allowed to become cold before using; serve with them mayonnaise sauce. 
These chickens are very delicate. 

Boiled Chicken, 
The chicken, or fowl, should be prepared for boiling exactly as the direc- 
tions are given for roasting. Put the chicken in hot water, just enough to 
cover the chicken, and let it simmer for one and a half or two hours, add to 
the water one blade of mace, two stalks of celery, one onion, a little salt. 
When the chicken is done, remove from the fire and place on a hot dish. 
Strain the water in which it was boiled, keep it with the vegetables for a 
soup the next day. Make either a celery or oyster sauce. For the celery 
sauce put two tablespoonfuls of butter into the double boiler, when hot add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well together, when smooth add one cupful 
of the water in which the chicken was boiled, with two tablespoonfuls of 
finely minced celery from the same water. For an oyster sauce, add two 
dozen small cooked oysters to the sauce. 

Bones for Soup. 

Return the bones to the water in which the chickens were boiled; boil 
together one hour and strain, and when cold take off the fat. This will 
make a good broth, or a good foundation for a white soup. 

To Prepare Spring Chickens. 
Young spring chickens are often dry ; dip them in melted butter or olive 
oil before broiling them. It is a very good plan to place the chickens in a 
hot oven for ten minutes before you put them on to broil. 

Boudin of Chicken and Truffles. 
Put half a pint of water into a stewpan with a pinch of salt and an ounce 
of butter ; when it boils stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste ; put 
aside to cool. Take the flesh from a fowl and pound in the mortar, add 
half its bulk of the above paste, and half that quantity again of butter, then 
salt, pepper, a small piece of shallot and a little nutmeg. Mix the whole in 
the mortar and work into this mixture one whole egg and the yolks of three. 
Pass the whole through a sieve and work in a gill of cream. Take a mold, 
butter it well (or use several small ones) ; cut truffles in slices, stamp them in 
any shape and arrange them against the molds in pretty devices. Half fill 
the mold or molds; tie a piece of paper on the top; place over a stewpan 



92 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

half full of water and steam for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out care- 
fully and serve with truffle or tomato sauce. 

Breaded Spring Chicken. 

Cut up the chicken before cooking, season with salt and pepper. Take two 
eggs beaten lightly, put them in one-half cup of milk, and stir into this mix- 
ture two tablespoon fuls of flour; dip each piece of chicken into this and 
afterwards into bread crumbs. 

Bake the chicken in an oven on a pan ; make a gravy of one cup of cream, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, boiled 
together and poured over the chicken. 

Broiled Spring Chicken. 

Split the young chicken down the back, remove all the entrails, wipe dry, 
flatten with the rolling pin ; place in oven for five minutes to heat it, then 
dip the chicken into some melted butter, place on the hot gridiron with the 
inside down; broil for fifteen minutes, turning it once; when cooked, place 
on a hot platter and spread some butter over it with salt and pepper or some 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

To Baste Poultry or Meats. 

To baste poultry or meats add a little brown sugar to the hot water or hot 
melted butter which is used in basting. 

Bread Cups. 
To fill with creamed sweetbreads, chicken, veal, beef, etc. : 
Cut slices of bread three inches thick; cut with a deep cutter. A half- 
pound baking tin is useful for this purpose. Fry these cups in hot lard 
until brown then remove the centers. It is well to make a round mark on 
the tops of the cups before frying. Fill the cups with any of the above 
preparations. Serve at once. 

Cooking in Casserole. 

Remember slow cooking is the essence of Casserole cooking. 
Chicken in Casserole — 1. 

Put one and one-half ounces of butter into a fireproof casserole with two 
ounces or so of fat bacon cut up into dice, a pinch of salt, a sliced onion, 
or two or three shallots and a sliced carrot; let all this brown gently, and 
when quite hot lay in the fowl dressed as for roasting; let it color till of a 
pale golden color on both sides, then pour into the pan half a pint or so of 
good stock; cover down very closely and let it stew gently in the oven till 
done, and either serve neatly dished on a hot dish, or better in the pan in 
which it was cooked. This is the simple form of "poulet au casserole." 
It can be made richer in a variety of ways, adding a tablespoonful of sherry 
or a sherry glassful of chablis to the stock ; or rich, strong gravy, put in with 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 93 

the fowls, truffles, mushrooms, tiny silver or pickling onions, some small 
slices of ham, or some of the small French sausages, — these can all cook 
with the fowl. 

Almost any meat can be cooked in this way. Beefsteak cut up and 
stewed with half stock, half red wine and a few silver onions is particularly 
good. 

Chicken in Casserole — 2. 

Put a small spring chicken into the casserole with a little water, one 
tablespoon ful of butter and some potatoes cut into round balls with the 
vegetable cutter. Place in the oven and cook thirty minutes, then add one 
can of mushrooms or one pint fresh ones, a flat tablespoonful of chopped 
onion, one-half a wine glass of extract of beef or one-half cup of rich stock, 
one-half a wine glass of sherry, a little salt and pepper, and thicken the 
g^avy with one tablespoonful of flour; to do this, push the chicken on one 
side, return to the oven and cook for five minutes and serve at once. If 
the chicken is old, parboil or steam it for one hour, and then put it in the 
casserole and cook like spring chicken. 

A mixture for croquettes can be made and moulded and the croquettes 
kept in a cool place until needed, when they are easily cooked. 

Chicken Croquettes — 1. 

Boil one chicken and two sweetbreads ; when cold chop them fine. Take 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour; fry together; then 
add one-half pint of cream, a few drops of onion juice, add the chicken and 
sweetbread ; stir well together, add a little salt, mace and cayenne. Spread 
the mixture thinly on a platter; when cold shape into croquettes, dip each 
into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs or cracker crumbs; have the fat 
boiling hot and deep; before frying put the croquettes on the ice for two 
hours. 

Chicken Croquettes — 2 — Washington. 

Take two chickens, boil them slowly in a little water until tender. Two 
sets of brains, prepared as ''Brains to cook." When the chickens are cold 
remove the meat and chop it very fine ; one teacupful of suet chopped fine, 
two sprigs of parsley minced as fine as possible, the juice and rind of one 
lemon, one nutmeg grated, one tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, one 
teaspoon ful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper and the chopped brains. 
Mix these all well together and add enough cream to make the mixture 
very moist ; have it as soft as possible and still be able to mold it. Make the 
mixture into croquettes, either with a mold or with the hands ; dip them into 
beaten tgg, then into fine cracker crumbs ; fry them in deep, hot fat or lard. 
This quantity should make twenty-four croquettes. 

Cold veal or lamb can be used in the same manner. 



94 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Curry of Chicken. 
Boil one good-sized young chicken, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
onions sliced, one small, even tablespoon ful of grated cocoanut, one-half an 
apple cut fine, one pint of stock, one tablespoonful of curry powder, one 
tablespoonful of flour, four tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice; cut the chicken into pieces, fry the onions, cocoanut and apple 
in the butter; when fried add the stock and chicken and stew gently for 
fifteen minutes, then add the curry powder and flour, rub together with a 
little stock, stew for fifteen minutes, then add the cream, which should be hot, 
and lastly the lemon juice . 

^ Chicken Mousse Hot. 

Two tablespoons of butter in the double boiler, when melted add two 
tablespoons of flour, stir well, when smooth add one cup of milk, stir until 
the sauce is thick, add one saltspoon salt, a little grated nutmeg, a few drops 
of onion juice, some cayenne and white pepper. Stir all well and remove 
from fire, add two cups of finely chopped cooked chicken, two eggs well 
beaten, one cup of cooked rice. Butter a mold well, put in the mixture, cover 
with wax paper, place in kettle of boiling water, cook one-half hour. Be 
careful the water does not boil into the bowl ; turn out on dish. 

Deviled Chicken. 

Take any cold, cooked chicken and cut into small pieces, dip these into a 
little melted butter, then into a paste made of one teaspoon ful of French 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful of English mustard, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one-half saltspoonful of cayenne, one saltspoonful of 
salt. Then place the pieces of chicken in a dish, cover them with fine bread 
crumbs and a few bits of butter, and bake for fifteen minutes. Turn the 
chicken onto a hot plate, garnish with some watercress seasoned with salt 
and pepper. 

Any cold game or poultry can be deviled in the same way. 

Fried Chicken — Maryland. 

Cut the chicken into the usual pieces, after dividing it the pieces should be 
rolled in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Have in the skillet some good 
beef drippings or sweet lard, when hot, put in the chicken and fry them 
a rich brown, turn the pieces so they will be evenly browned, this will take 
twenty minutes if the chicken is small, thirty minutes if large. Keep 
the skillet covered. When cooked remove the pieces. Keep them warm 
while you make the gravy. Pour off nearly all the fat in the skillet, add 
one tablespoonful of butter, with one tablespoonful of flour and stir well 
until the gravy is brown, then add one cupful of milk and a little salt and 
pepper. Now return the fried pieces to the skillet, cover it, place either on 
the back of the stove or in a moderate oven for one-half hour to simmer. 

Serve with fried tomatoes. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 95 

Fried Chicken — Virginia — 1. 
After the chicken is prepared for cooking, cut it into the regular pieces, 
roll each piece in flour in which put both salt and pepper. Have the skillet 
hot, place four good sized slices of salt pork, fry until crisp, take them out, 
add to the pork fat two tablespoon fuls of lard, as soon as melted, put 
in the pieces of chicken, brown first one side then the other, then add one 
cupful of hot water and cover the skillet and place it on the back or cooler 
part of the stove and let the contents simmer slowly, this will take about one- 
half hour, if the chicken is young, longer if an older chicken. The water 
will boil away and the chicken be left brown and tender. 

Chicken with Dumplings. 

Cut a good sized chicken in pieces, put on the stove two skillets, in each 
some good fat, either beef drippings or a mixture of lard and butter, when 
the fat is hot in one, put in the pieces of chicken well floured and seasoned 
with salt and pepper, brown all the pieces nicely, then take out the pieces 
from this skillet and place them in the other. Mix two tablespoonfuls of 
flour smoothly with the fat from which the chicken was taken out of as soon 
as it is cooked smooth (two minutes will cook it), add one quart of boiling 
water, stir well and then pour all into the other skillet. Now cover tightly 
and let the chicken cook very slowly. This will take about one and one-half 
hours, the gravy will be brown and very good. 

To make the dumplings take one pint of flour, in which rub a scant 
tablespoonful of lard or butter, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, with just enough milk to make a good paste, when mixed drop 
them in by spoonfuls into the gravy, from which remove the chicken and 
keep hot while the dumplings are cooking, about fifteen minutes will cook 
them. 

Virginia Fried Chicken — 2. 

Cut the chicken into pieces, dip each piece into flour which has been well 
seasoned with pepper. 

Take slices of salt pork, put them in the frying pan and cook until the 
fat is all extracted; remove the pork and fry the chicken in the fat; fry 
slowly for twenty minutes if the chickens are quite young — rather longer if 
they are old. Then remove the chickens, arrange neatly on a platter and 
keep wan . while you make the gravy; stir into the fat one cup of milk 
(of course, cream is better), in which you have mixed a tablespoonful of 
flour. As soon as it thickens, pour over the chickens. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 
Take one chicken weighing about three pounds, cut it into pieces neatly ; 
let these stand in cold water for a half hour, then drain and put them into 
the stewpan with one quart of hot water, one onion with two cloves stuck 



96 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 

in it, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one-half pound 
of salt pork cut in small pieces ; boil, skim and then place the saucepan on 
the back of the stove for two hours, then remove the chicken, keep hot, 
take out the onion; stir together one tablespoon ful of flour and one table- 
spoonful of butter and one tablespoonf ul of cream ; stir this into the broth, 
when the broth thickens pour it over the chicken and serve. 

Hungarian Chicken or Paprika Hulm. 

Take one large tablespoon ful of butter, put into the stewpan; add two 
onions sliced fine; when they are of a light brown color add one-half tea- 
spoonful of paprika; let the onions brown a few minutes longer, then cut 
the chicken into pieces, add one-half teaspoonful of salt ; brown the chicken ; 
when this is done add one pint of good stock or boiling water; stew very 
gently with the pan closely covered until the chicken is cooked; remove 
from the pan, put on a hot dish ; add to the gravy one teacup of rich sour 
cream; let this scald only in the gravy and then strain the gravy over the 
chicken. 

Chicken Hash. 

Mince cold roasted or boiled chicken, not too fine. To each cupful of 
meat, add two tablespoon fuls of butter, one-half a cup of milk, one minced 
onion, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper. Mix well together, cook, and 
stir frequently. Serve on toast with a garnish of parsley. 

Chicken Hash with Eggs. 
Prepare as above, but just before serving poach as many eggs as required 
and place on the hash. 

Chicken Hash on Rice or Farina Toast. 
The night before, prepare some boiled rice or farina and set away in a 
dish, with a weight on top. The next morning cut it in slices one-half an 
inch thick ; brush over with melted butter, lay between a double broiler and 
toast a delicate brown or brown in oven, put bits of butter on each, season 
with salt and pepper, squeeze over a few drops of orange or lemon juice; 
hash the chicken, heat in brown or cream sauce and place it on the rice. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Cut up one-half of an old chicken, one calf's foot and one-half pound of 
veal; put in soup kettle with three pints of cold water, one-half ^-easpoonful 
of salt; boil and then skim carefully; add one tablespoonful of chopped car- 
rots, one tablespoonful of onions chopped fine, one-half tablespoonful of 
blanched almonds. Simmer the broth until all the meat is tender; skim 
again, and then strain the broth through a fine sieve or napkin. If desired 
very clear, after straining, add the white of an egg beaten very light; stir 
this into the broth and let it boil up, then remove and strain again. Put 
into small molds or cups and place on the ice. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. V7 

Jellied Chicken. 

Jellied chicken with lettuce or cress. Cut the chicken into four parts 
and cover with boiling water, add the gizzard and liver, a stalk of celery 
one slice each of carrot and onion, a bay leaf, a couple of cloves and 
a half dozen pepper corns. Cover the kettle and let the chicken slowly sim- 
mer over the fire until it is tender. Remove the chicken and let the liquid 
become cold ; then take off all the fat and reheat the liquid. Season it with 
salt and a little cayenne, and then add an ounce of gelatine that has been 
soaked in a little cold water an hour or more, and stir until it is entirely 
dissolved ; then strain the liquid into an earthen bowl. Free the chicken from 
skin and bone and cut it into moderate sized pieces. Wet a plain mold with 
cold water and lay upon the bottom and sides some slices of hard-boiled 
eggs ; then put in the prepared chicken and some shreds of cold boiled ham 
or tongue, also the gizzard and liver sliced and scattered among the chicken. 
Very thin slices of cucumber pickles are also frequently added. Pour over 
the whole the liquid jelly and place the mold in a cool place to harden. Turn 
it out upon a platter and garnish with cresses or salad leaves ; or, slice the 
chicken and serve with mayonnaise sauce. 

Green Peppers and Chicken. 
Boil two green peppers for ten minutes, cut off the tops, remove the 
seeds, and chop the peppers very fine. Mix the minced peppers with two 
cupfuls of finely chopped cold chicken, three tablespoonfuls of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one and one-half cupfuls of chicken broth. Mix well 
together, add a little salt, cook until very hot and serve on toast. 

Jugged Chicken. 

Cut the chicken (which may be an old fat one or a young one), into pieces 
the same as for fried chicken ; for every pound of chicken take one table- 
spoonful of flour, which season well with salt and pepper ; roll each piece of 
chicken in this flour, then pack the chicken closely into an earthenware crock 
and cover with cold water; cover the crock and bake for two hours if a 
young chicken is used, three or more if an old one, in a moderate but steady 
oven; the chicken requires no stirring. Slices of salt pork and onions can 
be added. 

Chicken Livers. 

Roll the livers in melted butter, or oil, season with salt and pepper; roll 
each liver in bread crumbs ; fry in hot butter ; place them in center of the 
dish, and place sliced potatoes cut very thin and fried, around them. 
Chicken Liver with Bacon. 

Take the livers, roll them in melted butter then in fine bread crumbs; 
season with salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Broil them for five minutes, 
first flattening them a little. When cooked, serve in a hot dish with a 
maitre d'hotel butter, and garnish with crisp slices of bacon. 



98 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 

Broiled squabs, quail, grouse and woodcock are properly served with a 
garnish of bacon. 

Chicken a la King. 

One boiled fowl, sliced very fine, one quart of cream, three ounces butter, 
two ounces flour, four yolks of eggs, three ounces sherry beaten together, 
two ounces fresh or canned mushrooms. Heat the cream to boiling point. 
Put butter in stewpan, add flour and cook for two minutes, then add the 
cream slowly, stirring all the time with the egg beater. Cook five minutes, 
add the chicken, mushrooms, salt and pepper, then add the egg yolks and 
sherry. When hot serve. Garnish with red and green peppers and truffles. 

Stewed Chicken with Oysters. 
Cut the chicken into pieces and place in stewpan ; cook in just enough 
hot water to cover; add some pieces of salt pork; simmer slowly until the 
chicken seems tender, then remove from the pan and keep hot while you 
make the gravy. For this mix together two tablespoonfuls of butter with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour ; stir into the water in which the chicken was cooked ; 
add a little salt — the gravy must not be too thick — drop into the gravy one 
quart of well drained oysters ; cover the pan and cook them until the oysters 
begin to curl, then pour all over the chicken. 

Chicken a la Marengo. 

Prepare the chicken as for fricassee; put the pieces into a stewpan with 
one tablespoonful of olive oil, two shallots, one teaspoonful of salt, one bay 
leaf, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one garlic clove, one bunch of parsley, 
one sprig of thyme ; fry these together for twenty-five minutes, or until the 
chicken is tender, then take from the pan and keep hot. Take one table- 
spoonful of flour, mix it with a little cold water, stir it into the broth, cook 
for ten minutes, then strain it over the chicken and serve. Do not skim the 
broth. 

Chicken Minced with Eggs. 

Take all that is left of a roasted or boiled chicken with the stuffing; cut 
the chicken very fine; chop one onion fine, two tablespoonfuls of milk or 
cream, one tablespoonful of flour, two sprigs parsley; six or eight eggs; 
half a cup of gravy, and one cupful of bread crumbs. Put all the bones into 
a casserole with the onion and one pint of cold water, stew them for an hour 
or more, then strain and return to casserole, add the cream or milk, the 
flour dissolved in a little cold milk ; all the seasoning, when this thickens, 
add the chicken — but after this it must not boil. Butter a deep dish, cover 
the bottom with the stuffing that was left over, wet it with the gravy left 
over, then put in the chicken, strew bread crumbs over this, then break 
the eggs carefully over; put a bit of butter, a little salt and pepper on each 
egg; strew bread crumbs over and bake about five minutes; serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 99 

Chicken with Mushrooms. 

Boil the chicken whole in a little hot water in which put one bay leaf, 
one small onion, one clove of garlic, one green pepper (if convenient), 
from which remove the seeds. Let all come to the boiling point ; skim, then 
put on the back of range to simmer slowly until the chicken is tender. Add 
a little salt just before taking out the chicken. The chicken can be stewed 
whole or it can be cut into small pieces. Make a sauce with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter melted, into which stir two tablespoonfuls of flour and 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, adding a little of the water in which the 
chicken was cooked to thin it. Dust some fresh mushrooms with flour, 
put them with one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a 
little salt, and two tablespoonfuls of butter in a double boiler. 

Put the chicken either whole or cut in pieces in the center of a hot plat- 
ter, pour over the sauce, then over that the mushrooms. Put around the 
platter a border of cooked rice. 

Chicken Mousse, Cold. 

One cup of good stock, put in double boiler, when hot, add the slightly- 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Cook until the sauce thickens, then take from 
fire — dissolve one heaping tablespoonful of gelatine in a little water. When 
dissolved add to the sauce. Chop into fine pieces some boiled chicken, then 
put through the grinder, so it will be fine, making one cupful, add this to the 
stock and mix well together, then add one-half cup of stiffly whipped cream, 
a little cayenne and onion juice, pour all into a mold, or into small ones. 
Place on ice until needed. Make the minced chicken part first, to be ready 
when the sauce is cooked. 

Chicken Panned. 

Cut the chicken down the back, pound the breast-bone slightly in order to 
flatten the chicken. Lay the chicken in a shallow pan with some slices of 
salt pork over it, place the pan in a hot oven, pour a little salted water in 
the pan and baste the chicken with it often; half-cook the chicken, then 
remove from the oven, place it on a well greased broiler over a clear hot 
fire, the underside next to the coals first ; then turn and cook the breast-side ; 
when cooked place on hot platter and pour over some melted butter and 
one tablespoonful of finely minced parsley. 

Chicken Patties. 
Cut in very small pieces the breast of a cooked chicken. Put in the 
stewpan one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour; stir 
together; when smooth add two tablespoonfuls of cream, a little nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, then add the chicken. Do not 
let the mixture brown ; fill the patty-cases and reheat in the oven. 



100 Cook Book 365— No, % 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut in pieces a good-sized chicken, pull off all the skin you can ; cook tii6 
chicken in the stewpan with a pint of water, one slice of lean ham, one onion, 
four peppercorns, one- fourth pound of salt pork cut in pieces, until tender, 
then remove the chicken and the pork, place the pieces in a deep pudding 
dish. Rub together one tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of 
butter, stir this into the liquor in which the chicken was cooked, add one- 
half cupful of cream or milk, or more; when the gravy is thickened and 
smooth, strain into the dish with the chicken. Cover the dish with pastry 
and bake until the pastry is done — one-half an hour is generally the time 
required. Veal pie can be made in the same manner, only substituting veal 
for chicken, and leaving out the salt pork. 

Chicken Pie with Oysters. 

Cut into pieces two chickens, put them into a kettle and cover with 
water. Simmer the chickens until they are tender, add two dozen oysters 
and cook five minutes, then remove from the fire, take from the kettle, 
leaving the gravy in the kettle, and put the pieces and oysters into a deep 
dish which has been buttered. Make a batter of one pint of sweet milk and 
two eggs well beaten and enough flour to make the batter the consistency of 
thick cream; add one pinch of salt, season the chicken with a little salt 
and pepper and add one tablespoonful of butter; pour over the batter and 
bake one-half hour. Thicken the gravy with one tablespoonful of flour, 
rubbed smooth with a little milk, and boil for five minutes. Serve it in a 
gravy boat with the pie. The chickens and oysters can be covered with pie- 
crust in place of the batter if desired. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 

Cut a chicken into pieces, put into the stew-pan with enough water to 
cover the pieces, add one-half pound of salt pork cut in pieces, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a little pepper, let all simmer slowly, when nearly done, 
put in the dumplings, made the same as soda or baking powder biscuits, 
cover the pan and let them cook for one-half hour. Put the pieces of 
chicken in the center of the platter, the dumplings around them. Thicken 
the gravy with one tablespoonful of flour mixed with one tablespoonful of 
butter, add two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk; cook until thick then 
strain the gravy over the chicken and serve. 

Chicken with Poached Eggs. 

A nest made of bits of cooked chicken for serving poached eggs in, is a 
way to use up the ragged pieces. Chop the meat very fine, and for two 
cups of meat add one tablespoonful of melted butter, the same quantity of 
cream, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt and cayenne, and 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 101 

two beaten eggs. Put the ingredients in a saucepan and let them thoroughly 
heat so as to cook the eggs. Turn the mixture on a hot platter and form 
it in a flat mold with a ridge around the edge. Meanwhile poach the eggs 
required and place them carefully on the meat. Garnish the dish with 
parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs around the mold. 

Roasted Fowl. 

The legs and wings should be drawn closely to the sides, the fowl 
basted frequently with hot water, in which some butter has been melted; 
when cooked make the gravy in the same pan, with the water in which the 
gizzard and liver have been cooked. Scrape all the glaze from the bottom 
of the pan, chop the gizzard fine, mash the liver with one tablespoon ful of 
flour and one tablespoonful of butter ; stir into the gravy, let it boil enough 
to cook the flour. Serve in a sauce-boat. 

If the fowl is stuffed, make the stuffing with bread crumbs well seasoned 
with a little salt, pepper, butter and a tiny bit of grated nutmeg. The fowl 
is stuffed with this, and the place where it is put into the fowl closely sewed 
up. For a fowl weighing five pounds, one hour and a half slow roasting is 
enough. Or oysters can be used in the stuffing, mixed with bread crumbs, 
a little salt and pepper and one tablespoonful of melted butter, garnish with 
watercress. 

Roast Chicken or Turkey. 

Before roasting either a chicken or turkey, there are several ways of 
preparing them, one is, to pound lightly the chicken or turkey with the 
rolling pin, this makes it tender, then spread over the breasts and legs a 
paste made with flour and butter, mixed to a smooth soft paste; another 
way is to blanket the chicken or turkey with slices of salt pork, for this the 
dry salted pork is better than the pickled. Another way is to cover the 
breasts with the fat if they are fat birds — stuffing can be used if desired. 

A chicken a year old is considered at the proper age for roasting, though 
if older, it can be steamed for an hour before roasting. In roasting either a 
chicken or turkey allow fifteen minutes for every pound it weighs after it is 
prepared for the pan. Be sure to draw the drumsticks close to the sides, 
tie them down, legs standing up from the bird are never any addition to its 
appearance. Baste frequently while in the oven, if the paste was not used, 
put a little butter with salt and pepper over the breast and legs, just before 
taking out of the oven. Serve on large hot platter with giblet or oyster 
sauce. Oysters can be used in the stuffing, or the bread stuffing, as given 
elsewhere. 

Chicken for Sandwiches. 

Cook the chicken, a year old one for sandwiches — place in kettle with one 
quart of hot water, and cook slowly until the meat falls from the bones ; put 



102 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

with the chicken while cooking, one onion, one blade of mace, one-half 
tablespoonful salt; a little cayenne, one tablespoonful of butter. When 
cooked, remove chicken from the fire and place on a plate; add to the 
gravy in the kettle, one pint of cream or milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour 
moistened so as to stir easily into the gravy; let it boil until thick, then 
remove from the fire, strain, and allow to become cold. When the sand- 
wiches are needed, cut the chicken meat very fine ; add the gizzard and liver 
also cut fine ; mix all with the cold gravy and spread on thin sliced bread ; 
trim the edges of the bread neatly ; roll up the slices, fasten with little wooden 
toothpicks, which remove when served. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Singe a broiling size chicken and split down the back ; clean and wipe with 
a damp towel, but do not place it in water; break the breastbone with a 
potato masher and place the chicken in a baking pan with the skin-side up. 
Spread the breast generously with butter, using at least one-quarter of a 
pound. Sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and put a small cupful of 
water in the pan. Cover tightly and cook in a moderate oven for half an 
hour, basting frequently ; then remove the cover, turn the chicken, re-cover 
and cook for thirty minutes longer. Place the chicken on a hot platter, 
remove the pan to the top of the stove and add one tablespoonful of flour to 
the liquor, stirring all the time until smooth and brown, then add a cupful of 
milk and again stir until the boiling point, then strain the gravy over the 
chicken. 

Chicken Souffle— 1. 
Make a white sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the double boiler, 
when hot, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well together, add one pint of 
chicken broth, or one-half cream and one-half milk, stir until it thickens, 
then add one teaspoonful of salt, pinch of pepper, one teaspoon ful onion 
juice, one teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 
To this sauce, add one pint of finely chopped cooked chicken meat. Put the 
meat twice through the meat chopper, cook together for two minutes, then 
add four yolks of eggs, well beaten and cook all for two minutes, remove 
from fire to cool. Twenty minutes before the souffle is required to be 
served, add the whites of five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, then fill the bak- 
ing dish which should be well buttered and bake. Keep a tin plate in the 
oven to become hot, to cover the souffle on its way to the table. A souffle 
requires a moderate oven for if too hot the souffle will be heavy. 

Chicken Souffles— 2. 

Take the breast of a chicken, pound it well in the mortar, press it through 
a sieve ; to two tablespoonfuls of the meat after it is pounded, add the yolks 
of two eggs, two truffles cut fine, a saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne and 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 103 

a little nutmeg; mix these well together and add to the mixture one-fourth 
pint of whipped cream, and the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 

Fill little paper cases, which can be purchased at the confectioners, two- 
thirds full with the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes ; 
then serve on a napkin on a dish. Tomato or cream sauce can be served 
with the souffles if wished. 

Chicken Stewed. 
For one chicken weighing three pounds, take one tablespoonful of butter, 
three tablespoon fuls of flour, one large onion cut fine, three slices of carrot, 
three slices of turnip, three pints of boiling water, one saltspoonful of salt, 
one-half saltspoonful of pepper. Wash the chicken, put it into a large 
stewpan, cover with hot water, and let it boil gently, put the carrot, turnip, 
and onion with the butter in a sauce-pan and cook slowly for one-half 
hour, stirring them often ; skim oflF two tablespoonfuls of the fat from 
the chicken, press the vegetables through a sieve into the stewpan with the 
chicken, stir in the sauce, and let all simmer together until the chicken is 
cooked. A year-old chicken will require two hours. Twelve minutes before 
serving let all boil once. Serve with boiled bacon, ham or sausage. 

Timbales of Chicken. 

To every pound of the breast of an uncooked chicken pounded to a 
smooth paste, mix one cup of bread crumbs and one-half cup of milk ; cook 
together, and add gradually the chicken meat ; add one teaspoonful of salt, 
a little cayenne and a little nutmeg, then the well beaten whites of five eggs — 
put them in very gently. Grease the timbale molds or tins, sprinkle on the 
bottom of each a little finely chopped truffle, add the mixture, steam the 
timbales. Be careful not to let any water boil into the tins, covering them 
with white paper. Steam for twenty minutes, remove from molds, serve 
with white sauce. 

Chicken Turnovers. 

Cut chicken into rather small pieces ; have in the frying pan some good 
hot beef dripping or lard — or lard and butter mixed — season the pieces with 
salt and pepper — put the pieces into the lard and brown them on both sides. 
While these are cooking make a good biscuit dough, perhaps a little richer 
than for ordinary biscuits ; roll it out into a sheet about one-half inch in 
thickness, then cut into squares and in each square put a piece of chicken ; 
wet the edges of the dough and pinch them together; place in baking pan 
and bake until the dough is perfectly cooked, then remove from the oven. 
The chicken must be well cooked in the hot fat before putting into the biscuit 
dough. Pour off most of the hot fat ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour ; stir 
well ; add enough hot water to thin the sauce if too thick, and add salt and 
pepper, and serve with the turnovers. Any turnovers left will be very 



104 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

acceptable in the lunch basket for the children or used for breakfast, 
re-heated. 

Swedish Chicken. 

Very young chickens are required. Have the chickens left whole; clean 
them ; remove head and feet. Take for two chickens one- fourth pound of 
butter and mix with it enough parsley cut very fine until the butter is quite 
green, use the parsley leaves only ; add a little salt and pepper and fill the 
chickens with this mixture. Put into the casserole or into any iron kettle that 
has a tight cover two tablespoon fuls of butter; when it is hot, brown the 
chickens in it; turn them so to have them browned on both sides, then put 
the casserole on the back of the stove and put in one pint of cream with the 
chickens ; add the livers and gizzards ; cover all closely and let them simmer 
for one and a half hours — not boil. When ready to serve remove the 
chickens to hot dish and thicken the gravy with one tablespoon ful of moist- 
ened flour ; cook for three minutes and serve over the chickens. Care must 
be taken that the chickens do not burn ; the livers will cook into bits. Scrape 
the bottom of the iron pot well if the chickens are cooked in one, that none 
of the browned gravy is lost ; if cooked in the casserole, serve the chickens 
in it. 

Partridge, Grouse or Young Chicken Cooked in Cream. 

Take a grouse or partridge or baby chicken, place in a frying pan with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one onion cut in small pieces ; fry long enough 
to brown on both sides, then place in casserole with one-half pint of cream, 
one saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne and pepper, with one tablespoonful 
of white wine or good vinegar, or lemon juice ; cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes in the cream and serve in the casserole. 

Roast Tame Duck. 

The ducks may be stuffed with mashed potatoes and onions, with a little 
sage added or with apples chopped fine and seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Baste the ducks very often while roasting. If large, one hour and a half is 
necessary to properly roast them ; ordinary sized ducks, about one hour. 
Serve with gravy made from the giblets. 

Steamed Duck. 

Rub the duck with warm butter; put into the oven to acquire a slightly 
yellow color; then put into the stewpan with one carrot sliced, one celery 
root or three stalks, one onion, three cloves, one bay leaf, two sage leaves, 
one pint of water; lay the duck on these, the breast upward, let it steam 
closely covered until the vegetables are cooked ; add one saltspoonful of salt, 
and more water if it is needed. When the duck is cooked, remove from the 
pan, skim the gravy, strain through a sieve, then return it to the pan and 



Cook Book 365-~No. 2. 105 

thicken with one tablespoon ful of flour; boil once and serve with the 
duck. 

Ragout of Duck— "Left-overs." 

Cut in pieces any part of a cold roast duck ; boil the bones for three hours 
to make a good savory stock with one onion stuck with one clove ; strain, mix 
together one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; brown 
them over the fire — do not burn them — add to the stock and boil for three 
minutes. Put in the pieces of duck and simmer in the stock for fifteen 
minutes ; add one wineglassf ul of sherry and twelve stoned olives ; serve hot. 

Braised Goose. 

Stuff the goose with cooked mashed potatoes and onions, well mixed 
together, seasoned with salt and pepper; to cook the goose a baking pan, 
which has a flat bottom and cover, is needed. Place in the bottom of the 
pan some good dripping, or slices of salt pork, and when hot brown the 
goose, turning both sides; then take out the goose, take out the pork and 
put in pan two carrots cut in slices, two onions sliced, a few sprigs of 
parsley, a few stalks of celery, two cloves, one green or red pepper, cut and 
seeds removed (these can be left out), six peppercorns, one quart of boiling 
water; on the vegetables lay the goose, cover closely and simmer for three 
hours. This can be done on top of the stove or in oven. When ready 
remove the goose to a hot meat dish; keep hot while you prepare the 
gravy ; strain off the liquid ; remove any fat. Make a gravy with the giblets 
and liver (see giblet gravy). 

An old fat hen can be prepared in this way and the long, slow cooking 
makes it tender. Serve with the goose apple and rice croquettes ; cook six 
large apples until soft and as much cold boiled rice as you have apples, 
season with teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, a very little grated nutmeg; 
mix well and spread on plate to cool; when needed, make into small cro- 
quettes, rolling each in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat; or serve plain apple sauce. 

Roast Goose. 
Prepare the goose for roasting — see the directions for washing poultry — 
then stuff it with the following preparation : Peel, wash and dry one quart 
of potatoes; cut them into small dice. Put into the stewpan one and one- 
half tablespoon fuls of butter; when hot put in the potatoes, one onion 
minced fine, one garlic clove minced ; cover the pan ; shake the potatoes to 
prevent burning; steam them until they are half cooked, then take from 
the fire and stir with them the liver of the goose, cut very fine, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth saltspoonful of pepper, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of powdered sage, a little nutmeg ; stuff the goose, or in place of this stuffing 
use apples cut into small pieces. Make a rich gravy with the giblets. Prunes 



106 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

half stewed make a very good stuffing ; almonds chopped fine and mixed with 
apples and bread crumbs can be used also. 

To Render Down Goose Fat. 

Take all the fat that was removed from the inside of the goose when 
drawing it, or any other superfluous pieces of the fat. Put all into cold 
water and leave for one day. Change the water once or twice. Then drain 
off the water and cut the fat into small pieces, put into a clean stew-pan, and 
slowly melt it until nothing but skinny pieces remain and liquid fat. Strain 
it into a jar through a piece of cheese cloth, when cold cover tightly and 
keep in cool place. 

Goose fat is valuable in a sudden attack of sore throat or croup, rub the 
throat and nose well with it. 

Guinea Fowl. 

One guinea fowl ; truss and lard it, roast exactly like a pheasant. Put a 
buttered paper over the breast to prevent dryness. Cook one hour. Serve 
with bread sauce. 

Roast Pigeons. 

Dry the pigeons, put the heart, liver and gizzard inside each bird ; spread 
some butter over them and dredge them with flour; season with salt and 
pepper; place in the roasting-pan with a few slices of salt pork and place 
over the pigeons, baste frequently ; keep covered and cook for half an hour, 
then remove the pigeons and thicken the gravy with a little flour. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Take two pigeons, cut off their heads, draw them; put the livers inside 
the birds. Take one-half pound of salt pork, cut it into small square pieces, 
fry it in the stewpan or casserole until light brown, then remove from the 
pan ; put the pigeons into the same pan or casserole and fry until they are 
brown, then put them on a plate with the bacon. Mix one tablespoonful of 
flour and one-half tablespoonful of butter in the stewpan; add one pint 
of stock, season with a little salt and pepper, stir on the fire until boiling, 
then strain; return to the stewpan or casserole the pigeons, the bacon, the 
broth and two onions ; simmer for thirty minutes, then remove the pigeons, 
skim the gravy and strain over the pigeons ; put the bacon around them 
and serve. A pound of fresh mushrooms stewed in the broth is an improve- 
ment. Serve in the casserole. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Three pigeons ; wipe them ; cut in halves ; sprinkle a little salt and pepper 
on the insides, with some minced parsley and a small piece of butter in 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 107 

each. Lay a thin slice of lean ham in the bottom of a pie dish ; it may be 
cooked or raw; place the pigeons on the ham; put in a few fresh mush- 
rooms if convenient ; pour in enough good stock to fill the dish ; cover with 
good pastry and bake about one hour. 

Squirrel — Stewed. 

Young squirrel, cut in pieces, stewed in broth or cream ; broth thickened 
a little with flour; add butter. 

To Truss a Fowl. 

After the feathers are carefully picked ofif the fowl, cut ofif the head, 
and skewer the skin of the neck down over the back. Cut off the claws ; dip 
the legs in boiling water and then scrape them, turn the pinions under, run 
a skewer through them and the middle of the legs which should be passed 
through the body to the pinion and leg on the other side one skewer secur- 
ing the limbs on both sides. The liver and gizzard should be placed in the 
wings, the liver on one side, the gizzard on the other, tie the legs together 
with stout twine. 

Brunswick Stew — Virginia. 

Cut three small squirrels in pieces, and lay them in salted water for one 
hour to draw out the blood, then put them with four quarts of water in 
the soup kettle, with one tablespoonful of salt and two tablespoon fuls of 
sugar. Take one pint of lima beans, six ears of corn — cut from the cob — ont 
onion, cut in slices, six potatoes sliced, one-half pound of salt pork, cut into 
small pieces, add these to the squirrels, cover the kettle closely, and cook 
very slowly, stirring frequently for two hours, then add one quart of peeled 
and sliced tomatoes, one teaspoonful black pepper and cook for one hour 
longer — ten minutes before the stew is to be served add one-half pound of 
butter, made into small balls and rolled in flour, let all just come to the 
boil once, taste it, it may need more salt. Serve on soup plates. Chickens 
can be used instead of squirrels. 

Rabbit, Stewed. 

Cut up the rabbit and roll each piece in flour which has been seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; melt a full tablespoonful of lard in a stewpan ; put the 
rabbit in this hot lard and on top lay three onions in slices; cover all with 
cold water ; cover tightly the pan and let the rabbit steam until all the water 
has boiled away and only the lard is left, in which the rabbit will brown. 
When browned, remove from fire, and serve with gravy made by adding 
one cup of boiling water to the fat in the pan and one tablespoonful of 
browned flour ; let it boil up once and then pour over the rabbit. 



108 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 

Broiled Turkey. 
For broiling, only a young, half -grown turkey is used. Split in half, broil 
over a clear fire for twenty minutes; serve with melted butter, salt and 
pepper. 

Breast of Turkey Broiled. 
Cut each breast off cleanly in one piece, dip into melted butter ; broil fifteen 
minutes. Every five minutes dip again in melted butter seasoned with salt 
and pepper; serve with some of the butter poured over each piece. This 
way of cooking a turkey is delicious. 

Creamed Turkey or Chicken. 
Chop fine one quart of cold boiled turkey or chicken; take one pint of 
fresh white bread crumbs — without crusts — add one-half pint of rich milk 
and cook together until soft. Be sure to stir the mixture constantly that it 
may not burn. When cooked, add the turkey or chicken meat, seasoned with 
salt and pepper and a little celery salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs until 
light, add to the preparation, then stir in the whites, beaten a little, not too 
frothy, just broken. Butter a mold, put in the mixture and place the mold 
in a pan half full of hot water and bake twenty minutes. Turn the mixture 
from the mold and serve either hot or cold ; if hot, serve a white sauce with 
mushrooms added. Serve green peas with the dish. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Clean, rub with salt, pepper and lemon juice, and stuff with oyster or bread 
stuffing. Crush the wings and legs close to the body, pin the fowl in a 
clean cloth, put a little salt in the water, cook slowly, allowing twenty 
minutes for each pound. A turkey is nicer steamed than boiled ; serve with 
oyster or celery sauce. 

A boiled turkey may be stuffed with celery seasoned with salt and pepper 
or with macaroni, which has been partially cooked before using in the 
fowl. 

Roast Turkey. 

Stuff the turkey with bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, one 
tablespoonful of powdered thyme and one-half cup of melted butter; mix 
well together. Rub the turkey well with butter and dredge with flour and a 
little salt; put in hot oven; as soon as it is brown reduce the heat of the 
oven, put one pint of hot water and one tablespoonful of butter in the pan, 
and baste with this every few minutes, dredging with flour often. For a 
ten-pound turkey allow three hours' slow cooking. If chestnut stuffing 
is desired, take one quart of large chestnuts, pour over them boiling water 
to soften the shells, remove the shells and the brown skin; boil in salted 
water until tender ; mash them (keep a portion for the gravy) ; add to the 
chestnuts one cup of rolled cracker crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 



Cook Book 365— No. H. ' i09 

half teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one-iialf cup 
of melted butter. For the gravy, remove all the fat from the baking pan, 
add one pint of boiling water, stir in one tablespoon ful of flour which has 
been rubbed into one tablespoon ful of butter, add a little salt and pepper and 
the remainder of the chestnuts. Fried sausages are often served around the 
turkey. 

Minced Turkey. 

Chop very fine the left-overs of cold turkey. To each cupful of meat, add 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of milk or cream, one tea- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in the milk, a saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper; 
let the mixture boil once ; put it upon toasted bread and place poached eggs 
on the top, if desired. 

Stewed Turkey. 

Cut the turkey into nice pieces, put on to cook with one quart of hot 
water and a few pieces of salt pork, one onion, one teaspoonful of salt and a 
little pepper ; stew gently for one and one-half hours. Remove the pieces of 
turkey, thicken the gravy with two tablespoon fuls of flour, mixed with one 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Stuffing for Turkey or Chicken — 1. 
Bread crumbs grated fine, put into the roasting pan ; add salt and pepper 
and a large lump of butter; brown on the top of the stove, stirring all the 
time, then stuff the fowl; this stuffing will be found to be very light and 
digestible. Roast the fowl in the same pan without washing. 

Stuffing for Roast Turkey— 2. 
Substitute pork sausage meat for the butter, add one-fourth pound of 
chopped Sultana raisins, — or the raisins can be omitted. 

GAME. 

Broiled Canvas Back Duck. 

Clean as for roasting; split the duck on the back, season with salt and 
pepper and spread over it some olive oil ; put on the hot gridiron ; cook over 
a very hot fire for fifteen minutes, then place on a hot dish ; pour over the 
duck melted butter with one tablespoonful of lemon juice, salt and pepper. 
Serve currant jelly with the duck. 

Broiled Wild Duck. 

Pick, singe and draw the ducks, slit them down the back, crack the bones, 
flatten the ducks with a cleaver ; season with a little salt and pepper. Have 
the gridiron hot and greased with a little fat ; have the fire clear — a charcoal 
fire is the best for broiling. Broil for ten minutes. Serve very hot with a 
little butter over them. 



110 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

Roast Wild Duck (An old Virginia Recipe). 

Mince the livers of a pair of wild ducks with a tablespoonful of scraped 
bacon; mix with an ounce of butter a slice of onion chopped fine, a little 
salt and cayenne, fill the bodies of the ducks with the mixture ; lay them in a 
baking pan, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, wrap them in oiled paper 
and set in a hot oven. When the ducks are brown take them out; garnish 
with slices of orange and pour over them a sauce made by adding the juice of 
an orange, two minced onions, with a teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of 
cayenne, add a little salt to the gravy in the pan. Twenty minutes will cook 
the ducks. 

Roast Wild Duck. 

Do not stuff the duck ; have oven very hot and roast just twenty minutes ; 
to be in perfection, the blood should follow the knife in carving, and baste 
often with melted butter while roasting. Be sure to serve very hot. 

Grouse Roasted. 

When cleaned put a small piece of butter in each grouse; cover them well 
with slices of salt pork ; place in your dripping-pan some slices of toast and 
place each bird on one. Baste the grouse well with butter-water — melted 
butter and water (a tablespoonful of each). Roast for thirty minutes. 
Serve on hot platter on the toast. 

Broiled Grouse on Toast. 

Pick, singe and draw two grouse ; slit them down the back, pound them a 
little to flatten them, season with a little salt and pepper. Have the gridiron 
hot and greased with fat ; broil the birds for fifteen minutes ; have pieces of 
hot toast ; serve the grouse on these ; pour over them Maitre d'Hotel sauce, 
and serve hot. 

SoufHe of Grouse. 

Mince, pound and rub through a sieve the breasts of two grouse, mix 
with this one-half pint of stiff whipped cream, a little salt and pepper. Put 
the mixture into a buttered mold, steam for twenty minutes. Serve with 
either sauce supreme, truffles or mushroom sauce. 

Roast Patridge. 

Roast the same as wild duck. 

Partridge SoufHe. 

Roast two partridges, remove all the meat from the bones, and put 
through a meat chopper with two ounces of cooked rice, one ounce of but- 
ter, a little pepper and salt and one gill and a half of stock. Pass all 
through a sieve, and add the yolks of four eggs, then the whites of two eggs, 
whipped to a stiff froth; put into a buttered mold and bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve with gravy made from the bones and trimmings, and thickened 
with butter and cornstarch. A puree of spinach may be served round it. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. Ill 

Boiled Pheasant. 
One pheasant, one pound of chestnuts, one teaspoon ful of anchovy sauce, 
one-half pound of sausage meat, one teaspoon ful of white pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Have ready a pheasant trussed for boiling ; stuff the bird 
at the neck end with sausage meat and seasoning. Place the bird breast 
downward in well salted water, and see that the water covers it ; bring it to a 
boil and then simmer three-quarters of an hour; skim well. Serve with a 
thick white sauce, poured over the bird. Garnish the dish with small cooked 
chestnuts, or baked tomatoes, tufts of fried parsley, and slices of lemon. 

Roast Pheasant. 
Roast the pheasant in a hot oven ; keep it well basted, sift flour over fif- 
teen minutes before serving; serve with a rich brown or bread sauce. 

Broiled Quail. 
Split each bird down the back; put on the greased broiler over a clear 
fire ; turn them often ; in fifteen minutes remove and pour melted butter over ; 
season with salt and pepper over them. Serve hot. 

Snipe. 
Cook the liver and heart until they are tender, then pound them in the 
mortar, adding a truffle ; cook the birds in a hot oven for ten minutes, and 
remove from the pan ; dip sHces of hot toast into the gravy from the birds, 
spread the pounded mixture on the toast, and serve the birds on the toast. 

Wild Turkey Roasted. 
Fill the turkey with chestnut filling and roast the same as tame turkey, or 
roast without any filling. 

Chestnut Filling for Wild Turkey. 

One and one-half pounds of large chestnuts, one-fourth pound of sausage 
meat; a small amount of beaten soaked bread; boil the chestnuts in milk 
after thoroughly cleansing them, mash them and mix all together; season 
with salt, pepper and a pinch of sugar. 

Saddle of Venison Roasted. 

Wipe the meat carefully and spread over it a layer of butter. Venison is 
apt to be dry. Roast in the same manner as a leg of venison. A saddle 
weighing nine pounds will take one hour ; baste the meat frequently with the 
gravy in the pan. Serve very hot with currant jelly. If desired, add one 
wine glass of sherry to the gravy in the pan. 

Venison Steak — 1. 
Cut the venison either in small pieces or in portions. Put in the chafing 
dish or stewpan two tablespoon fuls of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, a little cayenne and one tablespoonful of cur- 



112 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

rant jelly; when these are melted together, add the steaks and cook for 
five minutes. One wine glass of sherry or port can be added if desired. 
Also some seedless raisins and one tablespoonful of orange juice. 

Venison Steak — 2. 
Cut the steaks an inch thick, dip them in melted butter, have the gridiron 
hot and greased ; broil over a hot fire for six minutes ; serve at once on a hot 
platter ; season the steaks with butter, salt and pepper. 

Venison Steak. 

Take two pounds of venison steak, cut into portions, enough for each 
person to be served. Put into the chafing dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and one tablespoon- 
ful of currant jelly (the lemon juice may be omitted). Stir this mixture 
until it is hot, then add the venison and cook for five or six minutes, — if 
wanted very rare, four minutes will answer ; add at the last two tablespoon- 
fuls of port or sherry if desired. Slices of venison are very nice warmed- 
over in the chafing dish. 

Cold Venison Minced. 

Mince the venison fine ; put one tablespoonful of butter into the stewpan 
with one onion cut fine ; let these brown ; then add one tablespoonful of flour 
and stir until smooth, then add one cupful of stock or the gravy left from 
the day before; season with salt and pepper; then strain this and add the 
minced venison; let this cook together for five minutes, and serve on slices 
of hot toast. Serve currant jelly or orange sauce. 

A Game Mold. 

Take a cold fowl or game of any kind; put through the meat chopper 
twice for it must be very fine; one slice of bread also put through the 
chopper ; mix all together, add three eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, pinch of pepper, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, piece of lemon with the grated rind; mix and place in a 
well buttered mold ; the mold should have slices of hard-boiled eggs on the 
bottom and sides ; steam for one hour ; cool, turn out when cold and place 
in a larger mold, also buttered; this mold fill up with good stock, in which 
two tablespoonfuls of gelatine has been dissolved. Place on ice. 

Sage and Onion Stuffing. 

Peel four large onions, put into boiling water, boil for five minutes and 
just before taking them out of the water add ten sage leaves ; then remove 
both onions and sage ; chop them very fine ; add one cupful of bread crumbs, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolk of one egg and salt and pepper; mix 
all together, and the stuffing is ready. You can add the livers if you like, 
but they should be used in the gravy. 

Another way is to add four good-sized apples, chopped fine, to the above 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 113 

ingredients and one sprig of thyme chopped fine. Potatoes boiled, mashed 
very smooth and well seasoned with salt and pepper, and one tablespoonful 
of butter and the same amount of chopped onions as potatoes make a delici- 
ous stuffing. 

Stuffing for Wild Duck. 

Stuffing is not necessary for wild duck, but some of them are improved 
by a stuffing of celery tops ; these give a very delicate flavor to the ducks. 
Wild ducks are considered by many as improved by being basted with orange 
juice mixed with a little warm water; a little salt and pepper added and a 
very little grated nutmeg; but as a rule the ducks are considered well sea- 
soned by melted butter only. 

Chestnut Stuffing for Turkey. 
Put one good-sized onion, or three shallots, chopped fine into a saucepan 
on a good fire, with one tablespoonful of butter; let all cook for four minutes 
without browning, then add one-fourth pound of sausage meat; cook these 
together for six minutes longer, then add ten finely chopped mushrooms, 
eighteen well cooked and smoothly pounded chestnuts, mix all well, add a 
pinch of salt, small pinch of pepper, one-half teaspoon ful minced thyme, one 
teaspoonful minced parsley ; let all boil up, then add one-half pound of 
fresh soft bread crumbs and twenty-four whole chestnuts cooked and 
skinned. Do not break the chestnuts ; remove from fire, cool, and stuff the 
turkey with the mixture. 

Frying Flour for Thickening. 

In the thickening of gravies, except white gravies or sauces, the browning 
or frying of the flour in the fat is the greatest possible addition. The flavor 
is very distinctive and is well known to old negro cooks. To prepare the 
flour, while the chicken, turkey, game or meat is cooking, place some flour 
on one side of a frying pan and some good dripping or butter on the other; 
as the fat melts, pull the flour into it, until gradually you have all the flour 
in the fat, then let it brown ; be careful not to burn it ; as soon as the flour 
is all cooked smooth, and has taken up the fat, add it to the gravy, soup, or 
sauce. Use it in place of the ordinary thickening with flour dissolved in 
cold water, which results always in a white, unappetizing looking gravy. 



114 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Eggs. 



Eggs contain every element of nutrition and are stimulating, as are all 
animal foods except milk and fat. The distinctive element of nutrition in 
meat is albumen, and the white of egg is pure albumen, differing somewhat 
in character from meat albumen and from the gluten of wheat, but supplying 
the tissue- forming element of food as well as meat. Eggs are best eaten 
whipped without cooking, and better poached than hard boiled or fried in fat. 

Eggs with Asparagus. 
Used as Substitute for Meat. 
Cut the tender portion of the stalks of one large bunch of asparagus into 
pieces about the size of peas, and cook in boiling water, salted, until tender ; 
drain and keep hot while making the sauce. For one cup of asparagus use 
two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, one-fourth tablespoonful of salt, 
a dash of paprika, and one cupful of the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked, or use part cream. Then add the asparagus and turn all into a 
buttered baking dish. Break three or four fresh eggs over the top, season 
with salt and pepper, and a grating of nutmeg, if liked. Set the dish in 
another containing hot water, and place in the oven until the whites of the 
eggs are set. Serve in the baking dish. 

Egg Balls 

Boil four eggs until they are hard, then put into cold water for a little 
while, remove the shells and take the yolks, pound them smooth, add 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, a little cayenne 
and one raw yolk of tgg. Make the mixture into small balls, roll them in 
flour, fry them with a little butter until they are a delicate brown ; serve with 
mock turtle soup or other soups. 

Baked Eggs— 1. 

Put some good gravy into a shallow baking dish. Break four eggs or as 
many as are required into this, salt them, and sprinkle some bread crumbs 
over them, and bake for five minutes in a quick oven. Take up the eggs 
carefully one by one, and lay upon little rounds of fried bread. Add to the 
gravy a little cream and some very finely chopped parsley and onion; put 
into a saucepan and boil up quickly and pour over the eggs. 

Baked Eggs— 2. 

Spread a thick layer of fresh butter on a tin or fireproof china dish, 
sprinkle with salt, and break the eggs carefully on it, one at a time; pour 
some cream over them, season with salt, pepper and one grate of nutmeg; 
place a few small lumps of butter over all, bake in the oven for four minutes. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 115 

Baked Eggs— 3. 
Boil eggs until hard, then put them into cold water ; when cold remove the 
shells, chop the eggs very fine, add one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful 
of pepper ; stir together ; put the eggs into a porcelain dish ; first put a layer 
of bread crumbs, then a layer of the eggs, then bread crumbs, eggs, or until 
the dish is full ; then put bits of butter over the top with some bread crumbs ; 
lastly pour over all one cup of cream ; bake fifteen minutes. 

Eggs and Cheese. 

Take small china dishes or one large dish that will stand the heat ; place 

in each a bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, break over a fresh egg, 

sprinkle on the top of the egg some grated cheese — American cheese is 

excellent for this — a few bread crumbs and a little salt and pepper ; bake in a 

hot oven for three minutes, and serve in the same dish in which they are 

baked. 

Eggs with Cream — 1. 

Poach eggs in boiling water, allowing one for each person to be served; 
trim them and place on a slice of bread; pour over some hot cream sauce; 
sprinkle some chopped parsley or truffles over, and place around the eggs 
slices of hot, fried bacon cut thin and rolled. 

Eggs with Cream — 2. 
Cover the bottom of a buttered porcelain plate with cream ; break on this 
the eggs carefully ; let them bake for four minutes ; sprinkle a little salt and 
pepper and a bit of butter on each egg, and serve in the same dish in which 
they are baked. 

Eggs with Black Butter. 

After the eggs are fried on one side only, remove to a hot dish, add one 
tablespoon ful of butter to what is already in the frying pan and let it cook 
until of a deep brown color. Then drop in two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 
pour over the eggs and serve. 

Eggs with Cheese. 
Boil until perfectly hard eight eggs. When cooked put them into cold 
water. Cook in the double boiler a white sauce, made with two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour stirred into three tablespoon fuls of butter, until the sauce thick- 
ens ; then add one cup of cream or milk, 1 saltspoonful hi salt, some cayenne 
and three tablespoon fuls of grated cheese; stir well until it is quite thick. 
Butter a plate (deep pie plate), spread on the bottom a little of the sauce, 
then the eggs sliced, then more sauce ; over all sprinkle two tablespoon fuls of 
cheese, then a slight covering of fine bread crumbs, dotted with bits of butter, 
brown in the oven and serve at once. 

Poached Eggs in Milk. 
Poached eggs in milk, with a white sauce poured over them, make a change 
from the ordinary way of serving. Or the milk can be thickened in which 



116 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

the eggs were poached and one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce stirred into 
it, a little pepper, but no salt, for the anchovy is salt, and one teaspoonful of 
butter. The flour to thicken should be moistened with a little cold milk 
before stirring into the hot milk. 

Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef. 
Three tablespoonfuls of dried beef, finely minced; fry with one table- 
spoonful of butter until it is crisp; remove from pan and keep hot while 
you scramble six eggs. Place one tablespoonful of butter in the pan, beat the 
eggs well, add a little salt and pepper and one tablespoonful of cream or milk. 
Three minutes will cook them. Then mix the beef with the eggs and serve 
at once. Garnish them with parsley. 

Egg Cutlets. 
Boil six eggs very hard, when cold put them through the meat chopper, 
and as you do this, add a sprig of celery and parsley and a few slices of 
onion. Make one pint of very thick white cream sauce. Stir until the 
sauce is smooth — season with one-half teaspoonful of mace, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoonful salt and three drops of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, then add the minced eggs. When all are thoroughly mixed, 
remove from fire and spread on a platter, to about an inch in thickness, put 
this in refrigerator to become cold. When needed make into cutlets, 
dip each one into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs and fry in very hot 
deep fat, serve with a tomato or mushroom sauce. 

Eggs with Crumbs and Cheese. 
Cut some slices of cheese about a quarter of an inch thick and place 
them around a shallow baking tin, sift browned bread crumbs over the bot- 
tom of the tin, place thin slices of cheese over these, then break gently over 
the cheese as many eggs as required, season with salt and pepper, cover with 
more browned bread crumbs, season with salt, bake until the eggs are 
cooked. 

Egg Croquettes. 

One ounce of butter, one pint of flour, one pint of boiling water, five eggs. 
Mix the flour with the water in a saucepan ; when well cooked take from the 
fire and cool the mixture; when cold add the eggs one by one, beat the 
batter very hard before the eggs are put in, and after, then drop the batter 
in little bits like eggs into deep boiling lard. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Take as many eggs as there are persons to be served ; break them into the 

saucepan and fry them until the whites are firm ; be careful not to break the 

yolks; trim the eggs nicely and place them on a hot dish; pour over this 

sauce, which should be ready at the same time the eggs are to be served. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 117 

Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
a little cayenne, one saltspoonful of salt, one teaspoon ful of French mustard, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of English mustard, one tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, the yolks of two raw eggs. Stir together on the fire until the sauce 
thickens, add one tablespoonful of finely minced cold ham, and one green 
pepper cut very fine (if convenient) ; serve. 

Fried Eggs — 1. 
When the frying pan is hot put in a little butter, then place the pan on a 
cooler part of the stove, break into the pan, one at a time, the eggs ; if the 
eggs are put into the pan when it is very hot they will burst and crack. 
Serve with slices of broiled or fried ham. 

Fried Eggs — 2. 
One tablespoonful of olive oil, put into the saucepan; when hot, drop 
gently into it the eggs. As soon as the eggs are cooked, carefully remove 
from the oil; the whites should have a yellow edge. It is very necessary 
that the eggs for frying should be most carefully put into the pan so as not 
to break the yolks. In place of the oil, butter can be used. Serve very hot ; 
sprinkle over the yolks a little salt and pepper. 

Eggs a la Newburg. 

Boil six eggs until hard, remove from fire, place in cold water while you 
make the sauce. Put into saucepan two tablespoonfuls butter mixed with 
one tablespoonful flour, when smooth add one cupful of milk or cream, 
when the sauce is thick add the well beaten yolks of three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful salt, some pepper and a little cayenne, stir together, add two 
tablespoonfuls sherry and remove from the fire as cooking the sherry makes 
a bitter taste in anything. Keep warm on back of stove, while you remove 
shells from eggs, cut them in small pieces, place on a dish they can be 
served on, place for a moment — just long enough to reheat the eggs — in the 
oven, remove and pour over the sauce. Serve hot. 

Eggs in a Nest. 
Toast some slices of bread a light brown and pare ofiF the crusts, leaving 
an oval of toast ; on this put a big teaspoonful of white of egg beaten to a 
stiff froth; drop the yolk in the center, with pepper, salt and a tiny bit of 
butter, and set in the oven until it becomes a golden brown. 

Eggs on the Plate. 

Rub the plate well with butter, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, then 
break the eggs carefully ; do not break the yolks ; put bits of butter on the 
eggs, and put one spoonful of cream over each egg ; put the plate on a tin 
containing a little hot water, and stand in the oven for five minutes, and 
serve hot. 



118 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Poached Eggs. 

A wide and shallow pan is the best for poaching eggs. Half fill the pan 
with boiling water slightly salted; break the eggs carefully into a saucer 
separately and slide them into the water ; let them simmer for two minutes, 
then let the water boil for another minute ; this detaches the eggs from the 
pan; then remove the eggs with a pancake turner; place them on slices of 
hot toast or on minced meat or fish. 

Eggs can be poached in milk; all eggs for poaching must be perfectly 
fresh. 

Three drops of Worcestershire sauce on each egg just before it is quite 
cooked, can be added. 

Poached Eggs with Anchovy Paste. 
Make six slices of toast, butter and spread over them some anchovy 
paste and place in the oven for a few minutes. Poach six eggs and place 
an egg on each piece of toast, add a very little salt and pepper to each top 
and serve very hot. 

Cutlets of Eggs. 

Mix together two tablespoon fuls of butter, adding gradually four table- 
spoonfuls of flour in a double boiler. When perfectly smooth, pour over 
gradually, stirring all the time, one cupful of milk. Then cook until smooth 
and thick. Boil until hard, eight eggs ; cool ; cut into small pieces ; add one 
teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful of grated onion, a little cayenne, one 
tablespoonful finely chopped parsley. Mix with the sauce and cool. When 
cool, shape into cutlets and dip each cutlet into beaten egg and dry bread 
crumbs and fry quickly in hot deep fat. Serve over it a white sauce. 

Swiss Eggs. 

Spread on the bottom of a shallow dish, one that the eggs can be served 
in, two tablespoon fuls of butter. Over the butter place thin slices of Gruyere 
cheese, then drop six eggs over the cheese. Be careful not to break the 
yolks, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over all ; mix together one tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley and two tablespoonfuls of finely grated Gruyere 
cheese. Spread this mixture over the eggs ; bake in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes and serve hot. 

Eggs in Cases. 

Use the little china fireproof cases, or small paper ones, if the paper ones 
are used oil them with olive oil ; put in the bottom of each case a piece of 
butter about the size of a hazel-nut, a half teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, a little pepper, salt and a sprinkle of cayenne. Break one egg into 
each case, cover with one teaspoonful of grated cheese and one teaspoonful 
of baked or browned bread crumbs. Bake in the oven for five minutes and 
serve at once. 



Cook Book 365--NO. 2. 119 

Eggs in Purgatory. 
Have one tablespoonful of butter hot in the frying pan, break the eggs 
carefully into it, and fry gently, fry for three minutes, remove from pan, 
place on hot plate and pour over some tomato sauce. Have one cupful of 
tomatoes, pour oflf the liquor, cook in pan with one tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed together and stirred into the tomatoes, add one teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful onion juice, add pepper and cayenne. Serve very hot. 

Plain Omelette. 

Beat three eggs lightly with a little salt and pepper, add three tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water. Put a little butter in the omelette pan ; when hot, pour 
in the eggs, stir continually with a fork so that all may cook evenly; the 
omelette must cook quickly ; when the eggs are set, run the knife under the 
omelette which is nearest the handle of the pan ; turn this half over on the 
other half ; take a hot plate and place it on the edge of the pan and flop the 
omelette on to it. 

This is a plain omelette ; all other varieties are made by adding the ingredi- 
ents after the eggs are put into the pan. 

Oyster Omelette. 

Cook the oysters in a little butter, add to the omelette, as above, just 
before you cover with the second half. 

Omelette with Parsley. 

Stir two tablespoon fuls of finely minced parsley into the omelette before 
cooking it. 

Omelette with Chives. 
Chop the chives very fine, add to eggs. Same as above. 

Poached Eggs with Tomato Sauce. 
Have water in the pan quite hot and slightly salted, break each egg on a 
saucer and slip gently into the water. As soon as the eggs are poached, 
which will be in three minutes, remove from the pan with a pancake turner, 
place on slices of hot buttered toast, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper on 
each egg, then pour over a tomato sauce. Heat while the eggs are being 
poached, one cupful of cooked tomatoes, season with salt and pepper and one 
tablespoonful of butter, mixed with one tablespoonful of flour, stir well, 
and as soon as the sauce thickens, strain it over the eggs. Serve hot. 

Eggs in Tomatoes. 

Take fresh tomatoes, dip them in hot water in order to remove the 

skins. Cut a slice in the top large enough to take out the seeds or interior, 

break one raw egg in each tomato, fill with cream, cover your tomato with 

the removed slice, place the tomato in a buttered saucepan and bake ten 



120 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

minutes, remove carefully from pan, place on hot dish, remove tops, put in 
each tomato a bit of butter, salt and pepper, put top on and serve hot. 

Omelette Souffle. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs to a cream, add four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and the grated rind of one lemon. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff 
froth. Mix all these together. Put into the frying pan one tablespoonful of 
butter, when hot — put in the tgg mixture, stir and as soon as all the butter 
is absorbed turn the mixture into a buttered baking dish, place in hot oven 
until brown (about six minutes). This souffle must be served at once. 

Omelette with Tomatoes. 
Cook the tomatoes about one cupful, add to the omelette before it is 
cooked, season the tomatoes with salt and pepper. 

Orange Omelette. 
For three eggs, use the thinly grated rind of one orange and three table- 
spoonfuls of the juice. Beat the yolks until light, add three tablespoonfuls 
of fine sugar, then the juice and rind of the orange, beat the whites of the 
eggs until light, fold them in the mixture and then all into an omelette pan, 
cook until set, then place in a moderate oven and lightly brown. Serve on a 
hot dish. 

Spanish Omelette. 

One large tomato cut in pieces, one small green pepper cut in pieces, 
seeds removed, one small onion sliced, one teaspoonful of parsley chopped 
fine, one teaspoonful of celery chopped fine, half a can of mushrooms cut in 
pieces. Cook these together for a few minutes, then put with the omelette 
when it is in the pan. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil as many eggs as you require until they are hard ; then put them into 
cold water, when cold remove the shells, cut into halves, and take out the 
yolks. Mash these into a smooth paste, with one tablespoonful of olive oil 
or two of melted butter, one saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne. Mix all 
together, fill the halves with the mixture, join together and serve on lettuce 
leaves. A little cream can be added to the stuffing or a little anchovy paste, 
or a few olives chopped very fine, or a few shallots, chopped fine, or a few 
nuts if desired, or some finely minced parsley. Do not make the stuffing 
too stiff. 

Eggs with Sausage. 

Cut eight sausages into half-inch pieces, or make as many little cakes out 
of prepared sausage meat as needed, fry these in a hot pan for six minutes, 
turning them once, then remove from pan and place on a hot dish. Put 
into the pan in which the sausages were cooked one cupful of tomatoes and 
one tablespoonful of finely minced parsley. Stir well, and then put the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 121 

sausage into a shallow baking dish, pour over the sauce, and then carefully 
break over the sauce as many eggs as the dish will hold, place in hot oven 
until the eggs are cooked and serve at once. 

Eggs a la Tripe. 
Allow one egg to each person to be served. Boil them for eight minutes, 
then slice them, using a warm knife for the purpose. Butter a porcelain 
dish, put in the bottom a layer of cream sauce, then a layer of sliced eggs, 
sprinkle over them a little finely chopped onion or shallot, some chopped 
parsley ; continue these layers until the dish is full, having the cream sauce 
for the last layer, put over some fine bread crumbs and some bits of butter. 
Place the dish in a tin half filled with boiling water and put into the oven 
for fifteen minutes, then take from the oven, sprinkle over the tops some 
hard-boiled yolk of egg, passed through a fine sieve, and serve. 



122 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Savories. 



Savories are served with the salad course at dinner or at luncheon. 

Savories (Anchovies). 
Take two hard boiled eggs, mash the yolks with one saltspoonful of salt, 
two mustard spoonfuls of French mustard, rub together, then add slowly 
two tablespoon fuls of olive oil, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, stir 
all one way until blended smoothly, then add two filletted anchovies, which 
have been well pounded; lastly add one-half gill of whipped cream and 
spread the mixture on thinly cut brown bread. 

Anchovy Straws. 
Take "anchovies in oil," dry them and cut into long, thin strips ; roll each 
strip in pastry and fry in deep, hot fat ; pile them two by two like straws, and 
serve hot. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Toast thin slices of bread, butter them and spread over some anchovy 
paste ; serve hot. 

Anchovies are usually used in the paste as it is easier, and spreads well 
on crackers or toast. To use the fillets, split each fish, and use the fillets 
which are the strips along the backbone. 

French Anchovy Sandwich. 
Have ready a dozen small rolls, cut in half, and with the crumbs nearly 
all removed. Chop four hard boiled eggs fine, and put them into a bowl 
with four tablespoon fuls of olive oil, one of French vinegar and a teaspoon- 
ful each of chopped herbs — parsley, chives and tarragon. Mix all well and 
fill the rolls. Then lay over the top the fillets of anchovy about a quarter 
of an inch apart. The two halves of the rolls may be joined if desired, or 
the separate halves served on a napkin. 

Cheese Patties to Serve with Salad. 
One cupful of grated cheese, one of grated bread crumbs, three eggs, salt, 
pepper and a third of a cupful of melted butter. Stir all together until 
light and comparatively smooth, then add half a cupful of milk. Turn the 
mixture into small deep dishes, cover the top of each with cracker crumbs 
and bits of butter and bake. Serve at once. 

Aspic or Savory Jelly. 
Two calf's feet, three pounds of the knuckle of veal, three-fourths of a 
pound of lean ham, two onions, three carrots, one bunch of herbs, one blade 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 123 

of mace, twelve pepper corns, one bunch of sweet herbs, four quarts of 
water ; boil these together until the liquor is reduced to two quarts ; skim and 
strain; when cold skim off all the fat, put the jelly back into the stewpan, 
stir in the whites of two eggs well beaten, stir until the broth boils, then let 
it simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, strain through a jelly bag into a mold. 
Flavor with one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar if desired. 

A Savory with Bacon. 

The bacon may be prepared and can be easily cooked the last moment 
over the fire in a frying pan ; or if desired it may be cooked upon the table 
in chafing dish. Skin and bone some sardines ; add to them some paprika, a 
little chopped parsley (or lemon juice may be used in place of parsley), and 
some butter. Rub these ingredients together, making them into a smooth 
paste. Spread this paste upon thin slices of bacon and roll each slice up in 
a close roll and fasten it with a little wooden toothpick. Lay the prepared 
slices in a hot frying pan and cook quickly. Serve very hot with hot 
crackers. 

Caviare Canapes. 

Cut some slices of bread one-fourth inch in thickness, cut with the two- 
inch cutter into rounds. Fry in hot fat until both sides are brown. To one- 
fourth cup of butter made soft and creamy, add one teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful of paprika, and one teaspoonful of watercress. Make into balls 
and let them become hard ; when needed, spread on the bread slices and then 
put on a layer of caviare and squeeze a little lemon juice over all. To pre- 
pare the cress, wash and drain, then chop very fine and squeeze dry in a 
cloth. 

Hot Crackers. 

Hot crackers always make a good relish. Butter them and cover thickly 
with fine grated cheese and a little cayenne, place them in a baking pan and 
sprinkle a little sherry over them. Bake in a hot oven until slightly browned 
and serve at once. 

Egg Savory. 

Cook half a can of tomatoes twenty minutes with a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and a teaspoonful of chopped onion; add five eggs after beating 
them a little, and stir all together briskly until consistency of scrambled eggs. 
Add cayenne and salt to taste. Thin slices of green pepper are an addition. 
Serve on square pieces of hot toast, from which the crusts have been 
removed, and spread with anchovy paste ; then serve immediately. 

Gascony Butter. 

Take equal quantities of parsley — picked from the stalk — and parboiled, of 
boned and pounded anchovies, and of fresh butter. Mix the ingredients 
well together and pass them through a fine sieve ; shape the butter into little 
balls and put on ice for one hour. 



124 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Ham Butter. 
Pound together one hard-boiled yolk of egg, two tablespoon fuls of cooked 
ham, two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little cayenne. Mix until smooth. This 
butter is useful spread on hot toast for breakfast or for use as a savory on 
hot crackers. 

Olive Custards. 

Mix one ounce of grated cheese in one egg well beaten ; mix over the fire 
until a very thick custard ; fry some little rounds of bread in butter, spread 
them very thinly with anchovy paste and pour on each a small quantity of 
the custard. Stone some olives, and put one in the middle of each round. 

Puff Paste Straws with Bloater Paste. 
One-fourth of a pound of flour, rub into it one tablespoonful of bloater 
paste, a little cayenne, one-half cup of cold water; make into a smooth 
paste, roll it out and put on it one-fourth of a pound of butter, fold it up 
and roll out six times, lastly roll out to one-eighth of an inch in thickness ; 
cut it into strips two inches long and one inch wide and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes ; take out and spread over some bloater paste, and 
over that some whipped cream, seasoned with a little salt and cayenne. 

How to Stone Olives. 
Have a sharp pointed knife, cut the olive through to the stone on the 
blossom end and pare off the meat, press the meat afterwards into its 
original shape — olives are used as a garnish for many dishes. 

Olives Rolled in Pork. 
Roll each olive (the large Spanish olive) in fat pork, tie up, dip in flour 
and bake in a quick oven until very brown, serve with any roasted meats 
or stews. 

Sardine Butter. 

Remove the skins and bones from eight sardines ; put into a mortar and 
pound until smooth, two tablespoonfuls of parsley chopped very fine, four 
ounces of butter ; pound these with the sardines and spread on hot toast. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast. 
Broil the sardines ; have small slices of hot toast ; place a sardine on each 
piece and pour over them a sauce made with the oil in which the sardines 
were packed, and one spoonful of paprika heated together. 

Sardines with Cheese. 
Take small sardines, drain them from the oil, remove the skin and tip of 
the tail, and put over the fish a sprinkle of cheese grated fine. Cut some 
slices of toast a little larger than the sardines, butter them and put on the 
sardines, place in the oven to warm, but not to crisp, and serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 125 

Iced Savory Souffle. 
This can be made of almost any kind of fish, chicken or game; it is 
excellent with lobster meat. Cut up the lobster or whatever meat used into 
very small pieces; let it soak in mayonnaise sauce for two or three hours. 
Have some well-flavored aspic jelly and whip it till it is frothy. Put some 
of this at the bottom of the dish it is to be served in, then place a layer of 
the lobster and fill it up with aspic and lobster alternately till the mold is 
nearly full; place a stiff band of paper round, and fill it with whipped 
aspic. Put it on ice for two hours, take off the paper and serve. 

Cheese, Eggs and Tomatoes. 
One cupful of cooked tomatoes, place in the saucepan, add two eggs well 
beaten, two tablespoon fuls of grated cheese, one saltspoonful of salt, a little 
cayenne, one-half teaspoonful of made mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
one tablespoon ful of butter, cook these together, only until all seem well 
blended, then pour the mixture on hot toast and serve. 

Cheese and Eggs. 
Cut six slices of bread, remove the crusts, fry them until a light brown in 
hot fat ; keep them warm while you heat together two ounces of cheese cut 
fine, one ounce of butter and the yolk of one egg; when the butter and cheese 
are melted, stir in the yolk, add salt and pepper and a little nutmeg, spread 
the mixture on the bread and serve at once. 

Savory Butter. 

Pound to a paste four ounces of rich cheese with a small piece of butter 
(this varies with the dryness of the cheese), two spoonfuls of vinegar, 
a good dash of cayenne, a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy and the 
same of mustard, heat over the fire, and put on toast. 

Canape Piquante. 
One cup of grated "York State" cheese, which melt in a double boiler over 
boiling water, stir constantly while melting. When the cheese is thick, add 
a little salt, some mustard, cayenne and white pepper, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce or chile sauce, one tablespoon ful tomato catsup, stir 
these together and spread on rounds of buttered toast. Chop some thin 
slices of bacon into small bits, fry these until brown and crisp, spread over 
the cheese mixture, cover with fine bread crumbs which have been soaked 
in melted butter, place in oven to brown, serve at once. 

Eggs. 
Boil the ntunber of eggs required until perfectly hard. Shell them when 
needed. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves, or slices of ripe tomatoes. Cover 
with a white sauce, flavored with a little wine or with some onion juice. 



126 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Sprinkle over the sauce some paprika. Serve thin slices of buttered brown 
bread with the eggs. 

When serving mayonnaise sauce with fish, fill the halves of lemons with 
the sauce, remove the inside part of the lemon. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Eight hard-boiled eggs, chop them fine; one cup of milk, when boiling 
stir into it one tablespoon ful of flour well mixed into two tablespoon fuls of 
butter, add one tablespoonful of anchovy paste, a little cayenne and a little 
salt; stir in the eggs, heat for one minute, then pour the mixture on to 
pieces of hot toast and serve at once. 

Hors d' CEuvres. 
Hors d' ceuvres are served at the beginning of dinner or luncheon. They 
are borrowed from Russia, where a number of savory dishes are placed on a 
side table for the guests to help themselves ; they excite the appetite for the 
meal to follow. 

The observing housekeeper will soon learn to invent many new hors d' 
ceuvres, making unusual combinations of fish, meat pastes, eggs, salads, 
vegetables and fruits. 

Raw Oysters. 

Of all the hors d' ceuvres the simplest are oysters served in their shell, the 
shells carefully washed and opened, six oysters are generally served to each 
person, though four will answer. Regular plates come for the serving of 
raw oysters, if an ordinary plate is used, place the shells on it, a quarter of 
a lemon in the center of the plate. Serve brown bread buttered, and a little 

cayenne. 

Olives. 

Olives can now be purchased so perfectly prepared, stuffed with a variety 
of pastes, it is very easy for the housekeeper to use these in combinations 
with toast, meats, salads, etc. 

Olives with Anchovies. 

Stone a number of olives, fill olives with anchovies pounded to a soft 
paste, with some olive oil, or thick cream. Serve them on lettuce leaves, 
with a spoonful of stiff mayonnaise over them. 

Olives with Pate de Foie Gras. 

Stone the necessary amount of olives, fill them with pate de foie gras, 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Caviare on Toast. 

Fry in butter some small rounds of bread one inch in thickness, until a 
light brown on both sides, then place a layer of caviare on each round, 
over that four or five thin strips of salt herring, previously soaked in a 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 127 

little bath of mixed olive oil and lemon juice, over the herrings put the yolks 
of hard boiled eggs, rubbed through a sieve, forming a little mound on 
each; on top of all a sprig of parsley or chevril. 

Sardines. 
Remove all the outer skin from enough sardines, allowing one for each 
portion, split the fish down the back with a small sharp pointed knife, take 
out the bones and close the fish. Place some small leaves of endive or 
lettuce, dressed with olive oil and tarragon or cider vinegar, on each plate, 
put a sardine on each, cut some cucumber pickles into thin strips, cross these 
over the fish, sprinkle some finely chopped hard boiled whites of eggs over, 
then the yolks (which put through a sieve first) in a little layer around the 
fish, and a layer of pickled beets around the yolks, the beets to be cooked, 
cooled and soaked in vinegar until cold. 

Sardines with Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 
Allow one sardine for each portion, skin them, place each one on a slice 
of buttered toast. Make the sauce with three tablespoonfuls of butter 
melted, one slice of onion, grated very fine, one tablespoonful of chili vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, a little cayenne and one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Mix well and pour over the sardines. 

Stuffed Eggs. 
Boil six eggs until hard, when cold cut them into halves, remove the yolks. 
Mix the yolks into a soft paste with one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, one teaspoon ful of finely chopped thyme, a very little grated nutmeg 
and a very little cayenne, one tablespoonful melted butter or olive oil, when 
the paste is smooth, fill the halves of the whites, put them together neatly 
and place each egg on a leaf of lettuce. Make into small balls all that is left 
of the paste, put them around the eggs. Serve thin slices of bread, spread 
with thick cream or butter, flavored with a little anchovy paste. 

Russian Crackers. 
Have thin crackers, crisp and fresh. Cover with a paste, made of finely 
chopped cucumbers, watercress, the yolks and whites of hard boiled eggs 
and a few anchovies, in the center of each cracker, place two capers, and 
serve with watercress. 

Gascony Butter. 
Four tablespoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, four tablespoonfuls of 
anchovy paste, mix well together with four tablespoonfuls of butter, make 
into small balls, place on ice to harden and serve with cheese. 

Clam Chowder. 
Take fifty clams, chop them into small pieces, one and one-half pound of 
salt pork, also chopped fine, cover the bottom of the soup kettle with a layer 



128 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

of salt pork, then put layer of sliced onions, then a layer of clams; season 
each layer with pepper, then add a layer of sliced potatoes, then begin again 
with the clams, pork, onions, crackers until the kettle is nearly full, finishing 
with crackers. Cover with the clam juice and one and one-half pints cold 
water. Add, if liked, one pint of canned tomatoes or six ripe ones, from 
which remove the skins, cover the kettle closely, cook steadily for one hour, 
then remove the contents into a soup tureen, thicken the gravy in the kettle 
with a tablespoonful of butter rolled into flour and one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, boil the gravy for about five minutes, and then pour it into 
the tureen, stir well together and serve; if the flavor of thyme and sweet 
marjoram is liked, a teaspoonful of each finely chopped can be added. 

Iced Hors d* CEuvres. 

For this a pint of either aspic or meat jelly will be required. 

Cut into small pieces any cold cooked fish, chicken, game, sweetbreads 
or crab meat. Soak the pieces in highly seasoned mayonnaise sauce for two 
hours, then place a layer of the meat in a dish which must be one in which 
the hors d' oeuvre can be served — over this a layer of jelly well beaten and 
frothy, then a layer of the meat and so on until the dish is nearly full, bind 
around the top of the dish a stiff paper band, fill up the dish full with the 
jelly, place on the ice until needed, remove the paper and serve. 

Smoked Salmon. 
Fry in butter some rounds of bread about one inch in thickness until 
brown on both sides, then spread each slice with butter and cover the 
butter with thin slices of smoked cooked salmon. 

Lyons Sausage and Eggs. 
Cut some Lyons' sausage into thin slices, take oflF the outer skin. On each 
slice put the hard boiled yolk of eggs, put through a fine sieve, then over the 
eggs some fine slices of pickled cucumbers, place all on a small plate. 

Canape Piquante. 

Cook over boiling water, one-half cup of grated cheese, one-half cup of 
cream and yolk of one egg, when the mixture thickens, add a little salt, 
pepper, pinch of cayenne, one-half tablespoonful of tomato catsup, mix well 
and spread on rounds of hot buttered toast. 

Cut very fine six slices of thinly cut bacon which fry until crisp and 
brown, spread this mixture on the hot toast, cover with one-half cup of fine 
bread crumbs mixed with one teaspoonful melted butter. Place in hot oven 
to brown, then serve at once with salad. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 129 



Vegetables. 



Vegetables should be cooked only until they are tender. Long cooking 
renders them tasteless and takes from them much of their food value. 
Butter and cream are always to be added at the last moment, just when ready 
to serve. The healthfulness of green vegetables is due to the water and 
alkaline salts they contain. 

The list of edible greens is much larger than is generally supposed. 
Spinach is well known ; also Brussels sprouts. Kale, lettuce, dandelion, 
watercress, landcress, turnip tops, sorrel, chicory, corn salad, cowslip, narrow 
dock and milkweed. The watercress alone contains iodine, iron phosphate 
and a sulpho-nitrogenous essential oil. "Eat cress and learn wit," said the 
Greeks. 

The free use of carrots is said to be a beautifier of the skin, giving a 
soft satiny look to it. Owners of fine stock well understand its valuable 
qualities and use carrots for their stock. Cabbage, eaten raw, is valuable in 
anaemia. 

Celery is a great nerve tonic and valuable in neuralgia and rheumatism. 
Garlic and leeks stimulate the circulation of the blood. 

Lettuce is a source of iron in the blood and contains all the mineral ele- 
ments of nutrition and should be eaten freely in Spring and Summer, 

Olives are stimulating to the blood. 

The Kitchen God. 
"The kitchen god of China is perhaps not rightly so called. He has a 
place over the cooking range, but he is the 'recording angel' of the Chinese 
house, and it is his duty to note the actions of each member of the family 
and report them to the gods at the end of every month. Once a year too, 
he goes to heaven in person and makes his annual report. So once a year 
the family prostrate themselves before him, carry him in procession, and 
finally burn him, while crackers are fired." 

Vegetables. 

Fresh vegetables, especially of the cabbage tribe, should be put into fast 
boiling water; salt should be added only towards the end of the cooking, 
as its earlier application hardens vegetables. 

Potatoes should always be put into boiling water. Do not peel potatoes 
and let them soak for an indefinite time in cold water. Never boil potatoes 
to be served plain, before you need them, unless desired for reheating; never 
try them with a fork ; the fork causes them to break and crumble. If needed 
for reheating they can be cooked and cooled. 



130 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

All green vegetables should be cooked in soft water; add a small bit of 
soda to preserve the green color. Never cover green vegetables. 
Garlic is a most excellent flavoring. 
Never have the vegetables wait for the meat. 

Steaming Vegetables. 

Many vegetables can be steamed or stewed in the oven when the top of 
the range is full. After preparing them, place them in an earthenware jar 
with a spoonful of water and a very little butter. Cover the jar and stand 
it in a saucepan of water or the jar can stand in the oven. Green peas, 
beans, cauliflower, cabbage, all can be so cooked. 

Keeping vegetables in the cooking water after they are "done" spoils both 
looks and taste. After pouring water off, return to fire for a minute to dry 
them off before dressing. 

Washing Vegetables. 

All vegetables must be carefully washed and carefully looked over, this is 
essential to health as so many kinds of poisonous preparations are used in 
their cultivation, owing to the various insects and pests which infest the 
gardens. 

As vegetables and fruits are probably going to be generally sold by weight 
in future, as they are specially sold so now in places — the following weights 
may prove a guide though not an absolutely exact one : 

Apples, peaches, beets, carrots, parsnips, turnips, tomatoes, onions, sweet 
potatoes, ask for twelve pounds instead of a peck or three pounds instead of 
a two-quart measure. 

Irish potatoes, ask for fifteen pounds instead of a peck. 

Beans (marrow, navy and kidney), peas (not green), ask for fifteen 
pounds instead of a peck or two pounds instead of a quart measure. 

Green vegetables, beans (green, wax and lima), peas, ask for one pound 
instead of a quart measure. 

Spinach, ask for three pounds instead of a peck. 

All headed vegetables should be soaked in salted water — heads down — to 
improve the flavor, also to drive out the insects, which lodge on the leaves, 
especially in both cabbage and cauliflower — indeed it is safer always to cut 
these vegetables before cooking. 

Globe Artichokes. 
Cut off the stem close to the leaves — take off the bottom leaves, trim the 
artichokes, remove the center or choke; tie up the artichoke to keep its 
shape. Soak a little while in cold water. Cook in boiling water slightly 
salted, about forty-five minutes, take from the water, drain, remove string 
and serve. Serve HoUandaise sauce or white sauce in which one egg yolk 
has been beaten, to color it. The leaves are pulled off and dipped into the 
sauce. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 131 

Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed. 

Wash the artichokes, cut off the end of each quite flat. Boil them in 
milk and water and lift them out the moment they are done; drain and place 
them in the dish in which they are to be served, and cover them with a 
rich bechamel sauce, or simply, with butter. Keep the water in which they 
are cooked, for the basis of a soup. 

Artichokes Creamed. 

Boil two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes in milk until soft enough to mash 
through a sieve. To the milk in which they were boiled, add the yolks of 
four eggs slightly beaten, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of 
pepper, and cook until thick, then add the artichokes and the white of one 
egg beaten very stiff. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mold and steam 
for one hour, covering the mold on top with a white paper well buttered, 
after, let it become very cold in the refrigerator. When required, turn from 
the mold and serve with a mayonnaise, or use while hot with a white 
sauce. 

Asparagus. 

Asparagus of the large or giant variety should be cut in exactly equal 
lengths and boiled standing tops upward in a deep saucepan ; nearly two 
inches of the heads should be out of the water, the steam sufficing to cook 
them, as they are the tenderest part of the plant. The stalks can be boiled 
by this method thirty or forty minutes, thus insuring a third more of the 
asparagus delicious. 

Asparagus Creamed. 

Cut off the heads of the asparagus; cook them in slightly salted water; 
when tender, which will be in about twenty minutes, drain off the water 
and add one cup of cream, one-half tablespoon ful of butter, one saltspoonful 
of salt, and a little pepper ; as soon as the cream is hot, serve the asparagus 
on slices of toast. 

Baked Bananas. 

Peel the bananas, place them in a tin pan with three teaspoonfuls of cold 
water and one-half teaspoon ful of butter, drop a little lemon juice over each 
banana, dredge them with a little cinnamon and sugar; bake for fifteen 
minutes, or until they are easily pierced with a fork. Serve at once. 

Green Beans Creamed. 

Cut the ends of young green beans and string them carefully. Cut the 
beans in narrow strips, cook in a saucepan, putting them into boiling water, 
do not cover the pan, add a pinch of soda ; when the beans are tender, drain, 
put back into the saucepan, add one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of cream, salt and pepper. 



132 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Green Beans "Snaps." 

"Snap" and string the beans, cook them in boiHng water, add a wee bit of 
soda; cook with them a small piece of salt pork, the pork ought to be 
cooked first for an hour, then put in with the beans, when cooked add a 
little salt and pepper and serve with the pork. 

Lyonnaise String Beans — Canned. 
Put in a stewpan three tablespoon fuls of butter, when hot add one onion 
sliced, fry until the onion is brown, then add one quart of canned string 
beans, which have been well drained from the can, cook these together, 
turning them often until they are well heated, then add one tablespoonful 
minced parsley, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful of lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Lima Beans — 1. 

Boil the beans in water ; when nearly done let the water simmer away, add 
one cup of cream or milk, with one tablespoonful of flour and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter mixed together. 

Lima Beans — 2. 

Boil one pint of lima beans for one hour or until tender, then drain them, 
season with a little salt ; keep them hot. Make a sauce with one egg beaten 
light with two tablespoonf uls of cold water, two teaspoonf uls of lemon juice ; 
add one tablespoonful of butter ; boil these together until the sauce thickens, 
then pour it over the beans and serve hot. 

To Can Beets. 

Only young beets are good to can, in fact, it is difficult to cook old beets 
tender. Wash, do not peel, fill the jars, pour over boiling water, stand the 
jars in boiling water until the beets are cooked, then fill to the brim with 
boiling water, cover at once. Let the jars stand in the water until cold, then 
put melted paraffine over tops. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Two quarts of Brussels sprouts, wash them in salted water thoroughly, 
put them into three quarts of boiling water with one tablespoonful of salt; 
boil them gently until they are tender — this may be in twenty minutes, shake 
the pan occasionally, then drain them, do not break them; return to the 
saucepan, add one-half tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, a saltspoonf ul of salt, one-fourth saltspoonful of pepper ; stir over the 
fire until hot, then serve on hot buttered toast, or if preferred, cover the 
sprouts with a white sauce and serve on toast. Put in double boiler one 
tablespoonful of butter, when hot add one tablespoonful of flour, stir 
together, add one small cup of cream or milk, when it thickens, pour over the 
sprouts. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 133 

Boston Baked Beans — 1. 

Wash the beans and soak them over night in cold water ; in the morning 

put them into cold water and boil until soft, then put them into the bean pot 

with the same water, some pepper, one pound of salt pork to one quart of 

beans, one-half cup of molasses. Bake all day; if the water bakes out 

add more. 

Baked Beans — 2. 

Prepare the beans by soaking over night, then drain, put into saucepan in 
cold water, and let them come to boiling point and then put them into the 
bean pot, or dish, add one teaspoonful salt and a little pepper and one table- 
spoonful molasses, or sugar. Keep them well covered and bake all day 
slowly — toward the last let the water cook away and add one quart of rich 
milk or cream. The beans must bake for at least nine hours, beans prepared 
without pork will be found more digestible than the ordinary baked beans. 

Beets. 

Wash free from dirt, but never peel them before cooking. Be careful 
not to break the skin for if broken the beets will bleed. Cook young beets 
about thirty minutes, old beets until they are tender. When cooked peel off 
the skin, slice the beets in thin slices or chop fine, put over some melted but- 
ter, a little salt and pepper and if liked, one tablespoonful of hot vinegar. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Wash and quarter the cabbage not quite into four pieces ; keep it so it will 
not fall apart. Then have four quarts of boiling water and add to it one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, boil the cabbage in 
this with the cover on ten minutes, then remove the cover and boil twenty 
minutes. Serve with a sauce as for cauliflower. Cabbage cooked exactly as 
in this recipe, will be found digestible, and there will be no odor in the house 
from the cooking of it. 

Cabbage with Butter. 

Boil a cabbage in two quarts of water for an hour, drain, then chop it 
fine, put it into the saucepan with four ounces of butter, a little salt and 
pepper and one teacup of vinegar ; let it become very hot and serve. 

Cabbage Cold Slaw. 

Three well-beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful 
of slightly melted butter. Mix well together, then add four tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, a httle cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of pepper. Place the mixture in a bowl over boiling water and stir until it 
thickens ; pour over the cabbage — which should be chopped fine. 

Escalloped Cabbage. 

Boil a firm head of cabbage until it is tender and set it aside ; when it is 
cool chop it fine. Take two well-beaten eggs, one ounce of butter, three 



134 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt and pepper; cook together, pour over 
cabbage and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. 

Cabbage Hot Slaw. 

Chop fine a head of good, firm cabbage, cook in saucepan with salted 
water until tender, then drain it from the water, return to the saucepan, and 
add one-half cupful of vinegar, one teaspoonful sugar, one tablespoonful 
butter, salt and pepper — let it cook for ten minutes. 

Cardoons Boiled. 
Cut away the coarse outside of the cardoon, wash it free from sand, lay 
in cold water to harden ; then boil in milk and water till tender, drain it on 
the back of a sieve. Cut each stalk in two ; place them in a vegetable dish 
and pour white sauce over them. 

Carrots. 
All food experts agree that carrots are a much neglected vegetable. They 
are a very valuable vegetable and have also the merit of cheapness. 

Carrots — German. 

Six carrots, or more, if they are small. Wash, scrape and cut into rings 
about one-half inch thick. Place in stewpan two tablespoonfuls of butter, as 
soon as it melts, put in the carrots, with one saltspoonful of salt, pinch of 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, one tablespoonful grated onion, one table- 
spoonful finely minced parsley. Stir all well together, add one cupful of 
stock, cover and simmer until the carrots are tender, then take from fire 
and keep warm — while the sauce is prepared. 

Take one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour, mix 
together and brown, when well browned, add the liquor in which the carrots 
were cooked, return the carrots to the stewpan, let all simmer until quite 
tender. Serve hot with roast pork or roast mutton. 

Carrots Glace. 

Scrape the young carrots, wash, put them in a stewpan and cook until 
tender in a little water, but do not let them break. In a frying pan put three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar dissolved in a little water, drain the carrots and 
place them in the syrup, turn them carefully so as to coat the surface of each 
with the syrup, let them brown, then place on a hot dish and serve as a 
vegetable with mutton or beef. 

Sliced Carrots. 

Scrape and wash the carrots, cut them in thin slices and boil them in 
salted water until half done, then drain them well, put into a stewpan with 
one cupful of stock, one tablespoonful sugar, let them boil until the sauce is 
reduced and is thick and brown, add one tablespoonful butter, a little salt, 
stir well and serve. The sauce should adhere to the carrots. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 135 

Carrots a la Maitre D'Hotel. 
Scrape, wash and scald the carrots in boiHng water; cook them in hot 
water, with salt and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. When cooked, 
remove and drain. Mix in a stewpan another piece of butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one chopped shallot, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Put in the carrots, cook them for two 
minutes, and serve on fried bread. 

Stewed Carrots in their own Juice. 
Wash the carrots very clean, scrape them and cut in thick slices, put them 
in boiling water slightly salted, just enough to cover them, boil gently until 
tender, then boil them rapidly to reduce the water; when only about one 
tablespoonful is left, put with the carrots one-half tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour, a little salt and pepper, stir for a moment, then add one spoon- 
ful of minced parsley, one teaspoonful of cream, and serve at once. 

Cauliflower Baked. 
Baked cauliflower is an agreeable change in serving this vegetable. A 
good, firm head should be soaked in salted cold water for at least an hour, 
head down. Then drain, put in a saucepan with boiling water, salted again, 
and simmered gently for fifteen minutes. Drain once more and separate the 
cauliflower into flowerets, putting the pieces in a baking dish with a little 
boiling milk, butter and seasoning of salt and pepper ; sprinkle over the top 
with cracker or bread crumbs, and return to the oven long enough to brown. 

Cauliflower Boiled. 
Choose white, firm and small grained cauliflowers ; trim off the leaves and 
stalk ; wash them well in cold water, in which put one tablespoonful of 
vinegar — by using this, any insect in the cauliflower will be sure to come out. 
Put the cauliflower in boiling water for five minutes, remove, cool and drain, 
then boil again in two quarts of water with one teaspoonful of salt. To 
tell if the cauliflower is done, pinch a small piece, if tender, it is cooked. 
Serve with a white sauce, or Sauce for cauliflower. 

Cauliflower with Cheese. 
Cook the cauliflower in salted water ; when tender, drain from the water, 
put into a porcelain dish which will stand the heat of the oven ; cover with 
white sauce, then put two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese over it and some 
fine bread crumbs and bits of butter ; when brown, serve hot. 

Stewed Celery. 
Take the outer stalks of celery, cut in pieces two inches in length, boil in 
milk until tender, add a little salt and pepper ; when cooked drain from the 
milk, put into the milk one teaspoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of 
flour mixed together, stir until the milk thickens and then pour over the 
celery. Keep the inner stalks for the salad course. 



136 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Fried Celery. 

Wash carefully the celery, drain, cut into three-inch pieces. Boil in 
salted water until tender, then remove from fire, drain, and when cool, 
dip each piece into batter made as follows : To the yolks of two eggs, beaten 
lightly, add one-half cupful of cold water in which stir one cupful of sifted 
flour to a stiff batter, if the batter seems too thick, add a little more water, add 
one-half teaspoonful salt and one tablespoonful of best olive oil ; add the 
whites of two eggs beaten until very stiff, put the batter where it will keep 
cool for two hours. When needed, dip each piece of celery into the batter, 
fry in hot fat, just long enough to brown the pieces. Use the frying basket. 

Celery Raw. 

Carefully separate the stalks, wash and drain. Keep all the hard parts, 
also the green leaves for soup flavoring. Serve the yellow leaves with the 
stalks. If the stalks are cut into long slender strips, placed in ice cold water, 
they will curl up. Do not cut to the very end of the stalk. Or, cut the 
stalks into narrow three-inch pieces and throw into ice water to curl. 

Baked Corn. 

Eighteen ears of corn, cut down the middle of each grain, scrape the cob 
well, add a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one tablespoonful of sugar; 
beat one egg into one cup of cream and two tablespoon fuls of flour, add to 
the corn, put the mixture into the baking pan and bake for forty-five 
minutes ; serve in the same pan. 

To Clean Corn. 

When the next corn season comes it will be well to remember that a fine 
whisk broom is an excellent utensil for removing the silk when preparing the 
corn for cooking. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Remove the husks and the fine silk from the ears, put the corn into boiling 
water enough to cover it and boil until tender — young corn will cook in ten 
minutes. Take from the water, spread a napkin on a dish and put the corn 
on it ; fold over the napkin and serve at once. 

Creamed Corn. 
Cut the corn from the cob, cut only the outer part of the grain, then 
scrape the cob clean, cook the first part in a little milk for forty minutes, 
add the part scraped from the cob, and cook together for five minutes ; sea- 
son with one tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper. Don't add the 
salt to corn until ready to serve. 

Green Corn Cake. 
Cut the grains from the corn cob, then scrape the cob well, add one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper. Have 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 137 

the frying pan hot and Hghtly greased with butter, pile the corn on it, brown, 
then turn it over and brown the other side. 

Corn Pudding. 

Scrape with a knife two dozen ears of corn, cut the grains and then scrape 
the cobs well. Melt one-half pound of butter; stir into the corn and add one 
pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of pepper, then the whites beaten stiflf. Pour the mixture 
into a baking dish and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter 
unless the corn is old, when a longer time will be necessary. 

Corn Fritters. 
One pint of corn, either fresh or canned. Make a batter of four eggs, 
one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one cup of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt ; mix these well together until light. Have the fat deep 
and boiling, then drop the mixture in spoonfuls into it and fry until the frit- 
ters are a light brown. 

Green Corn Cakes, or Mock Oysters. 
Carefully remove all strings or "silk" from the cobs. With a sharp knife, 
cut through the kernels to the cob, then grate off the corn, be careful not to 
take any of the cob. After grating the corn, scrape the cobs of all the milky 
pulp. For twelve ears of corn, add three eggs, well beaten, one teaspoonful 
salt, mix these well together and fry in spoonfuls on a greased hot griddle. 

Green Corn Chowder. 

Cut the kernels from twelve ears of corn, scrape the cobs. Put the cobs 
in hot water about one quart, and boil them twenty minutes, then take out 
the cobs. Pare and scald potatoes, — enough to make one quart when cut in 
slices. Fry a small piece of salt pork, cut in small pieces, take them out of 
the pan, put into the fat one onion, also cut into small pieces, fry until 
brown, then strain the fat into the kettle with the corn water. Put layer of 
potatoes, then layer of corn, then a layer of sliced tomatoes, keep adding 
these layers until your kettle is nearly full. Let all cook for thirty minutes, 
blend two tablespoon fuls of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir into 
the chowder, add one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, let all boil up for 
two minutes, pour over water crackers in the tureen and serve hot. 

Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers are a most refreshing vegetable, if used when perfectly fresh. 

It is a mistake to soak cucumbers in salted water to draw out the indi- 
gestible part ; it renders them unpalatable and wilts them. To prepare the 
cucumbers properly is to cut off the rind, then cut the cucumber into thin 
slices and place them in an earthen bowl with ice water. Let them stand 
at least one hour before serving, then drain, they will be crisp and the 
poisonous substance (to some) will be extracted. 



138 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Cucumbers Fried. 
Peel the cucumbers, cut in slices one-fourth of an inch in thickness, dip 
each slice in beaten egg and then into bread crumbs or into flour ; fry brown 
the same as egg plant. 

Cucumbers — for Fish. 
Peel the cucumbers, then place in water for one hour, grate them, remov- 
ing first the seeds, add to the pulp a French salad-dressing. 

Cucumbers Raw. 

Cut the cucumbers in halves lengthwise, peel and place in ice water for 
half an hour, then cut out the insides (take out all seeds), chop into small 
pieces, dress with French dressing and fill the rinds and serve. 

Dressed Cucumbers. 
Take cucumbers, pare and chop them into small pieces. Take half the 
quantity of young onions and cut them fine ; add one tablespoonf ul of lemon 
juice, a trifle of cayenne, and a glass of sherry or Madeira and a dessert- 
spoonful of Chili vinegar. Serve with roast meat. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. 
Cut the cucumbers in two lengthwise pieces ; do not peel them. Scoop out 
all the seeds. Take bread crumbs well moistened with melted butter and 
mixed with sweet green peppers, cut into small pieces — be careful to take 
out all the pepper seeds — fill the halves of the cucumbers very full, brown 
them in a hot oven, cooking rather slowly at first. 

Dandelions. 

In preparing dandelions, wash thoroughly the leaves, cut off all roots, 
place in saucepan with boiling salted water, do not cover. Let the leaves 
boil for one hour, then take out the leaves with a skimmer, drain well and 
chop them fine, put into a frying pan, with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
pinch of salt and small pinch of pepper. Stir until well heated, then serve 
with slices of hard boiled eggs arranged over and around the leaves. 

Another way is to cook the dandelions as above, chop them fine. Take one 
egg, beaten until light, stir into small cupful of cream and cook until thick, 
then add one tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, a little salt 
and pepper, put this sauce with the dandelion leaves, let all heat thoroughly 
and serve hot on buttered toast, or without. 

Dandelions eaten either cooked, or raw as a salad, are a valuable food in 
the spring. 

Greens. 

"The very herbs of the field yield nourishment and make a feast for the 
temperate man." — Pliny. 

Greens have always been esteemed highly in the Spring of the year, 
although the eating of them has fallen into disuse, largely in the cities, yet 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 139 

in the country they are still sought after. The fact of their healthfulness 
should weigh with the housekeeper in their favor. 

Greens have been called, "Medicine chests." "Eat cress and learn wis- 
dom," said the Greeks, even Pliny advises them. Chicory, corn salad, cow- 
slip, cress, dandelion, horseradish, kale, lettuce, mustard, black mustard, 
narrow dock, onion tops, poke, sorrel, turnip tops, are only a few of the 
edible greens. 

These are cooked in the country after being well washed and looked over — 
in plenty of water with a small piece of salt pork, drained, chopped fine and 
seasoned with butter or cream, salt and pepper. 

Escalloped Egg Plant. 

Peel, and parboil the tgg plant — to parboil, put the egg plant into hot water 
and boil for ten minutes, remove from water and cut into dice, season with 
salt and pepper. 

Make a sauce with three tablespoonfuls of butter melted in the double 
boiler with three tablespoonfuls of flour, when well mixed, add slowly three- 
fourths pint of milk, stir constantly until the sauce is thick. Boil three eggs 
until very hard, twenty minutes will cook them. These can be cooked 
before commencing the sauce. Put the yolks through a sieve, and moisten 
them with a little milk, then stir into the sauce with one teaspoonful salt, one 
saltspoonful pepper and a little grated nutmeg and one teaspoonful onion 
juice, or one tablespoonful minced onion. Put a layer of the egg plant in a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of the sauce, alternate the layers until the 
dish is full. Cover the top with some grated bread crumbs moistened with 
one tablespoonful of melted butter and bake half an hour. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Cut the egg plant into slices one-fifth of an inch in thickness, sprinkle 
them with salt, pile them on each other and place a weight on the top ; leave 
them for three hours, then rinse and dry the slices, dip them into beaten 
egg and then into flour, fry them in hot lard ; serve hot. 

Stuffed Egg Plant— 1. 

Wash and dry one large egg plant, cut off the top like a lid. Scoop out the 
inside of the egg plant, season it with salt and pepper ; take one onion, peel 
and chop it very fine, put both into the saucepan with one tablespoonful of 
butter, cook these together for five minutes, do not brown, add a few mush- 
rooms, chopped fine, one ounce of sausage meat; cook all these together, 
carefully stirring all the time. Let the mixture cool, then fill the egg plant, 
tie on the lid, cover the egg plant with buttered paper; cook in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes. 



140 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Stuffed Egg Plant— 2. 

Scoop out the inside of an Qgg plant, put this into the saucepan with one 

tablespoonful of butter, a Httle salt and pepper, and one cup of milk or 

cream, cook it well, then return the mixture to the shell of the egg plant, 

dip it in egg then in bread crumbs, and bake in the oven until it is browned. 

Kohlrabi or Cabbage Turnip. 
Peel the turnips, cut them into small pieces, boil them until tender in 
salted water; boil the green leaves of the tops, and when they are done, 
drain and chop them fine like spinach and return to the stewpan with a 
little butter, season with salt and pepper. Put the turnips into the center 
of a dish, pour over a little melted butter, dish the greens around the turnips 
and serve hot. 

Baked Mushrooms. 

Toast for each portion a slice of bread and spread it over with cream. 
Lay on each slice of toast, with the head down, one large mushroom, or, 
several small ones, fill in each cup with as much cream as it will hold, a bit of 
butter and a little salt and pepper. Place over the dish a closely-fitting 
cover; the mushrooms should be in a shallow dish. Bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes; do not remove the cover until just before serv- 
ing. Serve in the same dish, if possible, in which the mushrooms are 
baked. 

Mushrooms with Butter. 

Cut the stems from the mushrooms, clean with a piece of flannel and 
some salt ; if necessary to wash them, dry thoroughly after. To one part of 
mushrooms put one and one-half tablespoon fuls of butter into the saucepan; 
when hot put in the mushrooms and shake them in the butter until they begin 
to brown ; in five minutes add one saltspoonful of salt and a little pepper, 
stew them until tender, remove from the pan and serve on hot toast. If any 
butter remains in the stewpan, put it into a small cup and keep for a steak or 
some chops the next day. 

Creamed Mushrooms. 
Peel and stem them, sprinkle with salt and lemon juice, and let them 
steam in a covered saucepan (granite) for five or ten minutes ; add one 
tablespoonful of butter and cook them until tender, blend in some flour 
(one tablespoonful) and add one cupful of cream. Instead of flour and 
cream one cupful of milk beaten with three egg-yolks may be added. A 
little grated nutmeg added if nutmeg flavor is liked. 

Mushrooms Baked Under Glass. 

Peel and remove the stems from firm good-sized mushrooms. Stew lightly 
in butter seasoned with salt and pepper. Put round slices of toast in the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 141 

dish, cover with the mushrooms and liquor from the pan in which they have 
been cooked. Cover with glass bells and bake from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. When ready to serve add one tablespoon ful or more of hot cream to 
each dish and serve under the bells. 

Mushrooms Stewed — 1. 
Take two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of cayenne. Mix together into a paste, put in saucepan 
two tablespoonfuls of butter; when it is hot put in the mushrooms which 
have been peeled, place on each mushroom a little of the paste; as soon 
as a brown sauce comes from the mushrooms, they are cooked and should 
be served at once on hot toast. 

Mushrooms Stewed — 2. 

Cut off the stems and boil them in a cup of beef stock for twenty minutes 
and strain. Take one quart of mushrooms and strip off the skins, put into 
the stock and stew gently, add one-half cup of cream, one teaspoonful of 
butter, and thicken with a little flour, salt and pepper. Cook all about half 
an hour. 

Fresh Mushrooms on Toast. 

Select two pounds of fine, large, sound mushrooms, neatly pare off the 
ends, wash and clean them, look them over carefully always, drain and 
put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, add a little 
salt and pepper, cover and cook for ten minutes, turning them every little 
while — then add the juice of one lemon and sprinkle in some minced parsley. 
Have ten pieces of bread well toasted, not burnt, place on hot dish, put the 
mushrooms on these and serve hot. 

Leeks. 

Wash and trim the leeks, taking off the green part, cook them, in salted 
water until tender, then drain and place on pieces of hot buttered toast, 
pour over some melted butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Leeks are 
valuable to use in soups, the flavor is delicate and in Sweden they are con- 
sidered as almost a necessity in soup making. 

Baked Onions. 
Leave the skins on wash and dry the onions. Put in hot oven, let them 
cook until tender, then take off the outer skins, add butter and salt, be sure 
to give time enough for the onions to thoroughly cook. 

Bermuda Onions. 

A very appetizing sandwich is made by slicing the onions as thinly as 

possible, sprinkle over a little salt, and place the onions between buttered 

slices of white or whole wheat bread. Little young onions can be 

used in the same way, tomatoes sliced can be used with the onions. If the 



142 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

odor of raw onions is disliked, a sprig of parsley eaten after the onion will 

take this away. 

Onions in Milk. 

Cut the onions in slices, lay these in milk for two hours, then drain and 
dry. Have some fat very hot, dip each slice of onion in flour, then fry 
until brown, sprinkle salt and pepper over and serve. 

Onions. 
Old onions are better steamed, new onions stewed. 

Onions with Cream. 
Parboil the onions, slice and spread them in layers in a baking dish with 
bits of butter; first onions, then bread crumbs and so on until the dish is 
full ; then add enough cream to fill the dish. Bake one-half hour. To par- 
boil, put the onions into boiling water for ten minutes, then drain. 

Onion Custard. 

Peel and slice twelve small-sized onions, fry them in one tablespoonful of 
butter, drain them well from the butter which put aside, then mince them 
very fine, add to them four eggs beaten lightly and one pint of milk ; season 
the whole with one-fourth teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a little salt and 
cayenne. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish and bake for fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot with meat or poultry. 

A pretty way to serve the onion custard is to bake it in small tins, turn 

them out so that individual portions are served, each covered with a white 

sauce, or a tomato sauce. 

Onion Fritters. 

Chop up two large onions, make a batter with one tablespoonful of flour, 
one egg, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of pepper; mix all well together, drop a spoonful at a time into a pan of 
boiling lard, drain and serve very hot. 

Fried Onions — Devonshire, England. 

Take ofif the outer skins of as many onions as will be needed — see that the 

onions are as nearly one size as possible. Have in the skillet a good deep fat, 

beef drippings preferable, place the onions around in the skillet until the 

bottom is filled. Cover for ten minutes, then uncover and place on the 

back of the range to slowly simmer one-half hour or more. When soft, 

remove from the fat and serve. Do not throw away the fat, strain and 

place in bowl, it is delicious for frying potatoes in, or any vegetable that 

has to be fried, or for frying slices of bread to serve under vegetables or 

meats. 

Onions with Buttered Crumbs. 

Peel one quart of good sized onions, remove the heart and chop them fine. 
Soak one-half of a cupful of bread crumbs in cold milk, drain off as much 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 143 

as possible; mix with one cupful of finely chopped boiled ham, the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs and the chopped onion, season well with salt, 
pepper and a tiny pinch of mace and stuff the onions. Arrange them in a 
buttered baking dish, filling in the space around them with the ham mixture. 
Pour over one cupful of thin white sauce, cover closely and bake in a 
moderate oven for an hour. Uncover, sprinkle with buttered crumbs 
and brown. 

Glazed Onions 

Peel and cook for ten minutes in boiling salted water, place in a baking 
tin two tablespoonfuls of butter and one-half pint of stock, place in the 
pan the onions, do not let them touch each other, cover them with granu- 
lated sugar, about two tablespoonfuls, bake thirty minutes, turn the onions 
often, serve them with baked liver or any roasted meat. 

Fried Onions. 

Two quarts of sliced onions, put into cold water for ten minutes, drain. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter or fat into the skillet; when hot, add the 
onions, one teaspoonful of salt and one-half teaspoonful of pepper, cover 
for ten minutes, then remove the cover and cook for twenty minutes or 
longer. 

Onions in Gravy. 

Cook the onions in salted water until tender; mix one tablespoonful of 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter over the fire until they are brown, then 
add one wine glass of claret, one cup of gravy ; pour over the onions. 
Serve hot. 

Onions Stewed. 

Put the onions into a baking dish, cover it with a plate and let them steam 
in a hot oven for three hours, then pour over them some melted butter, salt 
and pepper. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Large Spanish onions, scoop out the centers, peel and parboil, fill the 
centers with forcemeat and place in a stewpan ; cover with slices of bacon, 
sprinkle with salt and sugar and cook over a quick fire. When done, remove 
the onions, reduce the sauce and pour it over them and serve. The force- 
meat can be made of chicken, ham, parsley and mushrooms, and some 
chopped suet, all finely minced together, with pepper and salt to taste. 

Baked Spanish Onion. 
Take a large onion ; wash it clean ; take a corer and remove the core and 
put in its place some butter, pepper and salt, and let it bake with a thin 
piece of paper round it for an hour, or till done, in a slow oven. When 
done, peel it and put it into a vegetable dish, and pour over some good 
brown gravy. 



144 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Spanish Onions with Maitre D'Hotel Butter. 
Peel the onions, put them in cold water with one teaspoonful of salt, let 
them boil once, then remove, wash in cold water and put them into the 
stewpan with plenty of boiling water, boil gently for three hours; when 
tender, drain them and put on each a bit of maitre d'hotel butter. 

Bermuda Onions Fried. 
Slice the onions in rather thin slices, keeping them as round as possible, 
then roll each slice in flour, seasoned with a little pepper, have the frying 
kettle with very deep hot lard — place the slices of onions in the fry- 
ing basket, fry the onions quickly so that they will be crisp, brown, 
and free from fat. Remove from fire after letting the slices drain for a 
moment, place around a beefsteak, or lamb chops, sprinkle a little salt over 
the slices. Be sure to serve hot. 

Okra. 

Boil the young pods in salted, hot water; when cooked, drain and add 
some butter, pepper and salt. 

Method for Drying Parsley. 

When drying parsley for house use, cut sprays with long stems, then put 
some boiling water in a basin and dip the parsley in this for about two 
minutes. Take out, shake well, and hang up to dry. By this method, 
parsley will be found to dry much greener than in the ordinary way. 

Fried Parsley. 
Wash the parsley, dry thoroughly in a cloth, then put in hot, boiling fat 
and let it remain until crisp ; shake from the fat, sprinkle with salt, and use. 
To prepare parsley for sprinkling over any preparations, chop the parsley 
very fine, wash, drain, place in corner of a clean napkin and squeeze dry, 
then the parsley will be found very light and dry. Parsley cut fine with the 
kitchen scissors is a very easy way to prepare it. 

Parsnip Balls. 
Boil six parsnips, let them get cold, then peel and grate them ; beat two 
eggs until light, mix them with the grated parsnip and one tablespoonful 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper; make the 
mixture into small flat balls, have some lard boiling hot, drop the balls into 
it until they are brown, serve hot with fried parsley. 

Parsnips Boiled. 

Boil the parsnips, then slice them and put over a dressing of one cup of 
cream, one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper ; if cream is not obtain- 
able one cup of sweet milk and two tablespoonfuls of butter mixed with one 
tablespoonful of flour. 

In cooking parsnips the addition of several slices of salt pork will be found 
to greatly improve them. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 145 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Take three large parsnips, cook until tender, peel and mash them; add 

one teaspoonf ul of flour, one egg well beaten, one teaspoonf ul of salt ; make 

the mixture into small cakes, and fry on both sides in good butter ; pile them 

on a hot dish and serve. 

Green Peas. 

If the peas are young and freshly gathered the very best way to cook is 
to boil them in water, slightly salted ; do not cover the saucepan when cook- 
ing, drain from the water, add a tablespoonful of butter and a little pepper. 
A sprig of mint is considered by many a valuable addition. If the peas are 
a little old, cook them in a little water, add one tablespoonful of butter, a 
little salt and one teaspoonful of sugar, when served add one tablespoonful 
of cream or one tablespoonful of butter. 

Green peas are easy of digestion and contain a large amount of proteid. 
Try always to obtain them as freshly gathered as possible, peas brought 
from a long distance are hardly worth buying, unless required for green 
pea soup. 

Green peas are delicious cooked in butter with the addition of a small 
onion and one head of cabbage lettuce. You must stew them over a very 
slow fire. When they are tender and ready to serve, add a very little sugar, 
a pinch of salt, the yolks of two eggs beaten with one tablespoonful of 
cream. Before adding the eggs and cream remove the sprig of mint, lettuce 
and onion. Do not let the eggs cook as the heat in the peas cooks them 
sufficiently. Do not drain the peas. Add the cream and eggs to the liquor, 
it is all needed. 

Extravagant, perhaps, this matter of cooking peas. Most fine cooking is 
rather extravagant. 

Remember, you remove the lettuce and onion and mint before serving the 
peas. If you do not have your peas from your own garden, I advise always 
the addition of a small teaspoonful of sugar to them while cooking. Abso- 
lutely fresh gathered peas do not require the sugar. 

A German way to cook green peas is to add to them some young carrots, 
cut in bits as large as the peas. You cook all with a little butter and do not 
add any water. Keep the stewpan covered. They will cook in their own 
steam. Season with butter. 

Dried Peas. 

Wash and pick them over carefully, put into boiling water and let them 
boil until soft, then drain off the water and put with them a piece of butter 
the size of an tgg, a chopped onion, a little salt and pepper, and stew until 
the onion is cooked, then serve. 

Green Peppers for Winter Use, 
Put the peppers on the back of the stove or in a cool oven, turn them until 
they are cooked enough to crack the skins, then throw them into a bowl of 



146 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

hot water and with a knife scrape and peel them, cut them open, remove the 
seeds, rinse in cold water, drain them and pack into glass jars, pour boiling 
vinegar over them and a little salt, and seal. 

Red Peppers to Can. 

Select smooth peppers, ripe enough to be eaten ; cut out tops and remove 
the seeds ; then plunge into boiling water and let them stand for ten minutes. 
Then drain; pack carefully in glass jars; fill up the jars with boiling hot 
vinegar, made rather sweet; seal at once; set in a dark cool place. When 
needed rinse the peppers in cold water and use as fresh peppers. They can 
be useful to fill with various preparations, when fresh ones are not 
obtainable. 

Green Peppers Stuffed. 

Plunge the peppers into hot water for about five minutes, then remove 
the skins with a damp cloth, cut off the stem ends, take out all the seeds. 
Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, some finely minced ham, or some sausage 
meat, add melted butter, some minced parsley and a little finely minced 
onion, one teaspoonful salt, fill the peppers, replace the tops and place the 
peppers in a baking dish. They must be placed upright. To some good 
stock add a little butter, one wine glass of sherry, one teaspoonful of flour 
stirred into the stock, pour over the peppers and bake twenty minutes. Fine 
parsley scattered over the peppers add to their appearance. 

Peppers Stuffed with Chicken. 
Prepare the peppers as above, fill them with minced chicken, moistened 
with a white sauce — some bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of melted butter 
and one-half tablespoonful of onion juice and a little grated nutmeg — then 
cook as in above recipe. 

Stuffed Peppers with Sweetbreads. 

Parboil sweetbread, cool, and cut into small cubes ; there should be one 
cupful. Melt two tablespoon fuls of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour 
and pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, half a cupful of chicken 
stock; then add two tablespoonfuls of heavy cream and one-third of a 
cupful of mushroom caps broken into small pieces. Season with salt, 
paprika and Worcestershire sauce. Cut a slice from the stem end of six 
green peppers, remove the seeds, parboil for fifteen minutes and drain. 
Cool, fill with sweetbread mixture, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake 
until the crumbs are brown. Break the stems of mushrooms, add a little 
cold water, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, add a few drops of onion-juice and two tablespoonfuls of flour; then 
pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, the water drained from the 
mushroom stems and enough chicken stock to make one cupful. Add one- 
fourth of a cupful of heavy cream, and season with salt and paprika. 
Arrange the stuffed peppers on a serving dish and pour the sauce around. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 147 

Be careful in preparing peppers that you do not touch your hands to 
your face, especially to your eyes. 

Peppers are a wholesome summer vegetable and acceptable with beef- 
steak, roast beef or chicken. 

Potatoes a L'Anna. 

Cut up some raw potatoes, very fine, put them in cold water for six hours, 
then drain them, season with salt and pepper, put them into a well-buttered 
dish, sprinkle bread crumbs on top, add enough melted butter to cover them ; 
bake in a very hot oven for one-half hour or until they are well browned. If 
baked in a porcelain dish they can be served in it, a folded napkin being put 
around the dish, or they can be put on a hot dish. 

Potato Balls. 

Boil four large potatoes ; when hot mash and add to them one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one egg well beaten, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little grated nutmeg and a little cayenne. Mix these 
well together and roll into balls, dip them in beaten egg, then into fine bread 
or cracker crumbs ; be sure the crumbs are fine, and fry in deep boiling fat ; 
drain from the fat and keep hot until served. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Choose large and smooth potatoes, put them in the oven; when they are 
half done take each one in a kitchen towel and press it hard ; return to oven ; 
bake one hour or until soft. 

Cold Boiled Potatoes. 

All potatoes that are intended to be boiled and then made into different 
preparations should be boiled in their skins and not quite cooked, set aside 
and allowed to get cold in their skins. This plan makes a great difference in 
the successful preparation of potatoes. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Potatoes should be very carefully boiled ; and if not used as soon as they 
are cooked, should be kept hot and dry, by pouring off the water, covering 
them with a dry cloth, and setting them on the back of the stove. After 
washing them thoroughly, pare them entirely, or take off one ring around 
each ; if they are new put them over the fire in hot water ; if they are old, 
put them on in cold water; in either case, add a tablespoonful of salt, and 
boil them fifteen minutes, longer if necessary. If the potatoes are old, add 
one teaspoonful of sugar while boiling them. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Boil some potatoes ; when done remove from the fire and beat them until 
they are soft and creamy, then beat in the yolks of two eggs, a little salt and 
pepper, one tablespoonful of melted butter and two tablespoon fuls of cream ; 



148 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

lastly, add the whites beaten very stiff ; put the mixture in the saucepan and 
let it become very hot, then serve at once. 

Potato Cakes. 

One-half pound of flour, one-half pound of mashed potatoes, six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt into a bowl, 
then add the eggs well beaten, then enough sweet milk to make a light 
batter, lastly add the potatoes, mix well and let all stand for one-half hour 
before baking, bake on well greased griddle like batter cakes. These cakes 
are very nice served with afternoon tea. 

Stuffed Baked Potatoes. 

Wash, and bake as many potatoes, as you will need, when they are done, 
remove from oven and cut off the top of each potato, remove with a fork 
all the insides, mash them until free from lumps, season with a little salt 
and pepper, one tablespoonful of cream, beat until very light, then refill the 
potato shells, cover with the lids and keep hot until needed. Serve in a 
napkin. 

Baked Potatoes with Butter. 

Wash and dry as many potatoes as will be required. It is always well to 
select them of one size, bake, when done, cut a cross on the side of each 
potato, turn back the corners, put a lump of butter in each potato with some 
paprika, or cayenne, fold back the four little lids and serve in a napkin. 

New Potatoes Boiled. 

Scrape the potatoes, throwing them into cold water until all are ready, then 
into boiling salted water, when cooked pour over a little melted butter, or 
hot cream. 

Potatoes with Crumbs. 

Butter a large shallow dish and spread upon it one quart of cold boiled 
potatoes, cut into small cubes. Sprinkle with salt and a little pepper and 
one tablespoonful of minced parsley, then cover all with a pint of cream 
sauce. To make the cream sauce, melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. When 
frothy, add one tablespoonful of flour, stir together until quite smooth, then 
add one pint of milk gradually. As soon as the sauce is thick spread it over 
the potatoes, put them into the oven until the top is a light brown. 

Baked Potatoes with Cheese. 

Bake large potatoes until tender; cut off their tops, which keep. Scoop 
out all the insides of the potatoes, but do not break the skins. Mash the 
insides with one tablespoonful of butter and a little salt and pepper and two 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. The proper proportion of butter and cheese 
is about one teaspoonful of each to each potato. Beat the mixture until light, 
refill the potato skins, put on the tops and reheat them in the oven. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 149 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Old potatoes are not always easy to prepare in an appetizing manner. 
Cut the potatoes after they are peeled into small cubes, and let them soak 
in cold water for an hour, or even longer. This soaking takes out the rank 
taste the potatoes generally have at the Spring of the year. Drain them 
from the water and plunge into a good sized stewpan two-thirds full of 
boiling water well salted. Let them boil for a few minutes, then place on back 
of stove to simmer only. Make a white sauce in another pan, add a little 
salt, and stir in the potatoes very gently, so as not to break them. Let all 
cook very slowly on the back of the stove in a double boiler. Do not stir 
except to keep them from burning. Just before serving, add one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley. Serve hot but be careful not to mash 
the potatoes. 

Baked Cream Potatoes. 

Take either cold boiled potatoes or raw potatoes and cut into cubes, if 
raw they must be boiled after cutting and allowed to grow cold before using. 

Make a cream sauce, with one tablespoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mixed together and put into skillet with one-half pint of 
milk or cream, of course cream is the better, let this sauce boil until it 
begins to thicken, stirring all the while to prevent burning, add two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, put the sauce mixed with the potatoes into a baking dish, and 
bake until brown in the oven. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Boil the potatoes in their skins, the potatoes should be "soggy" ones as 
these cream better than "mealy" ones. When cooked pour oflf the water, 
cover the potatoes with a cloth, let them cool in their own steam, cook early 
in the day if required for a late dinner, or the day before if desired for 
luncheon. When needed, dice them, cover with cream in a double boiler — 
if milk is used add a large lump of butter, let the potatoes cook very slowly, 
not covered for two and one-half hours, season with salt and pepper. The 
success comes from slow cooking. 

Potato Croquettes. 
Take two cups of mashed potatoes, add to them a few drops of onion 
juice, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, one teaspoon ful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne. Stir all 
these ingredients well together in the saucepan ; when hot remove from the 
fire and let the mixture cool ; when cold form into balls, dip these first into 
beaten eggs, then into very fine cracker or bread crumbs ; see that the balls 
are smooth, place in the ice-box for an hour or more. When required fry 
them in very hot deep fat. It is best to use the frying basket; when the 
balls are of a brown color drain from the fat on brown paper. Keep them 
hot until served. 



150 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Potatoes Crumbed. 
Peel and boil the potatoes ; when they are cooked but not broken, split 
them in halves, season with salt and pepper, pour over them some melted 
butter, then dip each piece in browned bread crumbs, place them in a but- 
tered tin and bake for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Peel the potatoes, cut them in narrow strips, soak in ice water one hour, 
drain and dry, have ready a kettle of deep lard; when boiling drop in the 
potatoes a few at a time and let them brown, sprinkle salt over them when 
they are removed from the fat, drain on wire dish or on filtering paper; 
serve in a hot dish. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Take six good potatoes, peel and slice them about one-fourth of an inch in 
thickness. Have two pans of fat, either clarified beef suet or lard ; cook the 
potatoes in one, for a few minutes, then remove them with a skimmer and 
put them into the other pan ; the fats must be very hot. The potatoes will 
swell and be much lighter from the double frying. 

Potatoes Fried with Parsley. 
One pound of potatoes, two ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Scrape and boil the potatoes ; let them get cold. 
Put the butter into the frying pan; when melted put in the potatoes and 
fry a pale gold ; add the parsley about five minutes before serving ; sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes. 

Six potatoes cut fine. Take two tablespoonfuls of onions cut fine and 
one tablespoonful of parsley chopped fine; put these into hot lard and fry 
them; as soon as the onions commence to brown add the potatoes, stirring 
all together ; press the mixture down on the pan, let it brown, then stir again, 
so as to mix the crust well ; when the potatoes are well mixed with the 
crust add one tablespoonful of butter ; press the potatoes well on the pan so 
that they will have a good brown crust, turn them out on a platter, the crust 
side up. 

Potatoes a la Maitre D'Hotel. 

Wash half a dozen potatoes; boil them in salt and water; when done 
drain and let them cool. Then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices ; 
put into a saucepan one and one-half ounces of butter, a little pepper and 
salt to taste, four tablespoonfuls of good gravy and one tablespoonful of 
minced parsley, mix all well together ; put in the potatoes ; shake them well in 
the sauce to cover them, and when quite hot through, squeeze in one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and serve. 

Potato Cakes. 
Take a tablespoonful of warm mashed potatoes in the palm of your hand, 
make it into a ball, then with a teaspoon take out the center ; fill this cavity 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 151 

with minced onion and celery, which has been previously cooked tender in 
butter ; add a teaspoon ful of grated cheese ; cover the cavity with the mashed 
potato, dip each ball into melted butter and egg, place in a shallow pan and 
bake in a hot oven until a nice brown. Serve on hot platter; garnish with 

parsley. 

Potato Loaves. 

These are to be served with roast beef. Take mashed potatoes and mix 

them with some finely chopped cooked onions, a little pepper and salt ; beat 

these well and add one tablespoonful of melted butter. Make into little 

loaves and place in the pan with the roast of beef ; the gravy from the beef 

gives a good flavor to the potato loaves. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Two tablespoon fuls of good beef dripping or butter made very hot in the 
frying pan, when hot add one tablespoonful of minced onion; let this fry 
until brown, and then put in two cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes cut into 
small dice ; stir well together until the butter is well absorbed, then add one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper and two tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped parsley. 

Potatoes with Mustard — German. 

Boil the potatoes in their jackets. When they are done remove the skins 
quickly. In the meantime while they are cooking put a good sized piece of 
butter in the frying pan and let it brown. Add some prepared mustard, 
stirring it in with the butter till the mixture is smooth. While the potatoes 
are very hot, pour over them the mustard sauce and serve immediately. 

To prepare the mustard — scald four tablespoonfuls of mustard with 
enough boiling water to make a smooth paste, then put it into the frying pan 
with the butter. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, place in kettle in salted water, boil until 
tender, drain the water from the kettle. Beat the potatoes always beating 
upwards. When quite soft and free from lumps, add one tablespoonful of 
butter and a small cup of milk or cream, a little salt and pepper. Serve hot. 
The secret of having good mashed potatoes is to keep them hot while mash- 
ing. Have the milk hot which is added and give a long beating. Smoothing 
the potatoes after they are placed in the dish makes them heavy, better let 
the surface be uneven. 

Princess Potatoes. 

Boil the desired quantity of potatoes ; while yet hot, mash them perfectly 
smooth and spread about half an inch thick on a platter and set aside to 
cool ; when desired to use, cut the mixture into strips an inch wide and two 
inches long, dip these strips into melted butter and then into well beaten egg, 
place them on a pan and bake until brown in a hot oven. 



152 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Potato Puff. 

To two cupfuls of cold mashed potato add two tablespoon fuls of melted 
butter, beating well together, then add two eggs beaten very light and one 
teacupful of cream or milk, a little salt and pepper ; beat well and put into a 
baking dish and bake in a quick oven until it is brown ; this will be in about 
fifteen minutes. 

Roast Potatoes with Meat. 

Have the potatoes of uniform size ; peel, wash, clean and lay them in the 
pan with the meat about one hour before the meat is done. Serve with 
the roast. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Slice three potatoes as thin as possible, throw them into a bowl of ice 
water, keep them in the ice water for two or three hours. When ready to 
use the potatoes, have the kettle of fat very hot; you must have deep fat, 
at least four inches deep. Dry the potatoes by putting a few at a time in a 
clean coarse towel, drop them into the boiling fat, a few at a time. Stir, to 
prevent them from sticking together. The moment they are of a light 
yellow color, remove with the skimmer ; drain on brown paper. These pota- 
toes should never be greasy, and they will not be if the fat is at the right 
temperature and care is used. 

A Swiss Potato Pie. 
Choose medium-sized, sound potatoes, and after boiling or steaming, 
allow them to cool ; then cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and arrange 
a single layer at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish ; sprinkle the potatoes 
well with salt, pepper, finely-chopped onion, minced parsley, and grated 
cheese, then cover with a few tablespoon fuls of thick white sauce, and repeat 
in this order until the dish is sufficiently full, letting sauce form the last 
addition, except a sprinkling of cheese, which should be added just before 
putting the pie in the oven ; see that the latter is well heated, then, as soon 
as the pie is thoroughly hot, and colored a golden brown, sprinkle the sur- 
face with a mixture of finely chopped parsley and grated hard egg yolk, 
serve hot, with a few sprigs of parsley around the dish. 

Potato Snow. 

Have some very mealy potatoes ; boil ; when cooked, drain and keep them 
hot ; heat the colander and pass the potatoes through ; do not crush the snow 
as it falls into the dish, which must be hot. 

Stewed Potatoes — 1. 

Take cold, boiled potatoes, slice them thinly, place in a shallow but wide 
saucepan with some butter — for five potatoes two tablespoonfuls ; then cover 
the potatoes with cream or milk; if milk is used add one spoonful of 
butter, season with salt and white pepper. Let them simmer on the back of 
the range for two hours ; if the cream or milk cooks into the potatoes, leaving 
them dry, add some more. Serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 153 

Stewed Potatoes — 2. 

Boil the potatoes in their skins; when almost cooked, remove from the 
fire ; when cold peel them and cut into pieces about the size of dice. Have 
a large saucepan, broad at the bottom ; place in this one-half pound of but- 
ter, when melted but not at all brown, stir in the potatoes ; season with one 
teaspoonful of salt and one-half teaspoonful of white pepper; stir the pota- 
toes and butter well together; when thoroughly mixed pour over one pint 
of good cream in which you have stirred one teaspoonful of flour. Heat 
all well together and serve. 

Potato Souffle. 

Pare the potatoes, enough to make one quart when cooked, cut into 
pieces, cook in hot water, when soft, remove from the kettle, mash them, 
adding slowly one pint of hot milk, one teaspoonful of salt. When the 
mixture is very light and smooth, add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
beat it into the potatoes, then add the yolks of two eggs, beaten until creamy, 
then let the mixture cool, when cold add the whites of two eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, fold these in carefully, place the mixture into a well buttered 
pudding dish, one in which the souffle can be served. All souffles must be 
served at once after they are cooked or failures will result. 

Potato Turnovers. 
Boil the potatoes; mash and add one-half teacupful of milk, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half tablespoonful of melted butter, one egg well 
beaten and enough flour to enable you to roll out the potato mixture like 
pastry; roll it out one-half inch in thickness; cut into oval-shaped pieces; 
cover one-half of each with some minced cold meat of any kind that you 
may have, season the meat with a little salt and pepper and a few drops of 
onion juice; lay over the other half of the potato pastry, pinch the edges 
together and bake until a light brown in the oven. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil the potatoes ; when cold, peel them and cut in slices one inch in 
thickness ; dip each in melted butter ; put in the double broiler and let them 
broil until a light brown. Pour a little melted butter over them when cooked. 

Baked Sweet Poatoes — 1. 

Bake them in their skins, having first carefully washed them. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes — 2. 

Parboil the potatoes, when cool remove the skins, slice the potatoes, pour 
over a little butter and bake in the oven until browned. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes — 1. 

Parboil the sweet potatoes; peel and slice them in pieces about one-half 
inch thick ; grease a shallow earthenware dish, and put in a layer of potatoes ; 
then sprinkle over some sugar and a little cinnamon, and a little melted 



154 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

butter, then another layer of potatoes, and so on until the dish is full; add 
lastly a cup of hot water or milk ; then add some bits of butter on the top 
and bake in a slow oven until well browned, and serve on the same dish in 
which they are baked. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes — 2. 
Cut the cold cooked sweet potatoes into slices about an inch thick; have 
some melted butter in which you have dissolved a tablespoonful of sugar ; 
dip each slice of potato into this liquid and lay them on a pan ; cook them for 
about fifteen minutes in a hot oven ; serve hot. 

Potato Straws. 

Peel the potatoes, cut them in lengths of about four inches and one-eighth 
inch in width, throw them into salted water until ready to cook them, then 
drain well and wipe them dry. Have some deep lard very hot in the kettle, 
put the potatoes in the frying basket and cook until tender, take from the 
fat, drain, but do not remove from the basket ; in a few minutes put the 
basket back into the fat, which must be very hot — in fact should be boiling 
hot — so as to crisp the potatoes. Move the basket a little so they will all 
cook, they should be very crisp. Remove from fire, sprinkle over some 
finely minced parsley and a little salt. Serve them around beeksteak or 
chops. 

Pumpkins. 

Pumpkins are boiled, or steamed, first cut them in halves, remove the 
seeds. Cut into smaller pieces, boil until tender, or steam them. When 
tender, mash them, add a little butter, salt, pepper and a little sugar to sea- 
son. Serve hot with roast meats. 

Spinach. 

Spinach the French call "the broom of the stomach." It should always 
be cooked alone and not with fat pork, which robust appetites seem to con- 
sider necessary with many other greens. 

The simplest way to cook spinach is to put it into boiling water after it 
has been well washed and all the dry leaves picked off the stalks. Use only 
a little water to cook the spinach. Don't cover the saucepan while it is 
cooking. It will take twenty minutes to cook. Drain and chop it fine or 
rub it through the sieve, return to the pan, add a little butter, salt and 
pepper and serve hot with either small triangles of fried bread around and 
over it, or hard boiled eggs cut in thin slices. If convenient a tablespoonful 
of cream added to the spinach after it has been put through a sieve, is an 
addition ; also a little bit of grated nutmeg. 

Spinach is so deceptive to the inexperienced housekeeper, as it shrinks 
wonderfully when put into hot water, for five persons at least one peck 
of spinach is required. It must be picked over carefully, and the last water 
strongly salted, this will kill any insects remaining after the previous wash- 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 155 

ing. To cook spinach so as to preserve all its valuable properties, have the 
kettle dry, place the spinach in it, as the kettle becomes hot, the juice will 
run from the spinach, then add one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of warm water, this will preserve the green color of the spin- 
ach. Remember always to cook spinach uncovered, stir the spinach at first 
to prevent scorching. 

Spinach Puree — 1. 

Take three quarts of fresh spinach, wash it very carefully, pick it from 
the stalks and put into a saucepan with a very little cold water to which add 
one teaspoonful of salt and one pinch of soda. Do not cover the pan, cook 
for ten minutes, or a little longer. Take from the fire, drain, and rinse 
with water, rub it through a coarse sieve or chop it very fine. After this 
put it into a pan, with one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of 
flour made into a soft paste with some of the water in which the spinach 
was boiled ; stir well, or until the mixture is smooth, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, stir until very hot. 
Serve around sweetbreads. 

Spinach cooked in the same way, omitting the cream and garnished with 
hard boiled eggs, is a most healthful and delicious vegetable. Remember 
that spinach is one of the few vegetables that can be reheated day after day 
and be all the better for it. 

Spinach — 2. 

Cook as Spinach No. 1, then fry one tablespoonful of onion chopped fine, 
add one tablespoonful of cream or milk, one tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper. Stir well together and reheat. 

Salsify Boiled. 

One bundle of salsify, one-half pint of cream, pepper and salt, one lemon, 
one ounce of butter. Scrape the roots very gently to get off the outer skin 
and quickly throw them into vinegar and water or they will become black. 
Boil them in enough salted water to cover them ; drain, add the butter, the 
juice of the lemon, pepper and salt, and allow to boil till tender. Boil the 
cream, add to it one gill of the water used for boiling the salsify ; pour over 
the vegetables and serve. 

Succotash. 

Boil one quart of lima beans, until tender. Cut off the corn from as many 
ears of corn as will be required. Put in the stewpan a pound of good salt 
pork, cut into small pieces, boil for fifteen minutes, turn off that water, add 
fresh boiling water, put in the corn and beans with the pork, add a little 
salt and pepper. When the corn is cooked, add one cup of milk or cream, 
one tablespoonful of butter with one tablespoonful of flour blended with it 
and stir this into the succotash until cooked. Only use enough water to 
thoroughly cook the corn. 



156 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Salsify Cakes. 
Scrape the roots thoroughly and let them lay in cold water for ten min- 
utes, then boil them until tender, drain and mash them to a smooth paste, 
add a little milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one egg beaten light ; 
mix well together, add a little salt and pepper. Make into small flat cakes, 
roll these in flour and fry in a pan with a little butter. 

To Prepare Sauerkraut. 

Select firm, white cabbages, leave out the outer leaves and stalks, begin at 
the top of the head to cut across in narrow strips, using a large knife ; have 
a small oak barrel or pickling jar or tub, cover the bottom with clean cab- 
bage leaves, throw in the cabbage as fast as it is shredded, sprinkle with salt ; 
stamp it down hard with a club ; when all is closely packed, strew more salt 
on top, cover with some cabbage leaves and then with a clean linen cloth. 
Put on a cover that will fit closely and on this a heavy stone. 

Do not put the kraut in too cool a place or fermentation will not begin. 
When it has begun small white globules will form on the brine, which should 
appear in two or three days ; if they do not, boil some salt and water, cool and 
pour over the cabbage. 

A large handful of salt is enough to a firkin of cut cabbage; too much 
salt prevents fermentation. In two weeks the cloth over the kraut must 
be taken off and washed and the leaves renewed, then cover again — the 
washing of the cloth must be done every week. 

In three weeks it will be ready for use, and will keep good for a year. 

Sauerkraut Cooked. 

One tablespoonful of butter, melt this in a saucepan, then put in half as 
much sauerkraut as needed, and a piece of pork, bacon, ham or sausage; 
lay over this the rest of the kraut, put in a glass of vinegar ; a little water ; 
cover all closely and stew gently until the kraut is soft and yellow ; remove 
the meat when it is done ; dredge in a little flour ; cook one-half hour longer ; 
put back the meat to heat thoroughly ; stir the kraut and serve. 

Sauerkraut is equally good warmed over, and it should be cooked three 
hours the first time. A little onion can be added if liked. 

Summer Squash Stewed. 

Cut the squash into four pieces, place in a steamer over boiling water, 
steam for forty-five minutes, or until the squash is tender. Serve with a 
little melted butter, season with salt and pepper, or else mash through the 
colander, and then add a little butter, salt and pepper. 

Summer Squash. 
Peel them, unless they are very young and tender, take out the seeds and 
boil until tender, drain and mash soft and smooth, add two teaspoonfuls of 
butter, one tablespoonful of cream, some salt and pepper, and serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 157 

Summer Squash Fried. 

Cut the squash into sUces one-fourth of an inch in thickness, dip these 
into flour well seasoned with salt and pepper, fry in hot butter or good fresh 
beef dripping until brown. 

Winter Squash. 

Pare the squash, take out the seeds, cut into pieces and cook until tender, 
drain and press through the colander, add one tablespoonful of butter, some 
salt and pepper — always let the squash lie in cold water an hour before 
cooking. 

Squash Griddle Cakes. 

One egg, one pint of milk, one and one-half cups of squash, boiled and 
strained, one pinch of salt, flour enough to make a batter, add one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, bake on greased griddle. 

Tomato Aspic. 

One pint of tomatoes, one-fourth of bay leaf, one teaspoonful salt, one- 
half teaspoonful pepper, one teaspoonful onion juice. Dissolve in two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, one-fourth box of gelatine, let it stand half an 
hour, let the tomatoes boil for fifteen minutes, strain through fine sieve, cool 
a little and add the gelatine, strain it before adding to the tomatoes. Pour 
into small cups or into a mold. Let it harden. When ready to use turn the 
jelly out on lettuce leaves and pour over some stiff mayonnaise. Sprinkle 
over some finely cut parsley. 

Tomato Bisque. 

One-half cupful of chopped onion, one-half cupful of chopped carrot, 
one-half cupful of chopped celery, one quart of water. Cook these together 
for fifteen minutes, then drain off the water. Melt one tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables, cover them and cook fifteen min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Add one cupful of tomatoes and two quarts of 
boiling water. Let all cook for fifteen minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour mixed soft with a little cold water, one teaspoonful salt and a little 
pepper, cook five minutes then rub the vegetables through a sieve and put 
the yolks of two eggs into one-half cupful of cream and add these to the 
vegetables and stock and stir for a few minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of cooked macaroni, cut into small pieces. Serve hot. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Brains. 

Take ripe tomatoes ; remove the core and seeds, season the insides with a 
little salt and pepper. 

Put one tablespoonful of butter mixed with one tablespoonful of flour in 
the saucepan ; when hot and smooth add one tablespoonful of cream, a little 
cayenne and one teacup of sheep's or calf's brains, which have been cooked 
and cut into fine pieces ; mix well together and then stuff the tomatoes with 
this mixture ; put some bread crumbs on the top and bake for fifteen min- 



158 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

utes in a brisk oven. Serve the tomatoes on rounds of fried bread ; garnish 
with watercress or parsley. 

Tomatoes with Chicken. 
Remove the core and seeds from the tomatoes, season the inside with a 
little olive oil and tarragon vinegar, minced onion and salt. Chop some cold 
chicken very fine, season with cayenne and salt, one tablespoonful of cream 
and one teaspoon ful of melted butter mixed well together, fill the tomatoes, 
put a few bread crumbs on the top and a bit of butter. Bake in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Devilled Tomatoes. 

Cut three large, firm tomatoes in slices one-half inch thick. Make a mix- 
ture of one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar, the yolk 
of one hard boiled tgg, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper ; beat this mix- 
ture until it is smooth, then heat it to the boiling point, no longer ; take from 
the fire and pour it over one egg which has been well beaten, put this over 
a tin containing hot water while you broil the tomatoes, then put the tomatoes 
on a hot dish and pour over them the dressing. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Four large tomatoes, do not peel them, cut them in four pieces, then dip 
them in flour, fry them in butter or beef drippings, until they are brown and 
cooked, then take from the pan and place on a platter and put into the oven, 
while you prepare the dressing. Put one cup of sweet cream, a little salt 
and pepper and one tablespoonful of flour into the pan in which the toma- 
toes were fried ; stir until it thickens then strain over the tomatoes ; serve. 

Tomato au Gratin. 
Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices, place them in a china baking dish in 
layers with some chopped onions and bread crumbs, pepper and salt, and 
a little gravy between each layer ; cover the top with a layer of bread crumbs, 
and a few lumps of butter. Bake for about thirty minutes. 

Tomatoes with Eggs. 
Dip as many round smooth tomatoes as required in boiling water for an 
instant, peel ofY the skins, cut off a slice from the top of each and take out 
the seeds and enough of the insides to allow one raw egg in each tomato, 
put a little piece of butter on the eggs, a little salt and pepper, put on the 
slice cut off. Place the tomatoes in a saucepan with a little butter and let 
them cook eight minutes. Serve on hot buttered toast. 

Tomatoes with Poached Eggs. 
Stew one pint of fresh tomatoes or one-half can of them, season well with 
butter, salt and pepper. Trim off the crusts from slices of bread, toast 
them and butter while hot, or fry them in butter. Poach as many eggs as 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 159 

will be required, place an egg on each slice of bread, pour over them the 
tomato sauce, garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Green Tomatoes Fried. 

Green tomatoes can be fried as well as ripe ones. They are very good 
with beefsteak. 

Cut them in thick slices, boil for about fifteen minutes in salted water, 
or until tender, drain and serve with a cream sauce. 

Tomato Paste. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, two large onions, one bunch of celery, cut 
into pieces, leaves and stalks, three sprigs of parsley, two cloves, four 
pepper corns. 

Cut these in pieces, cook very slowly, until every vegetable is soft enough 
to press through a sieve or vegetable press. When all are cooked, press, 
return juice to the fire and cook again slowly until a little, when 
cooled, will be thick. Spread the paste on plates about half an inch thick 
and dry in a cool oven, or in the sun — the process is slow. It must be very 
dry before packing away in wide-mouth jars. When required, take a small 
piece of the paste, dissolve it in a little water, then put into a sauce if 
required to flavor a sauce, or into a soup. To make the sauce, take one 
tablespoon ful of flour and one of butter cooked together until frothy, then 
add the dissolved paste. It is useful when a tomato flavor is desired and a 
whole can would be wasted if opened just for the small amount required. 

Tomatoes v^rith Rice. 

Cut three slices of salt pork into small pieces, fry until brown in the fry- 
ing pan, remove the pork and add one chopped onion, cook five minutes, 
then pour in one quart of stewed tomatoes, and one teaspoonful of salt; 
when the mixture is boiling, add one pint of cooked rice, and a little cayenne. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 
Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, if fresh ones are used to remove 
the skins; cut the tomatoes into pieces; stew for thirty minutes, then add 
one tablespoon ful of butter and a little salt and pepper and one small pinch 
of soda. 

Tomatoes. 
Tomatoes are a great help to housekeepers, for they are almost as good 
when well canned as when fresh. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Broiled, they are a very nice breakfast dish. After paring and slicing the 
tomatoes, dip the slices in beaten egg and then in cracker meal. Broil over 
clear coals for about eight minutes, turning them once. Put them on a 
hot dish with a little butter on each slice, season with salt and pepper. 



160 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

To Can Tomatoes. 

Peel the tomatoes by filling a wire basket, dip it quickly into boiling water, 
remove and place in cold water, you can then remove the skins easily and 
without burning your hands. Peel as many tomatoes as are desired for 
winter use — always buy the tomatoes early — do not wait until they have 
greatly fallen in price for they are sure then to be acid. Have your glass 
jars absolutely clean — scalded the last thing before filling with the tomatoes, 
fill full to the top, place the jars in a wash boiler, place a little straw on the 
bottom, fill in some water and cover the boiler, let them cook one hour, then 
place the rubbers on each jar, fill in the jars if any tomatoes have boiled 
away, put on covers quickly, turn upside down to see if there are leaks next 
day. Pour melted paraffine over the tops, put into a cool dark place. 

To Can Tomatoes Whole. 

Remove the skins by plunging the tomatoes into boiling water then into 
cold, the skins will come oflF readily. Fill your glass jars, be sure to select 
wide-mouth jars ; see that they are absolutely clean, then proceed as for can- 
ning tomatoes. If care is taken, the tomatoes will fry nicely when needed, 
and can also be used for salads. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Select firm, round tomatoes, cut a lid from the top ; scoop out all the seeds 
and much of the inside of the tomatoes ; make a filling of one cup of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one saltspoonful of salt, a little 
cayenne, one-half teaspoonful of sweet herbs. Mix well together and fill 
the tomatoes, bake for one-half hour and serve. Use the tomatoes which 
were left for a tomato sauce. 

Turnips Stewed in Butter. 

Take some young turnips, wash and dry them, pare and slice them half an 
inch thick, and divide them into dice. Now melt one ounce of butter for 
each half pound of turnips, and stew them gently in this for nearly an hour. 
When half cooked, add salt and white pepper and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
These can be served by themselves or dished up in the center of an entree. 

Turnips with Bread Crumbs. 

Prepare as for "turnips and peas," fill the turnip cups with bread crumbs, 
which have been soaked in cream, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Turnips Stewed in Gravy. 
Wash and peel the turnips, cut them in thin slices, boil for five minutes 
in boiling water, then drain off the water, and put over the turnips one pint 
of stock or gravy and one teaspoonful of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, a 
little pepper, and boil together until the turnips are tender. Serve hot. 

Turnips Mashed. 

Wash and peel the turnips, cook in boiling water until tender, then mash 
them through a colander, return to the stewpan and add one-fourth teacup 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 161 

of milk, one tablespoon ful of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 
one teaspoonf ul sugar ; stir together until hot and serve. 

Turnips and Peas. 

Boil the turnips, which should be the white ones, until tender in salted 
water, then take from the fire, place for five minutes in cold water; when 
cool scoop out the inside, leaving cups of the turnips; fill the cups with 
green peas which have been boiled, seasoned with a little salt and pepper, 
and a tablespoon ful of cream ; reheat the turnip-cups, add a little butter to 
the peas, fill the cups and serve. 

In cooking turnips always add two lumps or one teaspoonful of sugar to 
the water ; the sugar will correct the bitterness which sometimes spoils this 
excellent vegetable. 

Vegetable Marrow (Boston Squash) Boiled. 
Take the marrow, peel and remove the seed part, cut into pieces about two 
inches wide, cook these in boiling slightly salted water until they are tender, 
which will take fifteen minutes, then drain and place on slices of buttered 
toast and pour over melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Vegetable Marrow Stuffed. 

Peel the marrow carefully, cut off a slice at the ends and scoop out the 
insides. Cook the marrow slowly fifteen minutes in a stewpan with plenty 
of boiling, salted water, remove carefully and place in a basin and cover 
with cold water. Then mix together two tablespoon fuls of cold chicken or 
veal pounded smooth in the mortar and one tablespoonful of thick cream 
sauce, two raw yolks of eggs, a little cayenne; drain the marrow, stuff with 
this mixture, roll in flour, then into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs and 
fry in boiling fat until a light brown color. Serve hot, garnished with 
parsley. 

To Can Tomatoes Whole. 

Select medium sized perfect tomatoes, place them on tins, heat in oven 
for a few minutes, or until they feel hot to the touch, then put them into 
large mouth, well sterilized and hot jars, which fill with boiling water and 
seal at once. 

To Can Tomatoes Whole. 

Select perfect medium sized tomatoes, that will fit into Economy jars, 
pour boiling water over them, then remove the skin as rapidly as possible, 
thoroughly sterilize the jars, fill them with the tomatoes, then fill up the 
jars with cold water. Place on bottom of large kettle some straw, or old 
plates, place the jars on them and fill the kettle three- fourths the depth of 
the jars with cold water, bring it to boiling and boil five minutes, then 
fasten the tops securely and let the tomatoes boil for fifteen minutes, remove 
from the kettle — if the tops are tightly on you are assured of a perfect result. 
The tomatoes can be used whole or sliced or fried. 



162 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Cocktails. 

Clover Club. 

The white of one egg beaten — juice one-half lemon. 

One-half tablespoonful of strawberry syrup. 

One-half small spoon sugar. 

One jigger gin. 

Shake well, strain and stir, 

Bronx Cocktail. 

One-quarter of French Vermouth. 

One-quarter of Italian Vermouth. 

One-half dry gin. 

Two slices fresh orange. 

Shake well, strain, serve in cocktail glasses. 

Brandy Cocktail. 

Two dashes of bitters. 
Two dashes of syrup. 
Two dashes of maraschino. 
One dash anisette. 

Seven-eighths jigger brandy; some lemon peel. Stir well — strain — serve in 
cocktail glass. 

Martini Cocktail. 

Two dashes orange bitters. 
Two-thirds gin. 
One-third Italian Vermouth. 
Shake well, strain into glass. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 163 



Beverages. 



Bacon wrote that "in Turkey they use a bean, called coffee, which com- 
forteth the brain and heart and helpeth digestion." 

There are now so many different kinds of percolators on the market, that 
no one has any excuse for serving poorly made coffee. Coffee is too fre- 
quently adulterated with chicory and various cereals, it is safer to purchase 
it in the berry, or in the green berry and have it roasted at home; this is 
strongly objected to by modern cooks, but it is really the best way. With 
the various filters and percolators come the correct directions for using, 
and I advise their general use. 

Boiled Coffee for Five Persons. 

One cup of coffee before being ground, half tgg, two quarts of boiling 
water. Beat one tgg with two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Grind the 
coffee, put one-half the egg on the grounds, then wet it thoroughly so that 
every grain will be wet. Pour the boiling water on, boil about five minutes 
after it comes to a boil. The other half of the egg will answer for the next 
coffee. 

Note. — Put all the water on the coffee that is required, as it spoils the 
coffee to add water after. The water should be perfectly fresh and the 
coffee should be used as soon as it is boiled. 

The coffee should be placed on the hottest part of the range, or gas 
stove, so that it will boil as quickly as possible, watching it constantly that 
it may not boil over. 

The coffee pot should never be washed with soap or a dishcloth, simply 
rinse it out thoroughly with cold water, then with boiling water, turn the 
coffee pot upside down to dry ; never use a towel to dry it. 

Use always a wooden spoon or ladle, rinse and dry as soon as you are 
through with the coffee pot which should never stand with coffee in it. 

Chocolate. 

To one quart of boiling milk take four ounces of chocolate; put the choco- 
late into a small pan on the fire, add three tablespoonfuls of cold water; 
stir together until the chocolate is thick and smooth, then stir it into the 
boiling milk ; add three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir for five minutes and 
serve hot. If desired, put on the top of each cup one spoonful of whipped 
cream. One teaspoonful of sherry to each cup greatly improves the choco- 
late. If the plain chocolate is used put in one teaspoonful of vanilla extract 
if liked, or one tablespoonful of brandy in place of the sherry. 



164 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Cold Chocolate to Serve in Summer. 
Take one-half pound of the best chocolate, dissolve it in one-half pint of 
boiling water in the double boiler over the fire; as soon as the chocolate is 
melted to a paste, add two cupf uls of milk and boil all for a few minutes ; 
then pour the mixture on the yolks of five eggs beaten until very light, put 
back on the stove and stir until it boils ; take off quickly and let it cool, then 
place on ice until needed. 

Filtered CofTee. 

Allow one and one-half tablespoonfuls of coffee to each person. Put the 
coffee into the filter and pour over the boiling water slowly, allowing one 
cupful of water for each person; after all the water has gone through the 
coffee, pour it all through the second time. For filtered coffee the berries 

must be ground very fine. 

Cocoa. 

Full directions come with all the various preparations offered for sale, only 
it is well to boil the cocoa for a much longer time than these directions say. 
Cocoa made with water is best when the boiling is for a long time, for a long 
boiling gives smoothness and richness to the preparation. Add hot milk 
at the time for serving. Or it can be made with all milk. 

"Very Best Egg-Nog." 
Eighteen eggs ; beat the yolks very smooth with enough sugar to make the 
mixture sweet ; add very slowly in a thin stream one pint of brandy and one 
pint of Jamaica rum; then add two quarts of rich cream, then the whites 
of the eggs beaten until stiff, with enough sugar to make them quite sweet ; 
put the whites on top of the mixture and serve, 

Xmas Egg-Nog. 
One pound of sugar, twelve eggs, one quart of whipped cream, one nutmeg 
grated, one pint of brandy. Beat the yolks and sugar together until very 
light, then add the whites beaten stiff, then add the whipped cream, and 
lastly all the brandy, drop by drop as oil is used in making mayonnaise dress- 
ing ; this way of adding the brandy will be found a great improvement over 
the old way of pouring it into the mixture. 

Egg Lemonade. 
Break one egg into a glass, rub two lumps of sugar on the rind of a 
lemon, put into the glass; squeeze the lemon juice over the sugar, half fill 
the glass with powdered ice, fill to the top with cold water, shake vigorously 
with a shaker, then grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

Philadelphia Fish House Punch. 

One quart of brandy, two quarts of Jamaica rum, one gill of peach brandy, 
one quart of lemon juice, five pounds of loaf sugar (dissolved) ; add the 
lemon juice to the sugar and then pour in the mixture of spirits ; nine pounds 
of water and ice. For forty people. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 165 

Fruit Punch. 

This punch is served in small glasses either before a luncheon or during 
a dinner after the roast. Any fresh fruits can be used — strawberries mixed 
with raspberries, cherries, pineapple cut in small slices, white grapes cut in 
halves with the seeds removed. Boil together a cupful of rum and two 
cupfuls of sugar. As soon as the syrup boils, pour it over the fruits and let 
all become cold, then fill the glasses and place on the ice — or place in a can 
and pack in ice and salt. Serve very cold. 

"Good Lemonade." 

For a quart of good lemonade take the juice of three lemons, using the 
rind of one. Peel the rind very thin, getting just the yellow outside; cut 
this into pieces and put with the juice and powdered sugar, of which use 
two ounces to the quart, in a jug or jar with a cover; when the water is just 
at the boiling point pour it over the lemon and sugar, cover at once and 
place on ice. 

Calcutta Lemonade. 

This lemonade is almost equal to liquor in richness. Pare thinly two 
dozen lemons and squeeze the juice on the peel ; let this remain twelve hours, 
then add two pounds of granulated sugar, a quart of sherry, three quarts of 
boiling milk. Let it strain through a flannel jelly bag, and serve with 
chopped ice. 

Chablis or Claret Cup. 

One lemon ; cut off the peel very thinly, twelve lumps of sugar, two wine 
glasses of sherry, one quart of chablis or claret; stir these well together and 
then place on the ice; just before serving add two bottles of soda. 

Creme de Menthe. 
Fill a bottle with sprigs of fresh mint, add the juice of two lemons and a 
pint of brandy; let these stand for one week, then add a syrup made with 
three ounces of rock candy. Bottle and seal until required. 

Shandy Gaff. 
One bottle of ale made very cold, with one bottle of ginger ale; mix 
together and serve cold and quickly. 

Grape Juice Mead. 
Two quarts of grape juice, twelve lemons, six oranges, one quart of 
American champagne, two quarts soda or Apollinaris, two cups of lump 
sugar; rub some of the lumps of the sugar over the oranges and lemons, 
mix the juice of the lemons, oranges and grape juice well together with the 
sugar, then strain through a jelly bag; just before serving, add the cham- 
pagne or soda. Put large lumps of ice in the pitcher and serve in glasses. 
If the champagne is objected to, leave it out. 



166 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Ginger Cordial. 
One ounce of green ginger, one ounce of rock candy ; melt the candy, put 
with it the ginger, rub in small pieces, and add one quart of brandy ; put into 
a bottle and let it stand for one month, then strain and bottle. 

Milk Punch. 
Eighteen lemons, cut ofif the rind and steep them for two days in one 
gallon of brandy or rum; then strain and add two nutmegs grated, three 
pounds of loaf sugar, two quarts of boiling milk, four quarts of cold water 
and the juice of the lemons. Stir all these very well and strain through a 
flannel bag. Add the boiling milk last ; bottle and cork tightly. 

Imperial Pineapple Punch. 

Slice a pineapple very thin, peel four large oranges (take off all the white 
pulp) and separate them into eighths. Put pineapple and oranges into a 
large bowl, add twelve ounces of sugar, eight ounces of lemon juice (the 
juice of four lemons), four drops each of essence of lemon, cinnamon and 
vanilla, pour over one quart of boiling water, let it stand until cool, then add 
one pint of Jamaica rum, one-half pint of arrack, one bottle hock, one wine 
glass chartreuse; add, just before serving, one bottle of champagne and one 
bottle of seltzer. 

Rum Punch. 

One quart of rum, one ounce of Young Hyson tea, two quarts of water, 
twelve lemons, juice and grated rind of nine, sweeten to taste; steep the 
tea, pour into the mixture and bottle ; when needed, pound a quantity of ice 
very fine, put into the punch bowl, or into small glasses and pour the punch 
over. Replenish from the bottle, do not pour all into the punch bowl; 
make the mixture rather sweet. 

Very Good Punch. 

Two pounds of loaf sugar, two cups of strong black tea, six wine glasses 
of brandy, six wine glasses of rum, four oranges, juice only, two bottles of 
champagne, mix well together; this amount makes two gallons of punch — 
add pounded ice, when ready to serve. 

Hot Punch. 

Twelve eggs, four pounds of sugar, two quarts of sherry, one pint of 
water, one stick of cinnamon in the wine ; beat the eggs and sugar together ; 
boil the wine and water, stir in the eggs and sugar quickly and serve hot. 

West Point Punch. 

One goblet of brandy, one goblet of Jamaica rum, one teacupful of green 
tea, eight tablespoon fuls of currant jelly mixed with the hot tea, one goblet 
of white sugar, the juice of four lemons, four lemons cut in thin slices, one 
pineapple cut in thin slices, two quarts of champagne, one teacupful of 
Curacoa, plenty of pounded ice; mix well, let the punch ripen for an hour 
before adding the ice. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 167 

Siberian Punch. 
One quart of thick cream, one-half pint of fine sugar, two whites of eggs, 
one-half tablespoonful of cornstarch. Let cream come to boiling point ; mix 
eggs, sugar and cornstarch together, then turn all slowly into the boiling 
cream until cooked, then cool, then freeze, add one quart of brandy when 
partly frozen. This will serve ten portions. 

To Make Tea. 

The water must be freshly boiled. Pour some hot water into the teapot, 

then pour it out and put in one teaspoon ful of tea for each cup and one 

over, pour over the boiling water, let the tea steep for five minutes. It must 

not boil. For afternoon tea served with lemon, Formosa Oolong is the best. 

Tea. 
In the place of the slices of lemon, a little bit of vanilla bean or a few drops 
of orange-flower water may be added to the water. 

Tea Punch— 1. 
One quart of green tea, juice of twelve lemons, four oranges; one small 
bottle of imported orange-flower water, one quart of Santa Cruz rum, one 
small tumbler of Maraschino, twelve bottles of club soda, sugar to taste, 
slices of oranges, lemons and other fruits in season. 

Tea Punch — 2. Baltimore. 

Two quarts of Jamaica rum, twelve lemons, three pounds of pulverized 
sugar, two cups of green tea. Cut the rind of the lemons as thinly as possi- 
ble, string all on long string and soak in the rum for twelve hours. Steep 
tea, pour it over the sugar and lemon juice, then add the rum, remove lemon 
skins. Just before serving fill up the punch bowl with powdered ice and 
pour over the mixture. 

Tea Punch— 3. 

Mix one pound of loaf sugar, one cup of green tea, three wine glasses of 
brandy, three wine glasses of rum, three lemons, one bottle of champagne. 
Fill the glasses with powdered ice and pour over the punch. 

Russian Tea. 
Make the tea according to the directions given ; serve with sugar and 
slices of lemon. The samovar used in Russia for tea is for boiling the 
water, which is poured over the tea in the usual teapot. 

Orangeade. 

Add to three cupfuls of orange juice, the juice of two lemons ; add enough 
sugar to make as sweet as desired or, better, make a syrup as directed else- 
where and add two cupfuls of it. 

A Dutch Liqueur. 

Put three pounds of rock candy into three quarts of good brandy or 
whiskey, brandy is preferable, then add six ounces of whole cloves, one- 



168 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

fourth pound of stick cinnamon, one-half pound of chopped orange or tan- 
gerine peel and one- fourth pound of whole ginger, two pounds white sugar ; 
put all into a large jar and shake it every day for a month, then strain 
through a fine muslin and bottle. 

Ice Cold Tea. 

Make a syrup with one quart of water in which dissolve one pound of 
white sugar; stir well and when the sugar has melted, boil it in a perfectly 
clean kettle or pan until it begins to spin when a little is dropped from a 
spoon; then put the syrup in a glass jar; it will keep perfectly. Use this 
syrup to sweeten your tea. Make as much tea as will be needed, allowing 
one teaspoonful of tea for each cup. Have fresh boiling water, pour over 
the tea, let stand five minutes, strain into a pitcher, sweeten and put on the 
ice, after it has cooled. When needed, have slices of lemon cut very thin 
and serve in each cup. Add the syrup, which gives a smoothness to the tea, 
which the lumps do not give. 

Maraschino. 

Bruise twelve cherry kernels, put them into a glass jar holding two quarts, 
add the grated rind of three oranges and two lemons, make a syrup with 
two pounds of sugar and one pint of water, boil it until the syrup is thick, 
then put it into the jar with two quarts of gin, stir the mixture well, leave 
it for a day, then strain and bottle ; it will be ready for use in two weeks. 

Peach Brandy. 

Put six large peaches sliced in one quart of brandy, put the kernels from 
the peach stones; add three ounces of rock candy, let these stand for six 
weeks, then strain and bottle. 

Orange Brandy. 

Two quarts of good brandy, three-quarters of a pint of fresh orange juice 
strained, one pound white sugar. Peel the rinds from the oranges very 
thinly, add them to the brandy, the orange juice and sugar; mix together 
and cover closely for five days, occasionally stirring ; then strain and bottle. 
This will keep for years. 

Lemon Brandy. 

Prepare as for orange brandy, substituting lemons. 

Virginia Mint Julep. 
Put in a long glass, or silver mug one tablespoonful of syrup, made by 
boiling sugar in a little water, strained and kept for this purpose, then put 
in an ordinary whiskey tumbler full of whiskey or brandy and fill up the 
long glass with crushed ice, sticking on top of the ice a bunch of freshly 
gathered mint. Have the glass dry on the outside when the ice is put in, 
then put aside for a few minutes so that the frost will gather on the outside. 
Where a luxuriant bed of mint is seen growing in Virginia it is said : "There 
lies buried a good Virginian." 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 169 



Sauces. 

Without perfect cleanliness, good wholesome cookery is absolutely impos- 
sible, and this can only be obtained by constant oversight of all utensils used 
in the preparation of food. 

Sauces. 

Sauces should be prepared with great care, as they are most important 
adjuncts to the proper serving of the various dishes. 

Attention should be paid to serving the right sauce adapted to the dish, 
so that both will harmonize and each improve the other. On careful study 
it will be found that few sauces are expensive, but their value is great. 

Let no one flavor predominate. Use Worcestershire Sauce very sparingly, 
too often it is used to hide something not quite right in cooking, — also use 
bay leaves carefully. The French call two sauces, "White Sauce" and 
"Brown Sauce," the mother of all others. 

Algonquin Sauce for Chops or Steak. 
Two onions chopped fine, three green peppers chopped fine, seeds removed, 
cook these in one-fourth of a pound of butter, when they are tender, add 
one pound of fresh mushrooms chopped, or one teaspoonful of mushroom 
catsup; cook ten minutes longer, then add one claret glassful of sherry and 
one large spoonful of glaze or strong stock, and cook five minutes ; when , 
ready to serve, sprinkle in one tablespoon ful of parsley chopped fine. 

Making Gravies. 

The very best manner to blend the fat and flour is to heat the fat then 
add the flour and cook the two together, afterwards to add the liquid, this 
will avoid lumps. In making brown gravies the longer cooking of the fat 
and flour results in a dark brown color and this is specially desirable for 
dark gravies, also greatly adding to the flavor of the gravy. Try never to 
serve the poor whitey-brown gravies often seen. They are not only without 
flavor, but are decidedly unappetizing. 

Flavorings for Gravies, Etc. 

Carrots, garlic, green peppers, turnips, tomatoes, celery tops and roots, 
parsley, savory, thyme, sweet marjoram, lemon rind, capers, pickles, olives, 
currant jelly, cloves, red peppers, chillies, celery salt, salt, butter, leeks, 
nutmeg, meat, some meat extracts, bay leaves, — are all used, with others. 
Care should be shown in not making any flavor too pronounced. Bay leaves 
must be used sparingly, one-half of a small leaf will flavor sufficiently. 
Sherry should be added at the last, as boiling gives it a bitter taste. 



170 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Anchovy Sauce. 
One tablespoon ful of butter, one-half tablespoon ful of flour, mix them 
well together and add two tablespoon fuls of cold water, put into the sauce- 
pan and stir constantly on the fire until the sauce thickens and boils; then 
take from the stove and add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Anchovy 
essence, stir this well and add six drops of Chili or cider vinegar. 

Anchovy Cream Sauce to Serve with Boiled Cod. 

Melt two tablespoon fuls of butter in a saucepan. When hot add two 
tablespoon fuls of flour. Stir well, when thick add one-half pint of the 
water in which the cod was boiled, season with salt, a little cayenne, one 
teaspoonful lemon juice, one dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy. Stir 
well together until it boils, then add one wine glass of cream. Strain through 
a sieve, serve hot. A few drops of carmine improves the color of the sauce. 
Pure vegetable colorings can be purchased and are harmless. The cream 
can be whipped before it is added to the sauce. It must not boil and must 
be very stiffly whipped. 

Apple Sauce to Serve with Duck. 

Six or more good sized apples, peel, core and quarter, throw into cold 
water while preparing. When all are ready, put into porcelain lined kettle 
and add a little of the water, cover closely and cook until soft, then put 
through a sieve, add one teaspoonful salt and two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one teaspoonful of butter. Stir well, serve either hot or cold. If the 
sauce is desired to serve for dessert, add more sugar. 

Butter Sauce for Asparagus — Holland. 

This most excellent sauce is one obtained from a Dutch housekeeper in 
Holland and is always served there with asparagus and with cauliflower. 

Tie the asparagus into bunches, cut the lengths equal and boil, standing the 
tops upward in a deep saucepan. The steam will cook the tops and by this 
method the other parts can be cooked long enough to render them very 
tender without spoiling the green tops. For the sauce, put in a bowl two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, add one-half pound of butter and beat 
together until thick cream. Add one saltspoonful of salt and serve in a 
sauce boat. Have enough hard boiled eggs to allow one-half an egg for each 
person. Rub the yolks well into the sauce. If you have any asparagus left, 
serve it the next day, with the remainder of the sauce to which add one 
tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Sauce for Asparagus or Cauliflower. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful 
of sour cream. Mix all well together, then add one tablespoonful of cold 
water, put over a slow fire and let all come to a boil ; then add a little water 
from the asparagus or cauliflower to thin if necessary. Just before serving, 
add yolk of one egg well beaten. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 171 

Bechamel Sauce — 1. 

Four onions, cut them and boil with one small slice of ham, either raw 
or cooked, four peppercorns and two tablespoon fuls of butter. Cover all 
closely and steam until soft; be careful the sauce does not burn or color. 
When the onions are tender add one tablespoonful of flour mixed with one 
tablespoonful of cream, one cup of white sauce or good white stock. Cook 
five minutes ; strain, add one saltspoonful of salt and a little white pepper 
and serve hot. 

Bechamel Sauce — 2. 

Put in a small double boiler two-thirds of a pint of milk, add to it one 
sprig of parsley, one-half a bay leaf, one onion, two stalks of celery, a little 
cayenne, one teaspoonful salt and one teaspoonful lemon juice, let these 
simmer together. Put two tablespoon fuls of butter in saucepan and when 
melted add two tablespoon fuls of flour, stir together briskly for five minutes, 
strain the hot milk into this, stir well so no lumps remain. The milk must 
be added gradually and the top part of the boiler taken from the fire while 
each portion of milk is added and well stirred each time, this insures a sauce 
free from lumps, then boil for five minutes. 

Bearnaise Sauce — 1. 
Add the yolks of five eggs to one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper; put all into the saucepan and stir 
until the yolks begin to thicken, then take from the fire and add another 
tablespoonful of butter; then stir again over the fire; then add another 
tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. The sauce 
should be rather thick. 

Bearnaise Sauce — 2. 
The yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, four tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Beat the eggs 
lightly, add the olive oil gradually, then the hot water a little at a time. Put 
in the double boiler, stir constantly until the sauce begins to thicken, it is 
best to remove it from the fire a few times and stir, as eggs always cook 
better at a low temperature. When the mixture is quite thick, let it cool, 
when cool add tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little cayenne and a 
teaspoonful salt, cider vinegar will answer. 

Bread Sauce — 1. 

One pint of milk, one-third cup of fine bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls 
chopped onion, one tablespoonful butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half 
teaspoonful pepper, two-thirds cup of coarse bread crumbs. Boil the fine 
crumbs and onions in the milk for twenty minutes, then add butter, salt and 
pepper, strain. Fry the coarse crumbs in one tablespoonful of butter, pour 
the sauce around the birds or broiled chicken, and the course crumbs over. 



172 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Bread Sauce — 2. 

One-half pint of bread crumbs, one-half pint of milk; pour the milk 
boiling hot on the crumbs and cover closely for thirty minutes, then put 
into the saucepan with one saltspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of nut- 
meg, or powdered mace, one-half tablespoonful of butter, and a little 
cayenne; stir for five minutes, then add one tablespoonful of cream, boil all 
together for a minute, then serve. The bread crumbs should be from stale 
bread and made very fine, so that the sauce will be smooth when ready 
for use. 

Bread Sauce with Onion. 

One-half a pint of bread crumbs and one onion cut in pieces; boil with 
one-half pint of milk, stir frequently and cook until the onion is tender, then 
press through a sieve, put back into the stewpan and boil rapidly for a few 
minutes, then add a little salt and pepper, one tablespoonful of butter, a 
little nutmeg, two tablespoon fuls of cream; stir together and serve. 

Brains, Force Meat-Balis. 
Soak the brains in cold water for an hour, then remove the skin, rinse 
the brains and tie them in a piece of cheesecloth, and place in the stewpan 
with boiling water enough to cover them, add to the water one onion, one 
bay leaf, a few peppercorns and a little salt; boil for twenty minutes, 
remove the brains and let them cool; when cold, mash them perfectly 
smooth, and add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one egg, beaten ; one-half 
cup of cracker crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Mix all 
together and let stand for one-half hour, then form into small balls, roll these 
in beaten egg and then in fine bread crumbs, fry them in deep, hot fat for one 
minute. The balls make a garnish for any preparation of calf's head, or if 
served with tomato sauce, make a good entree. 

Melted Butter Sauce with Milk. 

Place in the double boiler two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful 
flour, stir together and add one-half pint of boiling milk and one teaspoonful 
of salt. This sauce is a good foundation sauce for oyster, onion or lobster 
sauce. 

Brown Butter Sauce. 

One-fourth pound of butter, melt in the frying pan, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, as soon as it is brown, stir in one tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one saltspoonful of salt and a 
little pepper. Simmer for two minutes, serve. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Take one ounce of butter and stir into it one ounce of flour ; let them cook 
together for a minute, stir all the time; then add one-half pint of boiling 
water and one-half teaspoonful of salt; boil this once, then stir into the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 173 

sauce — another ounce of butter, stir briskly until this butter disappears; 
when all the butter is in, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, remove the pan 
from the fire while stirring in the eggs; when they are well mixed return 
to the fire until they commence to thicken, then add one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and a little cayenne. The sauce should be a yellow color and 
thick like custard. 

Brown Sauce or Gravy. 

When the meat is cooked and taken from the pan, pour off the fat from 
the surface carefully, then pour in a little boiling water, stir it around well, 
so as to take up all the brown spots which adhere to the pan, for these are the 
very best of the meat, being the osmazome of meat and the nourishing part 
really. This gravy or sauce should be given to children on their food and 

never rich sauces. 

Brown Sugar Sauce. 
Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of water, one tablespoonful of butter, 
boil and skim the sauce, which should be rather thick. 

Brown Sauce. 
One slice of lean ham and one-half pound of veal or beef cut into pieces, 
one pint of stock, one bay leaf, one bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, one 
blade of mace ; stew these all together one hour, then take off every particle 
of fat, strain and return to the saucepan and add one wine glass of sherry, 
and a little cayenne with one tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of 
butter rubbed together. When the sauce thickens it is ready to serve. The 
wine can be omitted, and hot water substituted. 

Brown Caper Sauce. 
A brown caper sauce is served sometimes with either roast or boiled mut- 
ton. Take one and one-half pints of water, one slice of lean ham, one-half 
pound of beef cut in small pieces, one bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, one 
blade of mace, boil slowly together for two hours, strain, then add one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, the juice of one lemon, one saltspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of anchovy essence (this may be omitted), one teaspoonful 
of sugar ; boil together, then strain and add one tablespoonful of capers. 

Caper Sauce. 

Add to a white sauce two tablespoonfuls of French capers. Serve with 
boiled mutton. Caper sauce is equally good with roast mutton. 

Cream Sauce — 1. 
One tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter; take one table- 
spoonful of the butter, put in saucepan, when melted add the flour, stir 
until smooth, then add one teacup of cream or milk, some salt and pepper. 
When the sauce is thick remove from the fire and add the remaining butter ; 
stir together until it is melted. Keep it hot over a kettle of boiling water, 
and well stirred, or a crust will form over it. 



174 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Cream Sauce — 2. 

Three eggs, yolks only, a piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one-half pint of cream, a little nutmeg and salt; stir all con- 
stantly over the fire until the sauce thickens ; then remove at once, for if it 
boils the eggs will curdle. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Slice two good-sized cucumbers. Take out seeds and put the cucumbers 
with four onions into a saucepan with one tablespoonful of butter; when 
quite soft, mash through a sieve, add one teacup of cream, one teaspoon ful 
of flour, a little cayenne; simmer for fifteen minutes, then add one salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

Devonshire or Clotted Cream. 

Obtained in Devonshire. 

Strain new milk into a shallow, wide pan; let it stand for twenty-four 
hours in summer, thirty-six hours in winter — place it then on the stove to 
warm slowly — bring the milk to the scalding point, but it must not boil or 
even simmer; as soon as it is ready, little bubbles of air will appear on the 
surface and small rings, then take the milk from the fire and put in a cold 
place to stand for twelve hours, when the cream will be thick and clotted ; it 
can be quickly made into butter by beating, or the cream is delicious served 
over puddings or stewed fruits. 

Cranberries to Serve with Roast Turkey. 

Pick out all the imperfect ones ; then weigh after washing the berries, 
place in a porcelain kettle with cold water — the berries must just be covered 
with the water ; put on the fire where they will boil ; as soon as the skins 
commence to burst, add three-fourths of a pound of sugar to every pound of 
berries ; stir the sugar well with the berries and boil briskly a moment, then 
take from the fire, strain through a colander and pour into a mold ; if you do 
not wish a jelly, strain into a bowl and stir the berries several times with a 
spoon while they are cooling. 

If you do wish a jelly, turn into a sieve and press the cranberries through. 
Cranberries can be cooked early in the season, poured into little jelly glasses 
and will keep all winter ; in order to keep well, however, a much longer time 
will be required to boil them and one pound of sugar allowed to every pound 
of berries. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cut up a head of celery, put into a saucepan with enough milk to cover 
it, cover and cook until tender, then take out the celery and rub it through 
a sieve. Mix together one tablespoonful of butter and one-half tablespoon- 
ful of flour stir this mixture into the milk in which the celery was boiled, 
add one saltspoonf ul of salt, a little pepper and one-half cup of cream ; put 
back the celery, let all boil once together and serve. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 175 

Cherry Sauce — German. 
One quart of cherries, pound the cherries in a mortar or wooden bowl until 
the stones are broken then boil until tender with one-half pint of water; rub 
all through a sieve and boil again with one-half pound of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a little grated lemon rind, one teaspoonful of cin- 
namon, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves ; add one teaspoonful of flour 
mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water ; stir into the sauce, until it 
thickens ; strain and serve with any pudding, or with roast meat. 

Custard Sauce for Puddings. 

One pint of milk, place in double boiler, stir in two eggs lightly beaten 
together, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, keep stirring until the sauce 
thickens, it must not boil. Take from the fire, stir in one tablespoonful of 
brandy and grate one-half a nutmeg into the sauce. The sauce is richer 
made with cream. 

Sauce for Wild Ducks — 1. 

One tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of mush- 
room sauce, one tablespoonful of port wine, one teaspoonful of currant jelly, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, the grated rind of one-half lemon. Let 
these boil together, then add one-half cup of stock mixed with one table- 
spoonful of flour to thicken, boil again for three minutes. 

Sauce for Wild Ducks — 2. 
Mix together on a hot soup plate one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoon- 
ful currant jelly, a little salt, very little cayenne, the juice of one lemon, one 
glass of sherry, small cupful of finely minced celery. Stir all well together 
and serve with each portion of duck. 

Dutch Sauce. 
Mix one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a saucepan over the 
fire, and stir constantly until it bubbles ; then add gradually one tablespoon- 
ful of boiling water, remove the sauce from the fire, stir in the yolks of three 
eggs, one at a time, add one tablespoonful of dry mustard, three tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil, one tablespoonful vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, a little 
pepper, add the oil drop by drop, stirring constantly until smooth. 

Dutch Sauce for Fish or Meat. 
One-fourth pound of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour; put in a sauce- 
pan and let them cook two minutes, then add one teacup of broth and cream 
mixed, add two yolks of eggs, beaten, the juice of one lemon, salt and 
pepper. Do not boil, keep hot. 

Sauce Diable. 

Chop fine eight shallots, two onions, two sprigs of parsley, one green 
pepper (remove seeds), one sprig of thyme, one-half bay leaf, put in sauce- 
pan with one claret glass of vinegar, cook together until nearly dry, then add 



176 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

four tablespoon fuls of brown sauce. Boil together a minute, strain and 
serve. 

Egg Balls. 

Mix the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with one tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Make into balls, dredge with flour and fry until brown. Serve in 
soup. 

Egg Sauce. 

To three yolks of eggs, beaten to a cream, add one large spoonful of 
melted butter; one tablespoonful of cream, a little salt and pepper, put on 
the fire and stir carefully until the sauce sets as a cream ; do not let it boil. 

Epicurean Sauce. 

Mix well together one-half pint of mushroom catsup, one-half pint of 
walnut catsup, two glasses of port wine, two glasses of Indian Soy, three 
ounces of shallots, one-half ounce of cayenne, one-half ounce of cloves, 
one and one-half pints of vinegar, one saltspoonful of pepper. Put all these 
into a large jar that can be tightly covered, shake well every day, after two 
weeks strain and bottle. 

Sauce for Boiled Fish. 

One-half pound of butter, the juice of one lemon, one saltspoonful of salt, 

a little pepper; beat these together until smooth on the fire, but do not let 

the mixture boil. Take from the fire and add the yolks of two eggs well 

beaten, pour some of the sauce over the fish, serve the balance in a sauce 

boat. 

Fairy Butter. 

Four ounces of butter, five ounces of powdered sugar, the juice and 

grated rind of one lemon. Cream the butter, then add the sugar gradually, 

beating hard and fast until it is very light, then add the lemon; mix well 

and pile up on small dish, serve with any pudding. 

Sauce for Fish and Broiled Lobster. 
Cook one-third of a pound of butter; when bubbling hot, add two tea- 
spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoonful of tomato sauce and 
two drops of tabasco sauce or a pinch of cayenne. 

Foamy Sauce. 
Beat together until very light one cupful of powdered sugar with one-half 
cupful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, add the whites of 
two eggs, beaten until very light, put bowl containing the sauce in a pan of 
boiling water and stir until the sauce is foamy. 

Force Meat Balls. 
One pound of boiled veal, chopped very fine, and mixed with two yolks 
of eggs, some pepper, salt, a pinch of sweet marjoram, a little pinch of 
cloves and allspice; make into balls and fry brown. Serve as a garnish, or 
in soup. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 177 

German Wine Sauce. 

Take two wine glasses of sherry (or three- fourths of a measuring cup), 
dissolve in it two and one-half tablespoon fuls of sugar. Add to the wine 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Place on fire and when hot, add the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, continue to stir over hot water until the sauce is 
well foamed and thickened. Do not let it boil or it will curdle. Then add 
the three whites well beaten, remove from the heat and serve with the 
pudding. 

Garlic Sauce or Wine. 

Half fill a pint bottle with garlic cloves then fill the bottle with port wine, 
in two months pour off the wine and bottle it. It will be very strong, one 
drop is enough to use at a time. 

German Sauce. 

One-fourth pint of sherry, two yolks of eggs, two tablespoon fuls of sugar. 
Put the yolks into a basin and beat well, pour into a saucepan, add the sherry 
and sugar ; let it heat but not boil. Pour around the pudding. 

Giblet Gravy for Turkey and Chicken. 
Put the neck, gizzard and liver with one onion into one and one-half pints 
of water ; boil until the liver and gizzard are tender ; remove the onion, chop 
the gizzard fine, mash the liver with one tablespoonful of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, season with pepper and salt. Stir this mixture into the 
gravy ; when it thickens, add the gizzard and serve. 

Genevaise Sauce for Salmon, Trout, Etc. 

Cut one onion and one carrot into rounds, put them into a stewpan with 
a small bunch of sweet herbs (sprig of thyme, sweet marjoram) with two 
sprigs of parsley, a few mushrooms if in season, one-half bay leaf, four 
cloves, one blade of mace; add two tablespoon fuls of butter, one pint of 
milk or brown stock, simmer gently for one hour, then strain, return to 
clean stewpan, mix together one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoon- 
ful flour, stir into the sauce. Keep on stirring until the sauce is thick and 
smooth, then add one wine glass of sherry and one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 

Gooseberry Sauce for Boiled or Broiled Mackerel. 

One pint of green gooseberries, canned ones can be used, boiled in a little 
water until tender, strain and rub them through a sieve. Put into a stew- 
pan some bechamel sauce or gravy, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and a little grated nutmeg, add the goose- 
berry pulp and one tablespoonful sugar, boil all together for a few minutes 
or until well blended and serve. 

Hard Sauce — 1. 

Two cups of powdered sugar, mix with one cup of butter until very 
creamy, add slowly one tablespoonful of brandy, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 



178 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

cream these together with a Httle grated nutmeg, lastly add one cupful 
of stiffly whipped cream. 

In making hard sauce add the powdered sugar slowly, a little at a time. 

Hard Sauce — 2. For Puddings. 
One cup of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, stir together until perfectly 
creamy, then add one-half cup of wine and a little lemon juice, or a little 
nutmeg ; beat until it is firm and smooth, then make into a flat ball and keep 
on the ice until needed. 

Horseradish Sauce to Serve with Roast Beef — 1. 
Four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one teaspoonful of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one tablespoonful of vinegar. Grate the horseradish, mix it with 
the sugar, salt, pepper and mustard, add the vinegar and three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream and heat all together, do not let it boil, but heat it in the 
double boiler. This sauce will be found an improvement over cold horse- 
radish sauce. With cold beef serve it cold. 

Horseradish Sauce — 2. 

Two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, two tablespooiifuls of whipped 
cream, and one saltspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of vinegar; mix well 
together. A pinch of powdered sage is thought by many to be an improve- 
ment. 

Hollandaise Sauce for Meats. 

One-fourth pound of butter ; mix in this one teaspoonful of flour, and the 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, the juice of one-half a lemon, a little grated 
nutmeg and one tablespoonful of water; mix together and stir constantly 
over a slow fire. The sauce must not boil, or it will curdle, and be unfit 
for use. 

Horseradish Butter for Roast Beef. 

Grate the horseradish; after which pound well in a mortar; add a little 
soft butter and a little salt. 

Horseradish Vinegar. 
One-fourth pound of scraped horseradish, one ounce of bruised shallots, 
one-half teaspoonful of cayenne, one quart of vinegar. Put all these into a 
bottle, which shake well every day for two weeks, then strain and bottle. 
It is a good relish with cold meats or a few drops added to a salad is an 
improvement. 

Jelly Sauce for Venison, Game and Mutton. 
Take equal quantities of butter and currant jelly; melt the butter, then 
add the jelly, and when it is melted add one teacup of port or sherry. Bring 
all to a boiling point and pour over the game. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 179 

Lemon Butter for Puddings. 

Three lemons, juice and grated rinds — three eggs, well beaten, one pound 

of sugar, one teacup of water, one tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat 

these all together, then boil for five minutes or until thick. Put into glasses. 

It will keep. 

Sabyllon Sauce for Puddings. 

This sauce is so rich it only needs a few spoonfuls poured over the pud- 
ding. Beat one whole egg and two yolks with one-half teacup of sugar, put 
into double boiler, beat them well and add one-half teacup of sherry, as soon 
as you add the sherry, the eggs will thicken, remove them from fire and add 
the juice of one lemon. 

Lemon Brandy for Flavoring Custards, Cake, Etc. 
One pint of brandy, in which put the grated rind of three lemons, let the 
rind infuse for two days, boil four tablespoonfuls of sugar with one-half pint 
of water, for five minutes. Strain, let it cool, when cold put it with the 
brandy and bottle. This will be found a very delicious flavoring for custards 
or cakes, do not use more than one tablespoonful. 

Lemon Syrup. 

To one pint of strained lemon juice, add one and one-fourth pounds of 
sugar ; let it simmer on stove until it is perfectly clear ; when cold, bottle and 
cork tightly. 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter or Sauce. 

Mix one-fourth pound of butter with two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, juice of two lemons, a little salt. This butter will keep and it is 
convenient to have it mixed and ready for use. 

Maple Syrup Sauce. 
One-half pound of maple sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, one-half gill 
of hot water; dissolve the sugar in the hot water, let it simmer a few 
minutes until clear, add the butter ; pour into sauce-boat and serve. 

Melted Butter. 

Take one tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and not 
quite half a pint of milk, and a little salt. Mix the flour and a little of the 
milk smoothly together in a basin, melt the butter in the saucepan, stir it 
over the fire for one minute and then pour in the remainder of the milk; 
keep stirring one way only over a quick fire ; let it boil quickly for a minute 
or two, and then it will be ready to serve. This sauce is the foundation of 
many other sauces. 

Melted Butter Sauce with Water. 

The secret of this sauce is in the careful mixing. Melt in the double 
boiler two ounces of butter, when melted stir into it two ounces of flour, 
stir all together until the mixture leaves the bottom of the tin, then pour in 



180 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

very gradually one-half pint of boiling water, see that there are no lumps, 
after all the water is used, cook the sauce for ten minutes, if desired very 
fine, put the sauce through a fine sieve after, but if care is used in stirring 
there need not be lumps, season with salt and a little white pepper and a very 
little nutmeg, if the flavor is liked. Always serve the sauce in a hot 
sauce boat. 

This melted butter sauce can be varied indefinitely — made with milk, 
anchovy essence added, chopped parsley, capers, lemon juice, strained cooked 
tomatoes, etc. 

Queen Mary's Sauce. 

Queen Mary's Sauce for roast meats has been immortalized by Sir Walter 
Scott — to make this the following directions are given : 

When the meat is half roasted, put into the pan, three tablespoonfuls of 
hot water, three tablespoonfuls of port wine, one minced shallot or onion and 
one minced anchovy, a little pepper; baste the meat quite often with this 
mixture and the gravy which comes from the meat. When the meat is 
cooked, turn it out on a hot dish with the inside uppermost. Score 
it two or three times with a sharp knife, pour over the gravy and cover the 
meat with fried bread crumbs. 

Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb— 1. 
Four tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, two teaspoon fuls of sugar, one 
tablespoonf ul of vinegar. Mix these well together ; make two hours before 
dinner. 

Mint Sauce — 2. 
Take a large bunch of fresh mint, enough to make three tablespoonfuls, 
chop the rind of a lemon fine and add it to the mint, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of best vinegar, the juice of the lemon, and dissolve in this as 
much sugar as it will absorb; let the sauce stand for an hour or two 

before using. 

Montpelier Butter. 

Pick off the leaves from a quantity of watercress, mince them as finely 
as possible, and dry them in a cloth; then mince them still more and dry 
them again. Then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take 
up, adding a very little salt and pepper. Make it up into balls and serve 
with the cheese course. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

One egg, yolk only, put this into a small basin or soup plate, stir with a 
wooden spoon, and pour into it, drop by drop, the olive oil ; after you have 
used about two tablespoonfuls of oil, you can pour in the oil by the tea- 
spoonful. When a sufficient quantity of mayonnaise is made, add one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt and some cayenne. Should the 
mixture break, you must stop at once and take a fresh plate and egg, and 
commence with the oil drop by drop; if this mixture is all right, you can 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 181 

then add the first mixture to it. Keep on the ice until needed. A few 
spoonfuls of stiff whipped cream is an addition to the sauce. 

Mustard Sauce. 
Put one tablespoon ful of butter in saucepan when hot, add one table- 
spoonful of flour ; stir until smooth, then add one onion sliced and one-half 
pint of stock, the grated rind of one lemon, one saltspoonful of salt, a little 
cayenne, and two tablespoon fuls of vinegar; let these simmer for fifteen 
minutes, and then add three tablespoon fuls of mustard with a little water; 
boil together until smooth, strain and serve hot. 

Mustard. 

Scald four tablespoon fuls of dry mustard with a cupful of boiling water, 
and stir into it when cold, one tablespoonful of vinegar, one of salad oil, 
one teaspoonful of white sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat to a cream. This 
is a delicious preparation of mustard and keeps well. 

Onion Coloring for Soups and Sauces. 

One-half pound of onions, cook them in about a cupful of water for ten 
minutes, then add one-half pound of sugar and simmer all until the mixture 
is of a very dark brown color; add one gill of boiling vinegar; stir well; 
when cold strain and bottle. 

Onion Sauce — 1. 

Cut in slices six onions, steam them in a covered saucepan over hot water 
with a lump of butter the size of an egg, until they are soft, then add one 
tablespoonful of flour, one teacup of broth, one tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar, one glass of white wine; stir until the 
sauce is smooth and thick, then strain and serve. 

Onion Sauce — 2. 

Peel some onions and put them into a little salt and water, and let them 
steep for fifteen minutes. Then put them into a saucepan, cover with water, 
and let them boil till tender. Then drain the onions, chop finely, and rub 
through a sieve. Take half a pint of melted butter (see "Melted Butter"), 
and when it is boiling put in the onions, seasoned with a very little salt 
and some white pepper, and serve. 

Onion Juice. 
Remove the outer skin and press the onion against the grater, or grate the 
onion and strain the juice. 

Onion Puree. 
To serve with roast lamb, ducks or mutton. First cut onions very fine, 
enough to make one quart of the onions when cut; boil them in a little 
water until perfectly soft, then drain them; place them in a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper, and simmer slowly for 
thirty minutes. They must not brown. Just before serving add one-half 



182 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

cup of cream or rich milk ; boil all together once, then press through a sieve 
and serve in sauce boat. 

Onion Sauce to Serve with Roast Game or Wild Duck. 
Peel six onions, let them steep in salted water for fifteen minutes ; drain 
and place in a saucepan. Cover with water and boil until tender. Then 
drain well. Chop them fine and rub them through a coarse sieve. Put one 
tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, stir 
constantly until the sauce is thick and smooth, then add one-half pint of 
milk. Stir well. Then add, if it is too thick, more milk. Add this to the 
onions. Boil all together for a minute or two and serve. 

Orange Syrup. 
To every pint of orange juice, add one pound of sugar; boil slowly ten 
minutes, skim carefully; when cold, bottle and cork tightly. 

Orange Sauce to Serve with Game. 

Wash, peel and cut into small bits six mushrooms or use one dessert- 
spoonful of mushroom powder, one small carrot, one onion, wash and dry 
them, then fry them until quite brown in one tablespoonful of butter; be 
careful they do not burn; drain from the butter; melt together in another 
saucepan, two tablespoonfuls of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
stir well until brown and thick; then add one pint of stock, if not con- 
venient, one pint of hot water, the fried vegetables and one cupful of toma- 
toes, either fresh or canned ; cook all well for half an hour ; strain and add 
to this sauce the juice of three oranges and the peel of one orange; the 
peel must be carefully cut from the orange so that none of the white part is 
taken off, and should be cut fine and cooked with one tablespoonful of sugar 
in a little water for an hour before adding to the sauce; last add one salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

Oyster Sauce for Fish. 

Take half a pint of melted butter (see "Melted Butter"), and put it into 
the liquor of the oysters, in which liquor the beards of the oysters should be 
scalded and then strained out, add a few drops of essence of anchovy, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a dash of cayenne; boil once, and then 
put in the oysters cooked, but cut in half. A tablespoonful of cream is a 
great improvement. 

Pepper Sauce — 1. 

A good sauce for a pork roast may be made by adding two tablespoonfuls 
of the tiny red or green peppers chopped fine to the brown pork gravy. The 
seeds should be removed before chopping. 

Pepper Sauce — 2. 

Five large heads of cabbage chopped fine, one-half pint of salt ; let all stand 
over night, next day squeeze dry, add twenty-five peppers seeded, twenty-five 
small cucumbers; mix, sprinkle all with mustard seed, one cup of whole 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 183 

peppers, one tablespoonful of allspice, one tablespoonful of cloves, one pint 

of vinegar. Boil until the vegetables look clear, then cool and put into glass 

jars and seal. 

Sauce Piquante. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, with one tablespoonful flour, when 
mixed, add one-half pint of milk, stir until the sauce is smooth, then add two 
teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one teaspoonful anchovy sauce, one tea- 
spoonful tomato catsup and one tablespoonful of chopped cucumber pickles 
and one tablespoonful of capers. 

Princess Sauce. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter with one tablespoonful of flour, then add 
one pint of chicken broth, one-half bay leaf, one clove garlic, one sprig 
parsley, one sprig celery, one tablespoonful chopped ham, cook ten min- 
utes. Strain, then add one teaspoonful beef extract, one tablespoonful of 
Madeira or sherry, a little salt and pepper. Serve hot with ham mousse, 
etc. Do not let wine boil. 

Poivarde Sauce. 

Two tablespoon fuls of lean, uncooked ham, chopped fine, two tablespoon- 
fuls of carrots cut in pieces, one teaspoonful of turnips cut fine, two onions 
cut in small pieces, one blade of celery, one-half a leek, two sprigs of thyme, 
two bay leaves, two sprigs of parsley, one saltspoonful of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Fry all these together for twenty minutes, then add the 
juice of one lemon, one wine glass of claret, and one pint of stock, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, a little cayenne. Skim the sauce well and serve with a 
fillet of beef, fish or rabbits. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered sugar, beat together until very 
light; add the whites of two eggs unbeaten gradually into the sugar and 
butter, then put the bowl containing the mixture into a pan of boiling water, 
beating the mixture all the while until it is very creamy, then add one gill of 
good brandy. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with a heaping tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar in a saucepan, over the fire, adding slowly a gill of best brandy. Do 
not let the mixture boil, stir continually after taking it ofif the fire, and at the 
end of five minutes, when it has cooled, add a pint of whipped cream 
sweetened vvith two tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar. Beat the sauce well, 
then put on the ice, cool. Just before serving, beat sauce thoroughly, add- 
ing slowly one-half glass of sherry. 

Sauce Ravigote. 
One handful of mixed herbs, thyme, marjoram, savory, parsley and water- 
cress, place in saucepan, with one teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and one 



184 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

tablespoon ful vinegar, add one-half pint of stock and boil all these together, 
then strain, return to fire, add one teaspoonful of butter, rolled in flour, stir 
until it dissolves, 

Roux or White Thickening. 

Melt ten tablespoonfuls of butter over a slow fire and stir into it very 
gradually thirteen tablespoonfuls of flour, stir until the mixture is thick, 
but not colored, add teaspoonful of salt. Placed in a jar it will keep for a 
long time and is always ready for use, to thicken white sauces. Brown 
roux is made in the same manner, only the mixture must cook until it is of 
a brown color, or browned flour is used. 

Romaine Sauce. 
Grate half an ounce of onion, and use two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to 
wash it off the grater, to these add a saltspoonful of sugar, a tablespoon ful 
of lemon juice, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, six capers chopped fine, 
as much cayenne as can be taken up on the point of a very small penknife 
blade, a level saltspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, 
mix well and use for dressing watercress, or any other green salad. A few 
cold boiled potatoes sliced and mixed with this dressing, and a head of let- 
tuce, makes a good potato salad. 

Sauce Robert for Steaks and Roast Goose. 

Put one tablespoon ful of butter into the stewpan with two onions sliced; 
fry these together until brown; add one tablespoonful of flour, stir well; 
then add one tablespoonful gravy or stock, let these boil for five minutes, 
skim off the fat and add one teaspoonful of made mustard, one saltspoonful 
of salt, a little pepper, one tablespoonful of vinegar, and one-half the juice 
of a lemon. Boil together and strain over a steak or goose. 

Soubise Sauce — 1. 

Peel and cut in small pieces one Spanish onion, cook in one tablespoonful 
of butter and one-half tablespoonful of flour for five minutes — it must not 
color at all; then add one-half cup of milk and simmer until the onion is 
tender, then mash through a sieve; add one saltspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of cream; heat all together and 
serve. 

Soubise Sauce — 2. 

Take four onions, cut them in pieces and boil for twenty minutes or 
longer in boiling water, then drain. Take one large tablespoonful of butter, 
put in double boiler, put into this the onions, stew for a few minutes, then 
add one tablespoonful of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper 
and a little grated nutmeg ; mash all through a fine sieve, then add the same 
amount of cream sauce, and serve hot over beefsteak or lamb chops. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 185 

Sage and Onion Sauce. 
Cut three onions into small pieces; fry them with one tablespoonful of 
butter for twenty minutes ; then add one teaspoon ful of salt, a little pepper, 
one teaspoonful of sage chopped fine, two tablespoon fuls of bread crumbs, 
one-half pint of good stock ; stir well together until smooth, cook for fifteen 
minutes longer, strain, serve with roast pork, etc. 

Spanish Sauce. 
To serve with Sweetbreads : To prepare the Spanish sauce, fry one slice 
of ham, cut in small pieces with one tablespoonful of butter; when brown 
add one carrot sliced, two onions sliced, stir well together and add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour; brown well, then take one and one-half pints of stock, 
or hot water; add to this any pieces of raw beef or veal you may have, a 
little salt and pepper, some herbs, one cupful of tomatoes, one tablespoonful 
of mushroom powder (if convenient). Let all simmer for an hour, then 
strain and set aside for use. It will keep perfectly for a week if kept cool. 
This sauce can be used for many other meats, and by adding a wineglass of 
sherry with a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley and one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice it becomes Chateauberand sauce. 

Swedish Sauce for Fish or Salad. 
One-half pint of cream, three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise, one teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, which dilute with water, one large tablespoonful of grated 
horseradish, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper. Whip 
the cream to a stiff froth ; then add the mayonnaise and mustard, mix all 
together, add the horseradish, salt and pepper, place on ice until required. 
Serve with cold fish, or with cold asparagus, tomatoes or cauliflower. 

Sauce Sevilliane. 
Take the grated rind of one orange and one lemon and the juice of both, 
add two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, a very little cayenne, mix and strain, 
serve cold, with cold beef, or heated with wild duck. It may be necessary 
to beat the currant jelly if it is too stiff, in order to mix all together. 

Sauce Mayonnaise in Lemon Cups. 
Make a good mayonnaise, using lemon juice instead of vinegar, cut in 
halves some lemons, remove the seeds and pulp, the juice is used in the 
mayonnaise. Fill in the lemon halves and serve around broiled fish, or at 
any time when sauce tartare is used. 

Tomato Sauce. 
One tablespoonful of butter, one onion cut in slices, one carrot cut fine, 
a little thyme, one-half bay leaf, one stalk of celery cut fine, two sprigs of 
parsley minced fine. Fry the vegetables, herbs, ham and butter together for 
ten minutes, then add one tablespoonful of flour ; when the flour has browned 
and the sauce thickened, add one can of tomatoes or the same of ripe to- 



186 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

matoes; cook for forty-five minutes, then add one teaspoonful of salt, one 
saltspoonful of pepper, one tablespoon ful of sugar; strain the sauce through 
a sieve, serve hot; this sauce will keep for several days if kept in a cold 
place. 

Sauce for Plum Pudding. 

Five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the yolks with part of the 
sugar; beat whites very stiff; add to them the rest of the sugar, mix to- 
gether, and add slowly one-half wineglass of rum, one tablespoonful of 
brandy and a little nutmeg ; beat all the time you are adding the rum, etc. ; 
add one cup of currants and raisins chopped fine. Add liquor when ready 
to serve. 

Tartar Sauce. 

Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, stir the yolks, and a saltspoonful 
of salt, one-half a saltspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of vinegar to- 
gether ; mix well, and pour in drop by drop one gill of olive oil, then add one 
teaspoonful of cider vinegar and one-half teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. 
Take a bunch of parsley, boil it five minutes with a little salt and a bit of 
soda, dry thoroughly by squeezing it in a cloth, chop it, take one teaspoonful 
of the chopped parsley, add one tablespoonful of chopped capers and little 
cucumber pickles ; mix these with the sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

Boil one pint of milk with a piece of vanilla bean and one-half cup of 
sugar, add two teaspoon fuls of flour, when the sauce thickens add the yolks 
of three eggs ; remove from the fire and stir in the three whites beaten very 
stiff with one tablespoonful of powdered sugar — stir these into the sauce 
just as it is served. 

Wine Sauce — 1. 

One pint of powdered sugar, one-half pint of soft butter, beaten together 
until very creamy. Boil two gills of sherry with one gill of water, pour over 
the mixture of butter and sugar, add a little grated nutmeg, and one gill of 
hot sweet cream. 

Wine Sauce for Pudding — 2. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one-half cup of hot 
sherry. Stir well, keep over hot water till ready to use (in a double boiler). 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add egg well beaten, then boiling wine, and 
it will foam. 

White Sauce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, place in double boiler. When melted add 
one tablespoonful of flour, cook together until smooth, then add slowly hot 
milk or cream until the sauce is thick, one teaspoonful of salt, a very little 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg. If the sauce is desired with the flavor of 
onion, add one teaspoonful of grated onion, or one teaspoonful of the juice 
— if with lemon flavor, add the juice of one lemon with the grated rind; if 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 187 

with parsley, add one tablespoonful of finely minced parsley ; if with eggs, 
two hard boiled eggs, cut into small pieces ; if with pickles, one tablespoonful 
of finely chopped cucumber pickles. The flavors can be varied indefinitely. 

White Sauce with Mushrooms. 
Two ounces of butter, one and one-half ounces of flour ; put into a stew- 
pan, mix well, then add one pint of white stock and stir until it boils, then 
add six mushrooms, washed and peeled, let all slowly simmer for twenty 
minutes, take the lid half off the pan, skim ofif the butter as it rises, strain 
this into another stewpan, put in it, one-half pint of cream, and juice of one- 
half a lemon ; mix and then let all boil together. Stir while it boils. 

Thickening with Eggs. 
It must always be remembered that in thickening with eggs any sauce or 
soup, they must not be allowed to boil after they are added. The boiling 
point only should be reached. 

Wine Sauce for Saddle of Mutton. 

One tumbler of currant jelly, mix with one tumbler of tomato catsup, one 
teacup of brown sugar, one tumbler of sherry, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
one-half pint of mutton gravy, have no fat on it, one tablespoonful of flour, 
moistened with a little cold water. Mix all well together, add a little grated 
nutmeg, salt and cayenne. Cook just to the boiling point. 

Yellow Sauce. 

One tablespoonful of butter, put in double boiler, when hot stir in one 
tablespoonful flour, add gradually as the mixture thickens one-half pint of 
rich milk, when thick and smooth add the yolks of two eggs, which have 
been beaten until very light. Do not cook the sauce after the eggs are added, 
as the heat of the sauce cooks them sufficiently, add a little salt. Pick out 
dark eggs, if possible, as they have generally yolks of a deeper yellow than 
white ones. 

Sauce for Wild Duck. 

There is now a fancy to have a sauce for wild ducks, made by crushing 
the bodies of the duck after removing the meat, in a press made for the pur- 
pose — the gravy resulting — made hot with a little port or claret, some 
minced onion or shallot added and a little black pepper or cayenne. 



188 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Catsups and Pickles. 

In the making of pickles pure cider vinegar or the best white wine vinegar 
is absolutely essential to insure good pickles. Do not use in your household 
inferior vinegar, cheap vinegars are dangerous to use. Economize in pickles, 
not in the vinegar to make them with. 

Of course pickles are questionable articles of food, but if used should be 
made carefully and well. It is better to make the pickles in your own home, 
for it is impossible that pickles, many of them, can be made and put on the 
market at the prices charged for them. Pure spices, pure vinegar can not be 
bought cheaply, so dangerous acids are substituted for vinegar and adulter- 
ated spices for pure spices. 

A Fine Catsup. 

Put into a wide-mouth glass bottle one pint of vinegar, one dozen skinned 
shallots, slightly bruised, one gill of red wine which has been made hot, one 
dozen blanched and filleted anchovies which have been heated with the wine. 
When the mixture is cold add one gill of red wine, three blades of mace, one 
piece of ginger root, one dozen cloves, one dozen peppercorns, one dessert- 
spoonful of grated horseradish, the rind of one lemon, one grated nutmeg, 
close the bottle tightly, shake it several times each day for a week; if you 
have any mushroom catsup add one tablespoonful. It will keep for years if 
well sealed and kept in a dry place. 

Bengal Chutney. 
One pound of brown sugar, one-half pound of salt, one-half pound of 
ground mustard seed, one-fourth pound of garlic, one-fourth pound of on- 
ions, one-fourth pound of ginger (ground), one-half pound of raisins, one 
ounce of cayenne, three pints of best cider vinegar, fifteen large sour apples, 
thirteen ripe tomatoes. Garlic, raisins, onions all to be chopped fine, apples 
and tomatoes and all boiled in the vinegar until quite soft, then mash and mix 
all well together ; when cold, cork tight. 

Small Cucumber Pickles. 

First, make a strong brine and scald the brine for four mornings, and pour 
over the pickles hot, each day. Second, make a fresh brine, scald for five 
mornings, then put the pickles into cold water, adding a little piece of alum, 
for twenty-four hours. Scald the vinegar, add while heating red peppers, a 
stick of horseradish, cloves, cinnamon, mace, mustard seed and sugar. For 
five hundred pickles take three pounds of sugar. 

Chili Pickles. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, seven green peppers, ten onions, fifteen tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, seven cupfuls of cider vinegar, five small tablespoonfuls 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 189 

of salt. Chop the tomatoes, peppers and onions fine ; cook all one and one- 
half hours, then bottle. 

Delicious Pickles. 
Three quarts of ripe tomatoes, three quarts of green tomatoes, two red 
peppers, two green peppers (take out the seeds from the peppers), three 
heads of celery, three onions, one cup of grated horseradish. Chop all the 
vegetables, put them in a large bowl, sprinkle over them some salt, let them 
stand over night ; in the morning drain off the water, then take one quart of 
vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one-half cupful of mustard seed, two 
tablespoonfuls of celery salt, one tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon, one- 
half tablespoonful of powdered cloves, one tablespoonful of allspice, one 
tablespoonful of ginger. Boil all until the vegetables are perfectly soft. 

East India Catsup. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes cut fine, ten pounds of brown sugar, 
ten lemons, remove seeds, cut fine, one ounce of white ginger root cut fine. 
Boil all down to two gallons and bottle. 

Grape Catsup. 

Pick six pounds of grapes from the stems, put in a kettle and cover with 
water. Let this boil, then strain. To the juice add one pound of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, and one teaspoonful each of cloves, salt and cinnamon. Boil 
until thick, and bottle. 

German Celery Pickle. 

One-half peck of green tomatoes, two very large heads of cabbage, two 
quarts onions, all chopped fine, twelve stalks of celery, cut into small pieces 
with scissors, use all the green part as well as the yellow leaves, four table- 
spoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, one ounce mustard 
seed, one ounce celery seed, one ounce whole cloves, one ounce pepper corns, 
one tablespoonful ground cloves, three pounds granulated sugar, three quarts 
best cider vinegar. Mix these all well together, with the juice of the chopped 
vegetables, sprinkle the spices all through, place on fire and boil twenty min- 
utes from the time it begins to boil, then place in jars. This sauce is excel- 
lent with all meats, and the recipe will make fourteen quarts of it. 

Green Peppers Stuffed. 

The peppers must be used just before turning red. Cut oflf the stem-end 
of the peppers and take out every seed. Let me warn you of the suffering 
you may have unless you are most careful in removing the seeds. It is bet- 
ter to wear an old pair of cotton gloves, and do not touch your face while 
wearing them. Put the peppers with the tops into strong salted water for 
three days, then drain off the brine. Place in cold water for twenty-four 
hours, in which put a scant teaspoonful of powdered alum. 

For the stuffing, take six tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, three tablespoon- 
fuls of grated horseradish, one teaspoonful of grated mace and nutmeg, two 



190 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

teaspoonfuls of pounded garlic, one-half teaspoonful of powdered ginger, 
one teaspoonful of celery seed, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one dozen whole 
peppercorns, one tablespoonf ul olive oil, and mix all these well together ; fill 
the peppers, tie on the tops and place them in a deep stone crock. Boil the 
vinegar enough to cover them and pour over the peppers; repeat this for 
three days, leaving one day between each boiling of the vinegar ; then put the 
peppers in a cool place ; cover well. It will take two months before the pep- 
pers will be ready for use. Watch them, and if they do not seem to be keep- 
ing well, reboil the vinegar, skimming it well. 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles. 

The cucumbers must be ripe. For the pickles, peel the cucumber, remove 
all the seeds, and slice the cucumbers in long thin slices. Put them into 
salted cold water for twenty-four hours. Then remove from this water, 
drain, place in cold fresh water for four hours. To every eight pounds of 
cucumbers use two pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, one ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce of allspice, one-half ounce of mace, one-half ounce of 
ginger root. Mix these spices well together. They should all be ground 
spices. Tie them in little bags, heat them with the vinegar and sugar. When 
the syrup is hot put in the cucumbers, cook for a few minutes, take out the 
cucumbers, place on a large dish and pour over them the syrup. The next 
day heat the syrup only to boiling point and pour again over the cucumbers. 
Repeat this for four mornings. The last day, boil both syrup and cucumbers 
together and seal in jars. 

If the pickles are desired less sweet, omit one pound of sugar and more 
vinegar can be used. 

This recipe can be used for peaches, pears, quinces, watermelon rind, 
plums, etc. 

For the ripe cucumber preserves, prepare the cucumbers as in the other 
recipe, but omit the vinegar and increase the sugar to four pounds of sugar 
to eight of the cucumbers, and be careful to boil the syrup so as to reduce 
it if it seems at all thin, and at the last time of boiling seal up the cucumbers 
while hot. 

It is impossible to prevent the ripe cucumbers from shriveling, so it is 
necessary to use a lot of them. 

Kitchen Pepper. 

One ounce of ginger, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of pepper, one- 
half ounce of allspice, one-half ounce of nutmeg, ten cloves, all ground, six 
ounces of salt ; mix and bottle. Use a little for seasoning. 

Lemon Catsup. 
Six lemons, cut them into quarters and remove the seeds and put them 
into a small stone jar. Take one quart of vinegar in which put two shallots 
slightly bruised, three blades of mace, one nutmeg, twelve pepper corns, one 



1 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 191 

teaspoonful cayenne, one teaspoon ful salt. Boil these together and then pour 
over the lemons, cover the jar closely; let it stand in a warm place; stir it 
occasionally, and sometimes place it on the back of the range to warm, not 
cook; after three weeks, strain and bottle. This is an excellent sauce for 
fish and white meats and will keep for years. 

How to Mix Mustard. 

Mustard should be mixed with water that has been boiled and then cooled. 
Put the mustard in a cup, add a pinch of salt ; mix into it gradually, care- 
fully rubbing down the lumps, enough water to make a smooth paste that 
will drop from the spoon. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Three dozen large green cucumbers, three small onions, one teacup ful of 
salt. Cut the cucumbers lengthwise, and scrape out the seeds, then chop the 
cucumbers fine and drain for twelve hours, then add one-fourth cupful of 
pepper, one cup mustard seeds, cover with vinegar and seal tight. 

Mixed Pickles. 
Eight large green peppers; take out the seeds and slice them fine, three 
hundred small cucumbers, eight large heads of cauliflower, six heads of 
white cabbage cut fine, two quarts of onions sliced fine, two horseradish 
roots, grated, three quarts of green tomatoes cut fine. Put all the ingredi- 
ents into a brine strong enough to bear an egg for nearly four hours, then 
drain for three hours, then sprinkle in one-half pound of mustard seed, one- 
fourth pound of celery seed, two teaspoon fuls of cayenne, two tablespoon- 
fuls of black pepper, then pour this over the vegetables. Put two gallons of 
vinegar on to boil, pour this over the vegetables when cold and stir into the 
vinegar one pint of prepared mustard. 

Nasturtium Seeds in Pickle. 

The nasturtium seeds must be young and tender. Wash them in cold 
water, then put salt over and let them remain in the salt twenty-four hours, 
then dry them on a clean, coarse towel. Put the seeds into glass jars, add a 
few whole peppers, cloves and some slices of horseradish to each jar. Cover 
with good vinegar and seal. The nasturtiums are a very good substitute for 
capers in sauces or salads. 

Sweet Cherry Pickle. 

Three pints of seeded cherries, two pints of white sugar, one-half pint of 
vinegar, one tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon; boil together for one 
hour, then seal in jars. 

Pickled Onions. 

Buy as many little pickling onions as you wish to preserve. To every 
quart of good cider vinegar add two teaspoon fuls of whole allspice and two 
teaspoon fuls of whole black pepper. 



192 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Be sure that the onions are dry and ripe. With a silver or plated knife, 
for steel turns onions black, take off the outer skin, it may be necessary to 
take off two skins. As you peel the onions put them into dry, clean glass 
jars. Pour in enough cold vinegar to cover them, take care that each jar 
has its full share of allspice. Put rubbers on jars, screw on the tops and put 
away for future use. These should keep eight months. 

Pickled Red Peppers. 

Wash the peppers, cut off the stems, remove the center part containing the 
seeds, then either slice the peppers if they are large ones, or cut them in rings 
with the kitchen scissors. Wear cotton gloves and be careful not to touch 
your face while preparing the peppers. Pour boiling water over the peppers, 
then drain and put them into ice water for ten minutes. Boil one quart of 
best cider vinegar with two cupfuls of sugar, while it is boiling, fill glass 
jars with the peppers, pour over the hot vinegar to overflow the jars, cover 
and put in dark cool place. 

Pickled Plums. 

Prick large Orleans or date plums with a darning needle, lay them in deep 
stone jars with sugar sprinkled liberally between each layer, and leave them 
for two or three days. Strain out the syrup that accumulates from them and 
add to it an equal quantity of white wine or cider vinegar, boiling together 
for twenty minutes, adding stick cinnamon and a piece of mace. Pour this 
while boiling over the plums and see that there is enough liquid to cover all. 
Leave three days, then pour out the syrup again, reboiling it with rather more 
sugar, and again fill up the jars. If the plums do not seem tender enough to 
eat after this, reboil the syrup a third time, always adding it to the fruit 
while at boiling point. Keep closely covered for two months before using. 

Martynia Pickles. 
Select young tender martynias, put them in a strong brine for a week. To 
make this brine, use salt to make the water strong enough to bear up an tgg. 
Boil the water carefully, skim and let it become cold before rubbing it over 
the martynias. At the end of a week, drain off the salt water, rinse the mar- 
tynias in cold water, drain and pour over enough cold vinegar to well cover 
them, leave them in this vinegar for two weeks. To one gallon of the vin- 
egar add three pounds of brown sugar, one-half a teacup of allspice, one- 
half a teacup of cloves, one-half a teacup of black peppers, one tablespoonful 
of celery seed, three red peppers. It is best to pound these well together and 
then boil them in the vinegar and when boiling hot pour all over the mar- 
tynias, put into a stone jar and cover well. 

Pineapple Pickle. 
Pare and cut the fruit into small square pieces. To every pound of fruit 
allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar; let the sugar stand on the fruit 
over night; the next day put all into the kettle and cook until the fruit is 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 193 

tender ; then skim it out of the syrup, add to the syrup a few blades of mace, 
a tablespoon ful of cloves and allspice tied up in a little bag. Cook until the 
syrup is thick, then put back the fruit and boil it with the syrup for a half 
hour. Remove the bag of spices, fill glass jars and seal while hot. 

Peach Pickle. 

For seven pounds of peaches, after the stones and skins have been re- 
moved, take three and one-half pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one 
ounce of allspice, one ounce of cloves, two ounces of stick cinnamon; tie 
these spices into a small bag. Scald vinegar and spices, add the sugar ; when 
the syrup thickens, pour it over the peaches, pour off the syrup and reheat it 
for three mornings, pouring it hot over the peaches, then boil all, peaches 
and spices once together, and put into jars and seal. 

Sweet Pear Pickle. 
Eight pounds of pears, eight pounds of granulated sugar, one-half pound 
of candied ginger, four lemons. Boil the lemons whole in clear water until 
soft. Peel the pears, chop them fine, put the sugar and pears in the preserv- 
ing kettle with the water from the boiled lemons and cook for one hour, 
then add the ginger cut fine and the lemons chopped fine ; remove the seeds. 
Cook for one hour or until the mixture is thick as marmalade. 

Sweet Pickled Pineapple. 

Pare and cut the fruit into small square pieces. To each pound of fruit 

allow three-fourths pound of sugar ; let the sugar stand on the fruit until it 

is dissolved, then put into the kettle and cook until the fruit is tender ; skim 

out the fruit, add one pint of vinegar to the syrup, a few blades of mace, 

whole cloves and allspice tied in a bag ; cook the syrup until it is thick, then 

put back the fruit and boil all together for a half hour. Put into jars, seal 

while hot. 

Tomato Catsup. 

One bushel of ripe tomatoes, six garlic bunches, one-half pound of sugar, 

one-half pint of salt, one and one-half ounces of pepper, one and one-half 

ounces of allspice, two ounces of mustard, two blades of mace, two ounces 

of green ginger, one-half ounce of whole cloves, one ounce of cayenne or 

fresh red pepper, one quart French brandy or alcohol. Put the tomatoes on 

to boil for two hours, then strain ; return juice to kettle, and t)oil down to one 

and one-half gallons, boil down ; add sugar, spices, etc., stir continually until 

well cooked ; take from the fire and add the alcohol or brandy. Bottle and 

seal while hot. It takes five hours boiling. 

Tomato Soy. 
One peck of green tomatoes, one-half pint of salt, eight small onions, 
sliced, one ounce of ground cloves, one ounce of ground allspice, one ounce 
of ground pepper, one-fourth pound of mustard seed, two full tablespoonfuls 



194 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

of ground mustard, one teaspoonful of cayenne. Slice the tomatoes and on- 
ions into an earthen vessel, between each layer sprinkle some salt and let it 
remain over night. Next day put in kettle, with the layers previously drained 
from the salted water ; sprinkle over the spices and cover all with good cider 
vinegar and cook slowly for six hours. It is better with three pounds of 

sugar added. 

Sweet Pickled Cantaloupe. 

Cut a fine, large cantaloupe, not quite ripe enough to eat, into slices about 
an inch in thickness. Cover the slices with pure cider vinegar for twenty- 
four hours, then pour off the vinegar and measure it. To every quart of the 
vinegar add three pounds of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoonful of cloves and one-quarter teaspoonful of mace (all 
powdered). Put in the kettle and boil together. As soon as the mixture 
boils add the slices of cantaloupe, cook together one-half an hour, or until 
the melon looks clear, pack in glass or stoneware jars. It will be ready to 

use in four weeks. 

Pepper Catsup. 
Four dozen peppers, boil them in two quarts of vinegar until soft, then 
strain and add one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of cloves, three 
tablespoon fuls of horseradish grated, three garlics and five onions, chopped 
fine. Boil one-half hour, add a little cold vinegar, and bottle. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 
Two quarts of berries, put into a stone jar and pour over one quart of 
best vinegar; after twenty-four hours, strain and pour the syrup over two 
fresh quarts of berries, then let it stand twenty- four hours ; add one pound 
of sugar to every pint of juice, boil, cork and seal tightly. 

Watermelon Pickle. 
Take the rind of one good-sized watermelon, take oflf all the red part, place 
the rind in strong salt water, leaving it to soak in it for twelve hours. After, 
you remove the green part of the melon and cut the white part into small 
squares of about two inches. To one quart of vinegar, put three pounds of 
brown sugar, a few blades of mace, some stick cinnamon, a tablespoonful 
of cloves, two small pieces of ginger root and one teaspoonful of allspice. 
When the vinegar and spices are boiling add the melon and two lemons cut 
into thin slices, boil all these together for about fifty minutes or until the 
melon looks clear. Then put into stone jars or glass ones and seal. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 195 



Salads. 



Americans are beginning to realize our wealth of green foods, and those 
that are suitable to be served as salads are decidedly good for the digestion 
and should be used more freely than they are. The term salad represents to 
many only lettuce. Delicious as lettuce is, yet it is only one of many green 
vegetables which are valuable for salads. Watercress salad has fallen from 
its place on account of our not knowing in the city where it was grown, as 
it has been found to have been gathered from streams the water not being 
absolutely pure, but if gathered in the country from fast-running pure water 
it is the most refreshing salad, dressed with salt, olive oil and a little vine- 
gar, though the ideal way to eat it is with bread and butter and salt. Olive 
oil has most valuable properties, and we should use it more generally. Cheap 
olive oil is not pure in this country, but oil can be obtained pure from reliable 
stores. We learn every year more of the real value of olive oil; it is a good 
medicine. Remarkable cures are made in dyspepsia when its use is persisted 
in ; human beings require the use of it in keeping all the mechanism in order. 
In countries where its use is general intestinal troubles are almost unknown ; 
children thrive on it and grow fat and rosy. There seems no perfect substi- 
tute for olive oil, but cream can be used when the oil is not liked; no doubt 
the prejudice against the oil comes from the poor oils sold for "pure imported 
olive oil." 

Melted butter can be used as a salad dressing, also cheese, well pounded 
with a little vinegar, salt and pepper and cream. The fat from the frying 
of ham is very appetizing poured over lettuce with the addition of a little 
vinegar heated in the fat. 

In preparing lettuce and other delicate greens for salad they must be 
washed carefully and handled as little as possible. Tear lettuce leaves apart. 
Never cut any unless the Cos lettuce, which has to be cut. Drain from 
water and never add the dressing till the moment of serving. 

Nearly every known vegetable can be used, when cooked and cold, in a 
salad. Use either the simple French dressing or a mayonnaise or a cream 
dressing. 

The addition of minced cheese, onions, finely-cut chives, radishes, beets, 
etc., to the green salads add to their attractiveness and individual tastes can 
be consulted as to their use. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Trim ofif the hard part of the asparagus, tie into bunches; see that the 
stalks are of the same length; boil in salted water, drain and cool; when 
cold, place in the ice box ; serve when needed, with a French dressing or with 
mayonnaise dressing. 



196 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Salad of Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Slice one pint of cold boiled artichokes and add to them one tablespoonful 
of finely chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of tarragon or cider vinegar, 
three tablespoon fuls olive oil, one teaspoon ful of salt, a little cayenne. Pour 
over the artichokes and let the salad stand an hour before serving. 

Cold Green Beans. 
Cook the beans until tender in salted water, then remove from the fire, 
drain and place on ice. When needed, serve with either a French or may- 
onnaise dressing. Cold beans left from dinner can be used the next day as 

a salad. 

Apple and Celery Salad. 

Two heads of good white celery, cut with the kitchen scissors into small 

pieces ; this amount of celery should make one pint. Pare good, firm apples, 

cut into small cubes, to make one pint ; mix together, then add a mayonnaise 

dressing, arrange on lettuce leaves. Tomato jelly can be cut into cubes and 

used as a garnish, the apples can be grated into the mayonnaise. 

Calf's Brains as a Salad. 

Whiten the brains in cold water; stew them in a little water, with one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, one onion, three cloves, one saltspoonful of salt, 
three pepper corns; simmer them for one-half hour, then drain when cold, 
cut in small pieces and pour over them a thick mayonnaise dressing ; garnish 
with small green pickles. 

Cheese Salad. 

Rub together one-half pound of grated cheese, the yolk of one hard-boiled 
egg and one tablespoonful of olive oil ; then add one saltspoonful of cayenne, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of made 
mustard, three drops of onion juice, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. 
Mix well together; one cupful of minced chicken is an improvement. 
Eat with bread and butter. 

Carrots and Green Peas. 

The carrots and peas must be young; cook them in a little water; when 

quite tender, take from the fire, drain and cut the carrots in thin slices ; let 

them all cool. When needed, pour over them either a French dressing in 

which put one teaspoonful of lemon juice and one teaspoonful of sugar, or 

a mayonnaise with lemon juice. One tablespoonful of cream is an addition 

to the mayonnaise. 

Chicory Salad. 

Wash the chicory carefully through several waters, drain the leaves thor- 
oughly and place in the salad bowl. Take two or three thin slices of break- 
fast bacon; fry until a light brown and crisp; cut into dice and drain on 
brown paper ; season the chicory leaves with pepper and two tablespoonf uls 
of vinegar, mix chicory and bacon well together in the bowl. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 197 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing. 

Have the cottage cream thick and cold. Stir in olive oil in small amounts, 
until the cream has taken up as much as it will ; add one teaspoonf ul of salt, 
a little cayenne, and one tablespoon ful of lemon juice. 

Cucumber Jelly. 
To serve with fish or for salad. Pare and grate four large green cucum- 
bers; remove first, all the seeds. While you are preparing the cucumbers, 
soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half cup of cold water. By placing the 
cup over hot water it will dissolve quickly. Add to the grated cucumbers two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of onion juice, two teaspoonfuls 
of lemon juice or vinegar, and a small pinch of cayenne; then add the gel- 
atine, which must be strained into the cucumber mixture ; mix all thoroughly 
and pour into a small mold, which wet in cold water first ; set on the ice to 
harden ; when needed to use, remove from the mold and serve with either a 
French dressing of one tablespoonful of vinegar to three of olive oil, with 
salt and pepper added, or with a mayonnaise. In serving with fish a little 
finely chopped parsley can be sprinkled over the jelly. 

Chicken Salad. 
Boil one chicken in one quart of water with one onion, two pepper corns, 
a little salt, until tender ; then remove from fire. When the chicken is cold, 
cut into small square pieces — the salad made of only the white meat is con- 
sidered the finest, but if economy is studied the dark meat is equally good, 
and the salad is liked by many even better than when made with the white 
meat alone. Take celery, cut it in small pieces, add an equal quantity of the 
chicken, make a mayonnaise dressing, mix carefully with the chicken and 
celery ; garnish with lettuce leaves or with celery leaves. The water in which 
the chicken was boiled should be saved for soup. A medium sized chicken 
will make enough salad for six people. 

Salad of Celeriac or Turnip-Rooted Celery. 

Boil the celeriac ; when cold, take ofif the skin, cut in thin slices, dress them 
with one tablespoonful of vinegar and three tablespoon fuls of olive oil, one 
teaspoon ful of salt and a little pepper, or use a mayonnaise. 

Cauliflower Salad. 
Prepare the cauliflower the same as for serving as a vegetable ; drain care- 
fully and place on the ice for some hours before serving; when required, 
pour over a mayonnaise dressing. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

One pint of very thick sour or sweet cream; the yolks of six eggs well 

beaten, with one tablespoonful of sugar. Add these to the cream, then add 

one tablespoonful of melted butter, one saltspoonful of pepper, one-half 

saltspoonful of cayenne, one saltspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of 



198 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

salt. Mix all well together and then add slowly four tablespoon fuls of hot 
cider vinegar. Put the mixture into the double boiler and cook until thick ; 
be careful it does not curdle ; when cold use on raw cabbage, lettuce or toma- 
toes, and on cooked cauliflower, beans and potatoes. 

Dandelion Salad. 
Select the white leaves from the inside, wash, then chill in ice water for 
half an hour. Drain and wipe, arrange in a salad bowl and serve with a 
simple dressing of salt, pepper, oil and vinegar. 

Endive. 
Wash the endive carefully, break into small pieces, drain and serve with 
either a French or mayonnaise dressing. This is an autumn and winter 
salad; it is healthful and excellent. 

"F. F. V." Salad. 

Take some ripe tomatoes, wash, drain and place on a bed of crisp lettuce 
leaves. Peel the tomatoes by dipping them quickly into hot water and then 
into cold water. Over the tomatoes put some finely shredded celery and 
some minced green peppers. Pour over all a French dressing. 

French and Italian Dressing for Salad. 

The formula for French dressing is three tablespoon fuls of olive oil, one 
tablespoonf ul of vinegar ; this can be pure cider vinegar or a mixture of Chili, 
tarragon and cider vinegars. Mix the salt and pepper with the oil in the 
bowl. Add the vinegar and keep beating until it is well mixed, then pour it 
over the vegetables to be dressed so that all parts are covered. The Italian 
dressing is made without pepper. Sprinkle the vegetables — say it is lettuce 
— with salt, then pour over enough oil to coat the leaves, toss the leaves 
about, then add the vinegar. Six spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar. 

By placing a lump of ice in a bowl, then pouring over it the oil and vine- 
gar, and mixing it well over the ice, the dressing will become quite thick. 

Fruit Salad. 
This is often served at the beginning of a luncheon. Take any fruits in 
season, remove all seeds, cut into small pieces, cover with sugar, put into a 
bowl and place on the ice to become very cold. When needed, fill small 
glasses with the fruits, mix with the liquor formed, a glass of sherry or mar- 
aschino, pour over the fruit. The wines can be left out and a little lemon or 
orange juice mixed with the syrup. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 

Cut the grape fruit in halves, take out the centers and serve, or fill the 

centers with a little rum, or with sugar, or with malaga grapes cut from the 

stem, cut in halves and seeds removed. Or the grape fruit can be served in 

small glasses, the pulp carefully removed in neat pieces, the juice of the fruit 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 199 

mixed with sugar and the fruit kept on the ice until needed. Or a French 
dressing can be made and mixed with the pulp, using the grape fruit juice 
instead of vinegar. 

Harlequin Salad. 

Boil a young chicken in one quart of hot water. When cooked, take from 
the fire and remove the skin ; when cold, cut all the meat into small pieces, 
season the chicken with one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper. 
Cut two green peppers into shreds, be careful to remove all the seeds. Cut 
six large olives into small pieces ; one teacup ful of finely chopped nut meats 
— mixed nuts — one green cucumber peeled and cut into cubes, two hard- 
boiled eggs cut into pieces, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice; mix all these together an hour before serving. When 
required, pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Serve with thin slices of but- 
tered white or brown bread. Use the water in which the chicken was 
boiled for a soup next day, remove any fat, season with salt and pepper, one 
teaspoonful of onion juice, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one cup of 
cream ; reheat ; serve with toasted butter crackers. 

Jardiniere Salad. 

Cut into fine pieces, carrots, turnips, potatoes, green peas, green beans, 
beets ; boil these together with one tablespoonful of butter in the water, 
until they are tender. Then remove from fire, drain and place on ice to 
become cold. When needed, pour over a French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Lettuce. 

Lettuce is the best and most useful salad, for it is to be obtained all the 
year ; wash the leaves carefully, drain, arrange in salad bowl and pour over 
either a French or mayonnaise dressing. If an onion or garlic flavor is 
liked, rub the inside of the bowl with a slice of onion or a bruised garlic. 

Lettuce Salad with Cream Cheese. 

Look over the lettuce carefully; wash and drain well; make a French 
dressing of one tablespoonful of vinegar and three tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil; one saltspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper; pour over the 
lettuce ; rub the salad bowl with a bruised garlic clove, or slice of onion ; 
make the cream cheese into little balls, roll them in minced parsley and serve 
with the salad. 

A Pretty Salad. 

Arrange slices of brandied or plain pineapple on a platter or silver dish, 
intersperse brandied plums or cherries or quarters of oranges or grape fruit. 
Have a border of lettuce leaves. Place in center of dish a mound of thick 
whipped cream, serve a plain French dressing with the salad. 

Tomato and Pineapple. 

Slice large tomatoes, one slice for each plate, in half inch slices. Place on 
each one slice of Hawaiian pineapple, or the fresh pineapple, cover with a 



200 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

French dressing, serve very cold with hot crackers sprinkled lightly virith 
cayenne. 

Lettuce Salad with Cream Cheese and Chopped Nuts. 
Prepare the lettuce as above. Mix with the cream cheese two tablespoon- 
fuls of finely chopped nuts. Neufchatel cheese can be used and just broken 
into small bits and put into the French dressing. Roquefort cheese used in 
the same way. Serve with toasted crackers. 

Lobster Salad. 

Prepare the lobster for boiling as directed in cooking lobster, or if pur- 
chased cooked be careful to see that it is perfectly fresh. Cut the lobster 
into small pieces about an inch square. Pour over one tablespoonful of 
olive oil and one teaspoonful of vinegar ; keep in a cold place until needed. 
Then mix in a little mayonnaise. Place on dish, smooth the top and pour 
over the balance of the mayonnaise. Sprinkle over the grated lobster coral, 
place around lettuce leaves. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

One egg, yolk only; be sure that it is perfectly cold. Stir the yolk, if it 
thickens and does not run over the bottom of the soup plate, stir into it drop 
by drop some olive oil, then put in the oil by half-teaspoonf uls ; when as 
much of the dressing is made as will be needed, add one teaspoonful of 
vinegar or one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little cayenne. If desired, add another teaspoonful 
of vinegar. Keep the mayonnaise on ice until it is needed. One teaspoonful 
of dry mustard may be added to the yolk, if liked. Two tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream may be added just before serving, if a soft creamy dressing is 
desired. 

Oyster Salad. 

Scald fifty oysters in their own liquor, drain and let them cool, then pour 
over them a tablespoonful of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of oil, add salt 
and cayenne, and let them stand two hours ; then drain them from the dress- 
ing, place them on serving dish, cover with celery cut in small pieces. Pour 
over all a thick mayonnaise dressing, serve at once. 

Orange Salad. 
Two oranges, one-fourth pint of oil, one teaspoonful of vinegar, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper, one-half saltspoonful of salt. Cut the oranges into thin 
slices ; remove the rinds and seeds, mix the vinegar, salt, pepper and oil 
together and pour over the oranges. Serve with wild duck. 

Prune Salad. 

Wash and soak a pound of large prunes for three hours. Then cook until 
tender, and after they are cool, pit them and stufif with English walnuts. 
Shred one-half pound of lettuce. Make a nest of the lettuce and on this 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 201 

put the stuffed prunes. Cover with a mayonnaise dressing and serve. This 
makes a good salad and will serve ten people. 

Potato Salad— 1. 
Boil the potatoes in their skins; remove from the fire before they are 
quite done; they must not be "mealy" or "floury;" when cold peel and cut 
them in square pieces as nearly of one size as possible ; add a few drops of 
onion juice, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a French dressing of 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and one tablespoonful of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon ful of pepper. Let the dressing stand on 
the potatoes a half hour before serving. 

Potato Salad— 2. 

Boil the potatoes in their skins, but be careful not to cook them until they 
break open; when cooked let them become cold before cutting them into 
small pieces; add one-half tablespoonful of onion chopped fine, one-half 
tablespoonful of celery chopped fine; mix these all well with the potatoes 
and pour over a mayonnaise dressing made as follows : Take the yolks of 
two eggs, stir into them one-half pint of olive oil slowly ; when the dressing 
is smooth and thick, add one tablespoonful of mustard, a little cayenne, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of vinegar, or more, if the dressing 
is too thick. 

Potato Salad with Nuts. 

After the potatoes are cooked, let them become cold; then add equal 
quantities of blanched walnuts cut into small pieces ; add a small cupful of 
stoned olives ; put over one tablespoonful olive oil mixed with one-half tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, a little pepper; let this dressing 
remain on the salad for an hour or more, in the refrigerator. When ready 
to serve, add some good mayonnaise. Serve thin slices of bread buttered. 
Hickory nuts can also be used with the potatoes or a mixture of nuts. 

Potato Salad. Wurtemburg. 

Cook as many potatoes as needed for the salad; slice them in thin slices 
and set aside until the sauce is made. Take two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
put in a double boiler and when hot stir in one tablespoonful of flour, one 
tablespoonful minced onion ; stir all gently, then pour in some boiling water 
until the sauce is of the consistency of sweet cream; add one teaspoonful 
of salt, one pinch of pepper, then one cupful of thick, sour cream; stir all 
well together and pour over the freshly cooked potatoes, saturating all the 
potatoes; then add some minced parsley and minced chives and let the 
salad cool. 

Soyer's Mayonnaise. 

Put one- fourth of a pint of meat jelly, which has been well seasoned with 
vegetables, into a bowl, placing the bowl on ice ; whisk it until it is in a white 
froth ; then add slowly a half-pint of olive oil with six teaspoonfuls of 



202 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

tarragon or cider vinegar; keep on whisking until it is all a smooth white 
sauce — like cream ; season with a very little salt, a little white pepper and one 
teaspoon ful of sugar. Place in the salad bowl the chicken cut into small 
pieces, or the veal, or the vegetable you have for the salad and pile over 
it the mayonnaise ; if kept on the ice, it will not melt. 

Hot Potato Salad. 
Fry to a light brown four tablespoon fuls of minced breakfast bacon. 
Strain out the bacon and fry in the fat a teaspoonful of chopped onion. 
Take the pan from the fire and stir into the fat an equal amount of vinegar 
seasoned with salt, sugar and a touch of cayenne. Beat well, return to the 
fire, add two tablespoon fuls of boiling water. The potatoes should be ready 
boiled, cut into dice and kept hot over boiling water. Turn them into the 
pan with the dressing and bacon dice, toss and stir lightly to coat them with 
the vinegar, etc., and serve. 

Russian Salad. 
This is made of a variety of cooked vegetables with one green pepper cut 
fine, some minced chicken or game, some capers, stoned olives, fillets of 
anchovy, a little caviar, chopped shallot, mustard and a French dressing. 
It is not possible to give exact quantities, but no one flavor ought to pre- 
dominate in this salad. 

Romaine Salad Dressing. 
Grate half an ounce of onion; mix it with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
a saltspoonful each of salt and powdered sugar, a level saltspoonful each of 
white pepper and dry mustard, then gradually add three tablespoon fuls of 
oil and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Use for lettuce or tomato salad. 

Romaine Salad. 
A very delicious kind of lettuce. Prepare as directed for lettuce. 

Spanish Salad. 
One head of lettuce ; wash and carefully look each leaf over ; one cupful 
of finely chopped celery; two tomatoes sliced and one sweet pepper cut in 
fine pieces ; be careful to remove all seeds from the peppers. Serve with a 
French dressing of one tablespoonful of vinegar, three of olive oil, one 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Salad Dressing with Roquefort Cheese. 
Break into small pieces three tablespoonf uls of Roquefort cheese ; moisten 
with a little olive oil; let it soak in the oil for an hour, or less if needed; 
then mash the cheese, add to it a French dressing and put all through the 
sieve, so that the dressing will be perfectly smooth ; use with lettuce or with 
tomato salads ; serve with thin bread and butter or with buttered crackers. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 203 

Dressing for Lettuce, Tomatoes or other Salads. 

One-fourth mayonnaise sauce, one-fourth chili sauce, one-fourth whipped 
cream, one-fourth French dressing. Mix these together carefully before 
serving. 

Tomato Salad. 

Select small, round, perfect tomatoes, wipe them dry, cut a lid from the 
top and scoop out a portion of the insides and all the seeds ; cut some celery 
very fine; mix this well with mayonnaise dressing. Fill the tomatoes with 
this, placing a little of the dressing on the top; put in the ice box for an 
hour to chill the tomatoes ; serve on lettuce leaves. 

Salad of Tomatoes with Caviare. 
Take two large tomatoes and slice them, cover the slices with a dressing 
made of some caviare, highly seasoned with paprika and lemon juice, and 
pour over a French dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

Take three or four large tomatoes or several small ones, cut them in 
pieces, one onion cut in pieces, one saltspoonful of salt, one bay leaf, two 
cloves, one stick of celery, five peppercorns, a little cayenne, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, one tablespoonful of lemon juice and a small bit of the rind. 
Boil them together for twenty minutes, strain, soak one- fourth box of gel- 
atine for an hour in a little cold water. As soon as the tomatoes are cooked, 
add the gelatine to them. Just before you strain them, stir well, that all the 
gelatine may be dissolved. Pour into one mold, or into little egg cups. 
Serve, when needed, with a mayonnaise dressing, to which add one-half 
pint of whipped cream. Turn out the jelly, pour over the dressing and 
sprinkle chopped parsley over all. Place the jelly on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato Salad. 
Remove the skins from the tomatoes by plunging them into boiling water 
and then at once into cold ; slice the tomatoes evenly ; place in salad bowl with 
some lettuce; pour over a French dressing; serve with toasted crackers. 

Vegetable Salad. 
Wash carefully one beet, one carrot, one onion, one potato, one-half pint 
of green peas, one-half pint of string beans. Cook these together until soft 
in boiling water with one teaspoonful of butter and a little salt; (cook the 
beet separately) ; when cold, peel and slice the vegetables and mix them 
together and pour over all a mayonnaise. Do not put the beet with the other 
vegetables until just before serving; garnish the salad with lettuce leaves. 

Watercress Salad — 1. 
Watercress, to be perfect, should be freshly gathered, well rinsed in cold 
water, shaken thoroughly dry, seasoned with salt and eaten with thin slices 



204 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

of white bread and butter. Some prefer a dash of lemon juice and a table- 
spoonful of olive oil, but it is finest served with salt only. 

Watercress Salad — 2. 

Take nice, young watercress, cleanse thoroughly in salt and water and put 
in a salad bowl with a few sliced young radishes and four hard-boiled eggs 
cut into half quarters. Make a dressing of one tablespoonful of vinegar 
and three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a little salt and cayenne. 

Walnut and Peas Salad. 

If fresh peas are used, have them cooked and carefully drained ; if canned 
peas are used, have them rinsed in cold water, poured into a colander and 
drained ; the canned peas are already cooked. Shell and blanch the walnuts 
by letting them remain in boiling water a few minutes and remove the thin 
brown skin; this requires time and patience; cut the nuts about the same 
size as the peas, sprinkle them with salt; mix the nuts and peas together, 
moisten with a mayonnaise dressing. Keep cool until served, tart apples, 
cut into small cubes can be added to this salad if desired. 

Vinegar for Salad. 
Mix together four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of 
tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of chili vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
celery vinegar, if convenient, put the mixture into a bottle and use one 
tablespoonful for French salad dressing with the olive oil. 

Russian Salad Dressing. 

Two parts Mayonnaise. 

One part whipped Cream. 

One part finely chopped Onions. 

One-half part chopped Green Peppers. 

One-half part chopped Pimentoes. 

Two parts Caviare — Mix well together. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 205 



"The secret of thrift is knowledge. Knowledge of domestic economy 
saves income. Knowledge of sanitary laws saves health and life." 

Charles Kingsley. 

"The prosperity of a nation depends upon the health and morals of its 
citizens; the health and morals of a people depend upon the food they eat 
and the homes they live in. Good tempered, temperate, highly moral men 
cannot be expected from a race which eats badly cooked food, irritating to 
the digestive organs and unsatisfying to the appetite. 

"The time will come when the same kind of care will be given to the food 
of a family as the raiser of the finest stock gives to his animals in order to 
make them as perfect of their kind as possible. The time has come when we 
have a science of domestic economy, but it must first be worked out in the 
homes of our educated women. 

"There are cynical persons who profess to despise good living, but good, 
well prepared food certainly has its influence upon the mind and manners 
of man. Gastronomy is the science which cares for our nourishment from 
our birth to our death — its object is the preservation of man by providing 
him with the knowledge of preparing food that will best attain this end." 



206 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Breads, Biscuits, Etc, 

Use if possible one of the "Bread Machines" in making bread. 

Bread. 

Sift three pounds of flour into the bread pan, add one teaspoonful of 
sugar, one tablespoon ful of salt, add one quart of lukewarm water or milk, 
or half milk and half water, in which has been melted one tablespoonful of 
butter or lard, one cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water. Stir well together, beating hard. Set to raise for two and one-half 
hours, or two hours, then knead until it does not adhere to the board ; make 
into loaves, put into pans, let it raise again one hour or one and one-half 
hours. Bake fifty minutes. Prick the surface of all breads just before 
placing in the oven. 

Brown, or Graham, Bread. 

Mix well together three pints of graham flour, one pint of white flour, 
one spoonful of salt, one-half cup of dark molasses, in which stir one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, stir until the molasses foams to the top of the cup ; one- 
half cake of yeast dissolved in a little warm water, one tablespoonful of 
butter or shortening melted in the warm water which you use to make up 
the whole — the batter must be rather stiff — let all rise. When light, pour 
into tins — let rise again — do not stir again — bake rather slowly about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Mix two cupfuls of Indian meal, two cupfuls of rye meal, one cupful of 
sweet milk, one cupful of sour milk, one cupful of molasses, one teaspoonful 
of soda, a little salt, add soda last. Boil steadily three hours in a well but- 
tered mold. Place mold in a kettle containing boiling water. 

Coffee Bread. 

One quart of flour, one pint of milk, one-half cupful of butter melted in 
the milk, two eggs, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, one-half a yeast cake 
dissolved in a little warm water. Mix together, and let it raise ; when light, 
push it down in the pan ; when again light, knead it, and add, if desired, a 
cup of stoned raisins or currants; put into the pans and when light bake. 
Just before it is done pour over a little thick syrup made of brown sugar 
and water mixed. 

Crackling Bread — Virginia. 

One and one-half cupfuls of cornmeal, three-fourths of a cupful of flour, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one saltspoonful of salt, sour milk enough to 
make a thick batter, stir into the batter one cupful of cracklings (the little 
brown scraps left when lard is made), make into a loaf, and bake in a 
hot oven. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 207 

Bread Puffs. 
If the bread is light at breakfast or luncheon time, have some hot lard 
in a deep kettle, pull up some of the dough quite thin, cut in two-inch squares 
or lengths, drop them into the lard and fry. They are eaten at the table like 
biscuits, with butter or with syrup. 

Whole Wheat Bread. 
One pint of milk, one pint of boiling water, mix together and let it become 
lukewarm. Then add one yeast cake dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of tepid 
water, one tablespoon ful salt — if home-made yeast is used, one cupful, add 
flour enough to make a stiff batter, beating well for fifteen minutes, then 
let the batter rise; when light add flour enough to make a dough stiff 
enough to mold. Mold, make into loaves and let them rise, when light bake 
one hour. 

Souffle Bread. 

Three eggs ; mix the yolks of the eggs with three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and to this mixture add one dessertspoonful of melted butter and enough 
milk to make a thick batter ; mix this well together, then add one teaspoon ful 
of sugar and one saltspoonful of salt, then add the three whites beaten very 
light and one teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with a teaspoonful of 
flour. Have the frying pan very hot, put in one tablespoonful of butter, 
pour in the batter which should be about as thick as spongecake batter, 
cover the pan and put it on the back of the range, if the fire is very hot; 
when the bread has risen very high, put it into the oven, removing the 
cover of the pan and let it brown ; it will take about fifteen minutes. Turn 
it out of the pan carefully. Serve hot. 

Third Bread. 
One cupful of white flour, one cupful of rye flour, one cupful of yellow 
cornmeal, one teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Mix with milk 
(scalded and cooled), until it is thick enough to make into a loaf, let it 
rise until it cracks ; put into the pan, when well risen ; bake one hour. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Two quarts of sifted flour, in which rub two tablespoonfuls of butter, or 
butter and lard mixed ; one teaspoonful salt, and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Add enough milk to make a soft dough, roll the dough to half an 
inch in thickness, cut into small biscuits, and bake in hot oven. 

Split Biscuits. 

One pint of sweet milk, one egg, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 

two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half cake of compressed yeast dissolved in 

a little warm water. Heat the milk, but do not let it boil, pour it on the 

beaten egg, add melted butter, sugar, a little salt and flour enough to make 



208 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

a stiff sponge. Set in a warm place to rise ; when light knead in flour enough 
to make a stiff dough; let rise again, then divide the dough into two parts 
and roll out separately ; spread over one-half of it some melted butter so that 
every atom of the surface is thoroughly greased, then lay the other half 
over the buttered one, and roll together to one inch in thickness. Cut in 
small biscuits with a tin cutter (one-fourth pound baking powder box can 
be used), let rise; when light, bake. Should be very light and puffy. Mix 
at nine in the morning if you want them for supper. Do not bake till just as 
you begin to serve supper, so that they may be hot. 

Milk Biscuits. 
Scald one large cupful of milk and then cool, when cool add one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, if you like a little salt, one- 
half cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little warm water, about two 
cupfuls of flour. Let batter rise two hours, then add the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff froth, then rise again; when light, make into biscuits; 
when these are light, bake about ten minutes in a hot oven. 

Sour Milk Biscuits. 
Two quarts of flour, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted into it, 
then rub in one tablespoonful of butter, mix with one pint of sour milk in 
which put one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm water. Have 
the dough as soft as it possibly can be handled. Bake in a quick oven. 

Sour Cream Biscuits. 
Three tablespoonfuls of thick sour cream, into this put two-thirds of a 
cupful of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar and one teaspoonful of soda, stir in enough flour to make a soft 
dough — just stiff enough to roll out, roll and cut into small biscuits and 
brush them over with melted butter, bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Bread Sticks. 
For bread sticks any bread dough may be used, though that with shorten- 
ing is preferred. When the dough is sufficiently kneaded to be elastic, put 
it into pieces the size of half an egg, and roll these pieces out on the pastry 
board with your well-floured hands into sticks a little thicker than a pencil 
and about a foot long. Lay these sticks on a floured baking sheet, and bake 
for an hour in a moderate oven until they are a pale fawn color and quite 
crisp. For salt sticks, dust them lightly with coarse salt as you take them 
from the oven, then return them for a minute to melt and glaze the salt. 

Maryland Beaten Biscuit. 

Take two quarts of flour, sift well into it two teaspoonfuls salt, mix into 
the flour two large tablespoonfuls of lard. Then mix one-half pint of 
water and one-half pint of milk, add gradually to the flour, stirring and 
beating all the time, only add enough to moisten the flour as the dough 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 209 

should be very stiff. Knead five minutes, then beat, work with machine or 
with the hands, until the dough snaps when a small piece is taken off of it 
and air bubbles form on it. Work into small biscuits, bake in quick oven. 
Be sure to prick each biscuit two or three times before putting in oven. 

Virginia Beaten Biscuit. 
To each quart of flour, add two teaspoon fuls of salt, working it well 
through the flour, then add one tablespoon ful of lard, work this well into 
the flour. Then add water or milk to make a stiff dough — work the dough 
until it presents a smooth surface and the dough snaps when pieces are 
pulled off from it. If it is desired that the biscuits should be uniform in 
size, roll out the dough in a sheet, cut out the biscuits with small cutter, 
then prick with a fork. Bake in quick oven about twenty-five minutes. 

Sweet Biscuits for Afternoon Tea or Supper. 

To have these biscuits ready for afternoon tea, they must be started by 
nine o'clock in the morning. Dissolve one yeast cake in four tablespoonfuls 
of lukewarm water, then stir into this enough flour to make a soft dough, 
make this into a little biscuit, cut it across not quite through however, drop 
it cut side up into a pitcher with a wide mouth and nearly full of luke warm 
water — the biscuit will drop to the bottom, but will in about twenty-five 
minutes rise to the surface. Meanwhile put into your mixing bowl, one 
pound of sifted pastry flour, make a hole in center of it, pour into this four 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoon ful of sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of warm milk and five eggs well beaten together. As soon as the 
biscuit comes to the top of the pitcher, lift it out and drop it into the bowl 
and with a wooden spoon or paddle beat all well together or until the dough 
is perfectly smooth, cover it and place in a warm place to rise. When it is 
light, dip out with a spoon enough of the dough to make a small biscuit, 
place this on a buttered baking pan, continue until all the dough is used. 

Let them rise again. When needed for tea, bake in a hot oven about 
twenty minutes, when the biscuits are half baked, put over each some melted 
sugar, it will take one-half pound, dissolved in one tablespoon ful of water. 
They should be very delicate and light. If needed for dinner or supper, 
set the dough about noon, if for luncheon early in the morning. 

Buttered Cake Biscuits. 
One pound of flour, sift this into a basin, make a hollow in the center and 
mix in it one cake of compressed yeast dissolved in one-half teacup of warm 
milk, then put the sponge to rise in a warm place; when the sponge has 
risen to twice its original size, add one-half tablespoonful of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and one-half 
teacup of milk ; mix these well into the sponge, then add six eggs, beating 
in each egg separately, work all to a smooth paste, lightly cover, rise for 



210 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

three hours in a warm place, then sprinkle the pastry board with flour, place 
the dough on it, divide into small portions, make these into small cakes, 
put them on the baking tins one and one-half inch apart, brush them over 
with beaten egg and let them rise for one hour, bake in hot oven; when 
baked, split them open without separating entirely; place a lump of butter 
in each biscuit and serve hot. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
One quart of buckwheat flour, one tablespoonful of wheat flour, mix 
these into a batter with one pint of lukewarm water; dissolve one cake of 
compressed yeast in a little warm water and add to the batter (or one tea- 
cupful of home-made yeast can be used) ; add one teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat the batter well and put in a warm place to rise. Start the batter the 
noon before the cakes are needed, as it requires to rise several times and 
be stirred down each time to make really good cakes. Next morning if the 
batter is too thick thin it with a little warm water, add two tablespoonfuls 
of cream if convenient, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses and one-half 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm water. Keep one cupful of 
the batter to start the next cakes with. In winter, batter can be kept for 
several weeks. 

"Good Friday comes this month, the old woman runs 
"With a one-or two-a-penny hot cross buns. 

Whose virtue is, if you believe what's said. 

They'll not grow mouldy like the common bread." 

— Poor Robin's Almanack, 1733. 

English Hot Cross Buns. 

Put two pounds of flour into a bowl with half a pound of sugar and a 
pound of well washed and dried currants, a teaspoonful of salt and one tea- 
spoonful of mixed spices. When all are mixed together make a hole in the 
middle of the flour and put in half a cupful of good yeast or one compressed 
yeast cake, dissolved in half a cup of lukewarm water; add half a pint of 
lukewarm milk and mix in enough of the flour to make a batter as thick as 
cream, then cover and set in a warm place to rise for two hours. Then melt 
one-half pound of butter, add to the sponge with enough warm water to 
make a soft paste of all the flour. Cover and again set to rise for half an 
hour. Then shape into buns and lay them in rows, about four inches apart, 
on buttered tins. Let them rise half an hour ; make the form of a cross on 
each bun with the back of a knife. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

These are seasonable on Good Friday, but can be used for Easter morning 
breakfast. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 211 

English Buns. 

Sift into a large bowl one quart of flour, half a cup of sugar and one-half 
a teaspoon ful of salt; dissolve one- fourth of a cup of butter in a generous 
half pint of warm milk, and add to the dry ingredients, with the yolks of 
two beaten eggs ; add half a yeast cake dissolved in a little water, half a nut- 
meg grated and the whites of the two eggs beaten stiff ; this should make a 
very soft dough; cover the bowl with a clean cloth, place it where it will 
keep warm, and let it rise over night. In the morning take pieces of the 
dough the size of an egg, and with a little flour, mold them into round cakes 
an inch thick. Place them on a buttered tin, leaving a little space between. 
Cover the tins and set in a warm place for the buns to rise; they should be 
double their original size. Bake them in a moderate oven about a half hour. 
When the buns are baked brush the tops with a thick syrup made of sugar 
and water. 

Yorkshire Muffins. 

Stir into two cupfuls of sifted flour a pinch of salt, three well-beaten eggs 
and two scant cupfuls of milk — beating with an egg beater until the batter 
is full of bubbles. Half an hour before the roast of beef is to be served pour 
a little of the dripping from the meat into a hot shallow pan, containing a 
number of hot greased muffin rings and fill with the Yorkshire batter. 
Serve when nicely browned as a border to the roast. 

Brioche. 

Take of your bread sponge which is made with potatoes and no milk, 
as much sponge as when flour is added, will make a lump the size of a large 
orange, let this rise. 

Put eight eggs into a basin with one pound of butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar; beat all these together until smooth, then 
add to the lump of dough as it has risen; work these together for a long 
time, put to rise again, work it well, put to rise the second time and work 
it ; then the third time ; make into cakes like little pin-cushions and bake in 
a hot oven. If the cakes are for tea, do not add the eggs until noon ; keep 
the dough cool, add very little flour, as the secret is to keep the cakes very 
soft. The whole process takes seven hours. 

Cream Scones. 
One and one-half teacupfuls of flour in which sift one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one tablespoonful of sugar, mix these with one teacupful of 
thick cream. Make into a dough quickly, roll out into a thin sheet, cut into 
small cakes and bake in a hot oven on a buttered tin five minutes, turning 
them once. 

Old Dominion Corn Bread. 
The night before the corn bread is needed, put one-half cupful of cooked 
rice, one cupful of yellow cornmeal, into a large bowl with one tablespoonful 



212 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

melted butter, a pinch of salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix and 
pour over enough boiling (it must be boiling) water to make the mixture 
into a thick paste — beat well. Let this stand until morning. Then take one 
cupful of milk or cream, same measuring cup as used the night before, add 
to the milk three eggs well beaten together, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder dissolved in the milk, add when it is foamy. Mix these into the 
cornmeal paste stirring well but quickly, and place at once on two pie tins 
well greased and heated, into a hot oven, bake about twenty minutes or even 
less. Do not allow the batter to stand at all after the milk and eggs are 
added for the eggs will separate and form a custard on top if you do. It 
will also do this, unless the oven is very hot. The mixture may look very 
thin, but it is all right. Try this corn bread it is delicious, serve at once. 
Porcelain lined tins are the best for baking it in. 

Corn Dodgers. 
To one cupful of cornmeal, add one tablespoonful white flour, stir well 
together with one teaspoon ful salt. Pour over boiling water enough to make 
a thin mush, add one tablespoonful melted butter, beat, beat, beat and beat, 
always beating upwards in order to put air into the mush, drop in small 
spoonfuls on buttered tins and bake. 

Cornmeal Mufiins. 
Mix together one cupful of cornmeal and one and one-half cupfuls of 
white flour, sift in one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar. Beat three eggs together until light, add them 
to two cupfuls of milk, stir this mixture into the cornmeal and flour, gradu- 
ally so as to have no lumps in the batter, then add one teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in a very little warm water, fill the greased muffin tins two-thirds 

full, bake in hot oven. 

Cornmeal Cakes. 
One pint of cornmeal, scald it with hot water (about one cupful), add 
one tablespoonful of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, two eggs well beaten, 
and a very small cup of cream; grease a tin pan and bake the mixture 
as jumbles or drop cakes. 

Custard Bread — Virginia. 
Two cups of cold boiled rice, one cup of cornmeal, two eggs beaten 
together, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, teaspoonful salt, enough milk 
to make a very soft batter. Bake one-half hour. 

Virginia Corn Muffins. 
Three eggs, three teacups of flour, three teacups of cornmeal, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and lard (half lard and half butter), one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, enough sour milk to mix the whole into a thick batter, but not stiff 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 213 

enough to drop from the spoon. Put in buttered tin in small rings or tins 
in the oven. This same recipe made thinner makes very nice waffles. 

Corn Pone — Virginia. 

Two coffeecups of meal, one quart of milk, four eggs, one tablespoonful 

of melted butter, one teaspoon ful of salt, one teaspoon ful of sugar. Beat 

the eggs thoroughly, add butter, sugar, salt and meal. Scald the milk, 

pour hot over the mixture, beat hard and pour at once into the pan. Bake 

quickly. 

English Crumpets. 

One pint of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, four ounces of butter, one-half 

yeast cake, three cups of flour. Scald the milk, let it stand until lukewarm, 

then add salt, then flour; beat vigorously, then the butter melted, then the 

yeast dissolved in a little warm water, beat again, cover and stand in a 

warm place until very light. Grease the rings, place on a hot greased griddle, 

fill each ring one-half full. Bake until brown, then turn. When wanted, 

toast on both sides, butter well and serve on a hot plate. 

Cornmeal Mush. 

One quart of boiling water; stir into this one and one- fourth pints of 
cornmeal mixed smooth with one pint of cold water, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt ; stir until the mush is mixed. Cook at least two hours. If required for 
fried mush, fill little cans (empty baking powder tins will answer), as the 
mush can then be cut in round slices for frying; when cold, slice; dip each 
slice in bread crumbs and beaten egg and fry in deep, hot fat, or fry with- 
out the crumbs and egg. 

Crescents. 

Take some bread dough, when it is just ready for the pans, roll it out 
until very thin, then brush it over with melted butter, then take a small 
piece of the roll, roll towards you, pulling out the ends so that the middle 
is fat, make several revolutions, then bend into crescent shape, brush over 
again with melted butter, do this until your roll is all made into crescents. 
Place on a flat tin, let them rise and bake quickly. 

Cornmeal Griddle Cakes — Very Old Recipe. 

Put into a bowl one-half pint of cornmeal, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, mix together and pour over slowly one pint of boiling 
water, beating all the time, so there will be no lumps, then let the mixture 
cool. When it is perfectly cold, add one-half pint of white flour with one 
teaspoonful of baking powder sifted into it, then add two eggs beaten 
together until very light. Bake on hot greased griddle. The cakes must be 
thoroughly cooked and brown. Put a little soft butter on each cake and 
sprinkle grated maple sugar over them, pile them up and serve at once. 
These cakes cut into wedge-shaped pieces may be remembered by some from 
their childhood days. 



214 Cook Book 365— No. 2, 

Potato and Commeal Muffins. 
Make a mush with two cupfuls of sifted cornmeal, using either one cupful 
of hot milk, or hot water. Stir the water or milk slowly into the meal so 
there will be no lumps, add one teaspoonful salt, two cupfuls of mashed 
potatoes left over or freshly cooked. Soften and thin the potatoes with one 
cupful of hot milk, then stir together the mush and potatoes, add one-half 
teaspoonful of nutmeg (not necessary if objected to) — the batter must be 
thin so that it drops from a spoon. Lastly add two eggs, beaten until light, 
and one tablespoonful of either melted butter or lard. Put into muffin 
tins, or small popover tins in hot oven and bake thirty minutes. 

Hunter's Bread. 

Take two pounds of bread dough just as it is ready for the oven, roll it 
out to one inch in thickness. Cut into very small pieces two pounds of 
steak (not cooked), season the steak with salt, a little pepper and bits of 
butter, cover the upside of the dough with the meat, then roll it up just 
as you would roll a jam roly-poly; see that the ends are fastened securely 
for the gravy must not be let to run out; put the bread roll into a deep 
pan and bake for two hours. This is excellent for a picnic, or for the 
children's lunch basket, and valuable for a hunter's basket, when he starts 
off on a long hunt, as it will keep fresh two or three days. 

Scotch Roll for the Lunch Basket. 
Chop any cooked meat you have quite finely, season with salt and pepper 
and a little minced parsley, mix into the meat the white of one egg. Make 
into a long roll, by flouring your fingers and rolling the meat in bread 
crumbs, till they adhere all over it, then bake the roll for one-half hour, 
basting it with melted butter to which add a little hot water. 

Wheat Flour Muffins. 
Put two cups of flour in which sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful sugar, into a bowl, pour 
over two cups of milk. Stir slowly so there will be no lumps, when well 
mixed, add two eggs, beaten together, and one tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter. Have the muffin tins warm and greased and fill them two-thirds full. 
Bake in hot oven. Any muffins left can be split, toasted and buttered for 

afternoon tea. 

Muffins. 
One cup of flour, three-fourths cup milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one tablespoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, two eggs; melt 
the butter, stir into the milk — add flour in which sift the baking powder 
and salt — ^bake in small tins. 

Quick Wheat Flour Muffins. 
One large tablespoonful of butter, two cups of sweet milk, four whites 
of eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, two cups of flour, a little salt. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 215 

Bake in muffin rings on the griddle, which has been rubbed with a little 
butter, the griddle must be hot ; turn the muffins with cake turner. 

Warm the milk just enough to melt the butter, then stir it into the flour 
in which sift the baking powder and the salt. Strain all through a sieve so 
as to have no lumps in the batter and then add the whites of four eggs, 
beaten until very light — just fold them into the batter. Very good for after- 
noon tea, spread each muffin with soft butter. 

Drop Fritters. 

One pint of boiling milk, one pint of flour, three eggs, salt. Pour the 
boiling milk on the flour, beat until very smooth, add salt, when cool add the 
eggs beaten separately. Drop by spoonfuls into hot deep fat and fry. 

Griddle Cakes of Stale Bread. 

To one pint of stale bread crumbs add one quart of boiUng milk, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt. Soak the crumbs 
in the milk, then beat the mixture until it is smooth, add the yolks of two 
eggs, then enough flour to make the batter stiff enough to bake, sift into 
the flour two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, then add the two whites beaten 
light. Have your griddle very hot and greased with a slice of salt pork, or 
with a little lard. 

English MufBns. 

Five pounds of flour, make into a soft dough with two pints of milk and 
two pints of water the temperature being 104° F. Add one ounce of salt, 
one-half ounce of sugar and two ounces of yeast, or two cakes dissolved in 
the water. Mix well until very tough, then put in a warm place for one 
hour, then knead again and allow to rise for another hour. Now divide 
into pieces of two and one-half ounces each, bake on a griddle moderately 
hot. When well cooked butter generously. 

Virginia Hoe Cake. 
Three eggs, one cup of cornmeal, one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted lard or butter, one teaspoonful salt ; mix these all well together, have 
your griddle hot, grease slightly ; bake the mixture in large cakes, turn and 
brown. In making hoe cake, beat the meal and milk together for at least 
ten minutes before adding the eggs, etc. 

Lapland Cakes. 
Lapland cakes are a peculiar, delicate, delicious cake of the popover kind. 
They are made with a much larger quantity of eggs than the ordinary wheat 
popovers. Beat the yolks of five eggs thoroughly and stir them into a pint 
of sweet cream. Do not use a heavy, thick cream for this purpose. Pour 
the mixture on a pint and a quarter of pastry flour sifted with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; beat the batter well and fold in carefully the whites of 
five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fill the buttered cups of stoneware half 
full and bake the cakes three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. 



216 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Pancakes. 
Stir one pint of sour milk or buttermilk into one pint of flour slowly so 
that there will be no lumps in the batter, add one teaspoonful of salt and 
to the milk add one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water, 
about one tablespoon ful, before using all the milk, beat into the batter the 
yolks of three eggs, then the rest of the milk, then one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, add lastly the whites of the eggs beaten until light, the milk 
must be thick and sour, but pour off any whey on it. 

Adirondack Pancakes. 

One quart of sour milk, add flour enough to make a thick batter. Let this 
stand twenty- four hours ; add then two eggs well beaten ; a little salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, dissolve soda in one tablespoonful of warm water; 
bake on hot greased griddle. 

Graham Popovers. 

Half a pint of sifted Graham flour, half a pint of sifted wheat flour, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of 
butter, melted. Beat the whites and yolks together and beat the batter 
vigorously with a patent egg beater. Pour the batter into buttered cups of 
stoneware. They should rise, like all popovers, to four times their original 
size. If they are baked in an ordinary muffin pan or even in a heated iron 
gem pan, they will not rise in this way. Wheat popovers are light and 
about double in bulk baked in gem pans ; in stone cups they are four times 

the bulk. 

Popovers. 

Pastry flour is the most desirable, but the best bread flour will answer. 
Sift two cups of flour with half a teaspoonful of salt. Add gradually two 
cups of milk, and when a smooth batter, mix in two beaten eggs without 
separating the whites and yolks. Add a teaspoonful of butter, melted. 
Beat the batter thoroughly ; pour it at once into the cups of stoneware, well 
buttered. Do not fill the cups more than half full. Bake the cakes in a hot 
oven until they rise far above the edges of the cups and hang over them in a 
rich brown crust. These cakes are nice for breakfast when served with 
maple syrup, or simply as muflins with butter. They are often served as a 
plain dessert with sweetened cream. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Two quarts of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half cake of yeast, one- 
fourth teacup of sugar, one-half teacup of lard, one pint of milk. Boil the 
milk, melt in it the lard, sift the flour into a deep basin, make a hole in the 
center, stir in the yeast, dissolved in a little water, then put in the milk 
after it is cool ; let it stand over night without mixing ; in the morning mix 
well and let it rise, and when light, work it together again ; when light, roll 
out the dough until one-half inch thick, cut into biscuits or rolls, fold 
together and let them rise again. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 217 

Rice Crumpets. 

Scald a pint of milk and when lukewarm, add half a cake of compressed 
yeast, dissolved in half a cup of water ; stir in a cup of freshly cooked rice 
that has been well beaten while warm to break the grains ; four ounces of 
melted butter, salt, and three half pints of sifted flour ; beat hard, cover and 
stand in a warm place until light. They will require not more than three 
hours to rise. Grease large muffin rings and bake on hot griddle. Butter 
and serve quickly. 

Raised Scones. 

Take dough prepared for raised biscuits; when light, roll about an inch 
thick, sprinkle thickly with currants, pressing them into the dough. Bake 
in a round tin; score almost through the dough in four parts and slightly 
wet these cuttings to prevent their adhering. Pour melted sugar on the 
outside. 

English Crumpets or Pikelets. 

Three pounds of flour, to which add one-half ounce of bicarbonate of 
soda — sift it into the flour. Mix one and one-half ounces yeast or two yeast 
cakes in one quart of warm water at 105° F. Mix into a dough batter and 
stand it, in a warm place, for one hour or until the batter has risen and 
dropped again. Then add one teaspoon ful of salt, stir until the batter 
toughens, let it remain still for twenty minutes, then dissolve three-fourth 
ounce of cream of tartar in one gill of milk and add gently to the batter. 
Have griddle hot, very hot, then put pieces of the batter on it. When the 
crumpets are full of holes turn over and bake on the other side. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 
One quart of flour, two teaspoon fuls of baking powder, a lump of butter 
or lard the size of an egg, one pint of milk. Rub the butter or lard into the 
flour, add one teaspoon ful of salt, put in the milk gradually, roll out the 
dough about an inch thick, cut with small biscuit cutter and bake in hot oven 
for ten minutes; the quicker the biscuits are put together, the lighter they 

will be. 

Sally Lunn — Virginia. 
One large cup of mashed potatoes, one pint of milk, one pint of water, 
four eggs, one piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of yeast or one-half a cake of yeast dissolved in a little water. 
Mix to a thick batter and let all rise until Hght before baking. 

Pumpkin Waffles. 
Take enough pieces of raw pumpkin or squash to make one cupful when 
boiled, boil in slightly salted water until tender, then drain and mash through 
a sieve, season with one saltspoonful of salt, add one well beaten egg and one 
cupful of warm cream. Dissolve one-half a yeast cake in one-half cupful 
of lukewarm water, add to the mixture with one tablespoonful of melted 



218 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 

butter, then add four cupfuls of flour, then enough sweet milk to make a 
thick batter. Allow the mixture to rise until light, then beat down the bat- 
ter, add one teaspoonful sugar, a pinch of grated nutmeg and one tea- 
spoonful ground ginger. Let the batter rise again for twenty minutes, have 
the waffle irons hot and well greased, and bake the waffles. Serve with 
powdered sugar, mixed with a little cinnamon. 

Boston Tea Cakes. 

Two cups of flour, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 
Mix and bake quickly. 

Waffles with Rice — Virginia. 

One quart of flour, one quart of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four 
eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, three tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. 
Put the flour in a bowl, stir into it the milk, in which dissolve the soda, then 
add the melted butter, then the eggs well beaten, lastly add the rice. Have 
the waffle iron hot and greased with a little piece of salt pork. Sweet milk 
can be used, the soda omitted and one teaspoonful of baking powder sub- 
stituted. 

Virginia Waffles — 1. 

One teaspoonful of salt, one-half pint of flour, one pint of sweet milk, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder; stir milk and yolks together 
(beat the eggs separately), then add slowly the flour, in which sift the 
baking powder ; lastly fold in the beaten whites. Have the waffle irons hot 
and greased with a bit of salt pork or butter. 

Virginia Waffles— 2. 

One quart of sour milk or buttermilk, one-fourth pound of melted butter, 
six eggs, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful salt. 
Put the milk into a bowl, add the melted butter, then the flour, gradually, 
dissolve the soda in the milk, add the eggs well beaten, then the salt, beat 
all well together ; have the waffle iron hot and greased with a little piece of 
salt pork. 

Yeast. 

Three large pealed potatoes, cook in one quart of water, when cooked, 
mash very fine, put with them one-half cup of white sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, add one-third cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
warm water, when the quart of water has cooled, add the potatoes, etc. Set 
in a cool place in summer, a warm place in winter. It will be ready for use 
in twenty-four hours. When fresh yeast is needed, and you already have 
some liquid yeast, one teacup of the liquid is used in place of the compressed 
yeast. 

Toast. 

Rather stale bread makes the best toast. Cut about one-third of an inch 
thick, put on the toaster and hold over the fire first to dry the bread, then 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 219 

closer to the fire to brown it, remove from fire and butter each slice, or serve 

it just hot and dry. 

Buttered Toast. 

Prepare as plain toast, dip each slice very quickly into salted hot water, 

remove at once and spread with butter, have the butter soft and serve hot. 

Cream Toast. 
Toast as many slices of bread as needed, place in a deep hot dish and pour 
over some hot cream in which put one-half teaspoonful of salt, one spoonful 
of butter, repeat this until the dish is full, then pour any cream left into a 
small bowl and use if more is needed. 

Milk Toast. 
Put into the double boiler one quart of milk, when warm, stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, moistened into a thin paste with a little cold milk. Stir 
well and when it thickens, add one teaspoonful salt and let all cook for 
twenty minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir well — and pour 
over the slices of toast which you will prepare as by directions for toast. 
While the milk is heating, place the slices of toast in the dish in which it is 
to be served before adding the sauce. 

Toasted Crackers, Pilot Bread, Water Crackers. 
Pilot is the large water cracker, water crackers are smaller. Soak as many 
as are needed, in cold water for ten minutes, then take from the water, and 
drain for an hour, when needed toast them over a clear fire, or brown them 
in a baking pan in a hot oven, remove when brown and spread with soft 
butter. These crackers are nice with afternoon tea, or served with fish, 

especially salt fish. 

French Toast. 

Baker's bread is the best for making this toast, cut twelve slices of bread 
not quite an inch in thickness, remove the crusts. 

Beat two eggs together, add two cupfuls of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, 
dip each slice of bread in this mixture, drain and fry in hot fat in the frying 
pan, good beef dripping answers nicely. When browned on both sides, 
remove from pan and serve hot. French bread is very good served with 
any steak, or roast, also with syrup for a simple dessert. 

Fried Bread Crumbs. 
Dry several slices of bread, in the oven, then roll into crumbs. Have in 
frying pan some hot beef dripping or lard, throw in the crumbs, fry very 
quickly, turn them all the time, when brown, take from the pan, drain from 
all fat, dry them. 



220 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 



Cakes. 



General Directions for Cake Making. 

All materials for cake must be of the very best. Before commencing, see 
that the oven is right for properly baking the cake — one very good test for 
the right heat, is to place in the mouth of the oven a little flour ; if it browns 
in five minutes, the heat is right. Another is to hold the bare hand without 
being inconvenienced in the oven for one second ; if the oven is too hot the 
cake will rise and then fall ; if piece of white paper colors a light brown in 
five minutes after it is put in the oven, the oven is right for all rich cakes. 
Cake made without butter, or with very little butter, requires a hotter oven 
than a rich cake ; thin cakes require a hot oven. Never jar the oven while 
the cake is baking. Before commencing to mix the batter, have all the 
materials ready, the pans greased, the flour sifted twice, the granulated sugar 
sifted, the eggs counted and separated. 

First cream the butter, and add to it the sugar gradually. When these are 
light add the yolks well beaten. Where there is not enough butter to make 
the mixture creamy, add a part of the yolks, and after, the balance. Then 
add the milk, then the flour, measured after sifting, and in it sift the baking 
powder, then add the flavoring and one saltspoonf ul of salt ; lastly the whites 
beaten until stiff. These should be folded into the batter. In mixing cake an 
upward beating motion is better than stirring, as more air is introduced into 
the mixture. If the cake is not to be iced, a thin sprinkle of powdered sugar 
over the batter, just before baking and when in tins will give a smooth sur- 
face. To know if the cake is done, stick a broom straw into the cake, if it 
comes out clean, the cake is done. All fruit should be lightly floured, and 
stirred into the batter at the last. 

Always line a cake pan with paper. The medium weight yellow paper, 
used for wrapping, can be bought for ten cents a roll. Grease the paper, 
not the pan, except on the edges. 

Exactness in measuring is absolutely necessary. 

When a recipe calls for a "cupful of anything" it means one-half a pint, 
tin measures holding just this amount can be purchased at any house fur- 
nishing store. 

Loaf cakes require about an hour to bake. Layer cakes and small cakes 
about twenty -five minutes. 

To clean currants and other small fruits, place them in a strainer and 
sprinkle thickly with flour. Rub them well until they are separated, and 
the flour, grit, and fine stems have passed through strainer. Then place the 
strainer and currants in a pan of water and wash thoroughly. Lift the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 221 

strainer and currants together and change the water till clear. Dry between 
towels and pick over carefully. Fruit should not be washed just before 
using in cake. When washed leave in a warm place all day to make sure 
it is thoroughly dry and put away in closely covered tins. 

Angel Cake. 

Beat the whites of eleven eggs until very light, sift into the whites a little 
at a time one and one-half tumblerf uls or ten ounces powdered sugar, mix 
carefully and lightly, then add one tumblerful or five ounces of pastry flour 
which has been sifted four times with one teaspoon ful of cream tartar, 
then sift into the sugar mixture a little at a time, and very lightly. When all 
the flour is used, add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, put the batter into 
a new tin, which must not be greased or lined. Bake the cake in a moderate 
oven for three-fourths of an hour, test it with a broom straw, if the straw 
comes out clean the cake is done. Open the oven doors, let the cake remain 
in the tin and oven mouth to cool gradually. When the cake is quite cold 
loosen it from the sides of the tin and turn it out. Ice with a plain icing or 
boiled icing. The success of this cake depends upon preserving its lightness. 
If the eggs are beaten stiti, the flour sifted several times and carefully 
stirred in, the cake will be a success. Do not open the oven door for fifteen 
minutes after the cake has been put in. 

Black Cake. 

Bake Black Cake in a porcelain baking dish, if possible. The cake baked 
in a tin often becomes very dry and hard outside, from the long time neces- 
sary to properly bake it. 

Put into the crock with black cake, a thick slice of bread ; when very stale, 
another slice ; this will keep the black cake fresh and moist. 

Black Cake— 1. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of flour, four pounds 
of stoned raisins, four pounds of well cleaned currants, one pound of 
chopped citron, twelve eggs, two wine glasses of wine, two wine glasses of 
brandy, one tablespoonful of cloves, cinnamon, molasses, one nutmeg. Bake 
three hours. 

Mix the butter and sugar together until light, then add the yolks of the 
eggs beaten light, then the flour, then the whites beaten very stiff, then the 
fruit (retain a little of the flour to sprinkle over the fruit), then the spice 
and liquor. 

If the fruit is well warmed in the oven before adding to the batter, it will 
not sink to the bottom of the pan. 

Black Cake— 2. 
Five pounds of raisins, stoned, three pounds of currants, two pounds of 
citron chopped fine, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 



222 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

flour, ten eggs, two ounces of cinnamon, three nutmegs, one ounce of cloves, 
one ounce of mace, two glasses of whiskey, two glasses of wine. This recipe 
makes three loaves; bake four hours. Mix the butter and sugar together 
until light, then add the yolks of the eggs beaten light, then the flour, then 
the whites beaten very stiff, then the fruit (retain a little of the flour to 
sprinkle on the fruit), then the spice and liquor. 

Bread Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered sugar; work these together until 
very light, then add two tablespoonfuls sweet cream, three eggs well beaten. 
Take two cups of very light bread dough, work into it with your hand until 
all is mixed smoothly, the above mixture, then add one pound of stoned 
raisins, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
half a nutmeg, one small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, 
one glass of brandy; let all raise twenty minutes before baking. Bake in a 
moderate oven for one and one-half hours. 

Blueberry or Whortleberry Cakes. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, four cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, two cups of berries. Mix butter and sugar together, add 
the eggs, beaten together, then the milk, then the soda dissolved in a little 
milk, then the flour, in which sift the cream of tartar, lastly add the blue 
berries. Bake in a shallow tin and serve warm. 

Black Fruit or Wedding Cake — Baltimore. 

It is better to begin your preparations for this cake the day before baking. 
First, seed and quarter four pounds of the best malaga raisins, to seed these, 
dip them first in boiling water and dry, then remove seeds. Wash three 
pounds of best currants and dry them. Put one and one-fourth pounds of 
flour in oven and brown, until of a decided brown color. Blanch and cut up 
finely one and one-half pounds of almonds. Cut into narrow strips one and 
one-fourth pounds of citron, one-fourth pound of candied orange peel. Mix 
these well together, only leave out the citron. The next morning, cream one 
pound of butter and one pound of sugar together until very light (reserve 
one-fourth pound of flour to dredge over the fruit), then add twelve eggs 
well beaten together, add two wine glassfuls of brandy, one wine glassful of 
sherry, put in one cup of dark molasses, one teaspoonful of soda in the 
molasses. Keep on stirring until the molasses is all foamy and runs over into 
the cake mixture. Now put with the one-fourth pound of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, grated, one-half teaspoonful of powdered 
mace, one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of fine salt, thor- 
oughly dredge the fruit with this mixture. Stir into the rest of the cake 
mixture until both are well blended. Have your tins lined with several thick- 
nesses of kitchen or brown paper well buttered — ^put a layer of the batter, 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 223 

sprinkle over a layer of citron, so on until the tins are two-thirds full — the 
last layer must be of the batter. Bake, beginning with a slow heat and 
increasing it for five hours. 

When cool ice the cakes with a plain boiled icing or with any other icing. 
This cake will keep for a year or more, and improve with age. 

Caramel Cake — 1. 

Make a custard of eight tablespoon fuls of grated chocolate, yolk of one 
tgg, one-half cup of sweet milk, one cup of sugar; boil all together until 
thick and add one tablespoonful of vanilla when cold. 

Part Second. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, yolks of two eggs, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, beat well together, and then add the custard and beaten 
whites of three eggs. Bake in layers and put together with caramel filling. 

Caramel Filling. 

Three cups of brown sugar, two cups of cream, two tablespoon fuls of 
butter ; cook until thick. Water can be used instead of cream. 

Caramel Filling for Layer Cake — 2. 
Boil together three-fourths cup of cream, one-half cupful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful butter, one saltspoonful of soda, when this threads — or makes 
a soft ball when a little is dropped into cold water, add four tablespoonfuls 
of caramel, one teaspoonful of vanilla and beat until cool, then spread on 
the cake. To make the caramel : Take four tablespoonfuls of sugar, place 
in pan on fire and melt, stir well until it is quite brown, but not burnt. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 
Beat the whites of three eggs until very light, then stir into the eggs, one- 
half pound of powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut, 
add a pinch of salt. Stir all well together, have a flat baking tin well but- 
tered. Take teaspoonfuls of the cocoanut mixture, mold into little cakes, 
and place on tin and bake until a golden brown. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One and one-half cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, cream until 
light together, add one-half cup of sour milk, in which dissolve one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Beat two eggs, separately, add yolks to mixture, then add two 
cups of flour in which put two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one-half 
cup of hot water, then the beaten whites of the eggs, bake in jelly cake tins. 

For the filling: Boil until it strings one cup of brown sugar in one-fourth 
cup of water, with one tablespoonful of butter. Stir well when cool, spread 
on the cake. 

Chocolate Eclairs. 

Put into double boiler five ounces of flour, one-half pint of boiling water, 
stir flour in gradually so as to have no lumps, then put on back of stove — do 



224 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

not let it bum — for ten minutes to thoroughly cook. Remove from fire and 
let the mixture cool — when cool, add four eggs, beating them in singly and 
thoroughly, add one teaspoonful of vanilla. Have a flat baking tin, slightly 
greased, put the eclair mixture on it in spoonfuls and bake in a hot oven for 
ten or fifteen minutes. When baked set aside to become cold, then cut hole 
in side and fill with this mixture. Put two ounces of butter in stewpan with 
one ounce of sugar and one ounce of flour, the yolk of one egg and two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, stir and keep stirring until it thickens, not boils — 
remove from fire, when cold fill the eclairs and cover them with boiled frost- 
ing in which put one tablespoon ful of powdered chocolate — the eclairs can 
also be filled with whipped cream, made as follows : One pint cold milk in 
double boiler and boil, in another pan put two ounces powdered sugar, six 
ounces flour, one-half ounce cornstarch, two eggs, beat these well together 
for five minutes, when the milk boils, add it to this mixture slowly, return 
to fire and let it come to a boil, remove from fire and add one tablespoonful 
of vanilla, mix, let cool, when cold fill the eclairs, or they may be filled with 
the following: 

A delicious filling for eclairs, to take the place of the thick custard ordi- 
narily used, is a boiled icing, beaten in proportions of "half and half," with 
whipped cream. The icing is made by boiling, without stirring, one cup of 
granulated sugar, with five tablespoonfuls of water. When the syrup spins 
a hair, it should be instantly taken from the fire and poured over the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg. The mixture is then beaten till cold, and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice added; the whipped cream is then stirred in 
lightly, and any flavoring used which may be preferred. The lemon juice is 
merely to counteract the excessive sweetness. 

Crackers for Afternoon Tea. 

Take Boston water crackers, the kind that pull apart easily. Soak them in 
ice cold water, until they are so soft, they can just be handled, in fact take 
them out of the ice water with a cake turner, place them in a large shallow 
pan, cover with melted butter, have very hot oven. These crackers will puff 
up and become crisp and are very good. When they are crisp, remove from 
oven and serve. They can be used as shells for preserves or for creamed 
oysters. 

Connecticut Election Cake. 

Sift eight cupfuls of flour into the mixing bowl, dissolve yeast cake in two 
tablespoonfuls of water. Heat one pint of milk with one and one-half cup- 
fuls of sugar, let the milk cool to lukewarm, add the yeast and stir it into the 
flour, make a smooth batter. Cover the bowl and let the mixture rise, if 
made early in the morning, it will be light by eleven o'clock— or let it rise 
over night. When light, mix three and one-half cupfuls of butter and two 
cupfuls of sugar together until light, add to the yeast mixture, beat all 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 225 

together until smooth and light, then add four well beaten eggs. Beat them 
into the batter, then add two grated nutmegs, one-half pound of finely-cut 
citron, one pound of stoned raisins and one wine glass of brandy, beat all 
and place in four well greased cake tins — let rise again, then bake in slow 
oven, it may take over one hour, but try with a straw before removing from 

the oven. 

Brandy Snaps. 
One pound of flour, three-fourths pound of sugar, one pint of molasses, 
five ounces of butter, one-fourth ounce of powdered ginger. Make the 
molasses hot, melt the butter in it, mix the flour, ginger and sugar in a basin, 
stir the molasses and butter into it. Leave this mixture until the next day, 
then roll out very thin, cut into rounds, and bake on well-floured tin. 

Chocolate Custard Cake. 

Break two eggs in a large cup, and fill the cup with cream, and beat well 
together. Mix one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one and one- 
half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, well together, then 
add the cream and eggs, bake in two tins, like jelly cake ; when baked put 
between the layers a thick chocolate custard. 

For the custard take half pint of milk, one square of chocolate grated, one 
teaspoonful of cornstarch, two eggs, put the milk in the double boiler ; when 
boiling add the cornstarch dissolved and a little cold milk, the eggs well- 
beaten, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the chocolate; stir carefully; when 
thick remove from fire, add half teaspoonful of vanilla. When cold, spread 

on cake. 

Chocolate Cookies. 

Two and one-half cups of powdered sugar, three-fourths cup of flour, 
one bar Baker's chocolate melted, four eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; bake in long pan in a slow oven and when done, cut into 
squares. When spreading the batter it will facilitate matters to wet the knife 
frequently in hot water to prevent the dough adhering to it. The cookies are 
better the second day. 

Clove Cake. 

One pound of sugar and three- fourths pound of butter, beaten together 
until light, then add the yolks of four eggs well beaten and one cupful of 
thin sour cream, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful of 
powdered cloves, one wine glassful of brandy, one-half a grated nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, dissolved in one tablespoonful of water, 
one pound of flour, one cupful of English walnuts, chopped fine and then 
the well beaten whites of four eggs. Bake in a long tin, so the cake can be 
cut in squares. Spread over each square, boiled icing. 

Cocoanut Cake. 
One pound of grated cocoanut, one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, one-half pound of flour, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 



226 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

mix the butter and sugar together, until hght ; then add the yolks, well beaten, 
then the flour, in which put the baking powder ; then add the grated cocoa- 
nut ; lastly the whites beaten until stiff ; bake in shallow tins, ice when cold ; 
reserve one-fourth of the cocoanut to put on the icing. 

Cup Cake. 

One cupful of butter, creamed with two cupfuls of sugar until very light, 
then add the yolks of four eggs, beaten until light, then gradually one cupful 
of milk, then sift in three cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, then the four whites beaten light, stir these in gently, flavor with 
one-half a grated nutmeg, or with the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Part of this recipe can be baked in one loaf and the balance in little cakes. 

Coffee Cake. 

Dissolve one cake of yeast in one-half cupful of lukewarm milk, 
add this to one and one-half cupfuls of flour, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one cupful of milk, beat all to a smooth batter, then 
let it rise until light. Cream together one-half cupful of butter and 
one-half cupful of sugar, when light add two eggs beaten together, 
and the grated rind of one lemon. When the sponge is light, add this mix- 
ture, adding enough flour to make a soft dough. Let it rise again to double 
its first size, then divide into three parts, do not knead the dough but very 
little, put each part into a shallow buttered pan and let them rise again to 
double their size. Then bake and when half done, pour over the tops, two 
tablespoon fuls of melted butter, then sprinkle each cake with three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and a little powdered cinnamon mixed, and bake thirty- 
five minutes. 

Little Cup Cakes. 

One cupful of sugar, one-fourth cupful of butter, two eggs, one-half 
cupful of milk, one and one-half cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little salt, flavor with vanilla or lemon. Beat the butter and sugar 
together, add the yolks well beaten, then the milk, then one-half the flour 
with the baking powder, then the whites well beaten, with the balance of the 
flour ; bake in little tins, and ice the cakes. 

Cookies. 
Cream one cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar, when light add 
three eggs, beaten together until light, then add one cupful of sour cream 
and one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little warm water — lastly flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, one that will roll on the pastry board, but make 
it as soft as possible. When rolled out thin, sift over some coarse sugar, 
cut into small cookies and bake in hot oven quickly. 

Cocoanut Cookies — 1. 
Two cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of butter creamed together, add 
one cupful of milk, stir in the milk slowly, then add the yolks of three eggs 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 227 

with the white of one egg, beaten together until light, then one cupful of 
grated cocoanut and lastly three cupfuls of flour in which sift two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, put the batter in a large shallow, well buttered 
baking pan, spread it evenly and bake in moderate oven. As soon as baked — 
remove from oven, cut the cake into small squares. Make an icing of one 
cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of water boiled together until a little 
of the syrup makes a soft ball, in cold water, then stir well and put with it, 
the white of the egg beaten until very light, one-fourth cupful of grated 
chocolate and one cupful of grated cocoanut — ice the little cakes with this 

mixture. 

Cocoanut Cookies — 2. 
One cup of butter, cream and add two cups of sugar, when well beaten, 
add one cup of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, three cups of flour, in 
which mix two teaspoonfuls baking powder, lastly the whites of four eggs, 
beaten very light. Bake in a square biscuit tin or tins, when cool cut into 
squares and ice, with icing made with the whites of two eggs beaten very 
light and one cup of powdered sugar, add to the icing one cup of grated 
cocoanut and one-fourth cake of Baker's chocolate grated. 

Kiss Cookies. 
One-half cup of butter creamed, add one cup of sugar, beat well until light, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of milk, two eggs well beaten together, then 
two cups of flour in which sift one teaspoonful baking powder. Drop 
batter in spoonfuls on buttered tins. 

Cornstarch Cake. 

One-half pound of cornstarch, one-half pound of flour, one-half pound of 
butter, one pound of sugar, six eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one small cup of milk. Dissolve soda in a little 
vinegar, mix butter and sugar together until light, then add the yolks well 
beaten, then the milk, then the flour, then the cornstarch; put the cream of 
tartar into the flour, then add the soda, lastly fold in the whites which 
should be very light. 

Crullers. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cup of milk or cream, one cup of butter, 
two cups of sugar ; mix the butter and sugar together, put one teaspoonful 
soda in the milk and two of cream of tartar in the flour. Use flour suf- 
ficient to roll out the batter one-third of an inch in thickness, make into small 
rings and fry in hot, deep lard. 

Delicate Cake. 

Two cups powdered sugar, one-half cup butter, three cups flour, three- 
fourths cup milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, six eggs — whites only. 
Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the milk, then the flour, in 
which put the baking powder, lastly the eggs; flavor with either lemon or 
almond extract. 



228 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Sour Cream Cake. 

One cup of sour cream, one and one-half cups of sugar, three cups flour, 
one small teaspoon ful soda, three eggs ; mix all together quickly and bake. 

Devil Cake. 

One cup of grated chocolate, two-thirds cup of dark brown sugar, one- 
half a cup of sweet milk, one egg, — yolk only ; mix these together and cook 
in the saucepan until thick, then cool and add one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Take one cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of butter, 
two eggs, two cups of flour, one spoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk, 
beat butter and sugar together, add the milk, eggs and flour, then add the 
first mixture (when it is cool), and bake in square shallow tins ; when baked, 
ice with the following: Put into double boiler one cupful of boiling water, 
one-half tablespoonful of butter, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one-fourth 
cake of grated chocolate, boil together until the mixture thickens a little, then 
remove from fire and stir until it is thick enough to spread over the layers of 
cake, then place the two layers together. 

Doughnuts. 

In frying doughnuts or crullers, make the amount of flour a little less 
(two tablespoonfuls), and when all mixed, place the mixture on the ice to 
harden, then roll it out quickly and fry the cakes, they will be more deli- 
cate — cookies made with a little less flour than usual, the paste chilled and 
rolled and cut out very quickly, will be found more tender and delicate than 

in the old way. 

Doughnuts — French. 
Put into the double boiler, one-half cupful of butter, when hot, add one 
large cupful of flour in which sift one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, 
then add one large cupful of boiling water and stir all until the paste becomes 
dry and does not stick to the sides of the boiler ; take from the fire and beat 
in one at a time three eggs, then add one tablespoonful sugar and the grated 
rind of one lemon, beat until perfectly smooth : Turn all on to a floured 
pastry board and roll the paste into a half-inch sheet in thickness ; cut out 
finger shaped pieces — join these into a circle — and drop into very hot lard — 
fry until brown — or dono^ — remove and sprinkle over powdered sugar in 
which put a little powdered cinnamon. In frying the doughnuts, do not 

crowd them in the fat. 

Doughnuts. 
One scant cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, beat these 
together until light, then add two cupfuls of milk, two eggs beaten light, 
and half of a yeast cake, dissolved in a little water, half a nutmeg grated 
and flour enough to make the dough. Let the dough rise ; it must be as soft 
as it can be handled. When light, roll it out to half an inch in thickness, 
cut into small balls ; let these rise, then fry in deep, hot fat, when cooked sift 
over powdered sugar. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 229 

Fig Cake. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, 
three cupfuls of flour, one pound of sliced figs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, eight eggs (whites only) ; flavor with vanilla, a little salt. Take 
some of the flour to sprinkle over the figs. Mix butter and sugar together, 
add the milk, then the flour, in which sift the baking powder, then the whites 
beaten stiff, then the figs and vanilla. 

Fried Cakes. 

Two well beaten eggs, one small tablespoonful of melted butter or lard, 
one cup of sugar, one pint of sweet milk, one quart of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Mix the butter and sugar together, add the 
eggs, the milk, the flour in which sift the baking powder, make into small 
cakes and fry in very hot lard. 

White Fruit Cake. 

Cream one pound of butter with one pound of sugar until very light, 
then add the yolks of ten eggs, beaten until thick and light, then add one 
pound of sifted pastry flour, in which sift two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, then add one pound of blanched and shredded almonds, one grated 
cocoanut or one pound dessicated cocoanut, lastly the whites of ten eggs, 
beaten until very light. Line a cake tin with greased paper, pour in the 
mixture and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. It may require longer 
time. When the cake is cold ice with cocoanut icing. 

Ginger Bread. 

Take one-half cupful of butter, mix with one-half cupful of brown sugar, 
when well mixed, add one-half cupful of sour milk, and one-half cupful of 
black molasses, in which before adding, put one teaspoonful of soda, beat 
this into the molasses until it fills the cup and runs over, then add one and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful powdered ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful powdered cinnamon, which can be omitted, then drop into the batter two 
unbeaten eggs, just beat them in lightly, bake in a shallow greased tin, about 
twenty minutes. This ginger bread is very good served hot with cream for 
a simple dessert. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Let one cupful of molasses come to a boil, then add one teaspoonful of 
soda, let this cool. Mix one cupful of butter with three-fourths cupful of 
sugar, add two eggs, well beaten together ; add the molasses and two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, two tablespoon fuls of 
ginger, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful allspice, add 
enough flour to the mixture so that it can be rolled out very thin ; cut into 
rounds with cutter, bake in hot oven. 

Gold Cake. 

One cupful of sugar, three-fourths cupful of butter, two cupfuls flour, 
one-fourth cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, eight eggs — 



230 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

yolks only. Beat sugar and butter together, add the yolks, then the milk, 
then the flour, in which sift the baking powder and a little nutmeg. 

Frivoles. 

Three eggs, beaten until very light, add one pinch salt, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, flour enough to make a stiff paste and three drops of vanilla. 

Roll out the paste until it is as thin as a wafer, prick holes in the paste, 
cut it into small squares. Fry these squares in hot lard until they turn a 
light brown, remove from fat and sift over them powdered sugar. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, three- 
fourths cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, whites of four eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one cupful of finely chopped hickory nuts. 
Beat butter and sugar together until light, then add the milk, then the 
flour, in which sift the baking powder; then add the whites beaten until 
stiff, last the hickory nuts ; bake in two shallow pans. 

Hermits. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter. Sugar and butter 
stirred to a cream, three eggs well beaten together, one-half cup New 
Orleans molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of 
warm water, one cup of seeded and chopped raisins, one cup of currants, 
one cup of chopped nuts, five cups of flour, one teaspoonful of mixed spices, 
cinnamon, nutmeg. Bake in small cakes by dropping in spoonfuls on a but- 
tered tin. 

Soft Icing. 

One-half pound of powdered, sifted sugar, one tablespoonful of boiHng 
water, one tablespoonful of fruit juice. Spread at once on cake. 

Icing for Cake. 
White of an tgg, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of 
vanilla, one cup of powdered sugar. Beat together and spread on the cake. 

Boiled Icing. 
One cupful of granulated sugar, one-third cupful of boiling water, boil 
until the sugar spins when dropped from edge of a spoon; beat the white 
of one egg very light, add the boiling sugar slowly and keep beating for 
at least ten minutes to insure smoothness. 

Jelly Cake. 
One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, beat these together until 
creamy, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten and one cupful of milk slowly ; 
then add three cupfuls of flour in which sift two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, lastly add the whites of two eggs well beaten, bake in jelly cake tins. 
It will make two large or three small layers, bake in hot oven. When cool, 
spread jelly over each layer. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 231 

Jumbles. 

One-half pound of butter, one pound of sugar, three eggs, a little salt, 
flour enough to make a paste that will roll out very thin. Beat butter and 
sugar together until light, then add the eggs, salt and flour. Cut out with 
cutter with a hollow center. 

Little Cakes. 

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one and three-fourths cup- 
fuls of fine sugar, add two eggs beaten together until light, then one-half 
cupful of milk, and then two cupfuls of flour, in which sift two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one-half a nutmeg grated and one cupful of well washed 
currants, this mixture should make eighteen little cakes, baked in small tins. 

Frosting for Little Cakes. 

One cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of water boiled together until the 
syrup strings when dropped from a spoon, then beat while hot into the beaten 
white of one egg, until thick and smooth. 

Sponge Cake, Jelly Roll. 

Beat until light the yolks of five eggs, then add one cupful of sugar, beat 
with the eggs until light, then add the whites of five eggs beaten very light, 
and lastly put in one cupful of flour, which sift twice, with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, then add the juice of one lemon — the lemon can be omitted 
as the jelly will be acid, if currant jelly is used. Bake on fiat tins well but- 
tered, when baked lift on molding board, sift some sugar on molding board, 
put on it the cake, spread on the upside some jelly, then roll up the cake. 

Layer Cake. 
Cream one-half cup of butter with two cups of sugar until very light, 
add one cup of sweet milk, the yolks of three eggs beaten until light, then 
add three scant cups of flour in which sift two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, then add the whites of three eggs beaten until stiff, bake in four tins, 
when cool and ready to serve, spread each layer with whipped cream, 
flavored with vanilla extract. 

Lady Fingers. 
One pound of sugar, ten eggs, one-half pound of flour, one lemon, beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together until the mixture looks foamy 
and creamy, then add one-half of the whites beaten stiffly, then add the flour, 
then the balance of the whites, then the lemon juice. Bake in quick oven. 
Bake in the little lady finger tins. 

Lady Cake. 
Cream one-half cup of butter with one and one-half cups of sugar, when 
light, add slowly one-half cup of sweet milk; sift together one and one-half 
cups of flour and one-half cup of cornstarch, with two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Beat the whites of six eggs until very light, add to the batter, 



232 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

alternating with portions of the flour until all are used, last add one teaspoon- 
ful of bitter almond extract. 

Lemon Icing. 

The juice of one lemon, stir into it powdered sugar enough to form a 
soft paste. Spread on the cake. 

Loaf Cake. 

One quart of flour sifted before measuring, one pint of sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, three eggs, two gills of water, one-half a grated nutmeg, 
three teaspoon fuls of baking powder ; cream the butter and sugar together, 
add the yolks well beaten, then the cold water and nutmeg. Sift the baking 
powder into the flour, add to the mixture, and lastly add the whites well 
beaten. Bake in two well greased tins ; have a good quick oven. Be careful 
not to jar the cake while it is baking ; bake for thirty minutes ; test with a 
broom whisp. 

Maple Sugar Cake. 

Prepare the batter the same as for chocolate cake. 

Maple Sugar Filling for Cake. 
One and one-half pounds of maple sugar, two eggs (whites), one table- 
spoonful of water, boil the sugar and water together until it threads or 
spins, then stir into the well beaten whites slowly. 

Macaroons. 
One-half pound of almond paste, four whites of eggs, three-fourths pound 
of sugar. Mix eggs and paste gradually, add sugar, beat well till very light. 
Butter a pan, drop on the paste in spoonfuls, sift sugar on. Bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes. First sugar, then paste and a little egg. 

Madelaines. 

One-half pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
flour, four eggs. Beat the butter and sugar together until light, add the 
yolks well beaten, then the flour ; lastly, the whites beaten until stiff. Bake 
in small tins. 

Nut Cake. 

One cup of butter, beat with two cups of sugar until creamy, then add 
three-fourths of a cup of milk and five eggs well beaten together. Sift two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder into three cups of flour, reserving one-half 
cup to sift over fruit, one cup of stoned raisins and one cup of chopped 
mixed nuts, then add the flour and the fruit, bake in one good-sized tin, and 
ice with boiled icing. 

Oatmeal Cakes. 

One-half cup of butter, three-fourths cup of sugar, cream together, then 
add one cup of oatmeal, one teaspoonful baking powder, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, add two eggs beaten together, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake 
like cookies on buttered tins in slow oven. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 233 

A Plain Cake to be Eaten Warm or While Fresh. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of flour, 
two-thirds of a cup of milk, one egg, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one saltspoonful of salt, one cup of stoned raisins or currants. Beat 
butter and sugar together, then add the egg well beaten, then the milk and 
the flour in which sift the baking powder, then the fruit. Bake in one loaf. 

Pound Cake. 
One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, ten eggs, 
one nutmeg, if liked. Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks well 
beaten, then part of the flour, then part of the whites, beaten stiff, then the 
rest of the flour and whites. This batter by beating for thirty minutes, after 
it is all well mixed, will keep for several days or even weeks if kept covered 
and in a dry, cool place ; only when it is required do not even stir it, but 
just bake as it is — in little tins or large ones. 

English Plum Cake (Shropshire). 
One pint of milk, one teacup of sugar, four ounces of butter, flour enough 
to make a soft sponge, as for bread, with one-half cake of yeast. Put the 
sugar dry into the flour, melt the butter, pour in the milk and yeast dis- 
solved in a little water, and set sponge to rise. In the morning add any 
fruit you wish — one full cup currants washed and dried, one cup of raisins, 
one-half cup of citron shredded, a little powdered cloves and cinnamon. 
Knead it up as stiflf as for bread; when light, bake in slow oven. When 
done wrap in a damp cloth ; keep a damp napkin under the loaf. 

Queen Cake. 

One pound of sugar, creamed with three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
when light add five yolks of eggs, beaten until very light, then add one-half 
pound of flour with one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with it. Mix 
together one wine glassful of sherry, one wine glassful of brandy, one 
wine glassful of cream, with half a grated nutmeg ; put into the batter, then 
add one pound seeded and cut raisins, one pound of well washed currants, 
one-half pound of flour, the mixture of wine, etc., then the whites of the 
eggs, beaten until light. Bake in two tins lined with buttered paper. When 
cool, ice with a plain icing. 

Plunkets. 

Cream one-half pound of butter, when soft add gradually one-half pound 
of sugar, when light add the yolks of five eggs, beaten to a cream, beat all 
together for at least ten minutes ; then add four ounces of flour mixed with 
two ounces of cornstarch and one teaspoonful of baking powder all well 
sifted together three times, add to the other mixture, when mixed add the 
whites of the eggs beaten until very light, then the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon. Bake in small patty-pans. 



234 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Sunshine Cake. 
Whites of eleven eggs, yolks of six eggs, one and one-half cups of pow- 
dered sugar, measured after sifting; one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar. Beat whites until light, add the sugar, then the yolks, well 
beaten, then add the flour. Bake like angel cake. 

Sponge Cake — Very old Recipe. 

Mix the yolks of three eggs with one-half pound of powdered sugar. 
Beat the whites of three eggs until very stifif. Sift one- fourth pound of 
sifted flour in which put the grated rind of one lemon and one saltspoonful 
of salt. Now mix together the yolks with the sugar mixture and the flour 
and whites, a little at a time, the last of the whites, only stirred once around 
at last. Add the juice of one lemon. Put buttered paper on the bottom of 
tin, place the cake mixture in hot oven for ten minutes, then cover with 
paper and bake three-fourths of an hour in slow oven. The cake should 
be a light brown with two sides and ends all caramel. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound of sugar, separate ten eggs, beat the yolks until light, then add 
one-half the sugar and beat that into the yolks. Beat the ten whites until 
light, add the balance of the sugar, beat well, then pour in the yolk mixture 
and beat all well, then fold in gently one-half pound of flour, add the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, or two teaspoon fuls of almond flavoring. Bake 
in two loaves, in tins lined with buttered paper. If a crusty top is desired, 
sprinkle over the loaves when half baked some granulated sugar, then finish 
the baking. Ice with boiled frosting, if desired. These directions followed 
exactly will result always in a perfect sponge cake. 

Spanish Buns. 
One pound of flour, one-half pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, 
four eggs, one pint of milk, one-half nutmeg, one glass of wine, one cup of 
yeast or one cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little water, one cup 
of currants, one-half teaspoon of soda. Put the flour in a bowl, stir in the 
milk in which the butter has been melted, add the sugar, the eggs well 
beaten, the nutmeg, wine, the soda dissolved in a little water, the currants, 
lastly the yeast. Mix all well together and set to rise in the pans before 
baking; the pans must be shallow ones. 

White Mountain Cake. 
One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one-half pound of butter, six 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, or three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup of sweet milk, lemon. Bake like 
jelly cake. Spread frosting on each layer and put layers together. Beat 
butter and sugar together until light, add yolks well beaten, then the milk, 
in which dissolve the soda ; then the flour, in which mix the cream of tartar, 
then the whites. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 235 

Velvet Sponge Cake. 
Two cups of sugar, five eggs, one cup of boiling water, two and one- 
half cups of flour, one tablespoonful of baking powder. Beat the yolks a 
little, then add sugar and beat fifteen minutes, then put in the whites very 
firmly beaten, then add the boiling water, then the flour. Bake in one loaf. 

Silver Cake. 
Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, eight eggs (whites only), 
two and one-half cups of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, juice of one lemon. Beat the 
sugar and butter together until light, add the milk, then the flour, in which 
sift the baking powder, then the lemon juice, lastly, the whites beaten 

very stiff. 

Prince of Wales Cake. 
One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, two and one-half cups 
of flour, three eggs (yolks) ; use the whites for frosting; one cup of sour 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-half pound of raisins chopped fine, one-fourth pound of citron, cut 
fine. Mix the butter and sugar together until light, add the yolks well 
beaten, then the sour milk, then the flour, then the molasses, then the soda 
dissolved in a little warm water, then the spices, lastly the fruit. Bake like 
jelly cake and then put together with boiled frosting. 

Sand Tarts — Bermuda. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one-half pound of butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted with the 
flour, two eggs, leave out the whites. Stir the butter and sugar until light, 
add flour, milk and yolks ; work until smooth. Roll out a little of the dough 
at a time quite thin, cut with a knife in squares. Mix one-half pound of 
blanched almonds, one-half cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup of cin- 
namon, whites well beaten together, place on the squares this paste — bake 
quickly. 

Royal Icing. 

Use the best confectioner's sugar, sift it until perfectly fine. Take the 
whites of two eggs, beat them slightly, then add the sugar gradually, add- 
ing a little lemon juice from time to time. A very little cornstarch improves 
this icing. When the icing is perfectly smooth and will spread on the cake 
without running, it is ready for use, and should be used at once. Place 
a lump on the center of the cake and spread it over the cake with a palette 
knife ; dip the knife every now and then into cold water, then ice the sides 
of the cake, commencing at the bottom. 

Almond Icing. 
Grind fine one pound of blanched almonds and one pound of fine sugar; 
mix both together ; add enough white of egg to make all into a soft paste. 



236 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Beat well, add one-half teaspoonful of almond flavoring, then spread on the 
cake and cover all with a royal icing. 

Fondant. 

To make a small quantity, which is better to do at first, take one-half 
pound of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, one-half teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar ; place in a perfectly clean saucepan and let all dissolve gradu- 
ally, stirring it all the time ; then place the saucepan on the hot fire and boil 
very fast; do not stir it; have a cup of cold water ready, and after ten 
minutes fast boiling of the sugar drop into it a little of the syrup, if it will 
roll into a soft ball between your thumb and finger it is done, take from 
the fire and let the syrup cool. When cool, beat it hard with a wooden 
spoon, until it is a soft, creamy mass. Should the fondant become sugary, 
return it to the fire and add a few spoonfuls of cold water and proceed as 
before. Keep the fondant in a jar until required. When needed, place the 
jar in a saucepan half filled with boiling water and stir the fondant until it 
is soft, then spread or pour it over the cake or cakes. The fondant can be 
made any desired color by the colorings sold for the purpose, and flavored 
as desired. 

Wafers to Serve with Afternoon Tea. 

Cream together one cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, beat until 
light, add one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, beat well, add 
one teaspoonful powdered ginger. Butter generously a flat baking pan, 
spread on it this mixture smoothly, sprinkle over some pulverized nuts, 
bake slowly, as soon as done, cut into squares and take from pan. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 237 

Sandwiches 

How to Make. 

Sandwiches may be made of white, brown or Graham bread. The bread 
should be at least twelve hours old and close grained. Spread each slice 
lightly and evenly with butter or mayonnaise dressing, as may be required, 
before cutting from the loaf ; lay the slice on a flat surface to be spread with 
the sandwich mixture ; over this place another spread slice of bread and 
press them together with a broad-bladed knife. They may be cut into vari- 
ous shapes, the square, triangular or diamond form being the most in use. 
Round sandwiches are made by using a large sized biscuit cutter. Slices 
cut into squares large enough to roll make another variety. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Sandwiches in any form are always welcomed. The following are a lit- 
tle different from the regulation sandwiches. Remove the skin and bones 
from some sardines then chop and add a small strip of cooked ham chopped 
very fine. Mix with these some paprika and made mustard, a little tomato 
or walnut catsup and just enough vinegar to make the mixture into a thick 
paste. Spread a thin slice of bread with butter and with a layer of the mix- 
ture. Lay another slice of buttered bread upon this and again cover with 
the mixture. Repeat with three or four slices of bread, then take off all 
the crust and cut through the bread into thin slices. 

Broiled Sandwiches. 

A broiled sandwich is unusual and is exceedingly good, as well as being 
a means of using underdone beef. Spread thin slices of Graham or white 
bread with butter and place between the slices rare beef chopped fine and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Place the sandwiches in a double broiler 
and brown the bread over a clear fire slowly, so that the meat shall have 
time to become heated. Lay the sandwiches upon a hot dish and brush the 
tops with hot butter. A horseradish sauce is often served with these sand- 
wiches. 

Cheese Sandwich to Serve with Salad. 

Cut thin slices of bread in finger lengths ; butter them and cut thin slices 
of Swiss cheese same length and place between the slices ; season the cheese 
with a little cayenne ; dip the sandwiches in melted butter, place in the oven 
for a few minutes or until the bread is brown. Serve hot with any salad. 

Potted Cheese Sandwiches. 
Pound together one-half pound of Cheshire cheese and five ounces of 
butter, a pinch of sugar. Stir into a stiff paste with a little white wine and 
spread evenly on hot toast. 



238 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Caviare Sandwiches — 1. 
Spread caviare on bread and butter or on buttered toast, squeeze lemon 
over, and add a trifle of cayenne pepper. 

Caviare Sandwiches — 2. 
Take a small box of caviare, turn it into a shallow dish and beat into it 
alternately, a little at a time, lemon juice and olive oil, and stir until you 
have a thick, white paste. Spread it thickly on bread. Over this scatter 
some finely chopped olives. 

Cream Cheese Sandwich. 

One cup of English walnut meats chopped very fine and mixed with 

enough cream cheese to make a paste. Add a little salt and spread on very 

thin bread. 

Celery Sandwiches. 

Boil two eggs fifteen minutes, throw them into cold water, remove the 

shells and rub the eggs through a course sieve, add to them a cup of finely 

chopped celery and enough mayonnaise dressing to season it and make a 

paste. Spread on buttered toast. 

Cherry Sandwich. 
Candied cherries chopped fine and moistened with a little wine. Spread 
the mixture between water thin biscuits. 

Chicken Sandwiches. 

Chop the white meat of cold boiled chicken very fine, and mix with it 
enough highly seasoned mayonnaise dressing to make a paste, add to this a 
few chopped olives and spread between buttered slices of bread. Another 
chicken filling is made by chopping the chicken fine with half as many 
blanched almonds as you have meat ; season with salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Moisten with a little cream until it is thin enough to spread good 
on brown bread. 

Hot Cheese Sandwiches. 

To prepare slice the bread very thin and cut in rounds with a large sized 
biscuit cutter. Put a thick layer of grated cheese between the two circles 
of bread, sprinkle the cheese with salt and cayenne and press the circles of 
bread together. Fry them in a skillet in equal parts of hot lard and butter. 
Brown on each side and serve hot. 

Fish Sandwiches. 
Graham bread is especially good for fish sandwiches. To make a sardine 
sandwich take three sardines and remove the skin and bones. Put them 
in a bowl with one teaspoonful of anchovy paste, the yolks of three boiled 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and the juice of half a lemon. With 
the back of a spoon rub this mixture to a paste and spread on bread. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 239 

Hot Sandwich. 
Graham or white bread can be used; cut into rather thick slices and 
Hghtly toast them, cutting after into fancy shapes. To three-quarters of a 
cup of chopped ham or tongue, add a httle grated cheese, some chopped 
parsley, a tablespoonful of cream and the yolk of a beaten egg. Mix these 
ingredients well together and spread thickly upon the toasted bread and 
sprinkle a little grated cheese over the top. Place the pieces in a baking 
pan, put them into a hot oven and brown well. 

Deviled Ham Sandwiches. 
One can of deviled ham, soften with rich cream and one glass of sherry. 
Spread on thin bread and butter. 

Plain Ham Sandwiches. 
Slices of thin bread, well buttered, put on one slice thinly cut boiled ham, 
place another slice of bread on top. 

Lettuce Sandwich. 

Cut the bread very thin and stamp into rounds with a biscuit cutter; 
spread thickly with mayonnaise dressing, and lay white crisp lettuce leaves 
on the dressing between the slices, letting the lettuce leaves come beyond the 
slices; press the upper piece of bread over the lettuce and trim the leaves 
with sharp scissors to make them even on all sides. Watercress may be 
used in the same way, 

Olive Sandwich. 

Chopped olives mixed with a little mayonnaise dressing on brown or 
white bread cut very thin, and buttered and spread with almonds, walnuts 
or pecan nut meats, pounded to a paste with a little salt. 

Raisin Sandwiches. 

With a pair of sharp scissors cut large raisins in two, lengthwise, and 
remove the seeds. Lay the fruit closely together between thin buttered 
bread, cut into fancy shapes. 

Mayonnaise with Olives or Peppers. 

Cut with the pastry cutter some rounds of thin, white bread ; spread with 
mayonnaise sauce, in which mix chopped olives or finely chopped green 
peppers. 

Cold Roast Beef Sandwich. 

Chop very fine, cold rare roast beef and to one cupful of meat add one- 
fourth of a teaspoon ful of salt, one teaspoon ful of tomato catsup, and the 
same amount of Worcestershire sauce and of melted butter, stir until well 
blended and spread on thin slices of bread. Or to half a cupful of thick 
mayonnaise add two spoonfuls of whipped cream, a dessertspoonful of 
grated horseradish, and two dessertspoonfuls of chopped cucumbers. 
Spread the bread with this mixture, and then with a thin layer of finely 
chopped rare beef and cover with more dressing and bread. 



240 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Spanish Sandwiches. 

Butter some slices of fresh brown bread, and sprinkle on each slice a little 
cayenne, then put some boned anchovies, laying them flat, and sprinkle over 
all the yolk of an tgg cooked hard and rubbed through a sieve, some finely 
minced cold chicken, and a little chopped parsley, place the other slices of 
bread over, press them well together, cut into rounds and serve garnished 
with sprigs of parsley. 

Leberwurst Sandwiches. 

Spread the leberwurst on slices of rye bread, do not use butter. Leber- 
wurst is a German sausage made of goose livers, truffles, etc. Scoop it out 
of the sausage skin. 

Tomato Sandwich. 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter evenly, then cut them into rounds with 
a biscuit cutter, lay on one slice of the bread a slice of ripe tomato, sprinkle 
the other slice with grated cheese, season with salt and pepper; press the 

two slices together. 

Sausage Sandwiches. 
Take the small link sausage, split them lengthwise and broil on each side. 
When they become cool, cover buttered bread with delicate lettuce leaves 
and lay the sausage upon them ; then the thinnest possible slices of cucumber 
pickles, and lastly a piece of buttered bread. Cut them into small squares. 

It may be well said of sandwiches that their name is legion and various 
ways of making them will come by practice, combinations unusual will 
come to the mind, ambition also to make these combinations. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 241 



Cereals. 

Do not trust to the cereals said to be "cooked ready to serve." All cereals 
require long cooking to make of them, nutritious food for the family. It 
is not difficult to give this long cooking. By putting the cereal into the 
double boiler at once after breakfast, it is cooked and out of the way before 
the stove is needed for the midday meal. It then requires only reheating 
the next morning for breakfast, if it is desired hot. If kept in the refrig- 
erator the supply necessary for two days can be cooked at the same time. 

To make a pleasant change add some fresh fruit to the cereal for break- 
fast, huckleberries, blackberries and peaches all make a change from just 
the ordinary cereal and children love a little change in the manner of serv- 
ing the cereals. 

If a fireless cooker is used all cereals are beautifully cooked in them. 
Besides the many prepared cereals sold, there are many which prove a 
pleasant change from them — cornmeal mush, farina, rice, hominy, both 
coarse and fine, oatmeal, whole wheat, which if given a long cooking is very 
good — as full directions are given with all the prepared cereals, I only add : 

Cracked Wheat. 

Wash, drain and put in double boiler with enough water to cover, stir 
well and add gradually more water as the first is absorbed, add salt and 
cook the wheat at least three hours. The wheat with long cooking, molded 
and eaten cold is an excellent hot weather food. 

If you have any of the breakfast cereal left, mold it and cut in slices, dip 
these in flour and fry, not long, but just long enough to give a delicate 
brown covering to the slices. Or if you have a vegetable and meat soup for 
dinner, stir in any of the left-over cereal. 

Try serving oatmeal cold on hot mornings. Cook one teacup ful of oat- 
meal in the double boiler for certainly four hours. The oatmeal will use 
about a quart of water before it is cooked. Add a little salt. When cooked 
it should be quite soft ; put it into a mold or into small cups, one for each 
person. Turn out only before breakfast on a small saucer, and serve as 
usual with milk and cream. Any of the cereals served cold are enjoyed in 
hot weather. 

Oatmeal is slow to digest, therefore, it should not be given in large quanti- 
ties to any one with weak digestion ; unless it is well cooked, that is, cooked 
for a long time. It is not a food for any one who leads a sedentary life. 
The Scotch eat it uncooked a great deal, as it lasts longer, they say, but it 
takes the Scotch climate or stomach to digest it uncooked. Compared with 
meat, oatmeal is a much cheaper food, as it contains pound for pound nearly 



242 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

as much of the protein nutriment as meat. In oatmeal there is more of 
protein than is found in many of the other cereals. 

It is always advisable to wash well the cereals. The loose flour which is 
about the grains is of no benefit and the cereals cook smoother without it. 
In hot weather examine the cereals carefully for any worms, before cooking. 

Baked oatmeal is an excellent way to prepare this cereal. The day before 
it is to be served stir a pint of oatmeal with one teaspoon ful of salt into two 
quarts of boiling water. Boil five minutes ; then turn into a buttered earthen 
dish and cover. Set the dish in a pan of boiling water, place in a moderate 
oven and bake for two hours. Then in the morning again put the dish in 
the oven in a pan of boiling water and cook half an hour. Serve hot. 

Rice. 

When rice is about six cents a pound it is cheaper food than potatoes at 
one dollar a bushel. Rice is easier digested than potatoes. It contains much 
nutrition. The unpolished rice contains all the elements of nutrition, used 
as a vegetable or with fresh or cooked fruit. In fact only the unpolished 
rice should be used. Wild rice is very excellent served with meats or game. 

To Cook Rice. 

The secret of having boiled rice in a perfect condition when served is to 
prepare it carefully, wash it in several waters, the last water must run from 
it clear. Have a kettle with plenty of rapidly boiling water, sprinkle into 
this slowly the rice. Slowly that the water will not stop boiling, when the 
rice is tender and never stir it but with a fork, drain and pour over it hot 
water, placing the rice in a sieve so that you use a lot of hot water, then add 
a little salt, and keep the rice hot. 

If two or three small onions are cooked in the rice, the flavor is very 
delicate arfd acceptable to many. Marbles put in with the rice will prevent 
it from sticking to the bottom of the kettle. Rice is served with all kinds 
of meat, game, poultry, fish, also with many vegetables, either alone or in 
combination with them, tomatoes especially; also green peppers. Rice is 
also made into many acceptable desserts. 

To Boil Rice. 

One quart of water with one teaspoon ful of salt. When boiling hard, 
put in one pint of well-washed rice. As soon as the water boils hard again, 
remove to the back of the range and let the rice cook slowly ; when all the 
water is boiled away cover the rice until it is perfectly cooked, do not stir 
at all — ^be careful not to burn the rice. 

The addition of a little lemon juice to the water in which rice is boiled 
will increase the whiteness, and the grains will readily separate. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 243 

Rice Croquettes with Meat. 
Boil the rice until quite soft and tender, while warm add an egg well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of butter, and salt to taste, and half a teacupful of any 
kind of cold meat, ham or tongue, chopped fine. When cold, make into 
croquettes, cover with beaten tgg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot drip- 
ping-pan till browned. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One-fourth pound of rice well-washed and dried, one pint of milk; boil" 
them together until the rice is perfectly tender. A thin rind of lemon cooked 
with the rice is an addition. When the rice is rather dry and tender add one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little pepper and a little nutmeg. Stir together and spread on a dish to cool ; 
when cold form into croquettes; dip each one in beaten egg, then into fine 
crvmibs, either of bread or crackers ; put on the ice for an hour or more, then 
fry in deep, hot fat until a light brown color, and serve at once. 

Rice Croquettes with Jam. 
Prepare the rice as for plain croquettes. Take each croquette when ready 
to fry, make a hole in the center and fill it with some jam, either peach 
or apricot, cover it over with rice, dip each croquette into beaten egg, then 
into fine bread crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat. 

Rice with Cheese. 

One pint of cold boiled rice and one cupful of grated cheese, season the 
cheese with a little cayenne and a small bit of powdered soda. Have a but- 
tered pudding dish, put into it first a layer of rice, then one of cheese, alter- 
nate until the dish is full. Take one cupful of milk, add one well beaten 
egg to it, one saltspoonful of made mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, a 
little cayenne, mix together, pour over the rice, cover with a thin layer of 
crumbs and bits of butter, place in hot oven and bake for twenty-five minutes 
and serve hot. 

Rice Casserole. 

Wash two pounds of rice, drain and put into a stewpan with two quarts 
of cold water, when the water boils, add one teaspoonful of salt, and cover 
the rice with thin slices of salt pork, and let all simmer slowly until the rice 
is cooked. When the rice is cooked mash it until quite smooth, gather it up 
into a ball, and mold it into a casserole form, then brush it over with melted 
butter, place in pan, put into hot oven until it browns, then remove from 
oven, trim it into a ball, take out a lot of the inside rice and fill the ball 
with any mixture you like. Cold chicken, cut in pieces seasoned with salt 
and pepper and some melted butter, or cold game, sweetbreads, finely 
chopped cooked meat, fish chopped fine, all seasoned. Have whatever you 
fill the rice casserole with quite hot, serve with a garnish of sprigs of parsley, 
or watercress. 



244 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Risotto Milanese. 
Put into a saucepan one onion, cut in fine pieces, with one cupful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of olive oil, cook until the onion is of a golden brown 
color, then add one pint of good stock, one and one-half cups of rice, cook 
until the rice is tender, then add one pint of stock, all must boil fast. When 
almost done, add one-half glass of sherry, one-fourth teaspoonful of Indian 
saffron dissolved in one-half cup of stock, one teaspoonful of grated cheese, 
then remove from the stove and add one tablespoonful butter. The risotto 
should be quite thick, serve in a deep dish and hot. 

Rice with Butter. 

Wash one pound of rice, put into the double boiler with one quart of 

water, let it cook until the water is all absorbed, when add one-half pound of 

butter. Stir this into the rice with two forks, — cover and let it keep hot for 

one-half hour or longer on the back part of the stove. This is a very good 

way of serving rice when there is no gravy and with cold meat as well as 

with hot. 

Sweet Rice — A Portugese Recipe. 

Wash thoroughly, then drain and dry half a pound of rice, stew it with 

three pints of milk for thirty minutes, then add one-half pound of sugar, a 

little salt, boil together until the rice is tender, then add two tablespoon fuls 

of blanched almonds chopped fine. Put the rice mixture into shallow dishes 

and shake until the surface is smooth, then sift over thickly some powdered 

cinnamon, which will give it the appearance of a freshly baked cake. Serve 

cold. It will remain good for several days. If desired richer, one-third 

cream may be used in the place of the milk. 

Savory Rice. 

Put one-fourth pound of rice in fast boiling, salted water; when half 
cooked, pour off the water and replace it with three-fourths pint of good 
stock, and cook until the rice is done. Then add salt, pepper, two ounces of 
freshly grated cheese and one egg well beaten. Pour all into a buttered dish, 
and brown in oven. 

Rice Socles. 

Wash one pound of rice ; put it in a stewpan with half a gallon of water 
and a little salt ; boil on a very slow fire. When the rice is done pound it in 
a mortar, and mold it to the required shape. For hot dishes the socle should 
be egged over and put in the oven to color it. For cold dishes, spread the 
rice over with Montpelier butter. 

Timbale of Rice. 

One teacup of rice, one pound of any cooked meat, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one-half a small onion, one-fourth pint of stock, 
salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one ounce of butter. 
Boil the rice till tender, put on a sieve to drain. Chop the meat fine, season 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 245 

with onions chopped fine, parsley, pepper and salt, add the bread crumbs and 
egg, mix well; then the stock. Butter a mold, line with the rice, put in 
center the meat, cover the top with rice, steam over a hot fire for three- 
fourths of an hour, then turn out of the mold on a hot dish and pour tomato 
sauce around the rice. For the sauce : Stew the tomatoes, add one table- 
spoonful of butter, mixed with one tablespoonful of flour, when thick strain 
through a sieve and serve around the rice. 

Rice with Tomatoes. 
Prepare the tomatoes as directed in "Stewed Tomatoes," fill them with 
cooked rice, well seasoned with salt and pepper and one tablespoonful melted 
butter, place the tops on and bake for twenty minutes — take from the pan 
carefully (a pancake turner will be found useful in taking anything small 
from the oven). The tomato pulp left can be stewed for a sauce, or kept 

for soup. 

Cold Rice with Wine. 

Boil one pound of rice with one pound of sugar in one pint of white wine, 

add a little lemon or orange rind, when the rice is cooked, remove from the 

fire and place in a buttered mold. Place on the ice to become perfectly cold. 

Serve with either cream, or with orange juice added to any of the wine left. 

Macaroni a la Brignoli. 

Cut one onion in slices and fry with one-half teaspoonful of butter, when 
brown, put into a saucepan with one pint of tomatoes, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, one garlic clove, a few fresh mushrooms and one tablespoonful of butter. 
While this is cooking, take one-fourth pound of macaroni, cover with boil- 
ing water in a saucepan, add one tablespoonful of salt, when cooked, remove 
from fire, drain and put into cold water — when the sauce is done — drain the 
macaroni, put it into a dish, put in one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, then the sauce, and bake in the oven for a few minutes or long 
enough to reheat the macaroni. 

Italian Macaroni — 1. 

Cook in a stewpan one-half pound of macaroni with one garlic clove, in 
water until soft. When soft remove from fire, put into cold water until 
needed. 

Cut some rough pieces of veal from the leg, fry it in some butter in the 
frying pan until quite brown, then add it to one pint of hot water in a sauce- 
pan with one green pepper, seeds removed, one leek, one garlic clove, one- 
half a bay leaf, let all simmer for two hours, remove from fire — strain, and 
put the macaroni in this stock for about one-half hour, remove from fire and 
drain from stock, then add a few fresh mushrooms. Take one tablespoonful 
of butter in a small stewpan when hot add two tablespoonfuls of flour, take 
a little of the stock from the macaroni, stir well into the butter and flour, 
keep on adding the stock until it is all used, then pour it all over the maca- 



246 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

roni — ^be careful not to break the macaroni — ^place in dish in which it can be 
served, and sprinkle over some minced parsley, with some Parmesan cheese 
grated very fine, serve very hot. 

Italian Macaroni — 2. 

Place in quart stewpan a pint and a half of boiling water, put into this 
four ounces of macaroni, broken into four-inch pieces, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and boil gently for twenty minutes, then drain from the water in 
a colander; wipe out the stewpan, and return the macaroni into it with a 
half pint of good stock ; let it simmer gently until all the stock is absorbed by 
the macaroni — this will take about twenty minutes. Grate one ounce of 
Parmesan and one ounce of Swiss cheese or two ounces of good York State 
cheese; put one-half of the cheese into the stewpan, stirring well into the 
macaroni ; when this half of the cheese is dissolved, add the balance with one 
tablespoonful of butter, some salt and a little cayenne. Serve in a hot, 
deep dish. 

Macaroni Quenelles. 

Take one ounce of macaroni, four ounces of bread crumbs, two eggs, half 
a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a pinch of mixed herbs, a 
dust of cayenne, and salt to taste, two ounces of melted butter and two 
spoonfuls of chopped ham; boil the macaroni till cooked, cut it into small 
pieces, boil the milk and pour on the bread crumbs and soak for five minutes, 
add the macaroni, herbs, eggs, melted butter and ham, steam in a well but- 
tered basin for an hour, and serve with brown mushroom sauce over it. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 
Boil a pound of macaroni with a piece of butter the size of an egg, an 
onion, two cloves, and some salt ; when done, drain the macaroni and place it 
in a saucepan with five ounces grated Swiss cheese, five ounces of Parmesan 
cheese, one teaspoonful black pepper, and six tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir 
over the fire until the cheese becomes thick and stringy. Dish up in a 
pyramid and cover with thick tomato sauce. 

Spaghetti — Austrian. 
Boil one pound of spaghetti for twenty-five minutes in salted water, have 
the water boiling when the spaghetti is added to it. Then take from the fire, 
drain, put it into cold water until cold. Return to saucepan ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and the same amount of grated Parmesan cheese, added 
slowly, with one pint of Creole sauce ; prepare the sauce while the spaghetti 
is cooling, take for it, two onions sliced fine, one peeled green pepper, four 
tablespoonfuls of grated ham, fry all well in butter, do not let them brown — 
add two garlic cloves well bruised, add one pint of good stock and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, let all simmer for twenty minutes. Meanwhile 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 247 

peel four large ripe tomatoes, press out the seeds, cut the tomatoes into small 
pieces, add to the strained sauce, boil for twenty minutes, add to the spa- 
ghetti, cook together for a few minutes until very hot and serve. 

Spaghetti and Cheese. 

One-fourth of a pound of spaghetti, one-half pint of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two eggs, yolks, one-half cup of grated cheese, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper and a little cayenne. Break the spaghetti into 
pieces, wash it in cold water, boil it with two quarts of water gently for two 
hours, then pour off the water and put the spaghetti into a dish and pour 
over the sauce and bake in the oven for five minutes. 

Make the sauce by boiling the milk, cheese and butter together, add the 
salt and pepper, then the yolks well beaten, stir together and then pour it 
over the spaghetti, and serve hot. 

Hominy. 

The fine white is perhaps the best for a breakfast food. Wash the needed 

amount in cold water, drain and stir into it, — for one cupful of hominy use 

one quart of boiling water, add one teaspoonful salt, cook in the double 

boiler for one hour, stirring often. It can be eaten with cream or milk or 

served in place of potatoes. Any left can be sliced and fried the next day or 

used in griddle cakes. 

Fried Fine Hominy. 

Cook as above, pour while hot into a pan, previously wet in cold water. 
When cold, slice it about one-half inch in thickness, dip the slices into flour 
and fry in a pan, in which you melt fat — either lard or beef drippings, it 
takes a long time to brown and it spatters a good deal. So cover the pan 
while cooking. It is nice for the garnish of a beefsteak, lamb chops, or 
eaten with syrup. 

Hominy Croquettes. 

Take one cup of cold boiled hominy, add one teacup of milk, stir this well 
into the hominy, add one teaspoonful of sugar and one well-beaten egg and 
a little salt. Make the mixture into croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, then 
in fine bread crumbs. Put on the ice for an hour or more ; when needed, fry 

in deep hot fat. 

Commeal. 

To prepare cornmeal for mush or frying, stir into three cups of boiling 
water one cup of sifted meal, one teaspoonful of salt, have no lumps, cook 
for two hours, when thick, pour into a dish if used hot, serve at once, if for 

frying let it cool. 

Mush Balls. 

Season one pint of mush left from breakfast with more salt if needed, a 
dash of pepper and a few drops of onion juice. Shape in small balls, dip in 



248 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

melted fat and bake in hot oven, or roll in tgg and then in fine bread crumbs, 
and brown in hot fat. Serve with meat in place of potato. 

When frying mush, dip the slices first in the white of an egg. This 
makes it crisp. 

In cooking mush for frying add a little sugar, the sugar will help to brown 
the mush ; serve thin slices of fried mush around game, poultry, etc. 

Hominy. 
Soak the large hominy over night ; to one quart add two quarts of water, 
boil slowly until perfectly soft, drain off all water, put into vegetable dish, 
and mix butter and salt with it. Serve hot. 

Cold Hominy Fried. 
Cut the cooked hominy in thin slices ; put one tablespoonful of butter in 
the pan ; when hot, put in the hominy, fry on both sides. Used as a vege- 
table, or served with syrup. 

Farina Croquettes. 
Put one-half pint of milk in the double boiler, when warm, add four 
tablespoonfuls of farina, stir well until it thickens, then remove from fire, 
add the well beaten yolks of two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of finely cut parsley. When this mixture is 
cold, form into small croquettes, dip each one in beaten tgg yolk, then into 
bread crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with meats or game. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 249 



Pastry, 



"It is a maxim, as ancient, I believe, as the time of Hippocrates, that 
whatever pleases the palate nourishes. And I have often had reason to 
think it perfectly just. Could it be clearly ascertained and demonstrated, it 
would tend to place cooking in a much more respectable situation among 
arts than it now holds." — Count Rumford. 



Pastry flour is more successful, but any really good white flour can be 
used. In the making of pastry, butter, lard or beef suet are used. Butter is 
the best; lard makes tender pastry, suet also, but it is better used at once 
after baking. Wash the butter by holding the hands in hot water, then pour- 
ing cold water on them for an instant, the butter will not stick to the hands 
when washing it. Have ice water. For rolling out the pastry, either a wooden 
pastry board or marble slab is used. Either a wooden or glass rolling pin. 
In using the rolling pin, observe always to roll from you. Bake the paste in 
a moderate oven, but rather quick than slow. No air must be admitted to it 
while baking. 

The edges of paste should always be notched before it goes into the oven. 
For this purpose, use a sharp penknife, dipping it frequently in flour as it 
becomes sticky. The notches should be even and regular. If you do them 
imperfectly at first, they cannot be mended by sticking on additional bits of 
paste ; as, when baked, every patch will be doubly conspicuous. There are 
various ways of notching; one of the neatest is to fold over one corner of 
each notch; or you may arrange the notches to stand upright and lie flat, 
alternately, all round the edge. They should be made small and regular. 
You may form the edge into leaves with the little tin cutters made for the 
purpose. 

If the directions for puff paste are carefully followed, and if it is not 
spoiled in baking, it will rise to a great thickness. 

Puff Paste. 
One pound of flour, one pound of butter, scant one-half pint of ice water, 
one saltspoonful of salt. Mix the flour into dough with ice water and salt ; 
reserve a little flour for the rolling out of the butter. Knead the dough well 
and then make it into a ball, which pound with the rolling pin until it is full 
of blisters, then put the dough on the ice for fifteen minutes. Wash the 
butter in cold water, wring it out in a clean napkin until dry, then put it on 
the ice for fifteen minutes. Take the dough, roll it out to one-half an inch 
in thickness; take one-fourth of the butter, spread it on one-half of the 



250 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

dough, sprinkle just a little flour on it to prevent the rolling pin from stick- 
ing to it, fold over the other half and roll it ; fold four times, using all the 
butter. Always roll from you, let the paste rest fifteen minutes between each 
rolling, then put the paste on ice to become very cold. In winter this is 
accomplished quickly and well by putting the paste out of doors covered; 
when the paste is required, handle it as little as possible, roll it to the 
required thickness at once ; the paste will be lighter and more delicate if this 
is observed ; bear as lightly as possible on the rolling-pin. 

Rough Puff Paste. 
Place one pound of pastry flour and three-fourths of a pound of very 
cold butter together in a bowl, which must be cold; place your chopping 
knife on ice for a few minutes, then chop the cold butter into the flour, until 
you have all the butter cut into very small bits, then make a hole in the 
center of the flour and butter, pour in a small cupful of ice water, mix 
together as lightly as possible into a stiff paste; then turn out on to the 
molding board. Roll it out with the rolling-pin, which must be cold, — into 
an oblong sheet, pressing lightly, fold the sheet in three, turn with the ends 
towards you, roll out again; do this three times, always keeping the ends 
towards you ; put on the ice for an hour, if convenient. When needed, cut 
it into the pieces needed with a sharp knife, roll out again and use. 

Beef Dripping Pastry. 

Take one pound of flour and one-half pound of beef dripping, prepared 
as directed; one-half pint of cold water. Mix the flour and water into a 
smooth paste, add one teaspoon ful of salt ; roll it out three times, each time 
place on the paste one-third of the dripping in small pieces, roll the dripping 
lightly into the paste — if desired for a fruit pie crust, add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

Beef Suet Pastry. 

One-half pound of beef suet, one pound of flour, one-half pint of cold 
water; take all the skin and shreds from the suet, chop it very fine, and 
rub it well into the flour with one teaspoon ful of salt, work it all to a smooth 
paste with the water; roll it out to the thickness desired and it is ready 
to use. 

A Fine Pie Crust. 

One pound of flour, one-half pound of butter; rub the flour and butter 
together while dry — add enough ice water to make a dough; do not knead 
the dough, but roll it out with the rolling-pin four times. Let it stand two 
hours at least before baking. This will be enough for four pies with only 
top crusts. 

Pie Crust for One Pie. 

One coffeecup of sifted flour, one-half coffeecup of lard or drippings, 
rubbed together with one-half teaspoon ful of salt; cold water to moisten; 
do not make the paste wet ; roll out quickly. 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 251 

Apple Pie in Deep Dish. 

Fill a deep pie dish with pared and cored apples, add one tablespoonful 
lemon juice and enough water to cover. Stew until tender, then add one 
cup of sugar and fill the core spaces with either apple jam or jelly, or peach 
jam, and put spoonfuls of either between the apples. Cover with a thin 
pastry and bake ; serve warm with whipped cream. 

Apple Pie — 1. 

Slice the apples in thin slices ; cover the pie tin or plate with a good plain 
paste, which rub over with the unbeaten white of an egg. Put the apples on 
the paste with one-half a cupful of sugar, one-half saltspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter broken into bits, one teaspoonful of flour and one 
teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, or one-half teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg ; then put over the upper crust and bake forty minutes. 

Apple Pie of Apple Sauce — 2. 
Make the pie as above directed, only put in apple sauce in place of the 
sliced apples and finish as before. 

Cocoanut Pattie. 

Make good puff paste ; line little patty-pan tins. Grate one cocoanut, be 
careful not to grate off any of the brown part — add to one-half pound of the 
cocoanut one-half pound of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cold water or the 
water in the cocoanut, if perfectly sweet and fresh. Stew the cocoanut 
until it is tender, then cool, when cool add one teaspoonful of brandy, three 
well-beaten eggs and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Mix well, 
fill the patty-pans and bake for twenty minutes. Dessicated cocoanut can 
be used. 

Custard Pie. 

Line the pie tin or plate with a good paste ; make a custard with four eggs 
lightly beaten together, one quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a very little salt ; fill the pie tins and bake 
until the custard is firm; watch that it does not bake too long and become 
watery. 

Cherry Pie. 

Line a pie tin or plate with a good pastry, then fill the plate with ripe, 
stoned cherries, sprinkle over one cupful of sugar, a few bits of butter and 
one teaspoonful of flour. Cover with the upper crust and bake a half hour. 

Cottage Cheese Pie. 
One cupful of melted butter, one tablespoonful of cream, one cupful of 
sugar and the yolks of four eggs; mix these and beat hard until smooth; 
then add one pound of cottage cheese and one tablespoonful of flour, the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, a very little grated nutmeg. When these are 



252 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

all well blended, add the whites of four eggs beaten very stiff. If the mix- 
ture seems stiff add a little cream, — it must all be very smooth, — then line 
a pie dish with good pastry, pour in the cheese mixture and bake for a 
half hour. 

Cherry Roly Poly. 

Make a good baking powder biscuit dough, roll it out to one-half inch in 
thickness, spread it with stoned cherries which have been well rolled in 
sugar, dust over a little flour, roll over and over, fasten well the ends, and 
steam for one hour and a half. Serve with sugar and cream, or with a 
cherry sauce. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of cream brought to the boiling point, two tablespoon fuls of 
cornstarch mixed with one-half cup of cream, stir this mixture into the 
boiling cream with the yolks of three eggs, stir until it thickens, then remove 
from the fire and let it cool ; when it is cooled add the whites of three eggs 
beaten very light, with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla until thoroughly mixed, line two pie tins with pastry and bake ; 
when baked, fill with the cream mixture and bake until brown or until the 
custard is set. When cold, place the two pies together. 

Potato Cheese Cakes. 

One pound of mashed potatoes, one-half pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, one pound of currants, the juice of one lemon and the grated rind, 
six yolks of eggs and three whites, one wine glass of brandy, a little salt, 
a little nutmeg, one-half teacup of almonds cut in pieces. Line little tins 
with pastry and fill with the mixture and bake. Use the three whites in a 
cornstarch pudding next day. 

Lemon Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, two tablespoonfuls of flour 
mixed to a smooth, soft paste with a little cold water; pour this into two 
teacupfuls of boiling water, stir until smooth on the fire and then place the 
mixture on a cool part of the stove ; add five eggs and two cup fuls of sugar 
well beaten together; let the mixture cool; when cool, add the rind and 
juice of the lemons. Line three pie tins with pastry, fill with the lemon 
mixture and bake ; spread over each pie, when baked, a meringue made with 
one egg (white only), for each pie, beaten until light with one tablespoonful 
of fine sugar ; put back into the oven for a few minutes until the meringue 
becomes slightly brown. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

One-fourth of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, six eggs, the rind 
and juice of two lemons, and the juice of one lemon more. Put all the 
ingredients into a stewpan, carefully grating the lemon rind and strain the 
juice ; keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved and 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 253 

it begins to thicken ; when it is thick and clear like honey, it is done. Put it 
in little jars and keep in a dry place. When needed for use, line some little 
tins with pastry and fill them with the mixture and bake ; add some pounded 
almonds on the top of each. 

Horns. 

Take pieces of puff paste, roll out to one-eighth of an inch in thickness, 
and three-fourths of an inch in width ; roll these strips over little tin molds, 
or wooden ones, made for this use; lap the edges slightly. Bake in a hot 
oven until the paste is puffed and brown ; take from oven, brush them over 
with a little white of egg beaten with a very little water and sugar; 
return to oven and brown slightly, then remove from oven and slip the 
horns from the molds, when cold, fill with either whipped cream, or cream 
custard or with preserves. By placing all the horns on a flat tin they will 
be easily handled in the oven. 

Mince Meat — 1. 

Eight pounds of beef cooked and chopped fine, sixteen pounds of chopped 
apples, one pound of suet, three pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds of 
well cleaned currants, three-fourths pound of fine cut citron, seven pounds 
of sugar, one-half pound of powdered cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, one- 
half ounce of allspice, one ounce of grated nutmeg, one saltspoonful of 
cayenne, one-half ounce of mace, two quarts of boiled down cider, one 
quart of brandy, one quart of sherry, one glass of currant jelly ; mix. Mince 
meat is improved by age. Add stock in which meat was cooked, mix well 
and place in large jars to ripen. 

Mince Meat — 2. 
Eleven pints of meat and tongue (one fresh tongue and six pounds of 
beef), seven pints of suet, fifteen pints of apples chopped, sixteen pints of 
stoned raisins (eight ground and eight whole), eleven pints of well cleaned 
currants, four pints of brown sugar, two pounds of citron ground, one and 
one-fourth pound of candied orange peel, two jars of orange marmalade, 
juice of four oranges and grated rind of two, two cupfuls of mixed spices, 
salt to taste, ten pints of French cooking brandy, seven pints of boiled cider, 
one tablespoonful each of ginger, cinnamon, cloves, one-half tablespoonful 
of allspice and mace, ground. Two tablespoonfuls of salt. Add one salt- 
spoonful of cayenne. It should ripen for at least four weeks. For any 
ordinary sized family, the half of this recipe will be ample. 

Little Mince Pies. 
Line little, plain patty-pies with puff paste or any good pastry, fill them 
with mince meat, wet the edges of the paste, and cover the mince meat with 
more paste and bake. Take from the pans before serving. 



254 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Orange Pie. 
Made in the same manner as lemon pie, only substitute oranges for lemons. 

Orange Shortcake. 

Same as peach shortcake, only substituting the oranges cut in slices for 

the peaches. 

Patties or Tarts. 

For twelve tarts or patties cut twenty-four rounds of pastry with the large 
cutter; cut twelve into rings by cutting them with the smaller cutter quite 
through, then moisten these with a little cold water on one side and lay these 
on the rounds of pastry; bake from ten to twelve minutes; fill with pre- 
serves. 

Sweet Patties. 

Fill the patty cases with sweetened, whipped cream, or with preserves 
with cream on top, or with rich preserves alone. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 
Make a good paste (it need not be puff paste) — line the pie dish, which 
must be a deep one. Wash and parboil two good-sized sweet potatoes (about 
one pint of the potatoes after they are grated), when they are cold grate 
them. Beat together until very light one tablespoon ful of butter, one-half a 
cup of sugar and the yolks of three eggs. Add to this mixture one cup of 
rich milk, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and two tablespoonfuls of brandy. 
Fill the pie dish and bake the pie for thirty minutes, or until the custard 
seems firm; then whip the three whites of the eggs until light, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread this over the top of the pie, return to the 
oven long enough to bake the meringue a light brown. The meringue can 
be omitted and use the whites of the eggs with the yolks in the pie. 

Sour Cream Pie. 
Beat until light the yolks of four eggs, pour on them one pint of thick, 
sour cream; add one teacup ful of sugar, one teacupful of stoned raisins 
chopped, a little grated nutmeg, a little salt, mix well, cover pie pan with a 
good paste, pour in the mixture and bake ; then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten until very light with two tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar; spread 
over the pie and bake until a delicate brown. 

Patties. 

One of the most convenient articles of food to keep to help out at any 
meal, are patty shells. A filling may be made for them of cold fish, fowl, 
oysters, lobsters or almost any kind of cooked light meat, cut into small 
pieces and stirred into well seasoned white sauce, heated. 

Peach Pie. 

Line a deep pie dish with good pastry; peel the peaches, leaving them 
whole, add a little water and one cup of sugar, a little salt. Put in the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 255 

center of the dish either a small teacup or "pie supporter," then cover the 

dish with pastry and bake a half hour. If preferred the stones can be 

removed. 

Peach Shortcake. 

Make a baking powder biscuit dough, only add to it one tablespoonful 

more butter; roll one layer of dough to about one-half inch in thickness, 

spread it lightly with melted butter, then roll the remaining half of the dough 

to the same thickness, place over the first and bake; the two layers will 

come apart when baked. If fresh peaches are used, take one quart of 

peaches, peel and cut fine, and one cup of sugar; let the fruit stand in the 

sugar for an hour before using, then spread the fruit on the crust, placing 

the upper crust on the peaches and keep warm. Serve with cream. If 

canned peaches are used, the syrup will make a sauce for the shortcake ; if 

it is not sweet enough, boil the syrup with one-half cup of sugar and serve. 

Potato Pie. 

One pint of mashed potatoes, three eggs, one pint of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one-half teacup of cream, one lemon, one tablespoonful of brandy. 
Mix together and bake. Have pie tins lined with good pastry. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One quart of strained pumpkin, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one-half cupful of cream, one cupful of milk, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one teaspoonful of ginger, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon. Line the pans 
with good pastry and fill with the mixture. To prepare the pumpkin, cut it 
into small pieces and either steam it over hot water, or cook it in a little 
water ; when tender, remove from the fire and drain it, then strain through 
a sieve. 

Squash Pie. 

Mix together one pint of cream, one pint of cooked squash, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half cup of brandy, two cups of brown sugar, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, a little salt. Line the pie tin with pastry, then 
fill with the mixture. 

Washington Pie. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, a very 
little salt, one cup of flour, one full teaspoonful of baking powder. Separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks, add to them gradually the sugar, then add the flour, 
in which sift the baking powder ; lastly add the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in 
two deep jelly cake tins; when cold, split each layer in half, and spread on 
each a custard made as follows : One pint of hot milk, three eggs, leaving 
out one white, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold milk. Beat the eggs slightly, strain into the hot milk, 
then the sugar and flour ; stir in the double boiler until the mixture is thick ; 
remove from fire ; when cold, add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract or a few 



256 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

drops of almond extract, spread on the cake layers, pile them one on the 
other. Beat the unused white of egg until light, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over the top layer. 

Strawberry Shortcake — 1. 
A real old-fashioned strawberry shortcake is made as follows: Make a 
rich baking powder dough. Handle as lightly as possible, mixing with a 
knife; roll lightly and quickly into two sheets, lay one smoothly upon the 
other with a few bits of butter between them, bake, and when done pull 
apart, waiting till they have slightly cooled. Cover the lower layer, well 
buttered with a thick layer of strawberries made very sweet with powdered 
sugar add the upper crust ; send it to table whole, to be eaten with thick, rich, 
sweetened cream. Additional strawberries can be served if desired. 

Strawberry Shortcake — 2. 

Make the crust the same as for peach shortcake. Hull the berries. For 
one quart, add one cup of sugar, crush the berries and let them stand in the 
sugar for one hour; just before spreading the fruit on the shortcake, add 
one-half teacup of cream to the berries; if another layer is liked on the 
top of the shortcake, use for this layer the berries without any cream mixed 
with them. 

Stewed prunes, apricots and apples all make a good shortcake, made in 
the same manner as peach shortcake. 

Vol-au-vent. 

Make puff paste. Roll out the pastry to one inch in thickness; cut the 
size of the plate in which the vol-au-vent is to be served ; brush over the top 
with beaten egg; make a circular incision one- fourth of an inch deep, one 
inch from the edge of the pastry. Bake the pastry; when cooked, remove 
the cover which will have risen during the baking ; fill the vol-au-vent with 
creamed chicken, or sweetbreads, lobsters, stewed fruit, whipped cream, or 
other articles desired. 

Vol-au-vent or Patty Cases. 

Have two round pastry cutters, one a little more than half the size of the 
other — these cutters can be purchased in sets. Roll out the puff paste to 
one-half inch in thickness ; with the largest cutter cut the number of patties 
required, then with the small cutter cut the same number of cases ; put these 
on top of the large ones, then cut with the smaller cutter nearly through one- 
half of the patties; put them together; when baked, remove this round of 
crust — it will come easily ; fill the cases and place the little cover over. 

Boiled Cider Apple Sauce for Apple Tarts. 
One peck of greening apples, quartered; pour over them one quart of 
boiled cider and cook together until the apples are soft, then mash through 
the colander and add one pint of melted butter, eight cups of brown sugar, 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 257 

six tablespoon fuls of cinnamon. While the apples are cooking stir often to 
prevent burning. 

Alberry Pudding. 
Peel four bananas, slice them; peel six oranges, cut the pulp out free 
from the white part. Put these in layers in a glass dish and sprinkle over 
lemon juice. Boil together one and a half cups of sugar with one-half cup 
of water until a rich syrup is made. While hot, pour this syrup over the 
fruit ; place on ice to become very cold before serving. 

Ambrosia. 
Take six large oranges, peel and slice them, remove the seeds, grate one 
cocoanut, be careful not to grate the brown part ; place in a glass dish a layer 
of the sliced oranges, sprinkle over a layer of sugar, then a layer of cocoa- 
nut, then sugar, then oranges, until the dish is full. Prepare two hours 

before needed. 

Apple Float. 
Beat the whites of three eggs until very stiff, then add one quart of 
stewed apples, made very sweet; beat the apples into the eggs, place in a 
glass dish, put on the ice until needed and serve with cream. 

Pudding and Pie Dishes. 

There are now so many pretty pudding and pie dishes, sold most reason- 
ably, which can be used not only for the baking, but for serving pudding or 

pies on. 

Apple Fritters. 

Pare three apples ; slice them half an inch thick, remove the cores, and lay 
the slices for an hour in the following mixture, turning them over every 
fifteen minutes. Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of ground spice, one glass of wine, and pour upon the apples. At the end of 
an hour dip the slices into a batter. (See recipe for frying batter.) Lift 
each one out on a fork, and fry the fritters a golden brown in smoking hot 
fat, laying them for a minute on brown paper to free them from grease. 
Arrange them on a dish in a circle, and dust them with powdered sugar. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Make the crust the same as for plum dumplings, only substitute apples 

for plums. 

Scalloped Apples. 

Melt a tablespoonful of fresh butter in the skillet and add one cupful of 
fine bread crumbs ; let these brown a little in the butter, keeping them well 
stirred ; butter a baking dish ; place a layer of the crumbs ; add a layer of 
thinly sliced apples ; cover lightly with sugar and a little cinnamon and a 
little lemon, then another layer of crumbs; then apples and sugar and spice; 
let the last layer be of crumbs. Bake about twenty-five minutes. Do not 
let the top burn. Serve with cream. 



258 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Baked Apples with Honey. 
Take out the cores from six large apples; do not cut clear through the 
apples. Fill in each cavity with one teaspoon ful of butter and one table- 
spoonful of honey ; bake in a moderate oven, adding a little water in the pan, 
if necessary. 

Fried Apples. 
Slice the apples; have the frying pan hot; put in one tablespoonful of 
butter, then the apples ; sprinkle a little sugar among the apples ; fry slowly 
until well cooked. 

Baked Apple Sauce. 

Prepare the apples as for ordinary apple sauce; cut in slices, arrange in 
layers with sugar over; bake slowly, adding no water; when cooked, cool 
and serve with whipped cream. 

Baked Apples. 

Peel each apple from top to center, core the apples, place in pan, with 
the unpeeled part down — fill centers with sugar, pour enough cold water to 
cover the unpeeled part of the apples, cook. When cooked the peeled part 
will be brown and soft, the skin part soft, the water almost a jelly, which 
serve with apples. 

Apricot Shortcake. 

Same as for strawberry shortcake — substituting apricots. 

Apple and Tapioca. 

One coffee cupful of tapioca soaked for three hours in cold water; eight 
apples pared and cut in pieces, one cup of sugar. Put a layer of apples, then 
a layer of tapioca, sugar and the juice of one lemon, until the dish is full, 
then put in as much water as the dish will hold; bake for an hour; if the 
mixture seems too stiff, add more water; it should look clear and brown 
when done. Serve with cream. 

Dried Fruits. 

Dried fruits are better stewed in a double boiler, or baked in an earthen 
jar in the oven, using as little water as possible, the fruit to be closely 
covered. Always carefully look over all dried fruits before cooking them, 
then soak them for two or three hours in cold water, or until they are soft 
and swollen to their full extent, when they should be stewed in the same 
water; add the sugar just before they are fully cooked. 

Apple sauce is vastly improved by being baked in an oven instead of 

being stewed. 

Apple Marmalade. 
Peel and core some apples ; cook with enough water to cover them ; when 
perfectly soft, remove from fire and put through a sieve; then add three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar to every pound of apple pulp. Flavor with 
grated lemon peel, add one-half teaspoonful of salt; return to the fire and 
stir until the marmalade looks clear; then remove from fire, put into a 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 259 

mold, — which first dip in cold water, — and let the marmalade cool. When 
needed, turn out on dish and put stiffly whipped cream around it. The 
apples require about three- fourths of an hour to cook and, after the sugar 
is added, twenty minutes. 

Parisian Apples. 
Make a thick syrup by boiling some water and sugar together (allow five 
or six ounces of sugar to rather more than a pint of water), flavor it with the 
peel and juice of half a lemon. Peel some cooking apples of medium size, 
carefully remove the cores so as not to break the apples, and put them into 
the syrup, which should be boiling ; draw the pan to a cool part of the stove 
and let the apples simmer very gently. When done they should be clear in 
appearance and quite whole. Remove the apples carefully from the syrup 
and put them in the dish in which they are to be served, and fill the hollow 
in the middle of each with apricot jam. Let the syrup boil quickly for a few 
minutes, then dissolve one- fourth box of gelatine in it and strain it over the 
apples, and put them aside to cool. Just before serving, cover the top of the 
apples with whipped cream. 

Apple Slump. 

This is a very old-time recipe. Place in a pudding dish, upside down, a 
small teacup; then fill around the cup with sliced apples dashed with pow- 
dered cinnamon and liberal quantities of sugar, it is rather difficult to state 
the amount exactly, as apples differ greatly in sweetness. When the dish is 
full, add about one cupful of cold water. Have ready a good pie crust; 
cover over the dish with it, putting some cuts across the top to let out the 
steam ; bake slowly as you would an ordinary apple pie. On cutting, you will 
find all the juice in the cup ; remove it and here comes the name, — the juice 
will "slump" into the pie. Cherry Slump is made in the same way, only omit 
the spice. 

Apricot Snow Balls. 

Cook one cupful of rice in one quart of water until tender. Cut from 
cheesecloth a number of squares; wring each cloth out of hot water, place 
over a small bowl. Spread the rice, after draining it from any water, about 
one inch thick in the cloths. Then put in the center one apricot or two 
halves, — canned apricots are very good — fill in with the rice, tie up the little 
squares of cloth, place in a steamer and steam the pudding about fifteen 
minutes ; then remove the cloths carefully and turn the balls out on a platter 
and serve, with apricot sauce. For the sauce, take the juice from the can 
and add one cupful of sugar and boil for ten minutes and skim carefully. 

Bavarian Cream. 
Put one pint of cream or rich milk into the double boiler with the yolks 
of four eggs well beaten and two tablespoon fuls of sugar; stir constantly 
until the mixture thickens, then remove from the fire to cool. Dissolve one- 



260 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

fourth of a box of gelatine in three tablespoon fuls of cold water; add after 
a few minutes a little hot water ; it will dissolve easily ; then strain it into the 
custard. When the custard is cold, add the whites of four eggs beaten very- 
stiff ; pour the mixture into a bowl and set on the ice for some hours. 

Boiled Batter Pudding. 
Three eggs, one-half tablespoon ful of melted butter, one pint of milk, 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, 
add the milk to moisten it; carefully rub down all the lumps, stir in the 
melted butter, keep beating the mixture hard, add the eggs beaten together, 
then add the salt. Butter a pudding mold, fill with the batter, tie down the 
cover tightly, put it into boiling water, move the mold a few times at first to 
prevent the pudding from settling, then boil for one hour and fifteen min- 
utes. Serve at once when removed from the fire and serve with the pud- 
ding a fruit sauce or sugar and cream. 

Bread Pudding — 1. 
Boil one teacup of bread crumbs in one pint of milk with a slice of lemon 
peel and one teaspoonf ul of butter ; boil for ten minutes, then mash through 
a sieve, add two well beaten eggs, one teacup of sugar, one saltspoonful of 
salt and one-half pint of milk ; mix well together ; pour into a buttered dish ; 
bake until the top is a rich brown ; serve with cream. 

Bread Pudding— 2. 
Put three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs into a bowl with six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and a pint of boiling 
milk, and let them stand for ten minutes; then add the yolks of six eggs 
beaten to a cream and the whites whipped to a froth ; pour the pudding into 
a buttered mold and steam it for one hour in a large saucepan containing 
boiling water enough to reach half way to the top of the mold. Then remove 
from fire, turn out the pudding on a dish and serve with cream and sugar, 

or a fruit sauce. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut several slices of bread quite thin, butter them and strew over each 

slice some currants. Put these into a pudding dish. Make a custard with 

one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three eggs well beaten, a little 

salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix these well together and 

pour over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty 

minutes. 

Bread Tarts. 

Cut slices of bread one-quarter of an inch thick; cut these with the bis- 
cuit cutter into circles; moisten them with a little milk, then spread over 
some jam or preserves ; put the circles together as sandwiches, and fry them 
in a little butter on each side until they are browned. Serve with cream, or 
with a pudding sauce or without any sauce. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 261 

Brown Betty. 

Take eight large, sour apples, peel and slice them. Butter a pudding dish 
or tin bread pan thoroughly and sprinkle over the bottom and sides fine fresh 
bread crumbs, then put a good layer of brown sugar and bits of butter, then 
a thick layer of the apples with a sprinkle of cinnamon; repeat these layers 
until the dish or pan is full ; do not be sparing of the butter ; let the top layer 
be of bread crumbs, sugar, butter and cinnamon mixed. Bake for forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven ; serve with sweet cream or a "hard sauce." 

Brown Bread Pudding. 
One cup of brown bread crumbs, one cup of brown sugar, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one cup of currants, four eggs, spices. Mix, boil two hours in mold, 
turn out and serve with hard sauce. 

Little Bread Pudding. 
Pour over one cup of fine bread crumbs one quart of boiling milk, add 
one-half cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, 
a little grated lemon rind. When this mixture is cool, add two eggs beaten 
separately until very light. Put into small cups and bake eight minutes; 
serve hot with cream or fruit sauce. 

Carrot Pudding. 
One-half pound of grated carrots, one-half pound of grated potatoes, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one pound of flour, one pound of raisins stoned, 
one pound of currants, eight tablespoonfuls of molasses. Mix well together 
and put into pudding mold and boil four hours. Serve with a wine sauce. 

Cocoanut Cream Pudding. 
Grate a fresh cocoanut, having first peeled, washed and wiped it dry. Mix 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar; melt in one tablespoonful of water three- 
quarters of an ounce of gelatine ; while this is melting, take three eggs, mix 
them with one-half pint of milk, stir over the fire until the custard thickens, 
then add four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; then add the gelatine with the grated 
cocoanut and the milk from the cocoanut; whip half a pint of cream until 
very stiff and stir it into the cocoanut mixture; when nearly cold, add a 
little vanilla or lemon flavoring ; put into a mold and place on the ice. 

Caramel Pudding. 
Beat four eggs a little, stir them into one pint of milk with one-half cup of 
sugar, a few drops of vanilla. Put into a small tin, one cup of sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls of water, let these cook together until very brown and 
thick, then pour the mixture into a mold ; see that every part of the mold is 
covered with a part of the caramel ; it is well after this to stand the mold in 
cold water for a moment to harden the caramel, then pour in the custard 
and bake until the custard is firm ; turn out of the mold and serve either hot 
or cold. 



262 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Charlotte Russe — 1. 
One-half pint of milk, put into the double boiler, when just at the boiling 
point stir in the yolks of four eggs, previously well beaten, and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir all carefully until the mixture thickens (but not too 
thick), take from the fire and strain in one-fourth of a box of gelatine which 
has been previously dissolved in a little milk and placed on the range to 
warm; let the custard cool and then add three tablespoonfuls of sherry; 
when nearly cold, add one quart of whipped cream, stir the cream in care- 
fully. Line a Charlotte Russe mold with lady fingers, or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the mixture. Set on the ice to cool. 

Charlotte Russe — 2. 

One ounce of gelatine dissolved in one-half pint of milk, three pints of 
cream, eleven ounces of sugar, four eggs beaten separately ; whip cream until 
very light, add flavoring of lemon or vanilla ; beat the eggs light, add sugar 
to the yolks, add the gelatine, strained, to the cream, then add the whites, 
beating well. Line the dish with sponge cake or lady fingers and fill with 
the mixture. 

A simple Charlotte Russe can be made by lining a small pan with sponge 
cake, either thin slices from the loaf, or lady fingers, and then fill the center 
with whipped cream, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the whites of two 
eggs beaten very stiff added to the cream with one teaspoon ful of vanilla 
extract. Place on the ice for several hours before serving. 

Cream Pudding. 
Stir together one-half pint of cream and one tablespoonful of sugar, the 
yolks of three eggs, beaten well, a little nutmeg, then add the whites well 
beaten, pour into a pie dish which has been greased and sprinkled with bread 
crumbs about half an inch thick ; sprinkle a layer of fine bread crumbs on top 
and bake about twenty minutes. 

Whipped Cream. 
Have the cream very cold and twenty-four hours old. 

Baked Custard. 
One pint of milk, three eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar. Beat the eggs 
and sugar together and stir into the milk ; fill the custard cups nearly to the 
top, place them in a pan containing hot water which reaches to two-thirds 
of the top of the cups ; bake twenty minutes ; as soon as the custard is set, 
it is done ; longer they will separate. 

Custard Souffle. 
Two scant tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, beat these 
well together until light and smooth, then pour gradually over one cup of 
boiling milk, and cook all for eight minutes in the double boiler, stirring 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 263 

constantly. Beat together the yolks of four eggs and two tablespoon fuls of 
sugar, add to the cooked mixture and put away to cool. When cold, add 
the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff ; put all into a buttered baking dish 
and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Custard. 

One pint of milk, three eggs (yolks), one tablespoonful of sugar. Beat 
the yolks and sugar together, the milk warmed and added, the whole cooked 
in the double boiler. Stir the mixture constantly and as soon as it is thick 
as good cream, remove at once ; when cold, add the three whites beaten very 
stiff, sprinkled with sugar and serve ; this custard must not stand long after 
the whites are added. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Three eggs (yolks only), beaten light, and one cup of sugar added gradu- 
ally ; three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one small cup of chocolate melted 
in hot water; stir these well together, add one cup of flour with two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and beat until smooth ; add a little salt, then add 
the whites beaten stiff ; put large spoonfuls of the pudding into greased cups, 
and steam for twenty minutes. Serve with the following sauce: 

One cup of powdered sugar and one-half cup of butter beaten together 
until creamy, add one teaspoon ful of vanilla, and then stir gradually into this 
one-half cup of milk; put the mixture in a bowl over a basin of boiling 
water; stir until it is smooth and creamy, no longer. 

Caramel for Flavoring or Coloring. 

Put a cupful of sugar into a small pan ; stir constantly until the sugar is 
very brown, then add a cupful of boiling water and cook together until the 
syrup is thick. A small amount is used in coloring soups or sauces ; it will 
keep in a bottle well corked. 

Cocoanut Cream. 

Peel, wash and wipe dry a fresh, sweet cocoanut, then grate it. Mix an 
ounce of sugar with the cocoanut. Soak a half ounce of gelatine with as 
little cold water as possible, in order to melt it; whip the whites of three 
eggs, mix them with one-half pint of milk and cook in the double boiler 
until the custard thickens ; then add four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Strain 
the gelatine into the custard, add the grated cocoanut and cook these for 
five minutes. Remove from the fire and when nearly cold, add one-half 
pint of whipped cream and a little vanilla extract. Place in a mold which 
must be dipped in cold water and not wiped. Place on the ice for some 

hours. 

Custard Souffle. 
Put one cup of milk in the double boiler. Mix together two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, add this mixture to the milk 
when it boils and stir for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs with two 



264 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

tablespoonfuls of sugar, add to the milk, stir until the mixture thickens then 
cool on a plate. When this is cold, add the whites of four eggs, stir them in 
lightly, pour all into greased baking dish and bake in quick oven for twenty 
minutes ; serve with a sauce made with one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of sugar, creamed together, when light add one-fourth cup of cream slowly ; 
place the mixture in a bowl over boiling water and stir until it is smooth and 
creamy, then add the juice of one lemon ; serve quickly. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Wash and dry the dates, remove the stones and in place of them, fill in 
pecan nuts or a mixture of chopped nuts, press the sides of the date together 
and roll in powdered sugar. 

Dates contain enough albumen for a mature person, with all the needed 
mineral elements and ample heat and energy food in the form of sugar 
easily digested. But they should not be mixed with heavy foods like pota- 
toes, beans or even bread. They combine well with rice, bananas, figs 
(which should be fresh), or toast. Dates are an excellent food if clean and 
fresh and can be given to children in moderation safely. 

Fried Custard. 

Two yolks of eggs beaten lightly, add one teaspoonful of flour and one- 
half pint of milk, one saltspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar and a 
little grated nutmeg ; beat all together ; put into a baking dish and bake until 
the custard is firm, then let it cool. Make a batter with one-half pint of 
milk, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour ; mix the batter until very smooth, 
add the whites left from the custard, add a little grated lemon rind and a 
little salt. Cut the custard into pieces, dip each piece in the batter and fry 
in deep, boiling fat for two minutes, then serve with a little powdered sugar 
over them. 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

Dissolve two large tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in a little cold milk; stir 
this into one pint of boiling milk ; stir constantly until the mixture thickens, 
then add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, then the well beaten whites of three 
eggs, and cook for a minute ; to cook the eggs, add one-half saltspoonful of 
salt and one-half teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon ; take from the fire and put 
into a mold ; when cold turn out of mold, serve with cream or fruit sauce. 

Damson Dumpling. 
One quart of Damson or German plums, one-half pound of sugar. Make 
a good soda biscuit dough or suet crust. Roll it out thin, line a buttered 
pudding mold with it, fill the center with the plums, add the sugar, pinch the 
edges of the crust together so that the juice will not escape, tie over all a 
floured cloth. Put the pudding into boiling water and boil for two hours. 
Serve with a sauce made of a portion of the plums and one cup of sugar 
stewed together, or with sugar and cream. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 265 

Diplomatic Pudding. 
One pint of thick cream, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one-half a 
lemon, one wine glass of brandy, one ounce of gelatine. Put the cream into 
a basin and whip it to a stiff froth with the sugar, add the brandy and juice 
of the half lemon, next the gelatine, which has been melted and strained. 
Divide the cream, color half with a few drops of carmine or with fruit 
rubbed through a sieve ; pour the white part into a mold first and let it set, 
then the colored half ; put it on ice till required. Turn out and serve. 

Friar's Omelette. 
Pare and core ten large apples, stew them until tender, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and one-half pound of sugar, one-half saltspoonful 
of salt, rub through the sieve and add one egg well beaten. Butter thor- 
oughly a plain mold or dish; strew fine bread crumbs over the sides and 
bottom, fill it with the stewed apples ; put on the top another layer of bread 
crumbs and bake for one-half hour, turn from the mold and sprinkle fine 
sugar over and serve hot. 

Fig and Nut Pudding. 
One cup of chopped suet, one cup of dark molasses, two and one-half 
cups of sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, one cup of 
milk, one-half pound of figs, chopped fine, one cup of seeded raisins, one 
cup of chopped walnuts. Mix suet with the fruit, nuts, flour and salt ; dis- 
solve the soda in the molasses, stirring until the molasses overflows the cup, 
then add the milk, mix all well together. Have pudding mold well greased, 
sift some granulated sugar over it to insure a smooth glazed surface to the 
pudding, fill the mold, place in boiling water and cook three hours. Serve 
with wine sauce, or a sauce of melted brown sugar, or sweet cream. 

Figs in Cream. 

Pull the figs apart and pour over them enough cold water to cover them ; 
let the figs remain in the water over night; the next morning simmer the 
figs in this water until they are plump and tender. To each pound of figs 
add one-half teacup of sugar and the juice of one lemon; simmer together 
ten minutes ; then place the figs on the ice, and when required, serve them 
covered with whipped cream. 

A Plain Fig Pudding. 
One-fourth pound of bread crumbs, one-fourth pound of flour, one-fourth 
pound of suet chopped fine, six ounces chopped figs ; mix these together and 
add two eggs ; boil for four hours in a well greased bowl. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 

Hollandaise Fritters. 
Four cupfuls of cold boiled rice; two eggs well beaten, one-half cup of 
grated cheese, one tablespoon ful of cream, a little salt and pepper. Mix well 



266 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

together and make into small, flat cakes ; have hot fat in the pan, not a deep 
fat; brown the cakes in this, cooking slowly; turn and brown on the other 
side. Serve hot with either lamb chops or steak. 

To Prepare Chestnuts. 
To peel and prepare chestnuts use to every cupful one-half teaspoonful of 
butter, place in a saucepan, and when the butter is melted over the chestnuts, 
remove from the fire and put into a pan in the oven for five or six minutes ; 
then cut a little gash in the flat side of the chestnut and peel ; the shell and 
skin will come off together. 

German Fritters. 

One pint of milk and one-half teacup of butter, heated. When hot, add 
three heaping teacups of flour, stir until smooth, keep on fire until it is well 
cooked and stiff. Remove and let it cool. When cool, add seven eggs, one 
by one, beating each one well into the batter, then fry in deep, very hot 
fat, putting in the batter by spoonfuls. Serve with powdered sugar 
sprinkled over them. 

Creamed Hazel Nuts. 

Shell the nuts, pour over them boiling water to remove the skins, then 
boil them in a little water until soft ; remove from fire and cover them with 
a cream sauce flavored with a little sherry. The cream sauce is made by 
adding to one cupful of cream, in the double boiler, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one-half tablespoonful of flour, moistened into a soft paste with a 
little cold milk, and stirred into the cream, two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
lastly, one wine glassful of sherry ; remove at once from the fire, after the 
sherry is added and pour over the nuts, fill little paper cases, or small 
ramekins and serve as a separate course at luncheon. 

Lemon Pudding. 

One-half pound of white bread crumbs, one-half pound of finely chopped 
beef suet; mix these together, then add a fourth pound of sugar, the 
grated rind of one lemon, and the strained juice ; the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten and the whites beaten until stiff. Butter a pudding mold, put in the 
pudding, cover well and steam, or boil, for one and a half hours ; keep the 
water boiling constantly and as near the top of the pudding as possible; 
remove from fire, place pudding on pudding dish upside down; the pud- 
ding should slip out readily, serve at once with a white sauce flavored with 
lemon and quite sweet. 

Lemon Souffle. 

This souffle is to be served cold. Take the yolks of three eggs, beat 
lightly, add the juice of three lemons and greated rind of two. Dissolve in 
a little warm milk one tablespoonful of gelatine, strain into the mixture 
with one-half pound of sugar; place in the double boiler and stir over the 
fire until it thickens, then add the whites of three eggs stirred in gently; 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 267 

remove from fire, pour into a china dish and sprinkle over the top some 
fine, grated bread crumbs, or cake crumbs ; sift over a Httle powdered sugar 
and place on the ice until needed. 

Marmalade Pudding. 
The weight of four eggs in butter, the weight of four eggs in sugar, the 
weight of four eggs in flour. Mix the butter and sugar together, then add 
the eggs well beaten (whites and yolks separately) ; then add one teaspoon- 
f ul of soda dissolved in a little warm water ; lastly, add one generous table- 
spoonful of orange marmalade. Grease the pudding mold, fill with the 
mixture only a little more than half-full, as the pudding rises to twice its 
bulk ; steam for two hours ; keep up a steady boiling under the steamer ; 
when cooked, turn onto a dish and serve with whipped cream. This pud- 
ding is attractive looking as well as good. 

Mountain Pudding. 

One-half pint of milk, one egg, one tablespoon ful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt and nut- 
meg. Beat the butter and sugar together, add the egg well beaten; stir in 
the milk, then one cupful of flour, in which sift the baking powder; mix 
together quickly ; bake in one cake and serve with sauce either of wine or 

sugar and cream. 

Fried Pancakes. 

One pint of sour milk, two pints of flour, two eggs, one saltspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of soda, the grated rind of one lemon. Mix the 
flour and milk together until smooth, add the soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, then add the salt and lemon ; lastly the eggs beaten until light. Have 
the lard in the frying kettle deep and hot, drop the batter by spoonfuls into 
the hot fat and fry for one minute ; serve with sifted sugar over them. 

Plum Pudding. 
One pound of beef suet chopped fine, one-half pound of bread crumbs, 
one-half pound of flour, two pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, 
stoned, one pound of Sultana raisins, one-half pound of sugar, one pound 
of citron cut fine, one-half pound of orange peel chopped fine, one-half 
pound of lemon peel chopped fine, one wine glass of wine, one wine glass 
of brandy, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful of allspice, twelve eggs. 
Mix the suet, bread crumbs, flour, sugar, yolks together, then the spices, 
brandy and wine, then the fruit; lastly the whites of the eggs beaten stiflf. 
Have quart bowls buttered ; fill these with the mixture nearly to the top ; 
have a cloth wet in hot water wrung out and floured; tie this over the 
bowls, plunge the puddings into a large deep pot with boiling water to 
cover them ; keep them covered and boiling for six hours. It is better to 
make the recipe into several small puddings, though it can be boiled in one 



268 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

large bowl, if desired. The puddings will keep for a year, if kept dry and 
cool; when one is desired, plunge into boiling water one hour before serv- 
ing, boil steadily, then remove the cloth and turn the pudding on a platter 
and serve with wine sauce or whipped cream. The pudding mixture can 
be put into pint pails, well greased, tightly covered and boiled. 

Canned Peaches in a Mold. 

One can of peaches, drain off all the juice; one-half box of gelatine, 
to which add one-half pint of cold water; let this stand for two hours, then 
add one-half pint of boiling water to dissolve the gelatine, then add the 
juice from the peaches ; let this mixture just come to boiling point on the 
stove. Place in the mold the peaches, first dipping the mold into cold 
water, then pour the gelatine over the fruit. This mixture must stand 
over night to become very cold. Serve covered with whipped cream. 

Pain Brulee. 
Boil in the double boiler one pint of cream for one minute, then pour 
into it the yolks of four well beaten eggs, stir well until the sauce thickens, 
then remove from the fire, pour into the dish in which it is to be served 
and let it become cold ; when needed, sprinkle over a thick coating of sugar, 
put into a very hot oven and brown ; serve as a simple dessert. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. 
One pint of pineapple, one-half cup of sugar, one-half package of gela- 
tine, one large cup of whipped cream or the whites of four eggs. Soak the 
gelatine in one cup of cold water; when dissolved, strain it into the juice 
of the pineapple, add the sugar and let all come to the boiling point on the 
stove ; remove from fire ; when it is cool and commences to thicken, add the 
whipped cream, or, if you use the eggs, add them and then the pineapple, 
which must be chopped fine ; beat the mixture until very light, pour into a 
pudding or jelly mold and set in the ice box to harden. Serve with 
whipped cream. Strawberry cream is very good made in the same way, 
only rather more sugar must be used. Pineapples should be eaten after 
meals as they assist digestion. 

Prune Pudding. 
About fifteen large prunes ; wash, soak in cold water for one hour, stew 
them until quite tender, cool, stone and chop them very fine; mix one-half 
cup of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, pinch of 
salt ; beat five whites of eggs until stiff, beat in the sugar mixture carefully 
and lightly, a little at a time; add the prunes, turn all into a mold holding 
two and a half pints; set the mold in a pan and pour around it hot water; 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream or make a custard sauce with the yolks. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 269 

Fried Pineapple. 

Take slices of pineapple, fry them lightly in butter and serve with meat 
or fish. The juice can be used to flavor ice cream or any stewed fruit. 
The Hawaiian canned pineapple is quite as acceptable as the fresh. The 
juice can safely be given to children. 

Fried Prunes. 

Select good sized prunes, soak them for several hours in cold water then 
drain, wipe dry and remove the stones. Take the same number of very 
thin slices of bacon as you have prunes, wrap each prune in a slice of 
bacon, fasten the bacon with little wooden toothpicks, fry in deep fat for 
two minutes and serve with game. 

Stewed Prunes. 
Use the large Oregon prunes for stewing. Wash them well in cold 
water, drain, pour over cold water enough to cover the prunes, let them 
soak for two or three hours, then put them into an earthen stewpan with the 
water in which they were soaked; bake in the oven until they are per- 
fectly soft, keep the pan covered. Add, when the prunes begin to grow 
tender, one-half cupful of sugar to two pounds of prunes; baking prunes 
will be found a very good way, though cooked on the stove is the usual way. 

To Bake Apples to Serve with Wild Duck. 

Cut the apples in halves, Jonathan apples are the best for this, bake them 
in a very slow oven for the apples must not burn or lose color, baste them 
with some melted butter mixed with a little sugar. Serve with wild ducks 
or other game. 

Potato Pudding. 

Boil six potatoes until tender, mash them while hot, and add to one pint 
of mashed potatoes three-fourths pint of sugar, three-fourths pint of but- 
ter, six eggs, one grated nutmeg, the juice of one lemon, one wine glass of 
brandy. Bake in pudding dish about one-half hour. 

Plum Charlotte. 
One quart of ripe plums stoned, one pound of sugar; cook these together, 
butter some thin slices of bread, lay them on the bottom and sides of a 
pudding dish, pour the plums in boiling hot; cover the dish, and when 
quite cold, serve with cream. 

Queen of Puddings. 
One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, yolks of four eggs, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, a little salt. Mix these together, place in 
greased pudding dish and bake one-half hour; when the pudding is cold 
spread on the top a layer of good jam, and on top of the jam the whites 
well beaten with one teacup of sugar, brown in oven for five minutes, 
serve either hot or cold, with cream. 



270 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Rice Pudding — 1. 
One-fourth of a pound of rice, washed in several waters, then put into 
the stewpan with one and one-half pints of milk and stew gently until 
tender, then add one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar ; stir well and remove from the fire ; when cool add three well beaten 
eggs, a very little salt and one- fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg; then put the 
mixture into the pudding dish and bake for twenty minutes. 

Iced Rice — 1. 
One pint of cream, whipped; one-half pint boiled rice, very soft; three- 
fourths cup sugar; one-fourth box gelatine; one-half dozen figs, cut fine; 
same quantity of dry preserved ginger; one and one-half wine glasses 
sherry. Soak gelatine in a very little cold water, and when dissolved, warm 
slightly. Stir cream and rice together slowly. Add fruit, then gelatine. 
Put on ice to be served with whipped cream. One pint of cream will be 
enough in all. Three-fourths pint in pudding and one-fourth to whip. 

German Rice Pudding. 
Cook until perfectly soft six tablespoonfuls of well washed rice in one 
pint and a quarter of milk ; when done let cool a little, then add six table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped suet, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of candied orange or lemon peel, two tablespoonfuls of stoned 
raisins or sultanas, three eggs well beaten. Mix well. Place in well but- 
tered pudding mold and cook steadily boiling, for two and one-half hours. 
Remove from mold and serve with German wine sauce. 

Iced Rice Pudding — 2. 
Wash one pound of rice, put it into one quart of milk and cook until quite 
soft, add two vanilla sticks and three-fourths pound of sugar, and a little 
salt. Let all simmer until the rice grains are almost dissolved, take from 
fire, add the beaten yolks of four eggs; when cold add one pint of cream 
and freeze, when partly frozen add some chopped raisins and the whites 
well beaten. Serve with preserves or stewed fruits. 

Rice Pudding — 2. 
This is really a delicious rice pudding to be eaten cold. Four tablespoon- 
fuls of rice. Carolina rice is the best in quality and flavor. Put into the 
double boiler with one quart of milk ; let it cook until the rice is absolutely 
soft, taking care to keep it cooking all the time; to insure this, look fre- 
quently at the hot water supply in the under boiler; when cooked, remove 
from fire, add one teaspoonful of salt and four tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
stir well and add one cup of cream; place in baking dish and put in the 
oven only long enough for a brown skin to form. Then put the pudding 
into the refrigerator (if in summer), and let it stand twenty-four hours. 
The pudding will be very creamy. Any of the pudding left over can be 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 271 

used the next day either in ice cream or by putting spoonfuls on a dish, a 
little jam or preserves on top of each and some stiff whipped cream over. 
Or dissolve one-fourth box of gelatine in a little cold water, when dissolved, 
strain the pudding with one glass of any preserves or stewed fruit, put- 
ting all into a mold, which wet first, in cold water, and place on the ice to 
harden, then turn out on a dish and serve. 

Rhubarb. 
In cooking the wholesome rhubarb, do not peel it. The skin is gelatin- 
ous it melts and imparts a rich, red color and has the best flavor of any 
part of the stalk. Bake in the oven or stew on the back of the stove, using 
little or no water. If the sugar is added after the rhubarb is cooked it will 
not require as much to sweeten. 

Meringue. 

Have the whites of the eggs very cold and beat them, with a pinch of salt, 
until they are stiff. Then add granulated sugar — a tablespoon ful and a 
half to each egg white. Beat thoroughly after adding the sugar, as this 
makes the meringue firmer and less likely to fall. 

Most of the success of the meringue depends on the making, but the 
cooking is also important. The meringue should be browned in a rather 
slow oven and when it is browned it should be cooled slowly. A sudden 
change from a hot oven to a cold pantry window makes it shrivel and fall. 
When a gas oven is used the gas can be turned out when the meringue is 
done and it can be allowed to cool at the edge of the oven. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 
Take twenty Italian chestnuts, peel them and boil for five minutes ; then 
peel off the second skin, and cook them slowly with one cup of sugar until 
they are tender, then drain and press them through a fine sieve. Put four 
eggs, yolks only, in the double boiler with one-fourth of a pound of sugar 
and one pint of cream; stir this mixture over the fire (but not allowing it 
to boil), until it thickens, then put in the chestnut puree and strain all into 
a basin and add one tablespoon ful of maraschino ; cook together one small 
cup of stoned raisins, one small cup of currants, one-half cup of sugar 
and one tablespoonful of water; when cooked, drain and let them cool. 
Pour the chestnut cream into the freezer, partly freeze it, then add one-half 
pint of whipped cream, the raisins and currants; close the freezer care- 
fully and put it into the ice and salt for two hours, to finish freezing the 
cream. Make the sauce with one-half pint of boiled cream, four eggs 
(yolks), one small cup of sugar; stir over the fire until it thickens, strain 
and add one tablespoonful of maraschino. Turn the pudding from the 
mold and pour the sauce around it. 



272 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Rhubarb with Raisins or Prunes. 
Cook the rhubarb with stoned raisins, dates or prunes ; the prunes should 
be soaked for three or four hours in cold water before putting them with 
the rhubarb. Put in the sugar after the fruits are cooked. 

Baked Rhubarb. 
Cut the rhubarb into pieces about an inch long, put in a baking dish with 
an equal weight of sugar, cover closely and bake about one hour. 

Pears a la Conde. 
Boil in the double boiler four tablespoon fuls of rice until tender. Then 
remove from the fire, add one-half teaspoonful of salt and put into a mold 
which has been dipped in cold water. Then put on the ice to cool. When 
needed, turn out on a pretty dish. Stew while the rice is cooking some 
pears, peel, core and halve them. Cook in one-half pint of water and one 
cupful of sugar ; stew them slowly and when tender, remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract; when needed, place them around 
the rice and pour over any of the sauce left and serve with cream. 

Roly-Poly Pudding. 
Chop until fine one-half pound of suet ; remove the strings or hard parts, 
add one-half pound of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
little water. Mix them together with one teaspoonful of salt; make into a 
stiff paste with a little cold water, when well mixed, roll out once, to one- 
half inch in thickness, spread on the roll either raspberry or blackberry 
jam, or the freshly gathered fruit and mashed with sugar enough to make 
them quite sweet, wet the edges of the roll, roll it up, pinch the edges and 
the ends together; dip a clean pudding cloth into boiling water, wring it 
out, flour one side, put the roly-poly in it, tie up each end of the cloth and 
pin the center where it joins ; place in boiling hot water and boil steadily for 
one and one-half hours, then remove from fire, take off the cloth and serve 
with cream. 

"When the strawberries red 

Illumined their bed. 
The angel looked on and was glad; 

But the devil, 'twas said 

Fairly pounded his head, 
For he had put all his bones in the shad." 

Strawberries. 
Unless strawberries are large and quite perfect, they should not be 
served with the hulls, but if they are large and perfect, there is no more 
delightful way of serving them. Look them over, see that there is no sand 
on them. Put on a plate some strawberry leaves for the berries, and a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar or "berry" sugar, on one side of the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 273 

plate. Strawberries with the hulls taken off and served with cream and 
sugar should always be looked over carefully as sand often clings to the 
berries. 

Strawberries with Rum. 
Hull the berries, place them in a glass bowl, sprinkle them well with 
powdered sugar, and to each quart of the fruit add one-half pint of Jamaica 
rum and water — one-third rum, two-thirds water. Stand the bowl on the 
ice for a half hour before serving. 

SoufHes. 
For the baking of any souffle, the oven should be moderately hot, the dish 
in which it is baked, well greased, and the souffle served in the same dish. 
If too hot an oven, the souffle will not be cooked inside for a crust forms 
too soon over it, and the souffle will be heavy. 

Souffle Pudding— 1. 
Take the yolks of three eggs, beat them until light ; add one tablespoonf ul 
of cornstarch and two tablespoon fuls of flour mixed together, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt and enough milk to make a soft batter; add last the whites of 
three eggs beaten stiff. Butter the pudding dish, pour in the souffle and 
bake for fifteen minutes. 

Souffle Pudding— 2. 
One-fourth of a box of gelatine soaked for one hour in a little cold 
water, one cup of milk, two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch. Put milk into the double boiler with the two yolks, 
the sugar and the cornstarch, which must be first mixed with a little cold 
milk; let the mixture come to a boil, then take from the fire and add to it 
the gelatine; beat all well together with one teaspoonful of vanilla and the 
beaten whites, then let it cool ; when it is cool beat into the mixture one- 
half pint of whipped cream. Put into a mold and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Savarin with Rum. 

One pound of sifted flour, one-fourth pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, eight eggs, one cake of yeast dissolved in one-half pint of warm 
milk ; strain the yeast and put into it as much of the flour as will produce a 
soft dough ; roll this into a ball ; place the remainder of the flour in a deep 
basin, lay the ball of dough on it, cover it up and leave it in a warm place 
until the ball of dough has risen ; then add the sugar, the butter slightly 
melted, the eggs, a pinch of salt, and mix the mixture with the fingers until 
a smooth paste is obtained. Butter well a large, plain mold ; put on the bot- 
tom and sides some finely chopped almonds and fill with the cake mixture 
which should fill not more than two-thirds of the tin. Cover the tin and 
place it in a warm place to rise ; when well risen, bake in a moderate oven 
for one and one-half hours. Before turning the cake out, stab the top with 



274 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

a knife in several places and pour over it a syrup of two parts of old rum 
and one part very sweet syrup mixed, then, turn out on a dish and serve 
either hot or cold. 

Spanish Cream. 
One quart of milk, one-half box of gelatine, four eggs beaten separately, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one cup of sugar. Soak the gelatine in the 
milk for one-half hour, then put it on the fire in a double boiler; beat the 
yolks light, add to them the sugar, stir well together; as soon as the milk 
boils, stir in the eggs and sugar until the mixture thickens, then take from 
the fire to cool. Beat the whites until they are stiff, add the vanilla, stir 
the whites into the custard and put into a mold. Serve cold. 

Spanish Puffs. 
One-half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful of butter, four eggs, one 
saltspoonf ul of salt ; put the water and butter into a stewpan ; when it boils, 
add sufficient flour to form a paste that will leave the sides of the pan; it 
must be very stiff. Let this cool, then add the yolks of the eggs one at a 
time. Have some deep, boiling lard and drop the mixture, a teaspoonful at 
a time, into it and cook for two minutes. Serve with wine and a little 
melted butter mixed together and poured over the fritters. 

Sponge Pudding. 

One pint of sweet milk, six eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, butter the 
size of an egg. Boil the milk, when boiling add the butter, stir in the flour 
mixed to a soft paste with a little of the cold milk. When the sauce is thick, 
remove from the fire and let it cool ; when cold, add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, then the whites beaten stiff; mix all well together. Butter a 
two-quart pudding dish, pour in the mixture, place the dish in a pan of boil- 
ing water two inches deep ; bake in a hot oven for thirty-five minutes. Serve 
with wine sauce. Serve as soon as baked in the same dish. 

Sponge Batter Pudding. 

One cup of milk ; made boiling hot and stir into it one-half cup of flour 
carefully stirred into one cup of cold milk; cook these together for five 
minutes, stirring frequently. Beat three eggs separately; add to the hot 
mixture two tablespoonfuls of butter; then add the yolks and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; lastly the beaten whites. Bake for thirty minutes in a 
pan of hot water; serve with cream. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of suet chopped fine, three-fourths cup of 
flour, one cup of milk, one cup of stoned raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, 
four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix all together, put in but- 
tered pudding mold ; boil for three hours. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 275 

Sauce for same : One cup of powdered sugar, one-half cup of butter ; 
rub together until creamy, then add one-half cup of hot wine. 

Suet and Fruit Pudding. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls of finely minced apples. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls of currants. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of finely chopped suet. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of Sultana raisins. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of light brown sugar. 

Six tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs. 

Two tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon. 

Mix these ingredients well together. Steam or boil in mold for two hours. 
When cooked, remove from mold, place on small platter and serve with 
German wine sauce. 

Swedish Pancakes. 

Three eggs, yolks only ; nine tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt. Beat all together until 
very light ; bake on a hot griddle. Do not turn them but roll with a knife ; 
beat the whites very stiff, add to them a little sugar and pour over the pan- 
cakes, or else whip one-half pint of cream and pour it over instead of the 
whites. 

Farina or Toothsome Pudding. 

Put one quart of milk in the double boiler, when hot stir in three table- 
spoonfuls of farina, stir well and cook until the farina is clear and soft, 
add one-half teaspoonful of salt, remove from fire, add one-half cup of 
sugar and two tablespoonfuls of butter, mix, then let all cool. One-half 
hour before dinner, beat three eggs until very light together, add them to 
the cooked farina, pour in baking dish and bake one-half hour. Serve hot 
with cream or some sweet fruit juice. This pudding is very good and can 
be served to little children or an invalid. 

Transparent Pudding. 

Eight eggs well beaten, one-half pound of butter, one-half pound sugar, 
one-half nutmeg, grated. Put into the saucepan and keep constantly stir- 
ring till mixture thickens. Cover pie plates with good puff paste; fill with 
the mixture after it is cool, bake in a moderate oven. Slices of citron and 
candied orange can be added if desired. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 
To serve with roast beef, etc. : Three eggs well beaten, one pint of milk, 
small teaspoonful salt, two-thirds of a cup of flour. Mix the eggs and 
milk, take one cup of the mixture and pour over the flour and stir until 
smooth, then add the remainder and beat well. Bake in hot gem tins forty- 
five minutes ; baste with the drippings from the beef ; serve around the beef 



276 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

on the platter. Or the batter can be baked in a separate pan, or baked in 
gem pans. 

Ice Creams, Ices. 

Always have the mixture to be frozen cold before putting into the 
freezer; the ice crushed fine and one-third as much salt as ice. When the 
freezer is well packed in salt and ice, pour over a pint of water, — ^this fills 
in the spaces left by the ice and salt, and helps the melting of the ice. Salt 
water at the freezing point is colder than fresh water at the same point. A 
mistake is often made in turning the dasher too rapidly ; the cream will not 
freeze until the ice around begins to melt; use rock salt, turn the crank 
slowly, and the cream will be frozen in about twenty minutes. 

Home-made ice cream often becomes like butter to the dismay of the 
maker ; to prevent this it is necessary to scald one-half the cream and milk, 
then put with the other half of each and have them perfectly cold before 
putting into the freezer ; the heating of the cream gives a certain ripe flavor 
to the ice cream, but it must not boil; milk or cream is scalded when a 
little wrinkle comes on the surface; always use double boiler. Turn the 
crank slowly at first, then increase the motion ; you will know by the crank 
when the cream is frozen, without opening the can, for it will turn very 
stiffly. When opening the can, wipe off the top very carefully so that none 
of the ice or salt will get into the cream — a very little will ruin the cream. 
Take off the top, remove the paddle, and with a wooden spoon or spatula 
work down the cream. If fruit or whipped cream is to be added, they 
should be put in now. Mix all well together, smooth the cream on top, 
cover the pan and cover all with carpet ; it improves by standing ; it ripens. 
Look at the freezer to see that the water is not too near the top, draw it off 
from the side and add a little more ice and salt if they seem needed. 

It is always better to dissolve the sugar in a little cold milk before adding 
it to the cream ; a hard and fast rule for the sugar seems almost impossible ; 
tasting seems the only guide and it must taste much sweeter than usual, for 
freezing seems to take out some of the sweetness. 

Almond Ice Cream. 
Prepare a quart of ice cream. Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds. To 
blanch them pour over them boiling water, let it remain on the nuts for a 
few minutes. The brown skins will rub off easily then. Put the almonds, 
when blanched, in the oven until they are quite brittle, but they must not 
brown. Boil four ounces of sugar and a half cup of water together for five 
minutes, skim, and throw in the almonds. Stir them until part of the sugar 
adheres and they begin to turn yellow. Take them out of the syrup, chop 
or grind them and stir into the ice cream, which should be flavored with 
vanilla extract. 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 277 

Custard Ice Cream. 
Custard ice cream is made like any other custard, only twice the amount 
of sugar must always be allowed for anything that is to be frozen, and of 
course, it must be perfectly cold before putting into the freezer. 

Fruit Ice Creams. 
Fruit ice creams are so easy to make and all delicious, especially so when 
made with the juice of the fresh fruit. A safe proportion of sugar to use 
is one pound of sugar to two pounds of fruit. When only the juice is to be 
used, mash strawberries or raspberries, put over the sugar, let them remain 
in a cool place for two or more hours, so that the juice will run out of the 
berries; then strain the juice, add one quart of cream and one-half pound 
of sugar with the juice of one-half a lemon; stir well together, then pour 
into the freezer. It is well to let all creams stand in the freezer ten minutes 
before beginning the process of freezing. Stir down the cream as it freezes 
and keep on turning ten minutes after it is actually frozen. This gives 
smoothness. If the paddle or dasher is removed when the cream is finished 
and the cream packed down smoothly, it will usually come out in a sound 
column quite pretty enough to serve as a loaf, and it is a difficult task for 
home ice cream makers to mold ice creams at first. I have mentioned only 
strawberries and raspberries, but the juice of any fruit can be used. But 
do not freeze the fruit itself in the cream. Add it at last ; freezing makes the 
fruit so hard as to be quite uneatable. 

Nut Creams. 
Nut creams are very good, not so generally served as ice creams, but 
easily prepared, especially now that all the nuts can be bought ready for 
use in confectioners' supply stores. Formerly it was tedious work to crack 
and shell them and to pick out the meats. To use the nuts in creams or in 
frozen puddings, pound the nuts or run them through the meat chopper, 
adding a very little white of egg to them, so that they form a paste easily 
stirred into the cream or pudding. 

Walnut or Hickory Nut Cream. 
Put about a pint of the nuts into a cool oven until they are perfectly dry 
and hot, not too hot ; rub them well between two coarse towels, blow off all 
the loose skins, then chop or pound them. Make a cream or custard with 
the yolks of three eggs and one-half pint of milk. Dissolve one-half ounce 
of gelatine in a half-cup of water; when dissolved, mix it with six ounces 
of powdered sugar and add to the custard when nearly cold. Stir in the 
nut paste, seeing that it is well mixed with the custard and not in lumps. 
Add one pint of cream, whipped solid. If you desire some other flavor, 
add a little vanilla extract, but the nuts really give a delicate, distinctive 
flavor. 



278 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Apricot Ice Cream. 

Stew two-thirds of a pound of dried or canned apricots in one quart of 
water until perfectly soft, then add three cups of sugar; cook until the fruit 
and syrup look clear, then strain through a fine sieve and put on the ice to 
cool. Mix one quart of cream and one pint of milk together and whip for 
fifteen minutes; be sure that the cream is very cold; then add slowly the 
apricots ; when well mixed, place the mixture on the ice for three hours to 
ripen. One-half hour before required, freeze. 

Banana Cream. 
Peel six bananas and pound them to a pulp ; add the juice of two lemons 
and one glass of curacoa, strain and add one pint of whipped cream and 
one-half pound of sugar; freeze. 

Cafe Parfait. 

One cup of strong cofifee, two cups of sugar, one pint of cream; melt 
the sugar on the stove with a little water — about one-half cup — until it is 
a rich syrup, then pour in the cream; when hot, stir in the yolks of four 
well beaten eggs; as soon as the mixture thickens, remove from the fire; 
when cool, add one pint of whipped cream and freeze. Serve in glasses or 
in glass cups. 

Frozen Egg Nog. 

Two quarts of thin cream, two teacups of sugar, five eggs, one nutmeg, 
two wine glasses of rum, one wine glass of brandy. Beat the yolks with 
one cup of sugar until light, add the grated nutmeg; beat the whites with 
the remaining cup of sugar; mix together; pour into the freezer; when 
partly frozen pour in the brandy and rum very slowly and beat the mix- 
ture well. 

Maraschino Ice Cream. 

To one pint of cream add four wine glassfuls of maraschino, the juice of 
one lemon and one-half pound of sugar. Mix well together and freeze. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 
One pineapple grated fine, one cup of sugar, one quart of cream, scald 
one-half of the cream and the sugar ; when cold stir in the pineapple and 
the other half of the cream, which must be whipped; then put into the 
freezer. See general directions for freezing. Preserved pineapple can be 
used, omit one-half of the sugar if it is. 

French Vanilla Ice Cream. 

One pint of cream, one-half pound of sugar, four yolks of eggs. Put 
the cream in a double boiler and scald, then pour it on the sugar and beaten 
eggs and mix well together ; return to the fire and stir until it thickens, then 
strain and let it cool; add one teaspoonful of vanilla and freeze. A half- 
pint of whipped cream stirred into the freezer when the mixture is half 
frozen may be added. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 279 

Macaroon Ice Cream. 
One quart of cream, one-half cup of finely rolled macaroons, one cup 
granulated sugar, two tablespoon fuls of sherry, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. Mix the cream and macaroons together, dissolve the sugar in a 
little of the cream first, then stir it into the remainder of the cream, mix 
sherry and vanilla together; freeze as directed in recipe for vanilla ice 
cream. 

Apricot Muscovite. 

One pound of apricot jam, rub through a sieve, and, if not sweet enough, 
add some fine sugar. Make a custard with one scant pint of milk and the 
yolks of four eggs. When the custard is thick, let it cool and then add to it 
one-half ounce of gelatine which has been dissolved in a little hot water, 
strained and cooled. Whip all well together and as soon as the mixture 
becomes firm add one-half pint of stiffly whipped cream, one wine glass of 
either noyeau or apricot brandy. Pack into a mold and place in a pail, 
surrounded with broken ice and salt; let it remain in this for at least two 
hours. Any good fruit jam may be used in place of the apricot. 

Caramel Ice Cream. 
Put six tablespoon fuls of sugar into an iron frying pan, and stir over 
the fire until the sugar melts and turns a dark brown (not burnt), boils 
and smokes. Boil one pint of milk, turn it into the brown sugar; stir over 
the fire a minute and put away to cool. When cold, add one quart of cream, 
one-half pound of sugar, one tablespoonful vanilla. Mix well and freeze ; 
but before the cream is quite frozen add a half pint of whipped cream ; then 
finish freezing. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
Use the recipe for vanilla ice cream and when the cream is hot, add four 
ounces of melted chocolate. Melt the chocolate in a small saucepan, then 
add just enough milk to make it liquid and stir it into the cream; add one 
tablespoonful of vanilla extract and freeze as directed for freezing ice 
creams. 

Pineapple Ice Cream in the Pineapple. 

Cut the top from a fresh pineapple ; be sure to select a perfect pineapple, 
one that has the green leaves on the top ; scoop out the inside, or cut it out 
close to the sides, then cut out the hard core ; grate the rest, add enough 
plain ice cream to the pulp to fill the shell, and replace the top, serving 
on a pretty dish. The filling can be made of pineapple water ice. For the 
water ice boil one cupful of sugar with three cups of water until the syrup 
thickens a little, then add the grated pineapple, stir for one moment, remove 
from the fire, let it cool and when cool, freeze. 



280 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Wiesbaden Ice Cream. 
One quart of milk, one pint of cream, four eggs; beat yolks into the 
cream, add one pound of sugar; freeze partly, then add one can of Wies- 
baden or any other strawberries, and the whites of the eggs, well beaten. 

Rice Ice Cream with Orange Sauce. 

Wash one-half cup of rice well, put it in the double boiler to cook with 
one pint of cold water, cook for one-half hour, then drain off any water and 
add one pint of hot milk and cook until the rice is perfectly soft. Whip 
one quart of cream until all the cream is frothy. If there remain any which 
will not whip, put it with the rice. 

Place the whipped cream where it will keep cool. When the rice is 
cooked, press it through a coarse sieve and return to the boiler. Beat until 
light the yolks of six eggs and two cups of granulated sugar ; put these into 
the hot rice, stirring well ; cook together for two minutes, or until the mix- 
ture thickens, remove from the fire, add one tablespoonful of vanilla extract 
and let all cool. When quite cold, put into the freezer and freeze. When 
nearly stiff, stir in the whipped cream, remove the dasher, cover the pail 
and let it stand until needed. 

The orange syrup to serve with this cream is made with one dozen sweet 
oranges, the juice of a small lemon, one pound of sugar and one teacupful 
of water. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, skim, add the 
lemon juice, remove the rind from the oranges, slice and remove the seeds, 
cook them in the syrup, a few at a time, until all seem cooked, put the slices 
on a platter so that each slice is alone. After all are cooked, put over the 
hot syrup and when cool, place on the ice to chill. When the ice cream is 
served, heap the oranges on and around it with the syrup. 

Rice Ice Cream. 

Put in double boiler one quart of water with four tablespoonfuls of rice 
and the juice of one lemon ; cook until perfectly soft, then remove from fire 
and pour over the rice one-half pint of sugar syrup, made by boiling five 
tablespoonfuls of sugar with one pint of water to a syrup. When ready 
to serve drain off the syrup and stir the rice into a vanilla ice cream in the 
freezer. Let blend with the ice cream until ready to serve. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Make a cream same as directed in vanilla ice cream, and when half- 
frozen add one quart of very ripe peaches cut into small pieces and finish as 
directed. Sprinkle one cup of sugar on the peaches one-half hour before 
using them in the ice cream. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 
Two quarts of cream, or one quart of cream and one quart of new milk. 
Put the cream into the double boiler with one pound of sugar. When the 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 281 

sugar is melted and the cream hot, remove from the fire and put with it 
the quart of milk. Place on ice to thoroughly chill; and when ready to 
freeze add one vanilla bean which must be ground very fine, or one table- 
spoonful best vanilla extract. Then proceed as by directions for freezing. A 
richer cream is made of all cream. 

Vanilla Ice Cream with Hot Chocolate Sauce. 

Make the ice cream with one quart of rich milk in which dissolve a pinch 
of soda. Bring the milk to the boiling point in the double boiler. When the 
little crinkled skin forms on the milk, it is right. Beat six eggs together 
until very light, add three cups of granulated sugar and slowly stir over 
the hot milk. Return all to the boiler and stir until the custard is thick 
enough to mask the spoon. Now take the custard from the fire, add two 
tablespoon fuls of vanilla extract, and put the cream to cool. When it is 
perfectly cold, put in one quart of cream, mix all together thoroughly and 
put into the freezer. Freeze the cream very stiff — until the crank will not 
turn without difficulty. Pack the freezer in the ice, first removing the 
dasher. Let it remain for one or two hours, or until required. Serve in 
slices on cold plates and serve with it hot chocolate sauce. To make this 
sauce, grate one-half pound of chocolate into one cup of hot cream or milk, 
dissolve three tablespoon fuls of arrowroot or cornstarch in a half cup of 
milk. Boil together one cup of granulated sugar and one pint of water 
until quite clear; add to this mixture the chocolate and milk or cream, the 
arrowroot and milk. Cook, stirring constantly for seven or eight minutes, 
then remove from the fire, stir in one small spoonful of vanilla extract and 
send to the table. While you are taking out the ice cream, keep the sauce 
hot over the fire in a pan of hot water. 

White Grape Ice Cream. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk, four whites eggs only, separating 
the whites and yolks; two cups of sugar; beat whites. Add the other 
things together, stir in whites and one cup of brandied cherries and white 
grapes seeded, when cream is partly frozen. 

Apricot Ice. 
One can apricots, one pint cream, one pint of water, two cups of sugar. 
Mix fruit, sugar and water ; stir in the cream when in freezer. 

Currant Fruit Ice. 
Rub one quart of ripe currants through a fine sieve, add one cup of water 
made very sweet; mix with this the unbeaten whites of three eggs and 

freeze, stirring constantly. 

Strawberry Ice. 
One pint of strawberry juice, one pint of water, one pint of sugar, two 
lemons (juice only), two tablespoonfuls of gelatine, dissolved and strained. 
Freeze all together. 



282 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Mousse. 

A mousse is made with whipped cream, and is frozen by being simply 
packed into a tin, this tin or mold surrounded by ice and salt ; it takes about 
four pints of coarse salt to freeze a two-quart mold. Put the mold into 
the ice and salt, then turn into it the preparation; stir all the time, then 
cover and let it remain for four or five hours undisturbed. 

Apricot Mousse. 
Cook one-half pound of California dried apricots until they are soft, 
then put them through a sieve ; when cool add to them the following ingredi- 
ents: Beat together one and a half cups of sugar with the yolks of four 
eggs until very light, then place in the double boiler and cook until smooth 
like custard, carefully stirring all the time; when the mixture masks the 
spoon, it is ready to take from the fire, then cool, when add one pint of 
whipped cream and place in the freezer and pack in ice and salt for two 
or three hours, then serve. 

Cherry Ice. 

One can of best white cherries. One pint of water, add one cup sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and four oranges. One pint of white wine, freeze 
and serve with whipped cream. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

One quart of rich milk, two level teacup fuls of granulated sugar. Mix 
these together and scald in the double boiler. Keep stirring all the time. 
Let this mixture cool. When cold, put into the freezer, let it rest there for 
ten minutes, then partly freeze it and add the juice of four lemons. You 
may think that your sherbet is hopelessly curdled, but go on and freeze it. 
It will come out all right. You can use two lemons and one orange, if pre- 
ferred. The juice of a quart of strawberries or raspberries with the juice 
of two lemons, is also good. 

When you have finished freezing, always see that the freezer is put away 
perfectly clean and dry. 

Peach Mousse. 

Take one quart of very ripe peaches, or one can of peaches, rub them 
through a sieve, then add one pint of sugar, mix well together, then add one 
quart of whipped cream and one wine glass of sherry (omit this if not 
Hked) ; fill the mold and pack it in the ice and salt to stand for three or 
four hours. 

Maple Mousse. 

Put one cup of maple sugar into one pint of cream in double boiler with 
the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; when thick and smooth like custard, it 
is ready to take from the fire ; then whip all well together and place on ice 
to cool. Have the freezer in the ice and salt, pour in the mousse and let it 
stand three or four hours before serving. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 283 

Strawberry Mousse. 
Mash one quart of ripe strawberries through a sieve, then add a pound 
of sugar; let them stand for one hour, then add one quart of whipped 
cream. Fill the mold, cover closely and pack it in the ice and salt for at 
least three hours. When ready to serve, take out the mold, wash it thor- 
oughly in cold water to remove any salt water, remove cover and serve. 
The cans in which either ice creams, ices or mousse are put should always 
be carefully washed off in cold water before taking ofif the cover. 

Roman Punch Frozen. 

One quart of cold water with one pound of sugar cooked in double boiler, 
with the juice of three and rind of one lemon. Cook these together until 
the sugar is melted. Then take from fire and place on ice to cool. When 
cold put into the can and freeze, not too stiffly. Twenty minutes before 
serving, open the freezer, add two wine glasses of rum, one wine glass of 
maraschino, stir well and fill tall glasses, or glass cups, placing on top some 
whipped cream. 



284 Cook Book 365— No, 2. 



Preserves, Jatas and Jellies. 

It is absolutely necessary in order that the preserves, jams and jellies will 
keep for the fruits composing them be fresh. If necessary to wash them, 
do so as expeditiously as possible, and drain them at once. In preserving, 
to every pound of the fruit, add one pound of sugar, place in preserving 
kettle, let them come to the boiling point very slowly, then cook until the 
berries look clear and begin to sink in the kettle; then skim and place in 
glasses. Cover these the next day with stiff paper or paraffine. It is a good 
plan to put the sugar over the berries the night before they are to be pre- 
served, weighing both first. The sugar keeps the berries in shape. 

In canning fruits only a small amount of sugar is used. As a rule the 
California canned fruits are excellent; also the fruits from New York 
state, and, no doubt, from other states. 

Of course if you have your own orchard, it is far better to use the fruits 
thereof, but if you have to purchase your fruit, I can recommend that you 
purchase the best of the California output, or New York State, feeling 
sure you will find all the various fruits well done, and after considering the 
cost of the fruit, sugar, jars, your time, etc., I think you will find you are 
rather ahead than at a loss. I only speak of canned fruit. If possible, 
make your own preserves. 

In making jams, the same rule must be observed, that only the freshest 
and best fruits are used. Every utensil used should be perfectly clean. 
Use only a large kettle to cook in. Have a steady, hot, not fierce fire. Cook 
the jam at first quickly that all the scum may rise and be skimmed off; 
then place kettle on a cooler part of the stove. 

The rules for jams are more flexible than those that govern the making 
of preserves, for among the best jams are those that contain more than one 
kind of fruit and a little study and practice will make various combinations 
not only possible but valuable. 

Rules for Jams. 
To cook the jams until the juice jellies or thickens on a plate. 
To place it after, in clean, dry jars or glasses. 
To cover well and mark. 

In cooking jams and preserves it may be necessary to extend the time 
given in the recipes, the fruits must be well cooked before removing from 
the fire. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 285 

Apple Jam with Pineapple. 

A little pineapple can be mixed with the apples. Cut the apples in small 
pieces ; to every pound of the apples, add one pound of sugar and to every 
five pounds of the apples add one pound of pineapple, grated. Cook until 
the fruit looks clear, stirring almost constantly ; skim carefully and place in 
small glasses. When cold, cover with thick paper. 

If you prefer to have jam perfectly smooth, pass all the jam through a 
sieve after it is cooked, mashing it well, then place in the jars or glasses. 

Blackberry Jam. 
Pick over the berries carefully; to every pint of berries, allow three- 
fourths pint of sugar, mash together and then place in the preserving kettle 
and let all boil slowly until the syrup thickens; skim the jam and put into 
jars; the next day cover with papers wet in alcohol, and another cover of 
stiff paper pasted on with the white of egg slightly beaten. 

Crab-apple Jam. 

Quarter crab-apples as you would for jelly, and put them in a kettle, 
with only enough water to keep them from scorching. They will have to 
cook a long time before they will be soft enough, for they must not only be 
crushed, but also be put through a vegetable press, and thus reduced to a 
soft pulp. Not until this has been done is the sugar added to them; this 
should be well stirred in and cooked only long enough to thoroughly dis- 
solve it. 

Peach and Pineapple Jam. 

Peel and stone good-sized, firm peaches before weighing them. Allow 
one pound of granulated sugar to every pound of the fruit, and one pound 
of pineapple (peeled and shredded fine) to every five pounds of the peaches. 
The pineapple should be very ripe. Put this and the peaches together in 
the preserving kettle and cook slowly, stirring often and well from the 
bottom. After the boiling point is reached, cook for three-quarters of an 
hour, stirring constantly. At the end of this time put in the sugar, let all 
boil a few minutes and simmer after this for fifteen minutes, removing any 
scum that may rise to the surface. Put up while hot in pint jars or in 
jelly-glasses. 

The addition of brandy, in the proportion of a gill to every quart of jam, 
is considered an improvement by some. 

Damson Plum Jam. 
Stone the plums, which should be fresh and ripe, boil them for forty 
minutes in the preserving kettle, skim carefully, then add a pound of sugar 
to every pound of plums, boil for fifteen minutes, then put into small glasses 
or jam pots; cover when cold, with papers dipped in alcohol, and outside 
of these paste a stiff paper. 



286 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Morello Cherries and Raspberries. 

A delicious jam will result from using equal portions of Morella cherries 
and raspberries. Stone the cherries, allow pound for pound of fruit and 
sugar ; cook in the preserving kettle slowly for fully two hours, then remove 
from fire, fill small tumblers with the jam; next day cover with white 
paper, or with melted paraffine. 

Pear and Pineapple Jam. 

Make this in the same way as the peach and pineapple jam, peeling and 
coring the pears before weighing them. The addition of the pineapple gives 
a delicious flavor, or use the pears alone. 

Quince and Lemon Jam. 
Peel, core and slice quinces, reserving the parings and cores for jelly. 
Put the quinces over the fire in just enough water to cover them, and stew 
until they are soft. The allowance of sugar for this should be the same as 
for peach marmalade — three-quarters of a pound to every pound of the 
fruit. It will take a long while to reduce the quinces to the requisite soft- 
ness, and they must be stirred and beaten often with a stout wooden spoon. 
When the fruit is well broken in pieces, add the sugar, and at the same time 
put in the juice of one large lemon for every two pounds of the fruit. Boil 
ten minutes after it has again come to the boil, and after the kettle has been 
removed from the fire, add the grated peel of one lemon for every five 
pounds of the conserve. This is a good and an unusual jam. 

Fruit Jam. 

Mix strawberries with pineapples cut very fine ; to every pound of straw- 
berries use a half pound of pineapple. Weigh them together and to every 
pound of the mixed fruits use one pound of sugar. Place in preserving 
kettle, cook at first rapidly ; when the scum rises, skim carefully, then place 
the jam on a cooler part of the fire, cook for fully two hours, then remove 
from fire, pour into glasses or jars and seal. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Select ripe, fresh fruit; to each pound of fruit, allow one pound of 
sugar ; mash the raspberries, add the sugar, and boil together until the jam 
is clear, thick and smooth ; remove all the scum as it rises. When cooked, 
put into jelly glasses; cover when cold, with papers dipped in alcohol, and 
on the outside put papers, either pasted or tied down. 

Strawberry Jam. 
Prepare in the same way as for raspberry jam, only remove the caps from 

the berries. 

Grape Juice. 
Take only fresh, ripe grapes, the Concord grapes make the richest juice, 
though other grapes may be used. Free the grapes from the stems, use no 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 287 

sugar ; put on the fire ; as soon as the grapes are soft, strain them through 
a jelly bag of flannel or cheese cloth ; when strained, put back on the fire, 
and when boiling once more, bottle and seal or put into glass jars and seal. 

Jellies. 

As there is more pectine (the gelatinous matter) around the cores and 
skins of all kinds of fruit, than in other parts, so in making jellies use both. 
The same rules that apply to jams apply to jellies. 

Apple Jelly. 

Pare the apples, cut them in pieces, place in the preserving kettle with a 
very little cold water; boil slowly until the fruit is soft, skim, then strain 
through a jelly bag; weigh the juice and for each pound of juice allow 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar, unless the apples were very acid, then 
one pound of sugar will not be too much ; boil for fifteen minutes, skim and 
then stir the sugar into the juice; skim carefully; cook until the sugar is 
dissolved, or until the juice jeUies upon the spoon; then pour into glasses; 
cover these the next day with papers wet in alcohol, and paste over these 
another paper. One tablespoonful of lemon juice may be added if desired, 
or a leaf of rose geranium can be cooked in the syrup, skimmed out, before 
placing the jelly in the glasses. 

Black Currant Jelly for Game. 

Mash the currants and boil them in a very little water, just enough to pre- 
vent their burning, then strain the juice and to every pound of juice add 
one pound of sugar; boil the juice for ten minutes, skim and add the sugar, 
stir until dissolved. Pour into glasses and cover these when cold, with 
papers wet in alcohol. 

Crab-apple Jelly. 

Put the crab-apples into the preserving kettle with just enough water to 
cover them; let them simmer until soft, then strain through a sieve. Take 
the pulp and strain it through a cheese cloth or flannel bag. Boil the juice 
for twenty minutes before adding the sugar; to every four pints of juice 
add four pints of sugar; boil together until a little of the juice will thicken 
on a spoon when tested; then fill the jelly glasses, dip them in warm water 
before filling. When the jelly is cold, cover with paper dipped in alcohol 
or with hot paraffine poured over. 

Quince Jelly. 
Quarter and core the ripe quinces, throw them into cold water until all 
are- prepared ; weigh, and allow one pint of water to each pound of fruit, 
simmer the fruit until it is very soft, be careful it does not burn, then strain 
through a jelly bag, do not squeeze the bag; weigh the juice, put it in a 
preserving kettle, and boil rapidly for twenty minutes ; skim, then stir into 
it one pound of sugar to each pound of juice. If the juice is very sweet, 



288 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

three-fourths of a pound will answer. Boil for twenty or thirty minutes, 
stir constantly and skim carefully until the juice jellies in falling from the 
spoon; then pour into jelly glasses, cover the next day with paper wet in 
alcohol, and then paper pasted over the top. 

If you have more apples than quinces, double the amount of apples and 
proceed as in quince jelly, the flavor of the quince is so strong that the jelly 

is delicious. 

Peach Jelly. 

Peaches will not make jelly that is firm enough to retain its shape when 
turned out of the mold ; but it is delicious for cake, puddings, etc. Prepare 
exactly as for quince jelly ; do not peel the peaches. 

Rhubarb Jelly. 

September is the best time to make this jelly. Wash, but do not peel the 
rhubarb; cut it into small pieces; to every pound of the cut rhubarb, add 
a half cup of cold water ; stew all slowly until the rhubarb is perfectly soft, 
then strain through a fine sieve or piece of cheesecloth. Allow one pound 
of sugar to every pint of juice; but let the juice cook a few minutes before 
adding the sugar, then add sugar and cook slowly until the juice begins to 
thicken on the edge of the kettle; take off the scum as it rises; turn into 
jelly glasses, which have been rinsed in hot water; when the jelly is firm 
and cold, pour melted paraffine over the tops. Cover with paper and keep 
in a dark, cool closet. 

Grape Jelly. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash and mash them, cook until they 
are soft, then strain; then boil this juice for five minutes, then strain and 
add to one pint of juice one pound of sugar. Boil together for fifteen 
minutes. 

Lemon Jelly. 

One box of gelatine, soak in one pint of cold water one-half hour, strain, 
add one quart of boiling water, one quart of sugar, the juice of eight 
lemons. Strain into a jelly mold. 

Prune Jelly. 

One pound of prunes, one-fourth pound sugar, one-half a lemon, one 
ounce of gelatine, one-half pint of cream. Put the prunes into a saucepan 
with sufficient water to cover them, add the sugar and the peel of the lemon, 
stew gently two hours, pass through a wire sieve, add the gelatine, having 
previously soaked it in water. Crack the prune stones and put the kernels 
into the jelly; boil all together for a few minutes and pour into a mold in 
the shape of a ring. When cold, turn from the mold. Whip the cream 
and heap it high in the center of the mold, and serve. 

Wine Jelly— 1. 

One box of gelatine, soak this in one pint of cold water for two hours, 
then add one quart of boiling water, one and three-fourths pounds of sugar. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 289 

the juice of two lemons and one pint of sherry, strain carefully into a 

jelly mold. 

Wine Jelly— 2. 

One package of gelatine, soak for two hours or more in one cup of cold 

water, then add the juice of one lemon and the grated rind, two cups of 

granulated sugar, two cups of boiling water, two cups of Catawba or 

sherry wine; let all soak together for an hour, then add the water and 

strain through a flannel bag ; when all is strained, put the liquid into a jelly 

mold and set on the ice to harden. If desired to serve with cream, put the 

jelly into a mold which has an open center; this center can be filled with 

whipped cream when ready to serve. 

Raspberry Jelly. 
To each pound of raspberry juice add one pound of sugar. Prepare the 
juice in the same manner as for currant jelly. 

Whipped Currant Jelly. 

To Serve with Game. 
One hour before dinner take a glass of currant jelly and whip it with the 
white of an egg; whip until it is all foamy. Whip the whites of two eggs 
until very stiff, add to them two tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, fold them into 
the jelly and heap in a glass dish, putting a little granulated sugar over. 
Any tart jelly can be used in this way. 

Whipped Cranberry Jelly. 

Wash the cranberries, place in preserving kettle, boil until the skins will 
come off, then strain, add one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit and 
proceed as for currant jelly. When needed, prepare as whipped cur- 
rant jelly. 

Wine Jelly Whipped. 

Proceed as for whipped currant jelly. 

Preserved Morello and other Sour Cherries. 

Allow one pound of sugar to every pound of cherries after the stones 
have been removed. Take one-half of the sugar to make a syrup. You will 
have to add a half-pint of water to every pound for this syrup. Scald the 
syrup, then skim it, then pour it, while hot, over the cherries and let it stand 
over night. The next morning drain off the syrup, boil it again and pour it 
over the cherries. Continue this boihng of the syrup for eight mornings. 
The ninth morning put in the remaining half of the sugar. When it is 
boiling, put into the syrup all of the cherries, let them boil for two minutes, 
remove from the fire and place in jars, sealing while hot. 

Mint Jelly. 
One cup of fresh mint leaves, pour over them one cup of boiling water, 
steep for fifteen minutes; strain and bring to the boiling point, add one- 



290 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

fourth box of gelatine previously dissolved in water, about four tablespoon- 
fuls, stir until dissolved. Then add one saltspoonful salt, some white pep- 
per, one teaspoon ful of onion juice, though this may be omitted — ^place in a 
plain mold ; when needed cut into small pieces and serve with lamb. 

CANNING. 

Always select very fresh fruits for canning and they should never be 
over-ripe. In preparing the syrup allow one-third of a pound of sugar to 
every pound of fruit. Do not try to can too much fruit at once. The jars 
must be absolutely clean and boiling water poured into them after; the 
covers must be boiled so as to thoroughly sterilize them. When the fruit 
is tender, empty the water from the jars, put on the rubbers (unless the 
jars do not require rubbers), fill them with the fruit and syrup, adding a 
little boiling water if there is not quite enough syrup for, perhaps, the last 
jar or two. Cover quickly, screw down tight, turn them upside down on 
a damp cloth; in a few hours see if there are any bubbles coming out or 
any leakage; if there is none, put the jars in a cool, dark place. Before seal- 
ing the jars, put a silver knife or spoon in the jars to break any air bubbles. 
Care must be taken to see that the covers are not bent ; they often are when 
used the second time, and new rubbers should always be used each season. 

Canned Bartlett Pears. 

Wipe and pare the pears, throw them into cold water as you pare them, 

for pears discolor rapidly. Cook them either whole with the stems left on, 

or cut in halves. The proportion of sugar in canning is one-third pound of 

sugar for all fruits. 

Canned Apples. 

Prepare as Bartlett pears, only the apples need not be put into water 

before cooking. Canned apples are very useful in winter when apples are 

scarce and dear, as they make excellent apple sauce, puddings, pies, and can 

be used for frymg. 

Canned Peaches. 
Peel the peaches, remove the stones, then weigh the fruit ; to every pound 
of peaches put one-fourth pound of sugar, place all in the preserving kettle 
with a little water ; let the fruit boil for ten minutes, skim carefully. Place 
in jars and fill the jars very full. Screw on the covers as soon as the fruit 
is put in the jars. Be careful to have the jars hot and sterilized. 

Preserved Peaches. 
Peel the peaches, cut in halves, remove the stones, weigh the peaches. 
For every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar; place the sugar and 
peaches in the preserving kettle with just a little water; crack some of the 
stones and put the meats with the fruit ; stew slowly and skim often ; when 
the peaches are clear, remove them to a platter; let the syrup boil until 
thick, then strain it over the peaches; when cold, place in glasses or jars, 
and cover with papers dipped in alcohol. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 291 

Pear Preserves. 

Four pounds of hard pears, four pounds of sugar, one-fourth pound of 
preserved ginger, four lemons, one pint of water. Pare and cut the pears 
into fine pieces ; chop the ginger very fine. Place pears, sugar, ginger, lemon 
peel (which must be chopped very fine), and water in the preserving kettle 
and boil until the fruit is clear, then add the juice of the four lemons, cook 
five minutes longer and remove from fire. Put in hot glass jars, well steri- 
lized, and seal at once. 

Grape Fruit Marmalade. 

Pare the grape fruit and slice the rind very fine. Chop all the pulp into 
small pieces, discarding nothing but the seeds. Place all the ingredients 
together and weigh exactly. To each pound, add one quart of cold water, 
and let all stand for twenty-four hours. Then cook until the pieces can be 
easily pierced with a straw, then let the mixture stand another twenty-four 
hours. Then weigh again and to every pound add one and one-half pounds 
of sugar and cook twenty minutes, boiling quickly; it should thicken like 
jelly; place in glasses or small jars. 

Quinces Preserved in Slices. 
Pare and core and cut into thin slices the ripe quinces ; throw the slices 
into cold water until all are prepared. For every pound of fruit allow 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. Put the quince slices into the 
preserving kettle with a very little water, cook the fruit for ten minutes or 
until tender, then add the sugar, which has been dissolved in as little water 
as possible. Cook together until the slices of fruit are soft and clear. 
When clear, put into glasses and the next day cover with papers wet in 
alcohol and covered with dry papers. 

East India Preserves. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes; after washing and slicing them into 
round, rather thick slices, put them into a porcelain kettle and boil until 
they are a light, transparent, green color. Drain off the water and measure 
the tomatoes ; for each pound of tomatoes, one pound of sugar, three lemons 
cut into slices, five cents worth of ginger root broken into small pieces; 
boil all these well together, until the mixture is very thick — but the pieces 
should keep their forms — remove from the fire. In four days, boil the mix- 
ture again, if it is not thick enough. This preserve need not be sealed 
in jars. 

Spiced Tutti-Frutti Preserves. 

Scald twelve pound of ripe currants, rub them through a sieve to remove 
all seeds and stems ; after this, add to the currants three pounds of seeded 
raisins, twelve seeded oranges cut into fine pieces, ten pounds of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of powdered 
mace; put the mixture into the preserving kettle and cook very slowly for 



292 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

three hours, or longer ; the mixture must be very thick ; stir frequently and 
watch that it does not burn. When cooked, remove from fire and put into 
small jars or glasses ; when cold, cover with papers dipped in alcohol. 

Strawberry Preserves. 
Take the hulls from the berries ; if possible avoid washing the berries — 
if it is necessary to do so, be as expeditious as possible. Take one pound of 
sugar to each pound of fruit; place the berries in the preserving kettle, let 
them come to the boiling point slowly; boil for fifteen minutes, carefully 
skim them, then place in small jars or tumblers; the next day cover with 
papers dipped in alcohol or cover with paraffine. 

Strawberries Preserved in the Sun. 
Select fine, large berries, remove the hulls. To each pound of berries use 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar; let the sugar remain over the 
berries for three hours, then place all in the preserving kettle and boil for 
ten minutes. At the end of that time, carefully remove the berries from 
the syrup with a skimmer and place them on platters and put them in the 
sun. Cook the syrup until it is thick, then pour it over the berries. The 
next day pour off the syrup, reheat it, pour it over the berries and put all 
in the sun. Keep the berries in the sun till all the syrup is absorbed, then 
put into glass jars and cover with papers wet in alcohol, and with dry 

papers pasted over. 

Tomato Preserves. 
Put the little pear-shaped tomatoes into boiling water for a minute, 
remove and plunge into cold water ; then drain and pull off the skins. To 
every pound of the tomatoes add one pound of sugar. Cook in the preserv- 
ing kettle slowly and with very little water, at first only just enough to 
keep the tomatoes from scorching, for as soon as they are hot the juice will 
flow rapidly. Cut three lemons very fine, remove the seeds, add the juice 
also ; to every eight pounds of tomatoes, add one tablespoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, also one tablespoonful of powdered ginger, if these spices are 
liked, but the preserve is delicious without them; cook slowly and until the 
preserve is very thick ; then remove from fire and put into glasses or small 
jars. This preserve will be found very good to serve with roast meats. 

Vegetable Marrow Preserve — Boston Squash. 
Peel and remove the pulp and seeds, then cut into inch cubes, let no water 
be added, the juice of the marrow being sufficient moisture for the syrup — 
two pounds of marrow, two pounds of sugar, the juice of one lemon, the 
peel cut fine, three-fourths of an ounce of root ginger, one saltspoonful of 
cayenne pepper ; boil gently one and one-half hours ; when the syrup is 
transparent, add one-half of a wine glass of sherry, brandy or whiskey; 
place in glasses and cover with papers wet in alcohol, and an outer paper 
pasted over. Be careful to rub the marrow, not to wash it, should any 
earth adhere. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 293 

Watermelon Preserves. 

Sixteen pounds of watermelon; remove the green rind and the seeds, 
cut the melon into two-inch squares. Take one-half pound of sugar to 
every pound of fruit ; place in kettle one layer of fruit, one layer of sugar, 
then let these stand over night; next morning boil for four hours steadily, 
then add six lemons cut up into very small pieces and a little ginger root; 
boil one-half hour longer. 

Syrup. 

To every pound of white sugar allow one-half pint of water and one-half 
the white of an tgg. Beat the egg until light, then put it, the sugar and 
water, into a clean saucepan, but let the sugar dissolve before putting on the 
fire. When the syrup boils, add one teacup of cold water, but do not stir 
it at all. Carefully remove all the scum as it rises, and when the syrup is 
clear it is ready for use. Put into glass jars and cover. It will keep for a 

long time. 

Orange Sugar. 

Cut off the thin, yellow rind of oranges, and dry it. When it is dry (it 
will take two days to dry it), put into the mortar or grinder with one cup of 
granulated sugar. Pound the mirture until it is a powder, then rub it through 
a very fine sieve. The rind of twelve oranges will require two cups of 
sugar. When very finely powdered put into tight glass jars. One table- 
spoonful of this mixture is required for flavoring a custard or cake. 

Lemon sugar can be prepared in the same way as orange sugar. 

Vanilla Sugar. 

One pound of powdered sugar, one ounce of vanilla bean ; split the bean, 
remove the seeds, pound well together with the sugar until fine, then bottle 
for use. 

Brandied Cherries. 

These are very useful to serve with ice cream or as an addition to fruit 
salads. Have the cherries picked on a clear, dry day. Stone them and fill 
wide-mouthed jars with them. Then pour in as much good pale brandy 
(California brandy is excellent for household use), as the jars will hold. 
Cover the jars closely and place them in a cool, dry, dark place for four 
weeks. At the end of the fourth week pour off the liquor, add to each pint 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, boil the sugar and liquor together until 
the syrup is thick, skim it carefully, strain it through a fine sieve or coarse 
bag, pour it over the cherries, boil all together for five minutes, return all 
to the jars and cover tightly. 

Brandied Plums. 
The yellow plums are rather nicer brandied than the Damsons. To ten 
pounds of plums you will require seven pounds of sugar and one-half pint 
of water. Prick the plums all over with a big needle. This prevents the 



294 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

skin from coming off, a tedious task, but necessary; throw them into cold 
water. Make a syrup with the sugar and water. When it is well melted let 
it boil a little, skim it, then put in the plums. Let them simmer only, never 
let them boil, until they are tender. Remove the plums, place them on a 
large platter, so as not to bruise them. Strain the syrup and let it cool. 
When both syrup and plums are cold, fill jars with the plums, add to every 
pint of syrup one-half pint of good brandy, pour over the plums, fill the 
jars to the top with the liquor and cover tightly. 

Brandy Cherries. 

For these the Morello cherry is the best of all the cherries, as they are of 
a fine, red color and keep well. Have the cherries picked with the stems on, 
handle them as little as possible, fill self-sealing jars. When the bottle is 
one-fourth full, put in some white sugar, then more cherries and so on until 
the jar is full ; then fill in all the brandy possible and leave the cherries until 
the next day, then add more brandy, if needed, for the jars must be full; 
put on the covers and keep in dry, cool place. The cherries improve 
with age. 

Brandied Peaches. 

Select one peck of fine peaches, wipe them, and pour over boiling water, 
then at once remove the peaches and the skins will come off easily. Place 
peaches in preserving kettle; to every pound allow one- fourth pound of 
sugar and one pint of water; let the peaches cook until tender, but not to 
breaking point; then remove from fire, lift them out carefully from the 
kettle, place on a large platter, so as not to pile one upon another, strain 
over the syrup and let the peaches rest until the next day, then make a 
syrup of one pint of water to every pound of sugar for every pound of the 
peaches ; boil this syrup until it thickens a little, skim carefully, then remove 
from fire, let it cool ; pour off the syrup over the peaches, keep it to use in 
another way; put the peaches into wide-mouth jars, add to the syrup one 
quart of good, California brandy, stir together and pour over the peaches 
to fill the jars ; put on the covers and place the jars in cool, dry place. The 
first syrup from the peaches should have one pound of sugar added to it, 
then boil it once, skim and put in glass jar and seal up. It will prove most 
acceptable in ice cream, in mince meat or for pudding sauces. 

Plum and Crabapple Marmalade. 
Cook equal quantities of ripe plums and crab-apples together until they 
are soft enough to go through a sieve, add a pound of the sugar to a pound 
of the pulp, cook slowly, watch that it does not burn ; when the marmalade 
looks well cooked — it will take at least two hours' slow cooking — remove 
from fire and put into glasses or glass jars. Cover when cold either with 
papers, or with paraffine. Keep in a cool place. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Cut the peaches in pieces and weigh them ; for every pound of fruit allow 
a pound of sugar. Cook the peaches in a very little water for three-quarters 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 295 

of an hour, skim carefully and then add the sugar ; crack a number of the 

stones and put the meats with the marmalade, add one tablespoonful of 

lemon juice ; boil all together for thirty minutes, then put into small glasses ; 

cover the next day with papers dipped in alcohol, and paste an outside 

paper over. It is an improvement, after the peaches are tender and before 

the sugar is added, if the fruit is pressed through a sieve and then returned 

to the fire. 

Plum Marmalade. 

Prepare as peach marmalade, omitting the lemon juice. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

Peel the pineapples, carefully removing all the dark specks, then grate 
the fruit on a coarse grater, and put it into the preserving kettle, allowing 
to each pound of fruit a scant pound of sugar. Boil sugar and fruit 
together until the fruit is clear, skim and then put into small glasses or jam 
pots. Cover, when cold, with papers dipped in alcohol, and over this paste 
stiff white paper. 

Quince and Apple Marmalade. 

Peel, cut in pieces equal quantities of apples and quinces, and follow the 
directions for peach marmalade, omitting the lemon juice; add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, and when thoroughly cooked, put the marmalade into 
small glasses or jars. Quinces can be used alone for marmalade. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Prepare in the same manner as peach marmalade, omitting the lemon 

juice. 

Grated Quince. 

Wash the quinces, wipe well to take ofif all the soft fuzz. Grate the 

quinces on a coarse grater ; when ready to cook, add to every cup of the 

fruit, two and a half cups of sugar and two cups of water ; stir well together, 

put into the preserving kettle and watch that it does not burn ; cook slowly 

for two hours ; then remove from the kettle, place in glasses or small jars 

and cover with paper dipped in alcohol or with parafine. 

Baked Pears. 

For this, canned pears can be used as well as fresh ones, cut the pears in 
halves, place on tin plate, cup side up, put in each half a small piece of 
butter, pour over the syrup and bake in slow oven until the syrup is all 
absorbed and the pears browned a little. These are very nice served with 
any meats or poultry. 

Prunes in Blankets. 

Soak some large prunes for two hours, then drain and wrap around each 
prune a slice of bacon, cut very thin, roll up and fasten with a little wooden 
toothpick, place on tin plate and cook in hot oven until the bacon is brown 
and begins to crisp. Serve hot around any meats or they are excellent for 
breakfast. 



296 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Chafing Dish Cooking. 

Cooking in the chafing dish has now become so general that nearly every 
one knows its possibilities and the knowledge of its convenience in house- 
keeping grows daily. Nearly all warmed-over food can be done acceptably 
in the chafing dish. All egg and cheese dishes are perfectly cooked in the 
chafing dish. Also oysters in every form. Recipes will be found through 
the book, which can be used in the chafing dish, so I have avoided repeating 
them under this heading. 

Chicken Creamed. 

One pint of cooked chicken, twelve mushrooms chopped fine, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, one teacupful of milk or cream. 
Put the butter into the blazer, when hot stir in the flour until smooth ; add 
the milk, then let the mushrooms cook in this for five minutes ; season the 
chicken with a little salt and pepper add to the sauce and cook for three 
minutes. Serve from the chafing dish. 

Cold Chicken or Cold Game. 
Cut into small pieces cold cooked chicken or cold game ; season with salt 
and pepper ; put into chafing dish one teacupful of stock or hot water when 
hot, add the chicken or game, one tablespoonful of butter, and one small 
cup of currant jelly; as soon as the preparation is hot, serve. 

Cheese Fondue. 
Two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of fresh milk, one cup 
of fine bread crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, one saltspoonful of dry 
mustard, a little cayenne. Put the butter into the chafing dish, when 
melted add the milk, crumbs, cheese and stir constantly, and just before 
serving add two well beaten eggs. This fondue can be cooked on the stove 
as well. 

Eggs Scrambled. 

Beat the eggs together a little, add to six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of ice 
water, one saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper and one tablespoonful of 
butter ; melt the butter in the chafing dish ; when hot, put in the eggs mixed 
with the water, stir constantly until they are cooked. Cream can be used 
instead of the ice water, using four tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes. 
Cook the same as for scrambled eggs, only omit the ice water, and add 
one cup of tomatoes. 

Eggs a la Golden Rod. 
One dozen hard-boiled eggs, chop whites and grate yolks. Make a sauce 
by blending two tablespoonfuls of butter and two heaping tablespoonfuls 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 2ff7 

of flour and pouring over this a pint of hot milk ; when thickened stir in the 
chopped whites, seasoned with salt. Have ready, rounds of toast slightly 
buttered; pour mixture on the toast, then sprinkle over the grated yolks. 
Garnish with bacon, cut in ribbons, and crisp in hot pan. 

Calf's Head Terrapin. 

One pint of cold calf's head, cut in small pieces, one cup of the water in 
which the head was cooked, one-half a teacupful of cream, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, a little cayenne, two tablespoon fuls of sherry, the yolks of 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour. Put 
the stock into the stewpan or chafing dish ; cream the flour and butter well 
together and stir into the boiling stock, stir constantly until thick and 
smooth; add the meat, salt and pepper and cook for five minutes, then 
remove from the fire or put out the lamp of the chafing dish and add the 
sherry. Cold Chicken, Turkey, Game and Veal can be treated in this 
manner. 

Cold Roast Beef. 

Six slices of rare roast beef, six tablespoonfuls of tomatoes, one-half tea- 
cup of gravy, one onion chopped fine, one tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoonful mustard, salt and a little 
cayenne. Put the butter into the blazer with the onion, stew for about five 
minutes, then add the tomatoes and the gravy, sauce, mustard, salt and pep- 
per; when the mixture is smooth, add the beef. As soon as the beef is hot 
it is ready to serve. Any rare cooked meat can be treated in the same way. 

Liver. 
Slice calf's liver one-fourth of an inch in thickness, dip each slice in 
flour, in which mix some salt and pepper and a little cayenne. Put in the 
chafing dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, when hot, put in the slices of 
liver, cook these for five minutes, then turn and cook three minutes longer, 
then add one wine glass of sherry or port wine ; let all boil once, then serve. 

Lobster Creamed. 
Have the meat of the lobster cut into small pieces. Put into the chafing 
dish one cup of cream ; rub together one teaspoonful of flour and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, stir into the hot cream and boil for five minutes, then 
add the lobster and one saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, and the yolks 
of two eggs well beaten; just before serving, add one glass of sherry. 

Macaroni. 
One-half package of macaroni or spaghetti, one-half cup of Parmesan 
cheese, grated fine, one-half cup of melted butter. Cook the macaroni for 
ninety minutes. Put it into a very hot dish (silver if possible), after it 
has been cooked, adding salt and red pepper, spread it over the cheese on 
the bottom of dish, pour on the butter, mixing it well, then cover for five 
minutes and eat at once ; it should be quite stringy. 



298 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Creamed Ham. 

Cook one cup of finely chopped boiled ham and one pint of cream 
together; when hot, stir in quickly two well-beaten eggs, a little pepper; 
stir constantly. 

Creamed Oysters. 

One pint of oysters ; drain them. Put into the blazer one tablespoonful of 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter ; stir these until they bubble, then add one 
cup of cream or milk ; keep stirring until you have a thick, smooth sauce ; 
add one pint of solid oysters, season with salt, pepper and a little grated 
nutmeg. Clams can be cooked in the same way. 

Oysters with Celery. 

One quart of oysters ; drain them from the liquor ; have the chafing dish 
hot, put in one tablespoonful of butter ; when hot, add one-half tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 
one-fourth saltspoonful of cayenne. Stir together until smooth, then add 
one tablespoonful of celery chopped very fine and one tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley ; then the oysters ; stir well, and cook until the edges 
of the oysters curl. 

Oysters with Sherry. 

Put one quart of oysters into the chafing dish with a little of their liquor, 
one tablespoonful of butter, three stalks of celery cut fine, a little salt and 
pepper; when the oysters begin to curl, add one tablespoonful of sherry 
for each portion, and one extra spoonful for the dish. 

Panned Oysters. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter into the chafing dish ; when melted, pour 
in one pint of oysters from which all the liquor has been drained ; cook them 
until the edges "ruffle," then add two tablespoon fuls of sherry, a little 
cayenne and one saltspoonful of salt. Serve on hot buttered toast. The 
sherry may be omitted if desired and cream substituted. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Two pounds of sweetbreads, parboil the sweetbreads in a little water, put 
them after this into cold water for a few minutes, then remove the skin 
and any hard parts. Put in the chafing dish one tablespoonful of butter and 
one tablespoonful of flour ; when smooth put in two tablespoon fuls of cream, 
a little salt, pepper and a very little nutmeg; stir until a perfectly smooth 
paste ; add a little cream mixed with the yolks of two hard boiled eggs ; add 
the sweetbreads cut into small pieces ; let the mixture boil once, serve from 
the dish. 

Squabs Stewed. 

Prepare two squabs as for broiling ; melt two tablespoon fuls of butter in 
the chafing dish; when hot put in the squabs, cook for ten minutes, then 
turn and cook for five mintues, add one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Serve on hot toast. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 299 

Salmi of Tongue. 

Put into the chafing dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when brown add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, then add one pint of stock or water, one pint 
of cold tongue cut in small pieces (either salt or smoked tongue), one dozen 
olives stoned and cut in pieces, pepper, salt, one teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Let all boil up, then put out flame and add two tablespoonfuls 
of sherry or Madeira. 

Stewed Tomatoes with Eggs. 

One pint of tomatoes, as soon as the tomatoes commence to boil, add one 
tablespoon ful of butter, some salt and pepper, then add three well beaten 
eggs, one small pinch of soda; as soon as the mixture has thickened pour 
out and serve on thin slices of toast. 



300 ' Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Breakfast. 



Breakfast — It is frequently said by foreigners that "Americans eat such 
hearty breakfasts." I do not think this is quite true when our breakfasts 
are compared to the breakfasts in other countries. We have more hot 
dishes, but they are not, necessarily, more hearty than cold ones. The usual 
breakfast — I mean the meal for all the family — consists of fruit in season, 
one of the cereals, a beefsteak, or lamb chops or liver, or hash, eggs, etc., 
fried or stewed potatoes, bread and butter or some hot rolls or muffins. 
Coffee or tea. 

Is this any more hearty than the English breakfast of tea, oatmeal, cold 
ham, beef or mutton, eggs, toast and unlimited jam or marmalade on bread 
and butter ? 

The French breakfast consists of coffee and rolls as a general rule. 

The Dutch breakfast is a settled one everywhere. Everything is cold 
excepting the tea or coffee. Tea is generally used for breakfast. Coffee is 
served with the midday meal and during the day. In Holland no fires are 
lighted in the kitchen before noon, only in time to cook the midday meal. 
Everywhere is given cold smoked beef in thin slices, a slice of pumpernickel 
(a sticky black bread), one slice of white bread and butter, one thick slice 
of cheese. The people make all of these into a sandwich. The tea is made 
over a spirit lamp, as everything else is cooked during the day. The pre- 
paring of the breakfast is soon accomplished, the servant or the "house- 
wife" putting it on the table. The servant is therefore at liberty to go 
about the universal, everlasting cleaning. This breakfast is a saving of 
time, and is a hearty meal and you see it is a well balanced one. The slices 
of everything are generous ones. It is not a breakfast that appeals strongly 
to a very delicate appetite, but the Dutch are large eaters and a Dutch 
woman told me it made no difference to them if the meals were hot or cold, 
as they liked them both ways. To many, breakfast is of necessity rather a 
hearty meal. It is eaten early, as most Americans go to their work, no 
matter what work it may be in which they are engaged, early, far earlier 
than the people of most other nations go to work. The schools begin early, 
so the school children must be considered also, and their appetites tempted. 

Let the breakfast, when possible, begin with fruit. Fortunately Ameri- 
cans are blessed with cheap and abundant fruit. This should be followed 
by one of the cereals, then either a small beefsteak or eggs. The "left- 
overs" are valuable for breakfast, as they can be quickly reheated, all the 
preparing of them being done the day before. Hash, well made, is always 
acceptable for breakfast. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 301 

The Oxford dictionary gives the word breakfast as occurring for the first 
time in 1463, but the meal was not a really recognized one until late in the 
seventeenth century. 

A FEW BREAKFAST DISHES. 
"A Little Breakfast Dish." 

Cut two long slices of cold meat and three of bread, buttered thickly, the 
same size and shape ; season the meat with pepper, salt and a little chopped 
parsley, or, if veal is used, a little chopped ham, then lay one slice of the 
bread between two of the meat and have the other two slices outside; 
fasten together with little wooden skewers. Put into a hot oven, baste with 
butter thoroughly, so that the bread is crisp and brown ; serve hot. 

Breakfast Custard. 
One-half pint of sweet milk, two eggs, if large ones, if not, three eggs. 
Beat the eggs together until light, stir into the milk, add a little pinch of 
salt; butter a pint bowl, pour in the mixture, and set the bowl in a tin of 
hot water, place in hot oven and bake for twenty minutes. Have a hot plate, 
turn the custard on this, pour over it a tomato sauce, or a sauce made of 
mushrooms, or a cream sauce, flavored with a few drops of onion juice. 

Cold Meat Balls. 
Chop the meat fine, season with salt and pepper ; make the meat into balls 
or flat cakes, fry them in a little butter or dripping. Fry some salt pork or 
bacon cut in thin slices and place around the balls. 

Croquettes. 
Stir into a cup of milk enough crustless bread to make a nice consistency 
(as glutinous as possible) ; add to this a cup of cold meat of any kind, 
chopped fine. Season with a little chopped onion, chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper. A few sliced mushrooms and 
some chopped truffles are, of course, an addition. This should be pre- 
pared in the afternoon and allowed to remain in the ice chest until it is 
very cold. An hour before breakfast, remove from the ice box and form the 
mixture into the desired shape, dip each croquette into the beaten yolk of 
an egg and then in bread crumbs, and place in the frying basket and put it 
back on the ice and do not again remove it until the fat is at the boiling 
point. By plunging the partly frozen forms into the intense heat, a coat- 
ing, as it were, is formed, whereby the desired moisture is obtained, as well 
as the possibility of maintaining the outward shapeliness. 

Dried Beef with Eggs. 

One-fourth pound of thinly sliced dried beef — shred it and let it lie in 

cold water for about fifteen minutes, then drain and cover the beef with 

milk, about one pint; put on the stove and when it begins to simmer, add 

one teaspoonful of flour, dissolved in one tablespoonful of cold milk; one 



302 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper. As soon as the flour has 
cooked, break into the saucepan three eggs without beating, stir all rapidly 
until the eggs are cooked. Have several slices of hot toast ready, well 
buttered, and serve the beef, etc., on the toast — this will be enough for five 
half slices of toast. 

Egg Toast. 
Six slices of bread, one tgg, one cup of milk, one saltspoonful of salt. 
Beat the egg until light, add to the milk and then add the salt. Dip the 
slices of bread into the mixture, have the griddle hot, grease it with a little 
butter and fry the toast on both sides. Serve hot. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shred the dried beef into little pieces, carefully remove all fat, strings 
and sinews; if the beef is very salt, freshen it by standing it in cold water 
for fifteen minutes, draining after. Put one tablespoonful of butter in the 
saucepan; when hot, put in the beef and fry it for five minutes, then add 
one tablespoonful of flour dissolved in one cup of cream or milk; as soon 
as the flour is cooked, serve. 

Stewed Kidney. 

Cut the kidney into small pieces about the size of a cherry, put into a 
colander and let cold water run over it while in the colander, then drain; 
put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a stewpan, and sprinkle flour 
on the bottom of the pan, and stir the flour and butter together until brown, 
then sprinkle flour on the kidney in the colander, stirring them together well, 
then put the kidney into the hot pan on the stove, stirring it until it is well 
mixed, then pour hot water on it two inches deep ; it must boil three hours 
to make it tender. Then take another piece of butter the same size, mix 
one tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt with it to a paste, and stir it into 
the kidney, a little at a time and let it boil fifteen minutes; while cooking it 
requires watching or it will burn. The kidney can be cooked the day before 
and simply rewarmed. 

Savory Molds. 

Mince half a pound of underdone beef or mutton as finely as possible 
and put into a basin with half its weight of bread crumbs, one ounce of 
butter broken into small pieces, a tablespoonful of finely minced onion, a 
teaspoonful of mixed powdered herbs and a good seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, moisten with one beaten egg 
and fill some small, well-buttered molds ; bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour, and turn out carefully ; insert a small sprig of parsley in the top 
of each, and pour a little brown gravy around the meat. 

"My Devil"— Canadian. 
One tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, three mustardspoonfuls of 
mustard, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of black pepper. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 303 

one-fourth saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of vinegar, a 
few drops of "Soy," one small teaspoonful of brown sugar, a squeeze of 
lemon, one glass of port wine. Mix all well together — fry the meat (turkey 
legs generally), in a frying pan with a little butter; when almost ready, pour 
sauce over; boil up and serve. 

Pork Tenderloins. 
Broil the tenderloins and serve with melted butter poured over them, a 
little salt and pepper ; serve very hot. 

Ham on Toast. 
Chop any cold ham you may have and when fine, add a little cream, 
making the ham quite moist; put into the stewpan, add two well beaten 
eggs, stir together until the eggs are cooked, add a little pepper and remove 
from fire and serve on hot, buttered toast. 

Calcutta Toast. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter into the saucepan over boiling water; as 
it melts, stir in two eggs, a little cayenne, one-half teaspoonful of essence of 
anchovy and a few chopped capers; stir until the eggs are cooked; then 
spread the mixture on hot buttered toast. Serve hot. 

Tomato Pilau. 

Cut three slices of salt pork, fry them until brown in the frying pan, then 
add one finely chopped onion. Cook it with the pork for five minutes, then 
pour in one quart of stewed tomatoes and one teaspoonful of salt. When 
the tomatoes are hot, add one pint of cooked rice and a very little cayenne. 
When hot, serve. 

Tomato Toast. 

Tomato toast is a simple little breakfast dish and uses up any stewed 
tomatoes left over. Stew it again, adding one teaspoonful of flour with 
one-half tablespoonful of butter rolled together. As soon as the mixture is 
hot and smooth pour it on slices of hot buttered toast, and if rather more of 
a dish is desired, place some poached eggs on top. 

There are many other little dishes that can be served for breakfast. 
Eggs in so many ways. All the "left-overs" of meat, bacon, chops, fish, 
fresh and salt, fried tomatoes, potatoes and other cooked vegetables. 
Cereals are always with us and fruits, fresh and stewed; melons, baked 
apples, etc. 

Virginia White Puddings. 

One pint of fresh beef suet chopped fine and free from strings or skin, 
one pint of flour, one teacup of cornmeal, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Mix all well together, fill small cotton bags with this 
mixture, allowing a little space for the puddings to swell. Tie very tightly 
and boil for six hours, keeping the puddings well covered with water. When 



304 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

cold, hang in a cool, dry place. When required for use, remove the bag 
and slice the pudding in thin slices and fry in a little butter. Serve 
very hot. 

Tomato Custard. 
Strain one pint of cooked tomato through a fine sieve, then add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of onion 
juice; place in either the chafing dish, or pan one tablespoonful of butter, 
when hot add the tomato mixture and four well-beaten eggs, beaten together. 
Stir all until the mixture is like a thick custard, then pour it over slices of 
hot buttered toast and serve at once. Slices of broiled bacon can be placed 
around or over the custard if desired. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2, 305 



Food for Invalids. 

To provide a sick person with nutritious food, of the proper quantity and 
quality, is one of the most important requirements of good nursing. It is 
well known that drugs alone cannot cure the patient. In the often long con- 
valescent stage of illness resources are taxed to the utmost to prepare the 
proper food which shall be at the same time nourishing and tempting. 

The tray becomes a source of weariness and the question : "What shall I 
give the invalid ?" a constantly recurring one. Milk is now given so generally 
that it is absolutely necessary to be able to prepare it in many different ways, 
for of no food will a patient weary sooner. Let the tray always present an 
inviting appearance, every napkin and dish perfectly clean, the food arranged 
in an inviting manner. Special care should be given that any diet ordered to 
be served hot is really hot, and any diet to be served cold is cold. Do not 
give fried foods to an invalid. 

The food should never wait in the sick room before being served, and the 
tray and contents be at once removed after the patient is fed. Attention to 
little details, trivial perhaps in themselves, when one is well, but of great con- 
sequence to an invalid, will aid greatly to the comfort and recovery of the 
patient. 

Beef Broth— 1. 

A good beef broth is really much more nourishing than beef tea. To make 
the broth take a piece from the neck, chop it and the bone quite fine, have 
more beef than bone. Take one pound of beef and one-third of a pound of 
bone, put one quart of cold water over the meat and bone, cover the pan and 
let simmer for four hours ; remove all fat, put with the broth two stalks of 
celery and a little salt ; strain and serve a small cupful at a time. 

Beef Broth— 2. 

Take one pound of the leg of beef, trim off all fat and pound the meat 
well, then put into the stewpan with one quart of cold water, one small carrot 
cut finie, one onion sliced, a little salt, one blade of mace ; stir the broth until 
it boils, then skim carefully ; place on the back of the stove and let it simmer 
for two hours ; strain and serve. If put away to keep, be sure to remove all 
fat before warming it again. This should be done to all broths. 

The extracts of beef are nearly always made from the least nutritious part 
of the fresh meat, so that there is little left in it, but the flavoring matter 
and the salts, these serve to give an agreeable flavor and rich color, but no 
solid nourishment. 

Beef Essence. 

This is much better for an invalid than beef tea. Take a good beef- 
steak from the round, about two pounds, cut it in small pieces, put into a 



306 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Mason jar and set in the oven, in a pan of hot water ; as the juice runs from 
meat take it away at intervals and slightly salt it. One teaspoonful of this 
liquor is worth a pint of the ordinary beef tea. 

Beef Juice. 

Heat on the broiler a thick piece of steak, about one pound; when hot, 
squeeze out the juice, serve at once. 

Raw Beef Sandwich. 

Scrape the tender meat with a sharp knife, spread it on thin slices of 

buttered bread, season with a little salt; cut off the crusts and cut the 

sandwich from corner to corner, so as to make two small, three-cornered 

pieces. 

Bread Jelly. 

Toast carefully three large slices of home-made bread, then place in a 
saucepan with one cupful of water, simmer very slowly until the bread is 
all soft and the mixture looks like jelly. Then remove from fire, mash 
through a sieve, flavor with a very little grated nutmeg, one saltspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoon fuls of sugar, a little lemon juice, and a small glass of 
sherry. Mix together and place in small molds wet with water. Place on 
the ice until needed. 

Clam Broth. 

Take twelve clams, boil them in their own liquor for fifteen minutes, 
strain the liquor, add a little butter, serve very hot. 

Beefsteak for an Invalid. 

Take a slice of tender beefsteak about two inches thick and weighing 
one pound. With forceps and scissors pick out and cut away every particle 
of connecting tissue and tendon, leaving nothing but the muscular tissue. 
Have a hot clear fire, the broiler greased with a little butter, place on it 
the steak, hold it close to the coals for a minute, turn on other side, so as 
to sear the two surfaces, in this way the juices are retained, then continue 
to cook the steak more slowly. When done, serve on a hot plate with a 
seasoning of a spoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper, with a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice (if liked). 

Veal Broth. 

Two pounds of perfectly lean veal, one-fourth pound of pearl barley; 
cut the meat into thin, small pieces, simmer it and the barley together for 
three hours, then strain through a sieve and add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt. This broth is light and nourishing, and easy of digestion. 

Hamburg Steak. 
Take one-half pound of good beef; scrape all the pulp from the fiber, 
season it with a little salt and pepper, make into a small steak and broil 
over a clear fire, or cook in the skillet, which should be very hot before 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 307 

the meat is put on it. Three minutes will cook the steak. Place a small 
piece of butter on the steak, garnish with a little bit of parsley, and serve 
very hot. 

Milk of Eggs. 
Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with one-half tablespoonful of sugar 
and one teaspoonful of orange flower water. This must be taken hot, and 
is most soothing for a cold or cough. 

Egg and Port Wine. 

One fresh tgg mixed with one tablespoonful of cold water, then add one 
wine glass of port wine, a little grated nutmeg. Put a teaspoonful of sugar 
into the saucepan and when hot, stir in the &gg mixture and stir carefully. 
The mixture is then poured into a glass and served with a cracker. 

Egg Lemonade. 
The juice of one-half lemon, adding one tablespoonful of sugar, one cup 
of water, when sugar is dissolved, put all into a glass and the white of one 
tgg beaten until light, add heaping tablespoonful of whipped cream, slightly 
sweetened. Serve at once or the tgg and cream will separate. 

Egg Junket. 
Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs, beat the whites until very dry 
and the yolks until thick. Have one pint of miUc lukewarm, add to it one 
tablespoonful sugar, a little vanilla extract, beat the whites and yolks 
together for a minute, add the milk, stir in one teaspoonful liquid rennet 
or one-half junket tablet, dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of cold water, put 
the mixture into glasses. Let all stand until cold, then add a little whipped 
cream, slightly sweetened. Cocoa, chocolate, caramel, lemon or orange 
flavorings can all be used. 

Egg Water. 
The white of one tgg beaten until light and added to one tumbler of 
water, a little fruit juice can be added, or vanilla or lemon. 

Egg-Nog— 1. 
Beat until light one tgg, add one tablespoonful sugar, a little salt, a little 
grated nutmeg, then add one scant cup of milk and strain into a tumbler. 

Egg-Nog— 2. 
Prepare like the above only beat the yolk and white separately, adding 
the beaten white last, stirring all together. 

Poached Eggs. 
Have the water in the saucepan boiling, add a little salt and one table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Break the eggs separately into a saucer, slip them into 
the water carefully, and not let the water boil again. Pour some of the hot 
water over each tgg with a spoon, so as to make a thin white film over them 
when cooked, take carefully from the fire ; place each tgg on a piece of hot 
toast. Serve hot. 



308 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Eggs Poached in Broth. 
Have the broth hot in the saucepan, break very gently the eggs into it, 
cook three minutes, remove and put each egg on a slice of hot toast ; if the 
gravy is desired, thicken it with a little flour, add one teaspoonful of butter, 
strain around the tgg. 

Eggs Poached in Milk. 
Have the milk boiling hot, add a little salt, drop in the eggs carefully, one 
by one ; remove as soon as they are set ; place on hot toast, and serve at once. 

Egg-Nog. 

One tgg beaten very light, one tablespoon ful of sugar beaten into the egg, 
then add slowly one tablespoon ful of brandy and one-half a cup of milk — 
cream may be substituted for the milk. 

For other egg recipes, see "Chapter on Eggs." 

Bread Jelly. 
Remove the crust from the roll, slice the crumb and toast it; put the 
slices in one quart of water, and set it over the fire to simmer until it jellies; 
then strain it through a cloth, sweeten it, and flavor it with lemon juice; 
put it into a mold and cool upon the ice before using. 

Currant Jelly- Water. 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of currant jelly in a glass of cold water. 

Chicken Jelly. 

See chapter on Chicken. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Three lemons — juice only, pound of white sugar, three pints of boiling 
water, one ounce of gelatine dissolved in the boiling water, then add the 
juice and sugar and strain into small molds. 

Chicken Broth. 

Take an old chicken, cut it in pieces and put in the saucepan with three 
pints of cold water, and one tablespoon ful of rice; let the soup simmer 
slowly; when the chicken is thoroughly cooked, take from the fire, skim 
every bit of fat from the soup before serving ; season with salt and pepper. 
The chicken meat can be used in chicken hash. 

Egg Broth. 
Beat an egg until it is frothy, stir into it a pint of boiling hot meat broth, 
free from fat, season it with a saltspoonful of salt, and drink it hot, with 
thin slices of dry toast; it may be given to assist the patient in gaining 

strength. 

Extract of Meat. 

The various extracts of meats sold prepared are nearly always made from 

the least nutritious parts of fresh meats. There is little nourishment in 

them. They have a rich color, and some have an agreeable flavor, but for 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 309 

the sick they have little value. Their use is to help out for gravies, soups, 
etc., by their color and flavor. 

Mutton Broth. 

The most valuable broth I know of — and one which has been of the 
greatest possible help to many very ill persons — is one of mutton, made as 
follows : 

Have eight of the sheep feet cut off with a little of the lower part of 
each leg left on them. After they are carefully washed, put into the soup 
kettle with four quarts of cold water and one cupful of well-washed rice. 
Simmer for eight hours, if possible ; six will answer if impossible to allow 
the other two hours. Remove during the cooking any scum which rises; 
strain the feet. There should be only the hard portion of the bones left. 
Let the broth cool in a china basin placed on ice until the next day, or 
placed in some cool place. When needed, take off every bit of fat from the 
portion to be heated. It is the fat which has "that taste of the wool" which 
is often objected to, so great care must be taken that none of it is reheated 
with the broth. Try giving only a tablespoonful at a time to a very sick 
person. Have it hot and salted with discretion. It can be retained on the 
stomach when all other food has been rejected, as it has healing as well 
as nourishing properties ; but the long, long simmering is absolutely neces- 
sary to its success. 

Quick Mutton Broth. 

One and one-half pounds of mutton, free from gristle, one quart of cold 
water, two tablespoonfuls of rice, one-half teaspoonful of salt; simmer for 
four hours, strain and serve a small quantity at a time to the patient; 
serve very hot. 

Restorative Jelly. 

One-half box of gelatine, one tablespoonful of granulated gum-arabic, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, two cloves, 
one-half pint of port — soak all these together for two hours ; keep the 
basin covered; then put into a saucepan and cook, stirring constantly until 
everything is dissolved, then strain and place on the ice. This jelly is 
excellent where the patient is unable to swallow solid food or even liquid, 
for this melts slowly in the mouth. A tablespoonful of beef juice can be 
added when the jelly is taken from the fire, if a stimulant is desired. 

Strengthening Jelly. 
One pint of port wine, one package of gelatine, three- fourths of an 
ounce of gum arable, one-fourth pound of rock candy. Place all in a basin 
and let the mixture stand all night; the next morning put the basin in one 
of boiling water, stir constantly until the ingredients are dissolved, then 
strain through a jelly bag into a mold. 



310 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Sago Jelly. 
One cupful of sago soaked over night in cold water. Next day boil it 
in a double boiler for one hour, then uncover and let the water boil away ; 
add two cupfuls of sugar and the juice of one lemon; pour into the dish 
in which it is to be served, to cool. Serve rich cream with jelly. 

Tapioca Jelly. 
Wash one ounce of tapioca, soak it over night in cold water, and then 
simmer all with a bit of lemon peel until the tapioca is thoroughly dissolved. 
Sweeten it to taste, and let it cool before using. 

Egg Pudding. 
One egg beaten until light, and one teaspoonful of flour which has been 
mixed smoothly into one tablespoon ful of milk, add a saltspoonful of salt 
(be careful with the salt as many invalids dislike salt), strain into a but- 
tered cup, and set into boiling water to simmer for twenty minutes. 

Egg Tea— 1. 
Beat the yolk of an egg in a cup of hot tea, and let the sick person drink 
it warm ; the yolk is more readily digested than the white, and has a better 
flavor; and the tea is a powerful respiratory excitant, while it promotes 
perspiration, and aids the assimilation of more nourishing foods. 

Egg Tea— 2. 

The white of one egg beaten into a stiff froth ; the yolk beaten light with 
one teaspoonful of sugar. Mix together and pour into a half cupful of 
hot milk, stir all the time ; add a little grated nutmeg and a wee pinch of salt. 

Barley Gruel. 
Three tablespoon fuls of pearl barley, wash it in several waters, then drop 
it into one pint of boiling water for five minutes. Pour off this water and 
add one quart of fresh boiling water ; put on back of stove and let it simmer 
for three hours, then strain and season with a little salt or sugar. Equal 
quantities of barley gruel and milk make a nourishing drink. 

Egg Gruel — 1. 
Beat well one egg, add a very little salt, one sprig of parsley; stir this 
into one cup of boiling water, strain over small slices of hot toast. 

Egg Gruel— 2. 
Boil two eggs until perfectly hard, when cold mash the yolks smooth and 
stir gradually into the yolks one cup of hot milk, and a little salt, serve 
in bowl. 

Farina Gruel. 
Stir two tablespoon fuls of farina into three tablespoonfuls of milk ; pour 
this into one pint of boiling water, boil it until thoroughly cooked, stir fre- 
quently. Take from the fire, add one saltspoonful of salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of cream. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 311 

Flour Gruel. 
Put into a strong cotton cloth, one pint of flour, tie it up into a ball, boil 
for four hours, keep it well covered with water, then hang it up to dry. 
When needed to use, have one pint of milk boiling in the double boiler, stir 
into it one tablespoon ful of the flour-ball (you scrape the ball and mix a 
little water with the flour), add one saltspoonful of salt and a little sugar 
if liked. This is an excellent remedy in cases of diarrhoea. The ball will 
keep for months, if kept dry and cool. 

Graham Gruel. 
One tablespoonful of graham flour mixed with four tablespoonfuls of 
water, stir this into one pint of boiling water, cook for thirty minutes, add 
one saltspoonful of salt, and strain, add one cup of hot cream. Serve hot. 

Cornmeal Gruel. 
One quart of boiling water. Mix two tablespoonfuls of cornmeal with 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir this into the boiling water, when it 
boils, put it on back of stove and simmer for two hours, then add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, simmer for one-half hour, then put some of the gruel 
into a cup and add one tablespoonful of cream and serve hot. 

Oatmeal Gruel — 1. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water; put this into one pint of boiling water, pour in gradually and boil 
fifteen minutes, stirring constantly ; add one teaspoonful salt, skim and strain 
through a hair sieve. One tablespoonful of cream will improve the gruel, 
if it is permitted by the physician. 

Oatmeal Gruel— 2. 
One teacupful of oatmeal, add two quarts of cold water. Stir well and 
place on stove in double boiler, cook slowly, three or more hours, stir 
occasionally while cooking, add one teaspoonful of salt, afterwards remove 
from fire, strain through cheesecloth. There should be about one quart or 
a little more of the gruel. While still hot add one teacupful of whipped 
cream,' then beat all well together, serve either hot or cold. This gruel is 
both nourishing and delicious. 

Sago Gruel. 
Soak one ounce of sago in a pint of tepid water for two hours ; then sim- 
mer it in the same water for fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally; then 
sweeten and flavor it to taste, and use at once. 

Oats and Cream Gruel. 
Take one tablespoonful of rolled oats and cook them in one pint of water ; 
when soft, strain through a sieve; add to this one cup of cream, one salt- 
spoonful of salt; let this mixture come to the boiling point, then remove 



312 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

from the fire and add the whites of two eggs, beaten stiffly. Add a little 
sugar and a little grated nutmeg. 

Pea Soup. 
One pint of fresh, green peas ; boil until tender, then drain and mash them 
through a sieve, return to the stewpan and add one pint of thin cream, one 
teaspoon ful of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one-half table- 
spoonful of butter ; let the soup become hot, and serve with crackers. This 
is a nutritious soup for an invalid. 

Tapioca Soup with Cream. 
Boil with one pint of white stock, one tablespoonful of prepared tapioca ; 
let it simmer until the tapioca is clear. Mix the yolks of two eggs with two 
tablespoon fuls of cream, a little salt and pepper. Let the soup cool; when 
cool, stir in the egg and cream mixture, after which beat together, reheat, 
but do not boil or the eggs will curdle. 

Tapioca Cream. 
One cupful of tapioca; soak this over night in one cupful of milk, the 
next morning cook the tapioca and milk until soft, then add the yolks of 
three eggs and one cupful of sugar. Take one quart of milk ; when boiling, 
stir in the tapioca mixture and cook until it thickens, then take from the 
fire and stir in the whites of the eggs, beaten very stiff, and any flavoring 
that is liked ; pour into a mold and let it cool, or it can be served hot. 

Tapioca Porridge. 
One teacupful of tapioca soaked in two teacupfuls of cold water for 
several hours, then add one and one-half pints of milk and cook for several 
hours in the double boiler ; add a pinch of salt and one glass of wine. One- 
half cup of sugar if desired sweet. The wine may be omitted. 

Panada — 1. 

Steep one cupful of bread crumbs in hot water until they have absorbed 
all the water, then add a little more water and mash through a sieve. Make 
a custard with one cup of milk and one tgg; when thick, add it to the 
panada, add a little salt. Serve either hot or cold. 

Panada — 2. 
One ounce of grated bread or crackers, add one-half a pint of boiling 
water, boil for five minutes, then add one tablespoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Eggs and Orange Juice. 

A palatable, nourishing drink for a person with weak digestion is made 
with the whites of two eggs beaten but not frothed, and the juice of one 
orange; place on the ice until very cold. The white of an egg, beaten, 
slightly sweetened and flavored with orange juice or a little vanilla, is also 
a good drink for an invalid ; it should be served very cold. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 313 

Wine Whey. 

Take one cup of new milk and boil, adding a cup of sherry. Then strain 
through a cheesecloth. 

Milk Preparations. 

Milk is of special value as a food for invalids; it is easily taken, easily 
digested, and the diet is more under the control of the physician than other 
foods. Life can be supported for a long time on milk alone. 

"Milk contains all of the ingredients needed for nourishment; it fur- 
nishes the materials needed which build up the body and keep it in repair, 
and also those which supply it with fuel to keep it warm and to furnish the 
animal machine with the necessary power to do its work. Skim milk has 
great value as a food when used in cooking or when taken with bread. 
Milk comes nearest to being a perfect food." 

Clabbered Milk. 

Fill a glass dish with milk, cover and let it stand until it is smooth and 
jelly like — in winter this may take three or four days, in summer two, 
generally. When the milk is clabbered, put the dish on the ice for an hour 
to chill it, do not disturb it. Serve with sweet cream and a little grated 
nutmeg. 

Milk with Chocolate. 

Grate one ounce of chocolate ; mix it into a paste with a little cold milk, 
then stir it into one pint of boiling milk, add a little salt, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve hot. 

Chicken Milk. 

Cut a chicken into small pieces, see that it is well cleaned in a careful 
manner, take off the skin, put the chicken into a saucepan which is either 
graniteware or China-lined, add a tablespoonful of celery cut fine, a little 
sprig of parsley, four peppercorns, one-half saltspoonful of salt, cover the 
meat with cold water and let it simmer until the meat is all in rags, then 
strain into a bowl; when cold, it should be a firm jelly. When needed, 
carefully wipe off every bit of fat from the top of the jelly. Take equal 
quantities of jelly and fresh milk, boil them together, strain into a cup — 
one teacupful is sufficient at a time. It can be used hot or allowed to again 
become cold and formed into jelly. A small strip of toast can be served 
with it if desired. 

Citronized Milk Jelly. 

One quart of milk, three-fourths of a pound of powdered sugar, four 
lemons, one ounce of gelatine. Boil the milk, sugar and gelatine together 
with some of the lemon rind cut very thin, then put the mixture into a 
basin to cool, strain, add the juice of the lemon and stir until the milk is 
curdled, then pour into a mold and let the jelly set. The casein rises to the 
top; when the jelly is turned out it occupies the base and the jelly the top. 



314 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Digested Milk. 

One pint of milk added while boiling hot to one pint of cold milk, then 
add thirty grains of carbonate of soda, then one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of Liquid Pancreaticus ; mix and let stand for three hours in an even 
temperature. This preparation can be used when Koumiss is not obtainable. 
Take a large wine glassful at a time. 

It is necessary sometimes that a child should take during the day a cer- 
tain amount of milk — and yet the child rebels against it; it is well to vary 
the manner of giving it. Once, simply plain in the usual cup, another time 
with junket, using a portion to make the junket and the balance poured over 
it. The least little chocolate dissolved and added to a portion of milk will 
be a change. An egg poached in milk will dispose of quite a little of the 
milk, especially if the milk is mixed afterward with the cooked egg. An 
egg beaten separately and afterward mixed with the glassful of milk can 
be given. 

Hot MUk. 

Hot milk is one of the most nourishing things that can be given to a weak 
or exhausted patient, or to any one suffering from a severe chill. If it is 
absolutely necessary to add any other stimulant, add it after the milk is 
taken from the fire. The milk should never boil for hot milk. 

Junket. 

One pint of fresh milk, warm the milk slightly, then stir into it one tea- 
spoonful of rennet liquor, or one teaspoonful of Prepared Pepsin — use only 
the best for preparing Junket. Stir the rennet liquor or the pepsin only 
enough to mingle it with the milk, the milk will thicken in a few minutes ; 
place on the ice or in a cold place. Serve with sweet cream and sugar or with 
cream and a little nutmeg. 

Laban. 

One quart of new milk, one tablespoonful of yeast, stir the yeast 
into the milk and let it stand for twenty-four hours — it will then be 
hard. Take a tablespoonful of this and stir into a quart of new milk and 
put it away to harden — this is Laban. To keep a supply, if needed, reserve 
a tablespoonful each day for the next preparation. Eat with sugar and 
cream. 

Milk Soup. 

One quart of milk, one egg, one-half tablespoonful of flour, a little salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of sugar, a little lemon peel or a bit of cinnamon 
stick. Boil these together; as soon as the mixture boils, remove from the 
fire and stir in the white of egg beaten very stiff. 

Thick Milk. 
Put into the stewpan one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, a saltspoonful of salt. Mix together until a smooth paste with one 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 315 

pint of milk; stir with a wooden spoon; if too thick add more milk. Boil 
for fifteen minutes. The soup should be thick enough to coat the spoon. 
Add a little nutmeg if liked and serve. It is a digestible soup for young 
children. 

Milk with White of Egg, 
One cup of milk ; beat well with the milk the white of an egg; put into a 
glass and serve; add the milk slowly to the egg. The addition of a table- 
spoonful of clear coflfee is sometimes relished by the patient — or the milk 

slightly salted. 

Milk Shake. 
Fill a large glass two-thirds full of sweet milk, sweeten with a syrup, or 
with the strained juice from any rich preserve, a few drops of vanilla can 
be added or a teaspoonful of orange juice. Fill up the glass with pounded 
ice, place the mixture in the shaker and shake well, or pour from one glass 
to another until well mixed. 

Barley Water. 

Wash two ounces of pearl barley in cold water until it does not cloud 
the water; boil it for five minutes in half a pint of water; drain that off, 
put the barley into two quarts of clean water and boil it down to one quart. 
Cool, strain, and use. Pearl barley contains starch and mucilage, and makes 
an excellent soothing and refreshing draught in fevers and gastric inflam- 
mations. 

Crust Coffee. 

Toast two slices of bread until very brown, break into small pieces, put 
one-half pint of the pieces into a pitcher and pour over them one and one- 
half pints of boiling water ; cover the pitcher, let it stand for ten minutes, 
then strain. Serve either hot or cold — a little milk can be added if liked, 
or the coffee can be made with boiling hot milk instead of water. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 
Pour one quart of boiling water over four tablespoonfuls of whole flax- 
seed, and steep three hours, covered. Then sweeten to taste, and add the 
juice of two lemons, using a little more water if the liquid seems too thick 
to be palatable. This beverage is very soothing to the irritated membranes 
in cases of severe cold. 

Albumenized Milk. 
One white of an egg, place in a tumbler, add one-half cup of milk and 
cover, shake together until well mixed, or the two can be beaten in a small 
bowl and poured after, into the tumbler. This is not really very palatable, 
but it is easily taken and serves a very good turn when much liquid nourish- 
ment is needed, do not add any flavoring. 

Lime Water. 
To make lime water, frequently needed for an invalid or a child's use, 
put one pound of unslacked lime into a large bowl; pour over this three 



316 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

quarts of boiling water; let it stand for fifteen minutes, then stir it well 
with a stick. Place the bowl in a cool place for several hours, at the end 
of the time pour off the clear water and bottle it. A teaspoonful may be 
added to a glass of milk in case of an acid stomach, or to render the milk 
more easy of digestion. 

Koumiss. 
Two quarts of milk slightly warmed, add two tablespoon fuls of sugar 
and one-half of a two-cent cake of compressed yeast. Blend ingredients 
thoroughly, bottle and cork and tie corks down ; put in warm place for six 
hours and then in ice box for two days before using. 

Iceland Moss Chocolate. 

Dissolve one ounce of Iceland moss in one pint of boiling milk ; boil one 
ounce of chocolate for five minutes in one pint of boiling water ; thoroughly 
mix the two, and give it to the invalid night and morning. This is a nutri- 
tive drink for convalescents. 

Dry Toast. 

In making toast the bread is sometimes cut too thick and the slices are 
unevenly colored. Cut the slices thin and even ; it is a good plan to dry the 
slices before toasting, then place them on the toaster over a clear fire, and 
turn constantly so that the slices are well browned; always serve toast hot. 

Cream Toast — 1. 
Toast a slice of bread evenly and quickly; dip it into boiling water, then 
sprinkle a little salt on it, and cover with rich hot cream. 

Cream Toast— 2. 

Prepare as for dry toast; pour over a little hot water, which must be 
drained off in a few minutes ; then spread some butter and a little salt on 
the slices, and pour over some good rich cream ; place in a hot oven for a 
few minutes and serve at once. 

Marrow-Bone Toast. 

Take two beef marrow-bones, cover each end with dough made with flour 
and water mixed together; tie them in a cloth, boil the bones for an hour, 
then remove the dough, take out the marrow, spread on hot toast and sea- 
son with salt and cayenne, and serve hot. 

Oyster Toast. 
Chop very fine fifteen good oysters, add a little salt and pepper and a 
little nutmeg, beat two eggs with one tablespoonful of cream, heat and stir 
in the oysters, simmer together for five minutes, then pour the mixture 
over slices of hot, buttered toast. 

Water Toast. 
When the toast is ready, place on hot plate, pour over a little boiling 
water, spread a little butter evenly on top and a little fine salt, cover tightly 
for a few minutes to soak up the water, and serve immediately. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 317 

Oatmeal Wafers. 
Sift the oatmeal several times that it may be very fine ; take one quart of 
flour, mix it into a dough with cold water, add a little salt, work the dough 
until smooth, then roll it out very thin; cut into squares or bake in one 
large sheet in a very cool oven. 

Chicken Cream. 
Pound the breast of a cooked chicken to a smooth paste in the mortar; 
add some of the broth, one saltspoonful of salt and a little pepper; keep 
on the ice ; when required to use, heat a portion over hot water and add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Caudle. 
Put one-half a wine glass of wine into any plain gruel, flour or cracker; 
stir it in while the gruel is hot, but not on the fire. 

Crackers and Marmalade. 
Toast three soda crackers, dip them for one minute in boiling water, 
spread them with a little sweet butter, and put between them layers of 
orange marmalade, or any other preserve or jelly; put plenty upon the top 
cracker and set them in the oven for two or three minutes before serving. 
This makes a delicate and inviting lunch for convalescents. 

Custard Savory. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs and the whites of one in a gill of white stock, 
put into a small jam pot, tie a piece of buttered paper over it and boil for 
one-fourth hour in a bain-marie. Serve either hot or cold with buttered 
toast. 

Custard for an Invalid. 

Three tablespoonfuls of milk, one tgg beaten into the milk and one des- 
sertspoonful of flour, which has been warmed and dried ; when the ingredi- 
ents are thoroughly blended, strain into a buttered cup, place the cup in a 
pan containing hot water, cover the top of the cup with a wet cloth. Bake 
slowly for twenty minutes, then turn it on a small dish — be careful not to 
break the custard — put a bit of butter on top, and a little fine sugar. 

Crackers and Cream. 
Pour boiling water over one large cracker, sprinkle a little salt over and 
cover the cracker a few minutes, then pour over some cream and serve. 

Soaked Crackers. 
Cover a hard pilot biscuit with cold water, when the water is all absorbed, 
cover the biscuit again with cold water and place in the oven; when thor- 
oughly heated, put a little salt on it and two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. 

Custard Broth. 
Four fresh eggs, beat them until smooth, then pour them into three tea- 
cupfuls of broth, either of chicken, veal or beef; strain and then fill four* 



318 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

cups with the custard, place them in a pan of boiling water, which should 
come within one-half inch of the tops of the cups — the water, must not boil. 
Bake until the custard is firm, no longer; let the custards cool in water. 
They may be eaten either hot or cold. 

Milk Jelly for Invalids. 

One ounce or two tablespoonfuls granulated gelatine, dissolved in one 
cup of boiling water. Add two cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls milk, three eggs 
well beaten, three lemons, rind and juice. Mix, strain and turn into mold 
and put on the ice. 

Port Wine Jelly. 

A valuable wine jelly is made with one pint of port, three-fourths of a 
package of gelatine, three-fourths of an ounce of gum arabic and one-fourth 
of a pound of rock candy. Put all these into a basin and let stand over 
night; the next day place the basin in a pan of boiling water, stir constantly 
until the ingredients are dissolved, then strain through a jelly bag into a 
mold. 

Gum Arabic Drink. 

In cases of severe sickness when thirst becomes troublesome, the follow- 
ing will be found of use: To one teaspoon ful of powdered gum arabic 
add two teaspoon fuls of pure glycerine ; beat together thoroughly, then add 
a glassful of cold water with a little lemon juice to flavor. 

A small sip of the liquid will quench the thirst at once ; it can be taken as 
freely as desired, being perfectly harmless. 

SoufHe of Fowl for an Invalid. 

Thicken a quarter of a pint of chicken stock with a large teaspoonful of 
cornstarch; season with salt and pepper, and add a tablespoonful of thick 
cream. Take about four ounces of cooked chicken, pass it through a minc- 
ing machine, and add it to the sauce ; then rub the mixture through a sieve 
and stir in, one at a time, the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoonful of 
sherry, then the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff froth; butter a tin 
soufHe mold, of a suitable size, or a small, round cake tin will answer the 
purpose ; pour in the mixture and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about 
half an hour ; serve in the mold with a doiley pinned round it. 

Lamb Chops. 
Cut out the hearts of lamb chops, broil, place them in the center of a little 
mound of mashed potatoes, or fine spinach, or boiled rice, or grits; season 
the meat and the vegetables well — but use no pepper — only a little fresh 
butter and salt. 

Invalids and children are often tempted to eat by having little savory 
dishes prepared especially for them. A small rice pudding, or tapioca, or 
plain cornstarch served with some fruit syrup; stewed prunes with a little 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 319 

whipped cream. Something unexpected often appeals to them. A ball of 

mashed potatoes, in the center of which is found some minced chicken 

seasoned with cream, or the shell of a baked potato filled with minced fish 

or chicken. 

Milk. 

All foods are of value, but the one which seems to stand out as the great 
food is milk. 

It is a complete food. In it are comprised all the necessary food con- 
stituents for the heat, the growth and strength. For the very young there 
is nothing that can be properly substituted for it. 

First, there is the fat which is contained in milk ; second, the sugar called 
lactose or sugar of milk. This can be separated from the milk, and as a 
white powder, will keep indefinitely, but if left in the milk it becomes an 
acid, lactic acid. If you find that the milk delivered by the milkman at your 
door becomes sour quickly, you at once know that there has been some 
carelessness in handling the milk or in the milking, and you should notify 
the person who sold it to you. 

The third constituent in milk is the cheesy matter or curd. Milk should 
really be the only food of infants. It cannot always be given just as it 
comes from the cow, so the preparations called "modified milk" or "human- 
ized milk" are made and have become a most important industry, as well as 
a great boon to mothers. These preparations of milk have made long 
journeys possible for young children as the food supply for them used to be 
almost an insurmountable obstacle to overcome. In large cities the mortality 
among young children in the past had been terrible and the efforts of charit- 
ably disposed people and institutions in regulating the sale of milk, has 
resulted in largely decreasing the death rate. The poor especially have been 
the sufferers from impure milk. Certain cities now have established depots 
for the sale of pure milk to all who can pay for it and for dispensing it free 
to those who cannot pay. Also some cities allow no one to sell milk who 
cannot show a certificate as to the cleanliness of his farm and cows and 
purity of the milk sold. 

Milk must be kept in a perfectly clean can or jug and kept by itself in 
the refrigerator, or where no other food is kept. 

Sterlized milk is no longer specially recommended. Very young children 
do not always like it. Best of all is clear, pure milk for them. The adul- 
teration of milk is unfortunately very common. The most ordinary method 
is with the addition of water. The child fed on this does not thrive, 
although apparently it is having its full complement of milk. Then another 
is the removal of the cream, selling the skimmed milk as pure, fresh milk. 



320 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Salted Nuts and Candy. 

Salted Almonds — 1. 

Blanch one pound of freshly shelled Jordan almonds by pouring boiling 
water over them. When they have stood covered for five minutes rub off 
the skins of the nuts, one by one, with the finger and thumb. 

This process of removing the skin of the almond, called blanching, is 
easily accomplished if the water is actually boiling, not merely warm, when 
it is poured over them. For this purpose the nuts should be placed in a 
tin pan and left a moment on the stove after the boiling water is poured over 
them. They should all be covered in order that the skins shall be "started," 
so they will rub off easily with the finger and thumb. 

Dry the blanched nuts on coarse towels, so as to absorb any moisture 
about them, and measure them by the pint. Allow two tablespoonfuls of 
the best olive oil or the same amount of melted butter to each pint. Toss 
the nuts, a pint at a time, until they are evenly or thoroughly coated with 
the oil, or melted butter, if you prefer it. Let the nuts stand closely covered 
in the warming closet under the oven, or in some warm place for about 
an hour, until they have partly absorbed the oil about them. Dredge two 
tablespoonfuls of salt over them, and stir in order to distribute the salt 
evenly. Spread the almonds on tin biscuit-pans, or better still, on sheets 
of tin that fit the oven, and let them bake in the oven bottom until they are 
slightly colored or begin to be crisp. If the oven is hot, it will not take over 
ten or twelve minutes. It must not be too hot or they will burn. 

Salted almonds are served at dinner, with the cheese and crackers, or at 
afternoon teas, and on cakes over icing. You can prepare peanuts and pine 
nuts in the same manner. 

Salted Hickory Nuts. 

Proceed as for salted almonds — without blanching them. 

Pecan Nuts. 
Proceed as for salted almonds — without blanching them. 

Caramel. 

One and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, 
one-fourth pound of chocolate (Baker's), one teacupful of milk. Boil 
twenty minutes, stir all the time, then add one tablespoonful of vanilla. 
Pour on buttered plates. 

Maple Fudge. 

Break into bits one pound of maple sugar, put it into a pan, if to be 
cooked on the range, or into the blazer if on the chafing dish, — add one 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 321 

cupful of either cream or rich milk, boil until a little dropped into cold 
water will harden, then add one cupful of hickory nuts or pecan nuts, see 
that no shells adhere, cut into small pieces. Stir these in lightly, take from 
fire and spread on a greased platter or on greased white paper, when cool 
cut into squares, they will break up a good deal, but are very good. 

White Fudge. 
Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar and one cupful of cream, boil 
these together either over a fire in a pan or in the blazer, boil until it hard- 
ens when a little is tried in cold water. Spread on a buttered platter a layer 
of nuts, cut into small pieces and over them spread the fudge quickly and 
let it cool, then break into pieces. 

Pecan Pralines — New Orleans. 
Put into saucepan three cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of thin 
cream, two tablespoon fuls of butter, stir over the fire until the sugar mix- 
ture will form a soft ball when a little is dropped into cold water. While 
all this is being cooked, boil (no water), one cup of granulated sugar until 
it is caramel, that is until it is a dark brown syrup, pour the first mixture 
into this, take from the fire and beat until it is thick, then add three cupfuls 
of pecan meats, beat together and put in spoonfuls on buttered plates. 



322 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Frying. 



In frying be sure that the pan is perfectly clean. To fry well the fat must 
always be very hot. To test this throw into the pan a bit of bread; if it 
turns a light brown at once the fat is in a proper condition. 

Do not be afraid to put one or two pounds of fat into your frying pan; 
it can be used over and over again, provided it is strained each time. 

To Clarify Dripping — When poured from the meat pan it should be put 
into a bowl, pour into it some boiling water and a little salt, and stir well; 
when it is cold remove from the bowl — the water and sediment will be at 
the bottom. Scrape the cake of dripping, put it into some more boiling 
water until it melts, then stir well and let it cool; place in a crock and it 
will keep for weeks in cool weather. 

All the fats skimmed from boiled meats, soups, etc., should be treated in 
the same way and then added to the general crock. 

Fat For Frying — The light colored drippings of roast meat and the fat 
taken off from broths or beef suet chopped fine and melted down without 
browning. As soon as the bottom of the stewpan can be seen through the 
suet is done. 

Olive oil of the best quality is tasteless, and is the best of all frying media. 

Frying Mixture. 

A mixture of one-half lard and one-half beef suet is a good frying 
medium. 

Beef Suet Dripping. 

Prepare the dripping by putting it into a basin and pouring boiling water 
over it, stirring well to wash the suet from all impurities, then let it cool — 
all the impurities will settle with the water at the bottom of the basin; 
when cold, place the suet on the fire, when melted remove from fire and 
strain into a clean bowl. Beef dripping is preferable to other dripping for 
frying. 

Frying once understood is an easy process to accomplish successfully, the 
fat must be deep and very hot, when the blue smoke rises from the fat, or 
when a bit of bread thrown into it browns at once, the fat is ready. The 
time for frying anything must be short, two or three minutes being the time 
needed. 

A kettle that has suspended from the handle by a hook a basket which 
can be filled with the article to be fried and then let down into the fat, and 
then raised suspended by the hook, to drain — is the very best possible 
arrangement for frying. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 323 

Frying Batter. 
Mix together in a bowl four tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
olive oil, one saltspoonful of salt, the beaten yoUcs of two eggs, with just 
enough cold water to make all into a stiff batter (about one-half pint of 
water). Beat all well together, the batter should be stiff enough to drop 
from the mixing spoon. Put this in some cool place, when ready to use it, 
add the whites of two eggs well beaten. This batter can be used to cover 
oysters, clams ; make into fritters or for fruit fritters. 

To Render Lard. 
Cut the fresh lard into small pieces, let it melt slowly over a moderate 
fire, as it melts pour it off and strain it into small clean tin buckets,— cover 
with oiled paper when cold. 

Frying Mixture — Russian. 
Two pounds of fresh beef suet, one pound of leaf lard, one quart of milk. 
Cut suet and lard very fine and melt together in the milk, when melted, 
strain, replace in kettle, add three pounds of butter, let all come to boiling 
point, remove from fire, place in a bowl and cover. 



324 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Left-Overs. 

It is so much more difficult to cater to a small family than to a large one. 
With a large family there is not likely to be very much left over after any 
meal. But in a small family even where economy must be studied, there 
are unavoidably "left-overs." These left-overs can be made into appetiz- 
ing dishes. "Warming over" should be always slowly done and nothing 
should be reboiled, only reheated and some butter added. This is not an 
extravagance, for butter because of its nutritive quantities has an important 
part in our diets, especially in vegetarian diets. 

Left-Overs of Fish. 

If any fish is left, look it over carefully. Remove any bones or bits of 
skin, pick into small pieces, reheat with a little milk, some butter, salt and 
pepper; place on toast for breakfast. Or if wished for luncheon prepare 
as above and fill the little fireproof china dishes, or one of the larger ones. 
Sprinkle a thin layer of bread crumbs on top with little pieces of butter. 
Bake in the oven until the crumbs are brown and serve hot. If the fish 
were boiled save the water. When needed, add any bones left of the fish, 
some hot milk, a little cream, a small saltspoonful of grated nutmeg and the 
left-over fish, which mince very fine and you have a good soup. In boil- 
ing fish use only enough water to cover the fish; add one onion and one 
bay leaf. These give a flavor to the fish and to the soup. Strain carefully. 

Cold Salmon — This can be made into croquettes or a salad. It takes very 
little of the salmon to make several croquettes. Two tablespoon fuls finely 
minced with one tablespoonful of white sauce, a little salt and pepper. Cook 
together a minute, then place the mixture on a plate to cool. When cold 
make into croquettes, dip them in beaten tgg and bread crumbs and fry 
in boiling lard. 

Bits of chicken or veal or game, minced, put on slices of bread, the bread 
first fried in a little butter, then dipped in cream. Add to the chicken when 
reheating a little white sauce, if you have it, or a little stock, or cream, salt 
and pepper, place on the toast, sprinkle with minced parsley, or some minced 
olives, or a fried &gg. To the veal add a little white sauce with a very 
little grated nutmeg. To game, some jelly sauce and finish as above. 

Potted Meats. 
These are very valuable for they not only use up "left-overs" of ham, 
meat, game or poultry, but make exceedingly good dishes, for many occa- 
sions. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 325 

Potted Ham, Etc. 

No matter how carefully the ham is cut there always remains a part too 
good to throw away. Cut from the bone all you possibly can. Do not use 
any stringy parts. Grind it through the meat cutter twice if it does not 
seem very fine the first time, add to the ham about as much butter as you 
have ham. Mix well together, add a little cayenne and pack into small jars. 
Pour over each jar a little melted butter and put away in a cold place. It 
will keep several days or even weeks in cold weather. It is excellent for 
making sandwiches as well as a delicious relish for luncheon. Bits of 
chicken and veal can be done in the same way, only do not forget to add 
salt, pepper and a little lemon, grated to the veal, with the butter. 

Bloaters well pounded and mixed with butter make appetizing sand- 
wiches. Anchovies also well pounded and mixed with butter, then packed 
in little jars, are very good. It is astonishing how much a small piece of 
veal or of chicken or any meat makes when minced. After the meat is 
minced, place in saucepan, add a teacupful of stock or milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little salt and pepper, a few drops of onion juice. Reheat 
when needed, and when hot, spread the mince on pieces of toast and if more 
of a dish is desired place on each slice a poached egg. 

Much can be done with odds and ends of left-overs. Save them carefully 
and look over what you have, before purchasing the supplies for the day. 
Often you need only a very little to add to the dinner or supper, and yet 
have a generous meal. There are many fortunate ones who need never 
think of the table expenses and, of course, most of these recipes are of no 
interest to them, while others must see that their expenses keep an even 
balance, so if the table is lavishly supplied today, tomorrow it must be more 
simple. 

Do not always think a little left-over meat, or game is only to be 
rewarmed, put with it some cooked vegetables left over, some celery or let- 
tuce, mix well with a mayonnaise dressing, this salad served with some fresh 
bread and butter makes an excellent lunch. 

BREADING, CRUMBS, ETC. 
Breading and Rasping — 1. 

For breading, use beaten eggs, oil and crumbs of either cracker or stale 
bread ; if bread is used rub the crumbs through a sieve, dry in the oven, and 
place in a tin box until ready to use. In breading, the eggs should be well 
beaten; for three eggs add one tablespoonful of oil, one tablespoonful of 
water, a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. 

"Raspings" are made from crusts of bread baked to a bright golden color, 
then crushed with the rolling-pin, passed through a sieve, and put by for 
use — ^the coarse crumbs being used to sprinkle over roast birds, etc. 



326 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Breading — 2. 
In preparing the crumbs for breading any article, to successfully cover 
the articles, you must use a quantity of crumbs — there should be a quart or 
more of prepared crumbs on the board. 

Crumbs. 

Mix crumbs with a little melted butter before putting on the top 
of any dish. 

Put one teaspoonful of hot water always into the yolk of an egg when 
used for breading, with crumbs and eggs. 

To Add Fruit to Cake. 
To prevent citron, raisins or currants from sinking to the bottom of the 
cake when baking, have them well warmed in the oven before adding to the 
cake batter. 

Cracker Crumbs. 
Crackers should be made hot, then rolled and sifted, rolled and sifted 
again, until they are very fine ; all crumbs for breading should be made very 

fine before using. 

Mush. 

Put mush for frying into baking powder tins. You can slice the mush 

in round slices which will present a very appetizing appearance. 

Fried Bread for Soup. 
Cut stale bread into thin slices and moisten them with milk, then cut into 
dice, put in a pan and fry in butter until brown. 

Croutons for Soup. 
Cut some slices of bread into small dice and fry in a little hot butter until 
of a light brown color. 

Bread Crumbs. 
Save all pieces of bread. The large slices can be used for toast; small 
pieces be used in puddings or dried for crumbs. Use the white part and 
crusts separately, dry in oven, sift, then put away in glass mason jars. 

Bread for Afternoon Tea. 
Slice stale bread very thinly, brown in hot oven, then put on each slice a 
little melted butter, serve hot. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 327 



Cheese. 



To Keep Cheese from Molding. 

Wring out a cloth in cider vinegar, wrap it around the cheese, cover with 
a paper bag and keep the cheese in a dry, cool place. The cheese will retain 
its freshness and will not mold. 

CHEESE PREPARATIONS. 
Cheese. 

Cheese is regarded as a most important article of food; it contains more 
nutritious material than any other food that is ordinarily obtainable. Mr. 
W. Matthieu Williams, in his "Chemistry of Cookery," says : "All that is 
required to render it, next to bread, the staple food of the world, is scientific 
cookery." Mr. Williams advises the use of a very little bicarbonate of 
potash soda in all cheese dishes. 

Aigrettes of Parmesan. 
One-fourth pint of water, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two 
ounces of grated cheese (Parmesan), two eggs, one-fourth ounce of pepper 
and salt. Put the water into the saucepan with the butter, let it boil, shake 
in the flour, cook well; add the cheese, eggs, well beaten, one at a time. 
When thick remove from fire and cool. Have ready some boiling fat and 
drop in about a dessertspoonful of the mixture at a time; fry a golden 
brown and serve very hot. 

Cheese Balls. 

Two cups of grated cheese, the whites of two eggs, beaten very lightly, 
one tablespoonful of cream, one saltspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, five 
drops of Worcestershire sauce. Mix all these together, then make into 
small balls, dip them in beaten eggs and fine bread crumbs ; fry in hot deep 
lard. Serve with lettuce salad. 

Cheeselets. 

A saucer three-fourths full of grated cheese, mix with it the whites of 
three eggs beaten stiff, add a pinch of salt, a few drops of Worcestershire 
sauce. Form into balls, roll in cracker crumbs (very fine), drop in boiling 
lard. To be made during the dinner and served directly, with the salad. 

Cheese Custards. 
Take two ounces of grated cheese, three teaspoonfuls of milk or cream, 
one egg well beaten, a little cayenne and salt to taste. Beat all well together, 
bake in a small dish in a gentle oven for fifteen or twenty minutes and 
serve very hot. 



328 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Cream Cheese — 1. 

Now that so many have homes in the country, these recipes for making 
various kinds of cream cheese may prove useful and acceptable : 

Mix in a large pan one pint of fresh cream and one and one-half pints of 
fresh milk, with one-half teaspoonful of liquid rennet; whip together with 
an egg beater thoroughly, then let the mixture stand for three hours, or 
until quite clotted and set; then place the cheese in a cheesecloth bag, sus- 
pend it over a pan to drip for twelve hours ; then line some small molds 
with cheesecloth and press the cheese into the molds. These can be kept 
three or four days. They may be salted a little, or a little sugar added 
before pressing into the molds. Remove the cloths before serving. 

Fontainbleau Cheese. 

One quart of fresh milk ; stir into it one teaspoonful of liquid rennet 
(the milk should be just blood warm), only stir slightly. As soon as the 
milk is thick, stir with a fork to separate the curd from the whey, drain, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of cream. Line some little wooden molds, which 
have perforated bottoms, with cheesecloth; place the cheese in these. Let 
drain for three days, then remove from the molds and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Cream Cheese — 2. 

Equal quantities of milk and cream; to every three pints add five drops 
of liquid rennet. Beat together until the surface is frothy, then let it stand 
for twelve hours ; put a cheesecloth over a perforated pan, put in the cheese 
and drain for ten or twelve hours, then press it, cheese cloth and all, into 
a mold or bowl. After two hours, remove from cheese cloth, lay on clean 
board, sprinkle with salt on both sides and let it remain on the board in a 
cool, draughty place for three days, turning it over and sprinkling with salt 
every day. It is then ready to serve. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Take sour milk, put it on the range until the milk crinkles, then place in 
a colander and drain ofif all the whey ; beat the cheese until very light, add a 
little cream and salt, make into balls and pour over them some rich cream. 

If the milk is very thick and sour, it can be made by putting it into a 
cheese cloth bag, suspend it over a bowl and drain, then add cream to 
moisten, a little salt, many like a little sugar added, and a little melted 
butter, or grated nutmeg. 

Cottage cheese can be molded into small balls, chilled on the ice and then 
rolled in finely minced parsley to serve with lettuce salad, or roll the balls 
in finely grated nuts. 

Cheese Croquettes. 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and 
stir until well blended, then pour in gradually two-thirds of a cupful of 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 329 

hot milk ; bring to the boiling point ; add the yolks of three unbeaten eggs 

and one-half cupful of grated Gruiere cheese. As soon as this cheese is 

melted, remove sauce from the fire and fold in one cupful of American 

cheese cut into very small pieces; season with a little salt and cayenne. 

Spread on a platter and put aside to cool. When needed, mold into small 

croquettes, dip each one in tgg and then in bread crumbs, fry in deep fat, 

and drain on brown paper. Serve on a plate on thin slices of fried bread, 

made by dipping each slice in beaten yolk of tgg and then in bread crumbs 

and fry until brown. 

Cheese Fondue — 1. 

The fondue must be baked in the dish in which it is served — a small 
silver dish or a French porcelain one is suitable. Mix one tablespoonful of 
butter and one tablespoonful of flour in the saucepan, stir until they bubble, 
then add one gill of rich milk ; this will make a thick white sauce, stir con- 
stantly to prevent burning; when smooth, stir into the sauce three table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese (good York State cheese), one small saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a little cayenne. Turn the mixture into a bowl, stir in the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; whip the whites of three eggs very stiff and stir 
them in very gently at the last. Butter the dish in which the fondue is to 
be baked; the fondue must half fill it. Bake until it is a golden brown in 
hot oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue — 2. 

One cup of bread crumbs fine and dry, two cups of milk, one-half pound 
of cheese grated, three eggs, whipped very light, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, some pepper and salt, a pinch of soda dissolved in a little 
hot water and stirred into the milk. Soak the crumbs in the milk, beat the 
eggs and stir into the crumbs and milk, then add the cheese. Butter the 
baking dish, pour the mixture into it. Sprinkle some dry crumbs on the 
top, and bake in a hot oven. 

A very little soda should be put in all cheese preparations. 

Cheese Fritters. 
Grate eight ounces of common cheese very fine; beat the whites of three 
eggs until very stiff ; add the cheese, a little salt and pepper, mix and drop 
in small spoonfuls in boiling lard and fry until brown. These must be 
served at once on hot plates and with the salad course. 

Melted Cheese with Cream. 
Grate one pound of ordinary full cream cheese. This is a soft, uncolored 
cheese, sold in many places under the name of Welsh rarebit cheese. Put 
the cheese into the saucepan, add a dash of red pepper, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, the yolks of two eggs beaten, with four tablespoonfuls of cream. 
If you like you may add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Put this 
over the fire and stir constantly until the cheese begins to melt, then beat 



330 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

rapidly with a fork until light and creamy. Take from the fire and pour 
it at once over squares of toasted bread. Serve very hot. 

Kluskis of Cream Cheese. 
Take half a pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of cream 
cheese, a pinch of powdered sugar, salt sufficient grated bread crumbs and 
cream to make a paste; mix well together and roll into balls; poach them 
in boiling salt and water, drain, and serve them with poivrade sauce. 

Cheese Muff. 
One and one-half ounces of butter, four ounces of grated cheese, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, four eggs. Put the 
cheese and butter in a saucepan on the fire ; when melted add the eggs well 
beaten and the salt and pepper. Stir and cook until you can push it up 
into a soft, muff-shaped form. Serve at once. 

An English Monkey. 
Soak one cupful of bread crumbs in one cupful of milk for fifteen min- 
utes. Melt one tablespoonful of butter and one cupful of cheese broken into 
bits, stir together until melted; add the crumbs and one egg well beaten; 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, one piece of bi-carbonate of 
soda the size of a pea. Cook for five minutes, serve on crackers. 

Cheese Pudding. 

Soak six slices of bread, buttered, in a batter made of two eggs, beaten 
into a large cup of milk ; then place the slices of soaked bread in a pudding 
dish, covering each with a thick layer of grated cheese; fill the dish with 
these layers, put over all- any batter remaining. This is a delicate as well 
as a very nutritious dish. 

Cheese Puffs. 

Put a small cupful of water in a double boiler, with a tablespoon of but- 
ter. When it is boiling, stir in rapidly three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Stir until it has thickened so that it leaves the sides of the pan ; remove from 
the fire and add two unbeaten eggs, beating each one in thoroughly. Drop 
on a greased pan in pieces the size of a butternut, brush over with beaten 
egg and sprinkle thickly with grated cheese seasoned with a little paprika. 
Bake in a rather quick oven for fifteen minutes. They should rise and be 
mere shells. Serve immediately. 

Parmesan Croquettes. 

Four ounces of Parmesan, one ounce of flour, one ounce of mashed pota- 
toes, two ounces of butter, one-fourth pint of cream, one-fourth pint of 
milk, two eggs, a pinch of unmixed mustard, a pinch of salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, one ounce of bread crumbs. 

Mix one ounce of flour with two ounces of butter in a saucepan, stir for 
five minutes and add the milk and potato and cheese; stir thoroughly 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 331 

together; add the seasoning and cream, allow to boil; then take off the 
fire, and stir in gradually the well beaten yolks of two eggs, remove from 
fire and allow to get cold and hard, then make up into balls the size of a 
small walnut, egg and bread crumb these, and fry in boiling lard in a fry- 
ing basket ; allow to drain, then pile up high on a small silver dish and orna- 
ment with pickled chillies and mustard and cress. 

Curds with Cream. 

Four quarts of sour milk, drain in a cheese cloth bag until the whey is 
all out, then beat the curd well, add a little salt and a few spoonfuls of 
cream ; form into small, flat balls ; pour rich, sweet cream over them witlv a 
little grated nutmeg. 

Pounded Cheese. 

Cheese often becomes too dry or unsightly to serve in its original form, 
and there are often pieces of cheese which look no longer appetizing. To 
use these scraps put the pieces, say half a pound, into a grinder with a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, an equal quantity of fine white sugar and a 
good seasoning of either cayenne, curry powder or anchovy essence. Mix 
all to a smooth paste, moisten with butter slightly melted, and then press 
the mixture into small jars ; cover with a thin layer of melted butter, tie a 
thick paper over and store in a cool place until required. When prepared in 
this way, cheese will remain good for several weeks, and will often prove 
a help when there is an unexpected demand for a relish. Spread it thinly 
upon pieces of hot, crisp toast. 

Cheese Molds. 
One tablespoonful of gelatine moistened in milk. Four tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese. One pint of whipped cream. A little salt, cayenne, and if 
liked, a little mustard. Mix and place in small molds, previously dipped in 
cold water, or in one mold, to stiffen. Serve with salad. 

Cheese in Ramekins. 
Four ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of bread without crust, one- 
third of a teaspoonful of mustard, one-third of a teaspoonful of salt, two 
eggs, one-half gill of milk. Crumb the bread into the milk and boil until 
soft, then add the mustard, salt, pepper, cheese and the yolks of the eggs 
beaten thoroughly, then stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
shallow pan, or in paper cases ; bake fifteen minutes. 

Stewed Cheese. 

Two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, four tablespoonfuls of cream, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg, a little cayenne, melt the butter in the 
saucepan or in the chafing dish, then stir in the cream, then the cheese, 
lastly the eggs well beaten; stir until the mixture is smooth; serve on hot 
toast. 



332 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Pastry Fingers with Cheese. 
Roll out scraps of cold puff paste dough very thinly, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and a little cayenne, roll the paste several times and sprinkle with 
the cheese and pepper each time ; then put the paste away to harden on ice ; 
when needed, roll out thinly and cut with a pastry cutter into strips five 
inches long and about a quarter of an inch wide. Bake quickly and serve 

piled up like straws. 

Cheese Souffle — 1. 
Six ounces of rich cheese, one teaspoonful of mustard, one saltspoonful 
of white pepper, a little cayenne, two ounces of butter, one-sixth of a 
grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one gill of milk, six eggs. Put 
the cheese into the saucepan with the mustard, pepper, nutmeg, butter, flour 
and milk; stir all until it looks like rich, smooth cream — it must not boil; 
then add the yolks well beaten, then the whites well beaten; put into a 
pudding dish and bake for twenty minutes ; serve at once, or fill little paper 
cases or the small porcelain ones with the mixture and bake for fifteen 
minutes. 

Cheese Souffle— 2. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour mix smoothly into a soft paste with a little 
milk; add this to one pint of hot milk in the double boiler; stir until the 
sauce thickens, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, 
a little cayenne and a wee bit of soda ; stir well ; when smooth remove from 
fire and keep stirring for five minutes, then cool ; when cold add the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, six tablespoonfuls of finely grated cheese, beat well 
together, lastly add the whites of four eggs beaten very stiff, mix well, but 
gently, and pour into a buttered pan and bake in a moderate oven until the 
souffle is brown and very light. Serve at once and in the pan; put a white 
napkin around the pan before serving. 

Cheese to Serve with Salads. 
Take one tablespoon ful of gelatine, dissobe it in a little cold water; to 
hasten this, place the cup containing the gelatine over hot water; when 
dissolved strain it into one pint of thick sour cream and beat until very 
light; add one cup of grated cheese (York State Cheese), stir well; add 
one teaspoonful salt ; wet small individual molds and fill with the mixture, 
place on ice and serve with the salad. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 
Cut bread into thin slices, then into finger-lengths, and one inch in width ; 
spread with butter and place on each a thin slice of fresh Swiss cheese ; 
cover with a slice of the buttered bread, trim neatly and dip each sandwich 
into melted butter, place on pan in hot oven and cook until brown ; serve 
with salad. 

Cheese Toast. 
Put one-half ounce of butter into saucepan ; when hot add four ounces 
of good cheese, beat it thoroughly until it is melted, then add one-half pint 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 333 

of cream and two eggs, add a little salt and a small pinch of soda; serve at 

once on toast. 

Cottage Cheese Salad. 

Mix one pint of cottage cheese with one-half cupful of chopped English 
walnuts, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, one teaspoonful of salt and 
one-half saltspoonful of paprika. Form into balls and arrange in nests of 
lettuce. Serve with a mayonnaise dressing to which has been added some 
chopped olives and capers. 

Baked Rarebit. 

Cut one pound of mild cheese in thin slices. Sprinkle a layer of bread 
crumbs in a buttered baking dish, cover with one-third of the cheese, 
sprinkle with salt and paprika, and repeat twice, making three layers, using 
the prepared cheese, two and one-half cupfuls of stale bread crumbs, one 
and three-fourths teaspoonfuls of salt and one-third teaspoonful of paprika. 
Dot over with two tablespoonfuls of butter. Beat three eggs slightly, add 
one and one-half cupfuls of milk and pour over mixture. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven twenty-five minutes. 

Cream Cheese Crackers. 
Soften the cheese with a little cream, spread this on the crackers, placing 
in center a httle guava jelly or strawberry preserve. 

Crackers and Cheese. 
Place in the center of each cracker a cube of common cheese, place in hot 
oven. The cheese will melt and spread to edge of the crackers, leaving a 
small cube in center, sprinkle over it some paprika. 

Crackers with Sardine or Anchovy Paste. 

Spread the crackers with either paste, place in hot oven for a few min- 
utes, remove and sprinkle some lemon juice over them. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Melt one tablespoonf ul of butter in the chafing dish ; when hot add three 
teacupfuls of cheese (American), cut in small pieces, a little cayenne, and 
about one-third of a pint of beer, or the same amount of cream; stir con- 
stantly; when melted, pour the mixture on toast. Poached eggs can be 
added after the cheese is melted and poured on the toast, and the mixture 
is then called a golden buck, one egg to each slice of toast. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

To three-quarters of a pound of York State Cheese add two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, place all in a frying pan, and as the cheese melts, stir con- 
stantly until butter and cheese are well cooked, then add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda (sprinkled in). Keep stirring all the time, lastly add one 
egg beaten until light, stir the egg into the cheese mixture, then pour the 
mixture over slices of hot buttered toast, serve at once. This rarebit has 
the merit of never causing indigestion after eating it. 



334 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



Some Things Worth Remembering 

Always fold in the whipped whites of eggs, into cake batter or other bat- 
ters, rather than to beat them in. 

Always strain any mixture of flour or milk or water to avoid lumps and 
always add milk or water a little at a time in mixing any thickening. 

Hot Plates. 

Hot plates should always accompany all hot dishes. Do not over-heat 
the plates, so as to render them difficult to handle. All dishes used to serve 
meat, vegetables, or anything hot on should also be heated before the food 
is placed on them. 

Seeds. 
Always remove all seeds from lemons, grape fruit, oranges, peppers, 
before using them. 

Flour. 
Always sift flour before using. 

Refrigerator. 
To see that the refrigerator is kept absolutely clean. 

Left-Overs. 

To look over the left-overs every day and to use all that are available. 

Cake Crumbs. 
Stale cake is useful in making various puddings. 

To Clean Fresh and Dried Fruits. 
To remove sand and grit from small fruits, when washing them is neces- 
sary, is to lay the fruit loosely in a clean wire basket and dip the basket into 
fresh water several times, then let the fruit drain before using. 

To Chop Parsley. 

In chopping parsley, after it is very fine, wash it, then place in the comer 
of a napkin and wring it dry; the parsley will, after this, sprinkle easily 
over any dish for which it is required, or cut the parsley with scissors. 

To Clean Iron Kettles. 
A little vinegar and salt, boiled in an iron skillet or spider, will remove 
all burned and black spots. 

To Prepare Gelatine. 
Gelatine must be soaked in cold water first, then dissolved in hot water. 

Granulated Gelatine. 
Now that the granulated gelatine is so much used — to properly measure it 
so as to correspond to the many recipes calling for one-fourth or one-half 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 335 

box of the ordinary shredded gelatine, use one tablespoon ful of the granu- 
lated for one-fourth box and two tablespoonfuls for one-half box, etc. 

Economy. 

It is not economy to use poor, cheap materials, either in meats, groceries 
or fats; the best articles are the cheapest in the end. Economy is a good 
and a fine quality, but it must be intelligent economy. The avoidance of 
waste in every department of the kitchen, larder and pantry is the only true 
economy. Never allow the least scrap to go to loss, but strive to turn even 
the scraps to some good use. Scrupulous cleanliness is indispensable, clean- 
liness in everything, vegetables carefully washed and rinsed, every utensil 
invitingly clean. Sift all flour used. 

Browned Flour. 

JPut some sifted flour into a pan, place it on the stove and stir constantly 
from the bottom, whenever it begins to stick — do not let it burn, but when 
well browned, it is done. Put in a tin canister or glass jar to keep until 
needed. 

Honore de Balzac said: "If there is anything sadder than unrecognized 
genius, it is the misunderstood stomach; the heart, whose love is rejected, 
this much-abused dream, rests upon a fictitious want. But the stomach! 
Nothing can be compared to its sufferings, for we must have life before 
everything. 

It must be urged upon every woman who has the care of a family the 
necessity of a personal oversight in the purchasing of the food and see (if 
not actually cooking it), that the food is properly prepared. 

There are really only two kinds of cooking, namely, bad cooking and 
good cooking, and no splendor of service, no magnificence of table decora- 
tions can compensate for inferior and badly cooked viands. But cooking 
must be closely studied, for there is no perfect cook book to follow. We 
must learn the lesson by experience. It is often hardly and sadly acquired. 
Never was food so abundant nor the variety so great as now. It is a 
shame so much of it is ruined by bad cooking. In how many homes is the 
bread always perfect ? Too often it is like a game of chance ; perhaps it is 
good, light, well baked, then again it is heavy, half dough and unhealthy. 
Yet the making of uniformly good bread is very simple. It requires noth- 
ing but exactness, time and patience, and of course, good flour and good 
yeast. 

Why is it so often said : "I must be economical and cannot buy the most 
expensive meat, the best cuts, the best fruit, the best vegetables, etc?" 
The most expensive portions of meat are not the best. Take the tenderloin 
or fillet of beef. It has not nearly the nourishment in it that other parts 
have, yet it costs more than double. 



336 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

THE MOST APPETIZING STEWS CAN BE MADE FROM THE 
CHEAPEST PARTS OF THE BEEF. The neck of lamb or mutton con- 
tains much more nourishment than the so-called "French chop" does, yet 
the cost is far less. 

If economy is necessary, make it a rule never to buy vegetables or fruits 
which are not in season. After all, it only means waiting for them a little 
while, and when they do come they are so much fresher and better than 
those brought from a long distance. But economy is not in the buying of 
cheap poor foods, but in the buying of good foods, only avoiding those 
which are very high priced on account of being rare or out of season. 

Canned Fruits, Vegetables, Meats. 

Never leave any fruits, vegetables or meats in the can after the can is 
opened, remove the contents at once. 

Water in Cooking. 

Not all cooks understand the different effects produced by hard and soft 
water in cooking meat and vegetables. Peas and beans cooked in hard 
water will not cook as soft as in soft water. Many vegetables, as onion, 
will become nearly tasteless in soft water, because all the flavor is boiled 
out. For extracting the juice of meat to make soup, soft water is the best ; 
but for boiling where the juices of the meat should be retained, hard water 
is preferable, and meat should be put in while the water is boiling, so as to 
seal up the pores at once. 

Grease on Stove. 

When grease is spilled on a hot stove the disagreeable odor can be killed 
by sprinkling salt on it. 

Coffee and Tea Stains. 

Boiling water will remove coffee stains, cold water and borax tea stains. 

Odor from Cabbage. 
Often when cabbage, turnips or cauliflower are being cooked the unpleas- 
ant odor from them can be killed by placing some ground coffee on the 
hot stove. 

Not to Slam Oven Door. 
Remember, never to slam the oven door when you are baking cake or 
bread or anything that is expected to be light in texture. 

Chopping Suet. 
Always add a little flour when chopping suet to prevent the pieces from 
oiling and sticking together. 



Grease all pans and molds with butter, dripping or lard, using a small 
brush. 

Scissors. 

Keep a good-sized pair of scissors for use in the kitchen for cutting 
vegetables, parsley, mint and other things. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 337 

To Keep Food Warm. 

When you find that any portion of your dinner has to wait unexpectedly, 
remove it from the fire, place in a dish, and stand it in a pan containing hot 
water. Cover and set on the back of the stove. If it is a sauce of any 
kind, stir it occasionally to prevent a crust forming. 

Burns. 

In case of a burn, cover the place with bi-carbonate of soda (saleratus), 

and bind over it a soft cloth ; this will relieve by keeping the air from the 

burnt place. As soda is in all kitchens this is a convenient remedy. Lime 

water also is an excellent remedy. Wet cloths in it and place over the burn. 

Clogging of Sink. 
To prevent clogging of the sink in the kitchen from grease keep a lump 
of washing soda over the opening of the drain. It is wise to flush the sinks 
and drains at least twice a week with copperas water poured down them 
scalding hot. Put several pounds of copperas in a tub filled with water. 
Heat the water before using and always use the same kettle to heat it in 
and use it for no other purpose. 

Is there any small thing more annoying to tired nerves than the squeak- 
ing of a door? Yet a little oil applied to the hinges with a feather will 
remove the worry. Another exasperating thing is the tendency of bureau 
drawers to stick in damp weather. By rubbing the edges with a little hard 
soap another worry is done away with. 

To Keep Meats. 
Meat can be kept in summer for a longer time if it is thoroughly rubbed 
over with olive oil ; steaks should be dipped in oil or melted butter or drip- 
ping, and then hung up. 

Meat can be rubbed with ginger, every crevice filled, if desired to keep 
it for a few days. 

Sponges. 
When sponges have become soft and sour, rub into them some lemon 
juice, then rinse several times in lukewarm water and dry. 

Old Glass Jars. 
Wash old glass jars in hot water in which is dissolved a tablespoon ful of 
baking soda ; after, rinse well in cold water. 

To Remove Mortar and Paint. 
Mortar and paint may be removed from window glass by washing the 
glass with strong, hot vinegar. 

Herbs Used in Cooking. 
ANISE — Seeds used in confectionery and cakes. 
CARAWAY — The seeds are used in cakes, bread and confectionery. 
DILL — Used in seasoning, especially in pickles. 



338 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

MINT — The green leaves used in flavoring sauces and in the celebrated 
mint julep of the South. 

PARSLEY — Used as a seasoning and garnish. 

SAVORY — Both summer and winter savory, used for seasoning. 

SWEET MARJORAM— Used in seasoning. 

SAGE — Used in seasoning, cheese, pork, sausages, and in domestic rem- 
edies. 

THYME — Used in seasoning. 

PEPPERMINT — The oil extracted and used in confectionery and med- 
icines. 

Sweet Herbs. 

Many recipes call for "Sweet Herbs ;" the proper mixture is : One part 
marjoram, two parts thyme, and three parts parsley. It is a wise precau- 
tion to dry bunches of these herbs carefully, sift them through a sieve, 
and mix in the above proportions and bottle ready for use. 

Terms in Cooking. 
Boiling — Is to cook in boiling water. 
Braising — Is to cook in stew or in oven. 
Baking — Is to cook in the oven. 
Broiling — Is to cook on gridiron over coals. 

Roasting — Is to cook before the fire, but is now applied to the oven. 
Frying — Is to cook in deep boiling fat. 
Saute — Is to cook in fat, not deep fat. 

Stewing — Is to cook in a little liquid, either water, milk or stock. 
Fricassee — Is to cook either in fat or liquid and served with the sauce. 
Larding — Is to put thin strips of fat pork through the meat. 

A Few French Terms Used in Cookery. 
A la Diable — Deviled. 
Au Gratin — Browned Crumbs. 
Au Kari — Curried. 
Au maigre — Without meat. 
Au naturel — Uncooked or without seasoning. 

Bain Marie — A pan for holding hot water, in which smaller pans can be 
placed holding food. 
Beignets — Fritters. 
Bisque — Shell fish thick soup. 
Bonchees — Small patties. 
Braise — Roasted meat in covered pan. 
Brochette — Meats cooked on a skewer. 
Canapes — Fried pieces of bread. 
Compote — Stewed fruit. 
Consomme — Clear soup. 



i 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 339 

Croquette — Any seasoned mince made into balls and fried. 
Croutons — Small bits of fried bread. 
Chaudfroid — A cooked entree served cold. 
Entree — A side dish. 

Entremets — Dishes served at second course. 
Farce — Any stuffing. 
Fondue — Cheese melted with butter. 
Fricassee — Fish, poultry or game stewed. 
Gateau — Cake. 
Glace — Ice glaze. 

Gratin — Anything baked with crumbs. 
Hachis — Hash. 

Haricot — Meat stewed with vegetables. 
Hors d'oeuvres — Small relishes served before dinner. 
Julienne — Clear soup with finely cut vegetables. 
Kromeskies — Chipped meat fried in batter. 
Lardons — Pieces of pork used in larding. 
Marinade — Pickle, to steep meat or fish in. 
Mayonnaise — Sauce of oil, egg, etc. 
Menu — Bill of fare. 

Meringue — Paste of whites of eggs and sugar. 
Nougat — Paste of nuts and sugar. 
Pate — Pie. 

Petits fours — Small cakes. 
Piece de resistance — Principal dish. 
Pillau — Stew of fowls, with rice, etc. 
Pique — Larded. 
Potage — Soup. 

Puree — Pulp of vegetables or fruits. 
Quenelles — Pounded meat or game with bread crumbs. 
Ragout — Hash or Stew. 
Rissoles — Balls of minced meat, fish, etc. 
Rechaufife — Cold warmed-over meats. 
Salmis — Hash with rich sauce. 
Saute — Cooked in fat. 
Tammy — To put through sieve or cloth. 
Terrine — Any earthenware dish. 

Vol-au-vent — Pastry case in which meat, poultry or vegetables, fruits, 
etc., are served. 

Time Tables for Cooking Meats and Fish. 
The tables cannot be absolutely exact as there are always the atmosphere, 
altitude and the kind of oven or stove used, to be considered. The follow- 



340 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

ing tables aim to be as useful as possible — the modifications and exceptions 
must be learned by experience and daily application. 

Meats — Roasting or Baking. 
Beef — ribs or sirloin — rare, per pound, 10 minutes ; well done, per pound, 
12 minutes; boned and rolled, per pound, 12 minutes. Round of beef, per 
pound, 15 minutes. Alutton — leg, rare, per pound, 10 minutes; leg, well 
done, per pound, 15 minutes; loin, rare, per pound, 10 minutes; shoulder, 
stufifed, per pound, 15 minutes; saddle, rare, per pound, 10 minutes. Lamb, 
well done, per pound, 15 minutes. Veal, well done, per pound, 20 min- 
utes. Pork, well done, per pound, 30 minutes. Turkey, per pound, 15 
minutes. Fowls, per pound, 20 minutes. Chicken, per pound, 15 minutes. 
Goose, per pound, 18 minutes. Venison, per pound, 15 minutes. Fillet, 
hot oven, per pound, 30 minutes. Ducks, wild, very hot oven, 15 to 30 min- 
utes. Partridge, 30 minutes. Grouse, 30 minutes. Pigeons, 30 minutes. 
Braised Meats, 3 to 4 hours. Liver, whole, 2 hours. 

Boiling. 

Mutton, per pound, 15 minutes. Potted Beef, per pound, 30 to 35 min- 
utes. Corned Beef, slow simmering, per pound, 30 minutes. Ham, per 
pound, 18 to 20 minutes. Turkey, per pound, 15 minutes. Chicken, per 
pound, 15 minutes. Fowl, per pound, 20 to 30 minutes. Tripe, per pound, 

3 to 5 hours. 

Broiling. 

Steak, 1 inch thick, 8 to 10 minutes. Steak, 11/2 inches thick, 10 to 15 
minutes. Mutton Chops, French, 8 minutes. Mutton Chops, English, 10 
minutes. Spring Chicken, 20 minutes. Quail, 8 to 10 minutes. Grouse, 15 
minutes. Squabs, 10 to 15 minutes. Shad, Bluefish, Trout, 15 to 25 min- 
utes. Small Fish, 5 to 10 minutes. 

Fish— Boil. 

Halibut and Salmon, per pound, 15 minutes. Bluefish and Bass, per 
pound, 10 minutes. Cod and Haddock, per pound, 8 minutes. 

Bake. 

Halibut, salmon, bass, bluefish, shad, etc., for one hour. Trout, pickerel, 
white fish, etc., for one-half hour. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables. 

Asparagus, 30 minutes. Beans, to bake, 5 hours. Brussel Sprouts, 15 
minutes. Cabbage, 40 to 50 minutes. Corn, 30 minutes. Lima Beans, 
fresh, 30 minutes. Lima Beans, old, 45 minutes. Onions, 35 to 45 minutes. 
Parsnips, 40 to 60 minutes. New potatoes, 30 minutes. Old potatoes, 40 
minutes. Spinach, 25 minutes. Squash, summer, 30 minutes. Squash, 
winter, 40 minutes. String Beans, 30 to 40 minutes. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 341 

To Thicken with Cornstarch. 

Cornstarch is used to thicken soups or sauces because it makes a smoother 
thickening, but it should be cooked for fifteen minutes — ordinary flour 
requires five minutes to cook. 

Some of the Articles Needed in the Kitchen. 

Two double boilers, apple corer, four kettles, different sizes for cooking 
vegetables ; one soup kettle ; one preserving kettle ; two roasting pans ; one 
biscuit or roll pan ; one smaller roasting pan ; one teakettle ; one kettle heat- 
ing fat, with the basket ; cake cutters ; cake pans ; cake turner or 
pancake turner; chopping knife; dish pans; Enterprise meat chopper; 
small wooden bowl for chopping in, chopping knife; small vegeta- 
ble, and carving knife; butter ladles for making butter balls; cleaner; 
clock, a good one ; coffee mill ; measuring cups or glasses ; vegetable cutter ; 
biscuit cutter; egg beaters, Dover egg beater; frying pan; gem pan; flour 
sifter, glass jars; griddle; graters, coarse and fine; ham boiler; ice picks; 
jelly molds; lemon squeezer; various mixing bowls; pitchers, large and 
small ; pudding molds ; pudding pans and bowls ; muffin rings ; molding 
board ; omelette pan ; palette knife, large ; potato masher ; rolling pin ; rack 
for keeping food on stove; scales, dial the most convenient; sink basket; 
skewers ; wooden toothpicks ; skimmer ; strainer, three sizes ; sieves ; towel 
rack for roller towel ; funnel ; apple parer ; wafifle irons ; whisk, wire dish 
covers ; various sizes of spoons and knives, two large forks. 

The list can be extended indefinitely, but as the need for certain utensils 
comes up in the kitchen, they can easily be purchased and added. 

Have plenty of towels, long ones for the hand towel roller, fine glass 
towels, coarse ones for the pots and pans, coarse long ones for taking out 
of the oven the roasting pans and removing the kettles from stove, have 
good kitchen soap, use ivory for the hands and fine glass, china and silver. 

What to Serve With. 

With Fish, serve cucumber salad, sliced lemons, fried pineapple. 
With Beef, roast potatoes, grated horseradish sauce, Yorkshire pudding, 
onions. 

With Mutton, turnips or onion puree, currant jelly, caper sauce. 

With Lamb, mint sauce, brown caper sauce. 

With Roast Turkey, cranberry sauce, giblet gravy. 

With Boiled Turkey, oyster sauce or onion sauce. 

With Roast Duck, apple sauce, onions, currant jelly. 

With Wild Duck, orange sauce, currant jelly, baked apples. 

With Roast Chicken, cranberry sauce, bread sauce, fried prunes. 

With Boiled Chicken, celery or oyster sauce, bread sauce. 

With Venison, currant jelly. 

With Snipe, hot toast, watercress salad. ,. _, 



342 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

With Roast Pork, apple sauce. 

With Quail and other small birds, currant jelly, watercress. 

With Fresh Mackerel, gooseberry sauce, or parsley and butter sauce. 

With Shad, boiled rice. 

With Salmon, cucumbers, green peas and cream sauce. 

With Pheasant, bread sauce and browned bread crumbs over. 

With Grouse, brown gravy and watercress. 

With Roast Goose, apple sauce and fried onions. 

The directions for making all these sauces will be found under "Sauces." 

To Keep Meats Untainted. 
Put a piece of charcoal inside of any poultry to be kept over night in 
summer; when the meat has a close or slightly tainted smell wash it in 
water in which is dissolved a teaspoonful of soda, or in water and vinegar 
mixed. 

Lemons. 
Keep lemons in a crock filled with cold water. 

Egg Stain. 
Salt will remove the stain on egg spoons. 

Broiling. 

In broiling, no thin pieces should be broiled, only thick fleshy pieces. 
No forks should ever be stuck into them, nor should they be cut with a 
knife while cooking. You may sprinkle your steak or chop with a little 
pepper, but never add the salt till the meat is done. 

Washing Glass. 
When washing glasses in hot water be sure the outside of the glass is 
washed first. In this way the glass is kept from breaking. 

Scrubbing Brush. 
Do not lay the scrubbing brush with the bristles upward. The water 
is allowed to soak into the wooden part and the bristles very soon become 
loose. Always place it with the bristles down. 

To Clean Copper. 
To clean copper take a handful of common salt, enough water and flour 
to make a paste ; mix together thoroughly. There is nothing better for 
cleaning copper. After using the paste wash thoroughly. 

Old Newspapers. 
Cut newspaper sheets into four pieces, put a string through one comer 
and hang over the sink. If a sheet of paper is placed under any cooking 
utensil that is set in the sink after being taken off the stove, much scrub- 
bing and cleaning will be saved. 



Cook Book 365— No, 2. 343 

To Soften Water. 
If the water is hard water, a Httle pinch of soda should be added to soften 
it for cooking purposes. 

To Kill Cockroaches. 
Helebore sprinkled about on the floor of the rooms infested by cock- 
roaches, will kill the pests, they eat it and will be poisoned. Be sure to 
sweep the helebore up every morning. 

Bait for Rat Trap. 

A raw oyster makes an excellent bait for rats. 

To Remove Black Beetles. 

Try fresh cucumber peelings where black beetles and cockroaches haunt. 

Put Away Utensils. 
In cooking, try to clear up all utensils used as you go on ; do not allow 
all to accumulate. Wash and put each one back in its place. Neatness, 
order and method should be observed in every kitchen. 

To Clean Kettles. 
When any kettle has become black and burned, boil in it a solution of sal 
soda for an hour or more. Use soda to soften the grease on pans, and 
scour with Sapolio. 

To Clean Drains. 
Pour a solution of concentrated lye down the drain pipe of the kitchen 
sink at least twice a week to prevent the grease stopping the pipe. 

The Refrigerator. 

See that the refrigerator is kept absolutely clean, the drain pipe kept open 
by washing the refrigerator out three times a week with cold water with soda 
or borax dissolved in it. 

Milk or cream if kept in the general refrigerator should be lightly covered 
in glass jars. Butter should be closely covered. If anything is spilt in the 
refrigerator, have it wiped up at once. Fish should never be kept with other 
articles of food. 

When the refrigerator is empty, open the doors so as to let the inside air 
out, and dry. When the ice is put in, let the doors remain open a few min- 
utes to let out the warm air, then close. The refrigerator requires a general 
look over every day. never allow any stale or tainted meat to remain in it 
or any sour vegetables. The greatest care is needed to keep the refrigerator 
in a perfectly sanitary condition. 

Flat Irons. 

Flat irons that are rusty can be cleaned by rubbing them with wax tied 
in a cloth, the irons to be warm; then rub them well on a board strewn 
with salt. 



344 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

Ink Spots. 
Ink spots can be removed from the fingers by a little ammonia. 

Shiny Look on Seams. 
A little ammonia and alcohol mixed, rubbed on black silk will remove the 
"shiny" look, so often seen on seams of dresses. 

To Wash Blankets. 

To each pailful of rain water use one tablespoonful of borax. 

Fill the wash boiler with water ; cut into small pieces two cakes of any 
good white soap. When this is dissolved and the water boiling, strain into 
the washtubs through cheese cloth. 

Put in the blankets ; do not mix the colored borders ; put all of one color 
together; let the blankets remain in the water over night; cover the tubs. 
The water should be made tepid before the blankets are put into it, so cold 
rain water can be added to the hot water. 

The next morning rinse the blankets up and down in the water by hold- 
ing the ends and going all around the four sides ; then have the wringer set 
very loosely and wring the blankets into another tub containing clean cold 
rain water. Rinse the blankets in this the same as in the first water ; then 
wring into another tub of cold water ; wring again into a third tub ; from 
this water take the blankets — do not wring them ; hang them on the lines 
dripping wet in the hot sun, changing them twice ; that is turning them 
upside down twice. The blankets will be beautifully soft and clean after 
they are dry. Select a windy day if for drying blankets. 

To Wash an Automobile Veil. 

Buy the best quality of chiffon cloth, when soiled wash it in pure white 
soap and warm water, rinse in several warm waters, dry out as much 
moisture as possible, then iron between thick cloths. 

Furniture Polish. 

One ounce of white wax, one ounce of beeswax, one-half ounce of 
Castile soap, one-half ounce of soda, one-half ounce of camphor, one pint 
of turpentine, one pint of boiling water. 

Cut the wax and soap into small pieces and dissolve with the soda and 
camphor in the turpentine. Then add the boiling water and shake well 
together, until it looks white, and about the consistency of thick cream; 
bottle. When required, apply a little on a flannel cloth evenly and rub it off 
with a clean soft cloth. This preparation can be used on any kind of wood 
work, or on leather goods. 

To Restore the "Pile" on Velvet. 
To restore the "pile" on velvet hold the velvet over boiling water the 
wrong side next to the steam, brush the velvet lightly as the steam goes 
through the fiber. 



i 



Cook Book 365~No. 2. 345 

Paper Bags. 

The large paper bags which are made for holding banana bunches are 
very nice for holding blankets and other woolens, which require to be put 
away from moths in summer. 

To Chop Parsley. 

The easiest way is to wash the parsley, bunch between finger and thumb 
and cut it closely with the scissors, or use a vegetable knife and chop it. 

For Chapped Hands. 

One-half ounce of gum benzoin, three and one-half ounces of rose water, 
one-fourth ounce of glycerine. Mix together and bottle. Or equal parts of 
glycerine, rose water and spirits of camphor. Rub a little on the hands 
after washing and before drying them. 

To Clean Rusty Metals. 

Clean with kerosene, which is better than oxalic acid for brass or cop- 
per ware. Kerosene is harmless, while oxalic acid is poisonous. 

Paste. 

In making a paste either with flour or starch add a little oil of cloves or 
of winter green, and the paste will not sour or mold. 
A Spice Plaster for Severe Pain. 

One teaspoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of mustard, one tea- 
spoonful of ground allspice, one teaspoonful of wheat flour. Mix well 
together, pour over the mixture enough boiling water to moisten ; stir until 
smooth and spread on cheese cloth, and apply as hot and as quickly as 
possible. 

To Remove a Scorch Mark from Linen. 

Slice a large onion, pound it well, then add to the juice one ounce of 
white soap and one ounce Fuller's earth and one pint of vinegar. Boil 
these together, and spread the mixture on the scorched linen and leave it on 
until dry, when the article must be well washed in soap suds. 

Javelle Water. 

One pound of sal soda, one quart of water, boil together until the soda 
is all dissolved. While this is being done, put one-quarter of a pound of 
chloride of lime into one quart of water, let it settle, pour ofif all the clear 
liquid and add it to the liquid soda ; bottle and keep for removing stains 
from linen. 

To use the javelle water, dip the stained places into boiling water, then 
into javelle water, then into boiling water, use with care and keep the 
bottle well marked. 

Turpentine. 

After a housekeeper fully realizes the worth of turpentine in a house- 
hold, she is never willing to be without a supply of it. It gives quick relief 



346 Cook Book 365~No. 2. 

to burns ; is an excellent application for corns ; and is good for rheumatism 
and sore throats. 

Turpentine is a sure preventive against moths ; by dropping a trifle in 
the drawers, trunks and cupboards, it will render the garments secure from 
injury during the summer. 

It will also keep ants from the closets and storerooms if a few drops are 
put in the corners and upon the shelves, while it is sure destruction to bed 
bugs, and will effectually drive them away from their haunts if thoroughly 
applied to all the joints of the bedstead. It injures neither clothing nor 
furniture. 

One tablespoonful added to a bucket of warm water is excellent for 
cleaning paint. 

Turpentine is used in laundry work in conjunction with ammonia to 
remove paint stains from colored clothes. The two liquids are mixed, 
and the stain dipped in and rubbed until it disappears. It is also used in 
cold water starch to make the iron pass along the fabric smoothly. Pro- 
portions, four drops to one tablespoonful of starch. 

Spirits of turpentine will restore the brilliancy to patent leather. Boots 
and bags look almost new under its influence. 

Applied to a burn where the skin is not broken, it gives quick relief. 

It sends down the skin of a blister and prevents soreness. 

Workmen's white overalls and artists' working aprons should be steeped 
in turpentine for twenty-four hours before washing to loosen and remove 
paint. 

A little added to the steeping water (a tablespoonful to a gallon) will 
make linen beautifully white. 

A flannel dipped in hot water and sprinkled with turpentine will relieve 
hoarseness. This application is also often ordered for the relief of lumbago 
and rheumatism. It generally relieves neuralgia in the face. 

A few drops in boxes and cupboards will prevent moths. 

Soak rags in it, and then place near the holes of mice. Renew the oil 
from time to time. It effectually drives them away. 

For a paint mark on cloth that will not wash, put turpentine on with a 
small brush. Begin on the outside of the stain and work to the middle, in 
order to prevent it spreading. 

Turpentine mixed with beeswax makes a well known polish for floors. A 
cloth wrung out of turpentine brightens up an oil cloth. 

Two parts of sweet oil and one of turpentine make a reliable furniture 
polish. It instantly removes finger marks. 

But do not forget that turpentine is highly inflammable and that it should 
never be exposed to a flame of gas or fire. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 347 

To Clean Piano Keys. 

Rub the soiled keys with a soft rag dipped in alcohol. 

To Remove Iron Rust. 

Kerosene oil and whiting mixed will remove iron rust. This combination 
will also clean tins perfectly, and will remove stains from porcelain bak- 
ing dishes. 

To Remove Paint Spots. 

Ammonia and spirits of turpentine, mixed in equal parts, will take paint 
spots out of cloth, no matter how hard and dry they may be. Saturate the 
spots, two or three times, then wash out in warm soap-suds. 

To Polish a Piano. 

If your piano has a milky or cloudy look on its surface, the manufac- 
turers say it should be washed with soap and water. Use a good white 
soap with woolen or soft cotton rag. Be careful to wash only a little part 
at a time and wipe dry at once. Afterward use either a soft rag with a lit- 
tle linseed oil on or a little kerosene, then use a chamois. 

If there are any deep scratches use mixture of rotten stone and oil on 
them, for if the soap and water touch the wood below the polish, dark 
lines may be the result. 

Cheese cloth is an excellent fabric for polishing. It does not scratch or 
grow linty. 

Cleaners. 

There are many "cleaners" on the market for the polishing of brass, 
some of them very good. The old cleaner used by our grandmothers of 
rotten stone and oil, is still as good as any. The rotten stone and oil are 
rubbed into paste and applied with a soft cloth and the article polished with 
a chamois or soft cloth. 

Copper can be cleaned with kerosene. It keeps the copper bright. A 
little kerosene can be added to most of the pastes sold, to advantage. 

Nickel-plated articles only need hot soap suds to keep them bright. Rinse 
after the suds with hot water. 

After washing the lamp chimney polish it with dry salt. It makes the 
glass bright and will prevent its breaking. 

Chairs. 

A high stool or chair is a great convenience in the kitchen for it enables 
the housekeeper to sit down while ironing or shaping biscuits or any similar 
work which must be done at a table. A low chair is almost an equal com- 
fort, for then one can sit near the oven and open the door easily to watch 
bread or cake and yet meantime pare vegetables, or do some light prepara- 
tion for the next process. 

Meringues. 

In making a meringue, after beating the whites of the eggs until they are 
very stiff, add the sugar to the whites, beating it into the whites with a 



348 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

silver spoon, a little at a time ; add the flavoring at the last ; the white of one 
egg requires one tablespoon ful of sugar. A meringue should be baked in a 
slow oven. 

Onion Juice. 
When onion juice is required, pare the onion and cut it in four pieces if 
a large onion, and squeeze the pieces in a wooden lemon squeezer ; keep the 
squeezer for this use only. Or the onion can be pressed against a coarse 
grater and the juice extracted. 

Cleaning Fluid for Black Goods. 

Dissolve one-half an ounce of castile soap in four ounces of hot water, 
when dissolved, add three-fourths ounce of ammonia, one drachm sulphur 
ether, one ounce alcohol, one pint of hot water. One ounce is two table- 
spoonfuls, bottle and shake well before using. This is a very good cleaning 

fluid for all black goods. 

Perfume for Bath. 
Take one grain of musk, place it in the bottom of a bottle or jar, holding 
one gallon. On top of the musk, pour one pint of spirits of cologne, and 
one-half ounce of oil of rose geranium, let all these stand for a month, then 
add one pint of the best alcohol, when used put one tablespoonful in the 
bath, more if desired. This perfume grows better as it is kept. 

Perfumed Bags for the Bath. 

Mix together five pounds of oatmeal, one-half pound of pure Castile 
soap powdered fine, one pound of powdered orris root. Make small cheese 
cloth bags and fill with the mixture ; fill the bags loosely and sew up on one 
end ; put in the bath and use in place of sponge. 

For Cleaning Carpets. 
Mix one bar of good soap, or electric soap ; shave fine into one gallon of 
cold water, add four ounces of pulverized sal-soda, eight ounces of fine 
borax. Boil fifteen minutes. Put this into three gallons of cold water and 
one-half pint of alcohol. Rub on carpet with scrubbing brush, and wipe off 
carefully with a clean cloth. 

Cleaning Mixture for Rugs, Etc. 
Two-thirds bar of ordinary kitchen soap, two quarts of water in which 
dissolve the soap, one tablespoonful each of borax, alum and washing 
soda. Mix and let all cool, then add two tablespoonfuls of ammonia and 
one tablespoonful of Fuller's earth. 

Cleanser for Woolens. 

One-fourth pound of white castile soap, one-fourth pound of ammonia, 
one ounce of ether, one ounce of alcohol. Cut soap very fine and dissolve 
thoroughly in one quart of warm water, add four quarts of soft water, then 
the other ingredients. Bottle at once. Keep the bottle well corked. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 349 

Cold Cream, 

Four ounces of oil of almonds, one and one-half ounces of white wax, 
one and one-half ounces of spermaceti, one and one-half ounces of rose 
water, one and one-half ounces of glycerine. Melt these together over a 
gentle heat ; when blended, stir until the mixture is cold ; place in small 

porcelain jars and cover. 

Hiccoughs. 
Saturate a lump of sugar with vinegar — this will often stop distressing 

hiccoughs. 

Remedy for Mosquitoes. 

Dr. Howard, U. S. Army. 

One ounce oil of cedar, two ounces of oil of citronella, two ounces of 
spirits of camphor, mixed. A few drops sprinkled in a room will drive off 
the pests, or a rag wet with it will keep them from disturbing the sleeper, 
or put on a fan kept in the hand will keep them away when out of doors. 

Hair Tonic. 

Four ounces of witch hazel, four grains quinine, two ounces of alcohol, 
four grains resorcin, two drachms of cartharides. 

If the hair is very dry, use Bay Rum instead of Alcohol, a few drops of 
perfume, if liked, can be added. 

For Very Tired Feet. 

Bathe the feet at night in warm salt water, rub them gently until they 
glow, then paint them with the following mixture, which you can make 
yourself, or, better, have some good chemist put it up for you : 

One-half drachm of camphor, one scruple of menthol, 10 grains of iodine, 
four drachms of tincture of myrrh, four drachms of compound tincture of 
benzoin. 

This should dry well on the feet. In the morning repeat the salt bath 
and the rubbing and dust into your stockings the following powder : 

Two drachms of boracic acid, one scruple of salicylic acid, one drachm 
of alum, two drachms of subnitrate of bismuth, one ounce of powdered tal- 
cum. I was assured that this treatment would soon cure the soreness. 

To Remove Ink. 

Melted mutton suet will remove ink spots, plunge the ink spots into the 
hot suet and after, wash in the usual way. 

Antidotes for Poisoning. 

First, send for a physician. Second, try to induce vomiting by tickling 
the throat with a feather or finger, drink warm water, or strong mustard 
and water, swallow sweet oil or whites of eggs. 

Remember that acids are antidotes for alkalies and vice-versa. 

For Acids — Muriatic, oxalic, acetic, sulphuric (oil of vitriol), nitre 
(Aqua Fortis), use soap suds, magnesia, lime water. 



350 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

For Prussic Acid — Use ammonia in water, dash water on the face. 

For CarboHc Acid — Flour and water ; any mucilaginous drinks. 

For Alkalies, Potash, Lye, Hartshorn, Ammonia — Use vinegar and water 
or lemon juice in water. 

For Arsenic, Rat Poison or Paris Green — Use milk, raw eggs, sweet oil, 
limewater, flour and water. 

For Bug Poison, Lead, Saltpeter^ Corrosive Sublimate, Sugar of Lead, 
Blue Vitriol — Use whites of eggs or milk in large doses. 

For Chloroform, Copperas or Cobalt — Use a dash of cold water on head 
and chest, artificial respiration, piece of ice in rectum. 

For Iodine, Antimony, Tartar Emetic Poisoning — Use astringent in- 
fusions, strong tea. 

For Mercury Poisoning — Use whites of eggs, milk, mucilages. 

For Nitrate of Silver, Lunar Caustice Poisoning — Use salt and water. 

For Opium, Morphine, Laudanum, Paregoric — Use Soothing syrup. 

For Strychnine, Tincture of Nux Vomica Poisoning — Use mustard and 
water, sulphate of zinc, absolute quiet, plug the ears. 

The best remedy is to avoid the danger of poisoning and keep every bottle 
or box containing poison well labeled. Do not fail to wash oflf any old 
label which may be on the bottle now containing poison, then place all 
poisons far out of reach of children and in a place high up and by them- 
selves, or keep all poisons in dark blue bottles. 

Uses of Salt. 

There are many uses for salt, besides the seasoning of food. 

A tiny pinch added to the whites of eggs before beating will make them 
froth quicker and stififer. 

In whipping cream, add a very tiny bit, it helps there also. 

If your table salt is in lumps and damp add to twelve tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one tablespoonful of corn starch. 

If the flatirons are inclined to stick and are rough have some salt on a 
little board and rub them on it. 

Add a little salt to the starch when boiled. 

When sweeping, some coarse salt scattered on the carpets or rugs keeps 
down the dust and prevents moths. 

Throw salt on a fire to put it out. 

Have the stained teacups, saucers or glasses soaked in strong salt water. 

Rub a little salt on the discolored spoons after eggs have been used. 

Salt and vinegar mixed will clean brass. 

Soaking printed calicoes in salt water before washing will set colors. 

Salt spread on freshly spilled ink or on soot from the chimney will 
remove the spots on the carpet. 



Cook Book 365--NO. 2, 351 

To Restore Color. 

Alum water will restore almost any faded colors, if put into the rinsing 
water after the goods are washed. 

Sting of Bee, Etc. 

For the sting of a bee or wasp, nothing is better to neutralize the poison 
than fine cut tobacco dampened and applied to the wound. A raw onion 
cut in two and laid on the puncture will also neutralize the poison in a short 
time; also a pinch of common salt, slightly dampened, will soon relieve 
the pain. 

Dish Towels, 

Dish cloths and dish towels must be kept clean, for greasy towels furnish 
a field for the growth of all germs. So for the sake of health, they must 
be well washed and boiled and thoroughly dried afterwards, if possible in 
the sun. Greasy soiled towels will not do good service in the cleaning of 
china and silver ware. 

How to Measure. 

A cupful means one-half pint. These cups can now be bought in tin, 
aluminum and thick toughened glass and come in sets of two, one being 
divided into three sections or thirds, the other into four sections or quarters, 
so that with the two, any fraction of a pint can be quickly measured. 

When the phrase "take one teaspoonful" is used it means one rounded 
teaspoonful — as much rising above the edge of the spoon as there is depth, 
in all cases except salt, pepper, soda, and spices which are always measured 
level. 

A heaping spoonful means all that the spoon will hold. One-half of a 
spoonful means dividing the contents of the spoon lengthwise and taking 
one-half. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar or one rounded tablespoonful of but- 
ter will weigh one ounce, one cupful of either one-half pound. Eight rounded 
tablespoonfuls of dry material or sixteen tablespoon fuls any liquid will 
measure one cupful (half pint). 

A pound of sugar is one pint, and an ounce of liquid is two tablespoonfuls, 
and a pint of liquid weighs 16 ounces. 

A tablespoon holds one gill. 

One pint of liquid equals one pound; two gills of liquid makes one cup- 
ful ; four teaspoonfuls make one tablespoonful ; two full tablespoonfuls of 
flour make one ounce ; one-half pound of butter will make one cupful ; 
four cupfuls of flour make one pound ; two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
make one pound, two and one-half cupfuls powdered sugar make one 
pound. 

One wine glass holds one-half a gill. 

Use for measuring the cups which are exact, they can be bought in glass 
and in tin in any house-furnishing store. 



352 Cook Book 365— No. 2. 

In the Kitchen. 

Have a shelf near the stove, under it hang the kitchen scissors, a can 
opener, corkscrew, one dredging box with flour, one dredging box with pep- 
per, cloth holder for handling hot pans. 

On the shelf have a box with lid for salt, near the sink have a pot chain for 
cleaning pans, a soap shaker for using the small bits of soap otherwise 
lost, two dish mops, large and small ones, dish for soap, one for sapolio, 
sink cleaner. Washing soda will be found useful about the sink and in 
washing out the towels, etc. It is a good plan to dissolve one pound of it 
in three quarts of boiling water, let the mixture stand on the back of the 
stove, stir frequently until the soda is all dissolved, then place in any large 
bottle, well and clearly labeled. When the sink is cleaned, use this prepara- 
tion, only heat it, the grease will unite with it more readily and cleanse the 
pipes better. Soda is very cheap so do not economize in its use, only do not 
use it in the laundry. 

If coal stove, or range, or gas stove be used, let it be kept bright and 
clean, this should be done for the sake of economy if not for the looks, 
for a well and carefully kept stove will last years longer than an ill-kept 
one will. The adaptation of aluminum to all the various kitchen utensils 
has great advantages — they are very light, easily handled and kept clean, 
they cost more at first, but with care will wear a long time, and will gradu- 
ally replace all the heavy iron pots and pans used now. 

China fireproof dishes are most useful; besides being too pleasant to use 
in the kitchen will, with ordinary care, last a long time. 

Last year a Parisian publisher offered a prize for the best ten rules for 
acquiring and maintaining good mental and bodily health. There were 
over 500 competitors. Dr. Dacomet won the prize. 

Rules for Health. 

1. General Hygiene: Rise early, go to bed early, meanwhile keep your- 
self occupied. 

2. Respiratory Hygiene: Water and bread sustain life; but pure air 
and sunlight are indispensable for health. 

3. Gastro-Intestinal Hygiene : Frugality and sobriety are the best elixir 
for a long life. 

4. Epidermal Hygiene: Cleanliness preserves from rust; the best ma- 
chines last the longest. 

5. .Sleep Hygiene: A sufficiency of rest repairs and strengthens; too 
much rest weakens and makes soft. 

6. Clothes Hygiene : He is well clothed who keeps his body sufficiently 
warm, safeguarding it from all abrupt changes of temperature, while at 
the same time maintaining perfect freedom of motion. 

7. House Hygiene: A house that is clean and cheerful makes a happy 
home. 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 353 

8. Moral Hygiene : The mind reposes and resumes its edge by means of 
relaxation and amusement, but excess opens the door to the passions, and 
these attract the vices. 

9. Intellectual Hygiene: Gayety conduces to love of life, and love of life 
is the half of health. On the other hand, sadness and gloom help on old 
age. 

10. Professional Hygiene: Is it your brain that feeds you? Don't al- 
low your arms and legs to become anchylosed. Dig for a livelihood, but 
don't omit to burnish your intellect and elevate your thoughts. 

Church Suppers. 

"In arranging for church suppers and similar festivities without a caterer's 
help it is often a puzzling question to know how much to provide, espe- 
cially as the organizers of such feats are often young women, upon whom 
the responsibility of provisioning has heretofore fallen lightly. The fol- 
lowing figures are given by a woman who has served long and faithfully 
at such functions : 

"For fifty guests she states that generous portions of chicken salad can 
be given if five medium sized chickens and twelve heads of celery are al- 
lowed; one hundred sandwiches, one and one-half pounds of coffee and 
three pints of cream, two gallons of ice cream, two molds of jelly and five 
loaves of cake will be needed. If escalloped oysters are on the menu, two 
gallons of oysters, two pounds of crackers and one pound of butter will be 
wanted for them. With sandwiches, five dozen biscuits and two and a half 
pounds of butter will be sufficient; eight pounds of boiled ham with two 
pounds of butter will be an ample allowance for a hundred minced ham 
sandwiches. Of course, all these proportions can be doubled." 



INDEX 



BEEF 

Page 

Eeef, Advice About 51 Beef, 

Beef, a la Mode 56 Beef, 

Beef, fried 297 Beef, 

Beef, Boiling of 51 Beef 

Beef, Boil 52 Beef 

Beef, Boulettes 53 Beef, 

Beef, Braised 53 Beef 

Beef, Broiling 52 Beef, 

Beef, Cannetons 54 Beef, 

Beef. Chuck Steak 58 Beef,' 

Beef, Corned 53 Beef, 

Beef, Corned Beef Hash 53 Beef', 

Beef, Corned Beef Hash and Cream 53 Beef, 

Beef, Corned Beef Hash and Eggs.. 54 Beef 

Beef, Cold 55 Beef 

Beef, Dripping to prepare 55 Beef, 

Beef, Dumplings 54 Beef 

Beef, Fihrin of. 57 Beef 

Beef, Fillet of 55 Beef, 

Beef, Hamburg Steak 55 Beef,' 

Beef, Hash on Toast 55 Beef 

Beef, Hot Pot 55 g^^j 

Beef, Liver baked 57 n f 

Beef, Meat to Care for 56 ^^^J 

Beef and Macaroni 58 ^^^* 

Beef Marrow Bones 58 Beef 

Beef Meat Cakes 57 Beef 

Beef, Mock Duck 56 Beef 



Page 

Mock Hare 56 

Olives 58 

Ox Heart 53 

Pie with Tomatoes 62 

Pot Roast 59 

Ribs of, in Casserole _. 58 

Rolls 59 

Rolled 60 

Roast 61 

Roasting of 59 

Roasting of 62 

Rump Steak 62 

Rump Steak, stuffed 62 

Steak Pudding 59 

Shepherd Pie 62 

Sirloin of 62 

Stew, 1 60 

Stew 61 

Swedish Stew 62 

Spanish 011a Porida 64 

Steak 59 

Steak, broiled 59 

Steak Pudding 59 

Steak Triffles 61 

Tongue, fresh 61 

Tongue smoked 61 

Turnovers 63 



BEVERAGES 



Page 

Chocolate 163 

Chocolate, cold 164 

Chahlis, cup 165 

Claret, cup 165 

Creme de Mentha 165 

Cocoa 163 

Coffee 163 

Coffee, filtered 164 

Dutch Liqueur 167 

Egg Nog, "Very Best" 164 

Egg Nog, Christmas 164 

Egg Lemonade 164 

Fruit Punch 164 

Grape Juice Mead 165 

Ginger Cordial 166 

Hot Punch 166 

Imperial Pineapple Punch 166 

Lemon Brandy 168 



Page 

Maraschino I68 

Mint Julep, Virginia 168 

Milk Punch I66 

Orangeade 167 

Philadelphia Fish House Punch 164 

Russian Tea 167 

Rum Punch 166 

Sandy Guff 166 

Siberian Punch _ 167 

Tea, to make 167 

Tea 167 

Tea Punch, 1 167 

Tea Punch, 2 167 

Tea Punch, 3 167 

Very Good Punch 166 

West Point Punch 166 



355 



356 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, ETC. 



Page 

Bread, Biscuits, Hot Cakes 206 

Bread, Brown 206 

Bread, Brown Boston 206 

Bread, Coffee 212 

Bread, Custard 212 

Bread, Hunter's 214 

Bread, Parker House Rolls 216 

Bread, Puffs 207 

Bread, Scones 217 

Bread, Souffle 207 

Bread, Scotch Roll 214 

Bread, Sticks 207 

Bread, Third 207 

Bread, Whole Wheat 217 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 207 

Biscuits, Beaten Maryland 208 

Biscuits, Beaten Virginia 209 

Biscuits, Buttered 219 

Biscuits, Milk 208 

Biscuits, Milk Cream 208 

Biscuits, Milk, Sour 208 

Biscuits, Split 209 

Biscuits, Sweet 209 

Buns, English 211 

Buns, Hot Cross, English 210 

Corn Meal Bread 211 

Corn Meal Cakes 212 

Corn Meal Dodgers 212 

Corn Meal Hoe Cakes, Virginia 215 

Corn Meal Muffins 212 

Corn Meal Muffins 215 

Corn Meal and Potato Muffins 214 



Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour, 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Wheat Flour 
Waffles with 
Waffles, Virg 
Waffles, Virg 
Yeast .... 



Page 

Muffins 214 

Muffins, Quick 214 

Muffins, English 215 

Muffins, Yorkshire ..... 214 

Buns, English 211 

Brioche 214 

Crescents, English 213 

Crumpets, English 213 

Friddle Cakes 215 

Graham Popovers 216 

Lapland Cakes 215 

Pancakes, Adirondack 216 

Pancakes 216 

Popovers, Graham 217 

Popovers 216 

Rice Crumpets 217 

Sally Lunn, Virginia .. 217 

Scones 217 

Scones, Cream 211 

Tea Cakes 218 

Toast 218 

Toast, Buttered 219 

Toast, Cream 219 

Toast. Milk 219 

Crackers, etc 219 

Toast, French 219 

Toast, Pilot Bread 219 

Rice 218 

inia, 1 218 

inia, 2 218 

218 



BREADING, CRUMBS, ETC. 



Page 

Breading and Rasping, 1 325 

Breading, 2 326 

Add Fruit to Cake, To 326 

Bread Crumbs 326 

Bread for Afternoon Tea 326 

Crackers 326 



Page 

Crumbs 326 

Cracker Crumbs 326 

Croutons for Soup 326 

Fried Bread for Soups 326 

Leftovers 324 



BREAKFASTS 



Page 

Breakfasts, "A Little Breakfast" 301 

Breakfasts, Breakfast Custard 301 

Breakfasts, Calcutta Toast 303 

Breakfasts, Cold Meat Balls 301 

Breakfasts, Croquettes 301 

Breakfasts, Dried Beef with Eggs 301 

Breakfasts, Egg Toast 302 

Breakfasts, Frizzled Beef 302 

Breakfasts, Ham on Toast 303 



Page 

Breakfasts, Kidney Stew 302 

Breakfasts, "My Devil," Canadian 302 

Breakfasts, Pork Tenderloins 303 

Breakfasts, Savory Molds 302 

Breakfasts, Tomato Custard 304 

Breakfasts, Tomato Pilau 303 

Breakfast, Tomato Toast 303 

Breakfasts, White Puddings, Vir- 
ginia 303 



CAKES 



Page 

General Directions 220 

Cakes, Angel 221 

Cakes, Black, to Bake 221 

Cakes, Black, Fruit, 1 221 

Cakes, Black, Fruit, 2 221 

Cakes, Black or Wedding 222 



Page 

Cakes, Blueberry 222 

Cakes, Brandy Snaps 225 

Cakes, Bread 222 

Cakes, Caramel, 1 223 

Cakes, Caramel, 2 223 

Cakes, Caramel Filling 223 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



357 



CAKES— Continued 



Q Kes 
Ci kes 
Cf Ices, 
Ce '<es 
Ca.<es 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes, 
Cakes, 
Cakes, 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes, 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes 
Cakes, 
Cakes, 



Page 

Caramel Layer 223 

Chocolate 223 

Chocolate Eclairs 223 

Chocolate Cookies 225 

Chocolate Custard 225 

Clove 225 

Cocoanut 225 

Cocoanut Cookies 226 

Cookies 226 

Cookies, Cocoanut, 1 226 

Cookies, Cocoanut, 2 227/ 

Corn Starch 227 

Crullers 227 

Cream, Sour 228 

Cup 226 

Cup Little Cakes 226 

Delicate 228 

Devil 228 

Doughnuts, to Fry 228 

Doughnuts 228 

Doughnuts, French 228 

Election, Connecticut 224 

Fig 229 

Fried 229 

Frivoles 230 

Fruit, White 229 

Ginger Bread 229 

Ginger Snaps 229 

Gold : 229 

Hermit's 230 

Hickory 230 

Jelly 230 

Jumbles 230 



Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes, 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes 

Cakes, 

Cakes 

Icing 

Icing, 

Icing, 

Icing, 

Icing, 

Icing, 



Page 

Kiss Cookies 227 

Lady 231 

Lady Fingers 231 

Layer 231 

Little Cakes for 18 231 

Loaf 232 

Macaroons 232 

Madelaines 232 

Maple Sugar 232 

Maple Sugar Filling 232 

Nut 232 

Oatmeal 232 

Plain 222 

Plum Shropshire 223 

Plunkets 233 

Prince of Wales 235 

Queen 233 

Sand Tarts 235 

Silver 234 

Sponge, Very Old 235 

Sponge 234 

Sponge, Jelly Roll 231 

Sponge, Velvet 235 

Spanish Buns 234 

Sunshine 234 

White Mountain 234 

for Cakes 236 

Almond 235 

Boiled 230 

Lemon 232 

Royal 235 

Soft 230 



CATSUPS AND PICKLES 



Page 

The Making of Both 188 

Catsup, "A Fine" 188 

Catsup, Cucumber 191 

Catsup, East India 191 

Catsup, Grape 189 

Catsup, Lemon 191 

Catsup, Pepper 194 

Pickles, Cherry Sweet 191 

Pickles, Chili 188 

Pickles, Chutney Bengal 188 

Pickles, Cucumber, small 188 

Pickles, Cucumbers. Ripe Sweet 190 

Pickles, Cantaloupe Sweet 194 

Pickles, Celery, German 189 

Pickles, Delicious 189 

Pickles, Green Peppers 190 



Page 

Pickles, Kitchen Pepper 190 

Pickles, Mixed -191 

Pickles, Mix Mustard 191 

Pickles, Martynia 192 

Pickles, Nasturtium Seeds 191 

Pickles, Onions 191 

Pickles, Peppers, Red 192 

Pickles, Peach, Sweet 193 

Pickles, Pear, Sweet 193 

Pickles, Pineapple, Sweet 192 

Pickles, Pineapple, Sweet 193 

Pickles, Plums, Sweet 192 

Pickles, Raspberry Vinegar 194 

Pickles, Tomato Soy 193 

Pickles, Watermelon, Sweet 194 



CHAFING DISH 



Page 

Cooking, Chafing Dish 296 

Calf's Head Terrapin 297 



Page 

Cheese Fondue 296 

Chicken Creamed 296 



358 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



CHAFING DISH— Continued 



Page 

Eggs Golden Rod 296 

Eggs Scrambled 296 

Eggs with Tomatoes 296 

Ham, creamed 298 

Liver, fried 297 

Lobster, creamed 297 

Macaroni 297 



Page 

Oysters with Celery 298 

Oysters, creamed 298 

Oysters, panned 298 

Oysters with Sherry 298 

Squabs, stewed 298 

Salmi of Tongue 299 

Tomatoes and Eggs 299 



CHICKENS, POULTRY AND GAME 



Page 

Poultry, to choose and prepare 90 

Chicken a la King 93 

Chicken a la Marengo 98 

Chickens, "Baby" 91 

Chickens, to baste 92 

Chicken Bones for Soup 91 

Chickens, breaded 92 

Chickens, bread cups 92 

Chickens, broiled 92 

Chickens, boiled 91 

Chickens, boudins of 91 

Chickens, casserole, 1 92 

Chickens, casserole, 2 93 

Chickens, cooking in casserole 92 

Chicken Croquettes, 1 93 

Chicken Croquettes, 2, Washington 93 

Chicken Curry 94 

Chicken, Deviled 94 

Chicken, Dumplings with 95 

Chicken, Fried, Maryland 95 

Chicken, Fried, Virginia, 1 95 

Chicken, Fried, Virginia, 2 95 

Chicken Fricassee 95 

Chicken Hash 96 

Chicken Hash with Eggs 96 

Chicken Hash with Rice Farina 

Toast 96 

Chicken, Hungarian 96 

Chicken Jelly 96 

Chicken, jellied 97 

Chicken, jugged 97 

Chicken Livers 97 

Chicken Livers with Bacon 97 

Chicken, Minced with Eggs 98 

Chicken Mousse, cold 99 

Chicken with Mushrooms 99 

Chicken, panned 99 

Chicken Patties 99 

Chicken Pie, 1 100 

Chicken Pie with Oysters 100 

Chicken, Poached Eggs 100 

Chicken Pot Pie 100 

Chicken, roasted 101 

Chicken Roast 101 

Chicken Sandwiches 101 

Chicken, smothered 102 

Chicken Souffle, 1 102 

Chicken SoufHe, 2 102 

Chicken, stewed 103 

Chicken, Swedish 104 

Chicken, stuffing 109 



Page 

Chicken, Timbales ot 103 

Chicken Turnovers 103 

Duck, Canvas Back 109 

Ducks, Roast 104 

Ducks, Ragout of, Leftovers 105 

Ducks, Steamed 104 

Duck, Stuffing for 113 

Duck, Wild, broiled 109 

Duck, Wild, roasted 110 

Goose, Braised 105 

Goose, Roast 105 

Grouse 104 

Guinea 106 

Pigeons, roast 106 

Pigeon Pie 106 

Pigeons, stewed 106 

Rendering Goose Fat 106 

Rabbit, Stewed 107 

Squirrel Brunswick Stew, Virginia.. 107 

Squirrel, Stewed 107 

Turkey, boiled 108 

Turkey, broiled 108 

Turkey, Broiled Breast of 108 

Turkey, creamed 108 

Turkey, minced 109 

Turkey, roast 108 

Turkey, roast 101 

Turkey, stewed 109 

Turkey, stuffing, 1 109 

Turkey, stuffing 113 

Turkey, stuffing for roast, 2 109 

Game 109 

Game Mold 112 

Grouse, broiled 110 

Grouse, roasted 110 

Grouse Souffle 110 

Partridge, roasted 110 

Partridge Souffle HO 

Pheasant, boiled Ill 

Pheasant, roasted HI 

Quail, Broiled Ill 

Snipe Ill 

Turkey, Filling for Ill 

Turkey, roasted Ill 

Venison, roasted Ill 

Venison Steak, 1 Ill 

Venison Steak, 2 112 

Venison Steak 112 

Venison. Cold Minced 112 

Sage and Onion Stuffing 112 

Flour Fried for Thickening 113 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



359 



CHEESE 

Page 

Cheese as Food 327 Cheese, 

Cheese, to Keep from Moulding 327 Cheese 

Cheese, Aigrettes of Parmesan 327 Cheese 

Cheese Balls 327 Cheese, 

Cheese, Cheeselets 327 Cheese 

Cheese, Crackers and Anchovy Paste 333 Cheese, 

Cheese, Crackers 333 Cheese 

Cheese, Cottage 328 Cheese, 

Cheese, Cottage Salad 333 Cheese 

Cheese, Cream, 1 328 Cheese, 

Cheese, Cream, 2 328 Cheese, 

Cheese, Cream and Crackers 333 Cheese, 

Cheese, Curds 331 Cheese 

Cheese, Fritters 329 Cheese 

Cheese, Fontainbleau 328 Cheese, 

Cheese, Fondue, 1 329 Cheese 

Cheese, Fondue, 2 329 Cheese 

Cheese, Kluskis, of Cream 330 Cheese, 

Cheese, Melted 329 Cheese, 



Pag* 

Monkey, English 330 

Molds 331 

Muffs 330 

Parmesan Croquettes 330 

Pastry Fingers 331 

Pudding 330 

Puffs 330 

Pounded 331 

Ramekins 331 

Rarebit, baked 333 

Rarebit, Welsh 333 

Rarebit, Welsh 333 

Salad 333 

Sandwiches 332 

Sardines and Anchovy 333 

Souffle, 1 332 

Souffle, 2 332 

Stewed 331 

Toast 332 



COCKTAILS 



Page 

Cocktails, Brandy 169 

Cocktails, Bronx 169 



Page 



Cocktails, Clover igg 

Cocktails, Martini "....." 169 



CEREALS 



Page 

Cereals 241 

Cereals, to Cook 241 

Cereals, Corn Meal, to Cook 248 

Cereals, Corn Meal 247 

Cereals, Farina Croquettes 248 

Cereals, Macaroni, Italian, 1 245 

Cereals, Macaroni, Italian, 2 246 

Cereals, Macaroni Queneltlei 246 



Page 

Cereals, Hominy 247 

Cereals, Hominy, fine fried 247 

Cereals, Hominy, fried 247 

Cereals, Hominy Croquettes 247 

Cereals, Macaroni a la Brignoli 245 

Cereals, Macaroni, Tomato Sauce. 246 
Cereals, Wheat, Cracked 241 



Page 

Eggs, What They Contain 114 

Eggs with Asparagus 114 

Eggs, Balls of 114 

Eggs, Baked, 1 114 

Eggs, Baked, 2 114 

Eggs, Baked, 3 114 

Eggs with Black Butter 115 

Eggs with Cheese 115 

Eggs with Cream, 1 115 

Eggs with Cream, 2 115 

Eggs with Crumbs and Cheese 116 

Egg Croquettes 116 

Egg Cutlets 116 

Egg Cutlets 118 

Eggs, Devilled 116 

Eggs, fried, 1 117 

Eggs, fried, 2 117 

Eggs in Nest 117 

Eggs, Newburg 117 



EGGS 

Pas 

Eggs in Small Dishes lis 

Eggs on Plate 117 

Eggs, Poached ng 

Eggs, Poached in Milk 115 

Eggs, Poached with Anchovy Sauce 118 

Eggs, Poached with Tomatoes 119 

Eggs in Tomatoes 119 

Eggs in Purgatory 119 

Egg Omelette 119 

Egg Omelette with Chives 119 

Egg Omelette with Parsley 119 

Eggs, Omelette, Orange 120 

Eggs, Omelette, Spanish 120 

Eggs, Omelette, Souffle 120 

Eggs with Sausage 120 

Eggs Stuffed 120 

Eggs with Tripe 121 



360 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



FISH 



Page 
Directions 24 



Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish, 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 
Fish 



Fish 

baked 24 Fish 

with Bacon 25 Fish 

with Cucumbers 25 Fish 

Boiling 26 Fish 

BoiHng in Court Bouillon 26 Fish 

Chops 29 Fish 

Chowder 1 26 Fish 

Chowder 2 27 Fish 

Chowder 3, Maryland 27 Fish 

Creamed 29 Fish 

Cutlets 30 Fish 

Clams, raw 27 Fish 

Clams, baked 49 Fish 

Clam broth 49 Fish 

Clams quohogs cakes 28 Fish 

Clams quohogs or little neck 49 Fish 

Clams steamed 49 Fish 

Clams stuffed 49 Fish 

Crabs cream of 28 Fish 

Crabs devilled 28 Fish 

Soft Shelled 29 Fish 

Soft Shelled, broiled 30 Fish 

Soft Shelled, fried 30 Fish 

Codfish balls 40 Fish 

Codfish cakes 40 Fish 

Codfish creamed 41 Fish 

Codfish Souffle 41 Fish 

Codfish on Toast, Cuban 41 Fish 

Cod, baked 26 Fish 

Cod, baked cream sauce 29 Fish 

Cod, creamed 27 Fish 

to freshen Codfish 40 Fish 

Eels 30 Fish 

Finnan Haddie 41 Fish 

Frogs legs, fried 30 Fish 

Frogs legs, fried 50 Fish 

Frogs legs, stewed 31 Fish 

Hash 31 Fish 

Halibut Hot 31 Fish 

Halibut Steaks 31 Fish 

Halibut Turbans 31 Fish 

Herrings on Toast 41 Fish 

Herrings pickled 41 Fish 

Kedjeree 30 Fish 

Lobster, to boil, to kill 32 Fish 

Lobster Bake 32 Fish 

Lobster Broil 32 Fish 

Lobster Bisque 32 Fish 



Page 

Lobster, creamed 32 

Lobster, Creole 33 

Lobster Cutlets .-. 33 

Lobster, Devilled 33 

Lobster, Newburg 33 

Mackerel, broiled 34 

Mackerel broiled 41 

Mackerel to boil 41 

Mold of 34 

Maitre d'hotel 43 

Perch, fried Cuban 34 

Pudding 35 

Pudding with Rice 35 

Porgy, fried Cuban 34 

Salt 40 

Salt to freshen 41 

Salt to freshen 42 

Salt Croutes of Haddock 42 

Salmon to boil 36 

Salmon, broiled 37 

Salmon, creamed 38 

Salmon Coquilles 37 

Salmon, devilled 37 

Salmon, Souflfl'e 37 

Salmon, Kippered 43 

Salmon, Souced 43 

Salmon, Smoked 43 

Sardines with eggs 43 

Sardines, Maitre d'hotel 43 

Sardines Devilled 43 

Scallops, fried 38 

Scallops, fried 50 

Scallops, devilled 50 

Scallops, a la Poulette 38 

Scalloped 38 

Shad, broiled 35 

Shad, broiled maitre d'hotel .. 36 

Shad Roes 36 

Shad Roe Croquettes 36 

Smelts, fried Cuban 34 

Smelts, fried 38 

Terrapin, Washington 38 

Timbales of 39 

Trout Brook to fry 39 

Trout, creamed 38 

White, baked 39 

White, broiled 39 

White, planked 39 

White, with oysters 40 



1 



FOODS FOR INVALIDS 



Page 

Advice 305 

Barley Water 315 

Beef Broth, 1 306 

Beef Broth, 2 306 

Beef Essence 305 

Beef Juice 305 

Beef, Raw Sandwich 306 

Beef Steak, Hamburg 306 

Beef Steak for Invalid 306 

Bread, Jelly, 1 306 



Page 

Bread, Jelly, 2 306 

Broths, Chicken 308 

Broths, Clam 306 

Broths, Custard 317 

Broths, Egg 308 

Broths, Mutton 309 

Broths, Mutton, Quick 309 

Broths, Veal 306 

Broths, Caudle 317 



I 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



361 



FOODS FOR INVALIDS— Continued 



Page 

Broths, Chicken Cream 317 

Broths, Chicken Jelly 318 

Broths, Chicken Milk 313 

Broths, Chicken Souffle 318 

Broth, Crackers and Cream 317 

Broth, Crackers with Marmalade 317 

Broths, Crackers Soaked 317 

Broths, Crust Coffee 315 

Broths, Custard 317 

Custard for Invalids 317 

Custard Savory 317 

Currant Jelly Water 308 

Eggs 307 

Eggs. Junket 307 

Egg Lemonade 317 

Eggs, Milk of 307 

Egg Nog, 1 307 

Egg Nog, 2 307 

Egg Nog, 3 308 

Eggs and Orange Juice 312 

Eggs and Port Wine 307 

Eggs Poached 307 

Eggs Poached in Broth 308 

Eggs Poached in Milk 308 

Eggs Poached in Water 307 

Egg Pudding 310 

Egg Tea, 1 310 

Egg Tea, 2 310 

Gruel, Barley 310 

Gruel, Corn Meal 311 

Gruel, Egg, 1 310 

Gruel, Egg, 2 310 

Gruel, Farina 311 

Gruel, Flour 311 

Gruel, Graham Flour 311 

Gruel, Oatmeal, 1 311 

Gruel, Oatmeal, 2 311 

Gruel, Sago 313 

Gum Arabic Water 313 



Page 

Iceland Moss 316 

Jelly, Citronized Milk 313 

Jelly Restorative 309 

Jelly, Port Wine 309 

Jelly Strengthening 309 

Jelly, Tapioca 310 

Koumiss 316 

Laban 314 

Lamb Chops 318 

Lemonade and Flaxseed 315 

Lime Water 315 

Marrowbone Toast 316 

Milk Preparations 313 

Milk, Value of 319 

Milk, Albumenied 315 

Milk, Clabbered 313 

Milk, Chicken 313 

Milk Chocolate 313 

Milk, Digested 314 

Milk and Eggs 307 

Milk, Hot 314 

Milk Jelly 318 

Milk Junket 314 

Milk Shake 315 

Milk Soup 314 

Milk, Thick 315 

Milk with White of Egg 315 

Panada, 1 313 

Panada, 2 312 

Pea 312 

Porridge 312 

Soup. Pea 312 

Soup, Tapioca 312 

Soup. Tapioca with Cream 312 

Toast, Dry 316 

Toast, Cream of. 1 316 

Toast, Cream of, 2 316 

Toast on Marrow Bones 316 

Toast, Oysters 316 

Toast, Water 316 



FRYING 



Page 

Advice About 322 

Beef Suet Drippings 322 

Clarify Fats 322 

Fats for Frying 322 



Page 

Frying Batters ._. 322 

Frying Mixture. Russian 323 

Rendering Lard 323 

Rendering Suet 323 



ICE CREAM, ETC. 

Page 

Advice About 276 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Almond 276 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Apricot 278 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream. Apricot, Muscovite 279 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream. Banana 278 apple 

Ice Cream, Cafe Parfait 278 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Caramel 279 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Chocolate 279 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Egg Nogg, frozen 278 Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, Hickory Nut 277 Ice Cream, 



Page 

Macaroon 279 

Maraschino 278 

Pineapple 278 

Pineapple in the Pine- 

279 

F'each 280 

Rice 280 

Rice with Orange Sauce 280 

Vanilla 280 

Vanilla, French 278 



362 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



ICE CREAM, ETC 

Page 

Ice Cream, Vanilla with Hot Choc- 
olate 281 

Ice Cream, Walnut 277 

Ice Cream, Wiesbaden 280 

Ice Cream, White Grape 281 

Ice, Apricot 281 

Ices, Cherry 282 

Ices, Currant 281 



, — Continued 

Page 

Ices, Strawberry 281 

Mousse 282 

Mousse, Apricot 282 

Mousse, Maple 282 

Mousse, Peach 282 

Mousse, Strawberry 283 

Lemon Sherbet 282 

Roman Punch 283 



LAMB 

Page 

Lamb, if fresh 74 

Lamb Breast, broiled 75 

Lamb Chops, breaded 75 

Lamb Chops, broiled 75 

Lamb Chops, stewed 76 

Lamb Cutlets 76 



Page 

Lamb, Crown of 77 

Lamb Kidneys 77 

Lamb "Leftovers" 78 

Lamb Pie 81 

Lamb Roast 79 

Lamb, Roasted 79 



LEFTOVERS 



Page 

Leftovers of Fish 324 

Leftovers of Salmon, etc 324 



Page 

Potted Ham, etc 325 

Potted Meats, etc 324 



MUTTON 



Page 

Advice about 74 

Mutton for boiling 74 

Mutton Breast, boiled 74 

Mutton Brains 75 

Mutton, Braised 75 

Mutton Chops, broiled, 1 77 

Mutton Chops, broiled, 2 77 

Mutton Chops, forequarter 76 

Mutton Chops, stewed 76 

Mutton, cold 75 

Mutton, Irish Stew of 77 

Mutton Kidneys 77 



Page 

Mutton Leg, boiled 78 

Mutton Leg, stewed 80 

Mutton, Leftovers of 78 

Mutton Minced, on Toast 78 

Mutton, Neck of, boiled 78 

Mutton Pie 79 

Mutton Roast, 1 80 

Mutton Roast, 2 80 

Mutton, roasted 79 

Mutton, Saddle of 81 

Mutton, Slices from Leg 76 



OYSTERS 



Page 

Oysters 44 

Oyster, a la Chamberlain 45 

Oysters, Angels on horseback 44 

Oysters, baked with Sherry 44 

Oysters, blankets 44 

Oysters, broiled 44 

Oysters, browned on toast 44 

Oysters, creamed 45 

Oysters, Cutlets 1 45 

Oysters, Cutlets 2 45 

Oysters, Celery with 45 

Oysters, Cocktail 46 

Oysters, Crackers on toast 46 

Oysters, Croquettes 46 



Page 

Oysters, Curry 46 

Oysters, fried 47 

Oysters, fried in tomato sauce 47 

Oysters, fried, fricasseed 47 

Oysters, filling for patties 48 

Oysters, Gumbo 47 

Oysters, Peace Makers, New Or- 
leans 44 

Oysters, a la Poulette 48 

Oysters, Pourette 48 

Oysters, Salad 48 

Oysters, Scalloped 49 

Oysters on Toast 48 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



363 



PASTRY, ETC. 



Pastry, Advice About 

Pastry, Beef Dripping 

Pastry, Puff 

Pastry, Beef Suet 

Pastry, Puff, Rough 

Pastry, Pie Crust 

Pastry, Pie Crust for One Pie 

Pastry, Vol-au-Vent 

Pastry, Vol-au-Vent or Patty Cases 

Pies, Apple, 1 

Pies, Apple, with Apple Sauce, 2 

Pies, Apple in Deep Dish 

Pies, Apple, Baked for Wild Ducks 

Pies, Cherry 

Pies, Cherry Roly Poly 

Pies, Chestnut, to Prepare 

Pies, Cottage Cheese 

Pies, Cocoanut 

Pies, Cream 

Pies, Custard 

Pies, Lemon 



Pork 
Pork. 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork 
Pork 
Pork 
Pork 
Pork 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork, 
Pork, 



Bacon, Breakfast 82 

Bacon, Breakfast, to cut 82 

Bacon, fried 82 

Cutlets with Chestnuts 82 

Cutlets with Cream Gravy 82 

Feet, broiled 84 

Feet, fried 84 

Head 86 

Ham, baked 85 

Ham, barbecued 86 

Ham, boiled 84 

Ham fried with Eggs 84 

Ham Mousse 85 

Ham Savory 85 

Ham, Steamed 86 



Page 




249 


Pies, 


249 


Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


250 


-Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


250 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


269 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


252 


J'ies, 


265 


Pies, 


261 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


252 


Pies, 


251 


Pies, 


252 


Pies, 


PORK 


82 


Pork 



Page 

Lemon Cheese 252 

Horns 253 

Mince Meat, 1 253 

Mince Meat, 2 253 

Mince Meat 253 

Orange 254 

Orange Shortcake 254 

Patties 254 

Patties, Sweet 254 

Peach 254 

Peach Shortcake 255 

Potato 255 

Potato, Sweet 254 

Pumpkin 254 

Sour Cream 254 

Squash 255 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1 255 

Strawberry Shortcake, 2 256 

Vol-au-Vent 256 

Vol-au-Vent or Patty Cases.... 256 
Washinc^ton 255 



Page 

Pork, Ham, Toast with Curry 86 

Pork, Ham, Leg of Roasted 86 

Pork, Ham, Leg of Stewed 86 

Pork, Meat Cakes 87 

Pork Sausage, to prepare 87 

Pork Sausage, boiled 87 

Pork Sausage, broiled 87 

Pork Sausage, fried 87 

Pork Sausage Rolls, 1 88 

Pork Sausage Rolls, 2 88 

Pork, Spare Ribs, stuffed 87 

Scrapple 87 

Pork, Suckling Pig Roasted 88 

Pork, Salt for Larding 88 

Pork Tenderloins 303 



PRESERVES, JAMS, ETC. 



Pa.Eie 

Advice About and Rules 284 

Jams, Apple with Pineapple 285 

Jams, Blackberry 285 

Jams, Crab Apple 285 

Jams, Damson Plum 285 

Jams, Fruits 286 

Jams, Morella Cherries and Rasp- 
berries 286 

Jams, Peach 285 

Jams, Peach and Pineapple 285 

Jams, Pear and Pineapple 286 

Jams, Quince and Lemon 286 

Jams, Raspberry 286 

Jams, Strawberry 286 

Jellies, Apple 287 

Jellies, Black Currant, for Game 287 

Jellies, Crab Apple 287 



Page 

Jellies, Cranberry 289 

Jellies, Grape 288 

Jellies, Grape Juice 286 

Jellies, Lemon 288 

Jellies, Mint 289 

Jellies, Peach 288 

Jellies, Prune 288 

Jellies, Raspberry 288 

Jellies, Wine. 1 288 

Jellies, Wine, 2 289 

Tellies, Wine. Whipped 289 

To can Fruits 290 

Jellies, Advice About 290 

Tellies, Apple 290 

Jellies, Peaches 290 

Tellies, Pear 290 

Preserves, Rules for 284 



364 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



PRESERVES, JAMS, 

Page 

Preserves, East India 291 

Preserves, Peaches 291 

Preserves, Pears 291 

Preserves, Quinces in Slices 291 

Preserves, Strawberries 292 

Preserves, Strawberries in the Sun.. 292 

Preserves, Tutti Frutti 291 

Preserves, Tomato 292 

Preserves, Vegetable Marrow 292 

Preserves, Watermelon 292 

Syrups 293 

Orange Syrups 293 

Vanilla Syrups 293 

Brandied Fruits 293 



ETC.— Continued 

Page 

Brandied Fruits, Cherries, 1 293 

Brandied Fruits, Cherries, 2 294 

Brandied Fruits, Peaches 294 

Brandied Fruits, Plums 293 

Marmalades 294 

Marmalades, Apple 291 

Marmalades, Grape Fruit 291 

Marmalades, Peach 295 

Marmalades, Pineapple 295 

Marmalades, Pears 295 

Marmalades, Plum 295 

Marmalades, Plum and Crab Apple 294 

Marmalades, Quince 295 

Marmalades. Prunes in Blankets 295 



PUDDINGS 



Page 

Puddings, Alberry 257 

Puddings, Ambrosia 257 

Puddings, Apple, baked 258 

Puddings, Apple, baked with Honey 258 
Puddings, Apple, baked with Sauce.. 258 

Puddings, Apple Dumplings 257 

Puddings, Apple Float 257 

Puddings, Apples, fried 258 

Puddings, Apple Fritters 257 

Puddings, Apple Marmalade 258 

Puddings, Apple, Scalloped 257 

Puddings, Apple Short Cake 258 

Puddings, Apples Scalloped 257 

Puddings, Apples and Tapioca 258 

Puddings, Dried Fruits 258 

Puddings, Apples. Parisian 259 

Puddings, Apple Slump 259 

Puddings, Apricot Snow Balls 259 

Puddings. Batter Pudding 260 

Puddings, Bavarian Cream 259 

Puddings. Bread Pudding. ] 260 

Puddings. Bread Pudding. 2 260 

Puddings. Bread and Butter 260 

Puddings, Bread Pudding, Little 261 

Puddings. Bread Tarts 260 

Puddings, Brown Betty 261 

Puddings, Brown Bread 261 

Puddings, Carrot 261 

Puddings, Caramel 261 

Puddings, Caramel, for Coloring or 

Flavor 263 

Puddings, Charlotte Russe, ] 262 

Puddings, Charlotte Russe, 2 262 

Puddings. Chocolate 263 

Puddings, Cocoanut Cream 263 

Puddings, Corn Starch 264 

Puddings, Cocoanut Cream 263 

Puddings, Cream 262 

Puddings, Cream. Whipped 262 

Puddings, Corn Stprch 264 

Puddings, Custard, baked 262 

Puddings, Custard, boiled 263 

Puddings, Custard, fried 264 

Puddings, Custard Souffle 263 



Page 

Puddings, Damson Dumplings 264 

Puddings, Dates Stuffed 264 

Puddings, Diplomatic 265 

Puddings, Figs in Cream 265 

Puddings, Figs and Nuts 265 

Puddings, Figs, Plain Pudding 265 

Puddings, Friar's Omelette 265 

Puddings, German Fritters 266 

Puddings, Hazel Nuts, Creamed 266 

Puddings, Hollandaise Fritters 265 

Puddings, Lemon 266 

Puddings, Lemon Souffle 266 

Puddings, Marmalade 267 

Puddings, Merangue 271 

Puddings, Mountain 267 

Puddings, Nesselrode 271 

Puddings, Pancakes, fried 267 

Puddings, Pain Brulee 268 

Puddings. Peaches in Mold 268 

Puddings, Pears a la Conde 272 

Puddings, Pineapple, Bavarian 268 

Puddings. Pineapple, fried 269 

Puddings, Plum Charlotte 269 

Puddings, Plum 267 

Puddings, Prunes, fried 269 

Puddings. Prunes, stewed 269 

Puddings, Potato 269 

Puddings. Queen of Puddings 269 

Puddings, Rice, 1 270 

Puddings, Rice, 2 270 

Puddings, Rice. German 270 

Puddings, Rhubarb 271 

Puddings, Rhubarb, baked 272 

Puddings, Rhubarb, with Raisins or 

Prunes 272 

Puddings. Roly-Poly 272 

Puddings. Savarin, with Rum 273 

Puddings, Souffles 273 

Puddings, Souffle, 1 273 

Puddings, Souffle. 2 273 

Puddings, Spanish Cream 274 

Puddings, Spanish Puffs 274 

Puddings, Sponge Batter 274 

Puddings, Strawberry 272 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



365 



PUDDINGS— Continued 



Page 

Puddings, Strawberries with Rum.. 273 

Puddings, Suet 274 

Puddings, Suet and Fruit 275 

Puddings, Swedish 275 



Page 

Puddings, Toothsome or Farina 275 

Puddings, Transparent 275 

Puddings, Yorkshire 275 



RICE 



Page 

Rice, to Cook 242 

Rice, to Boil 242 

Rice with Butter 244 

Rice, Casserole 243 

Rice, Cheese, with 243 

Rice Croquettes 243 

Rice Croquettes with Jam 243 

Rice Croquettes with Meat 243 

Rice, Spaghetti with Cheese 247 



Page 

Rice, Milanese 244 

Rice, Sweet Portugese 244 

Rice, Savory 244 

Rice, Socles 244 

Rice, Timbale 244 

Rice, Tomatoes 245 

Rice with Wine 245 

Rice, Spaghetti, Austrian 246 



SALTED NUTS AND CANDY 



Page 

Almonds 320 

Hickory Nuts 320 

Pecan Nuts 320 

Caramel 320 



Page 

Maple Fudge 320 

Pecan Pralines 321 

White Fudge 321 



SANDWICHES 



Page 

How to Prepare 237 

Sandwiches, Broiled 237 

Sandwiches, Caviare 238 

Sandwiches, Celery 238 

Sandwiches, Cheese 237 

Sandwiches, Cheese, Cream 238 

Sandwiches, Cheese, Potted 237 

Sandwiches, Cherry 238 

Sandwiches, Chicken 238 

Sandwiches, Devilled Ham 239 

Sandwiches, Fish 238 

Sandwiches, Hot Cheese 238 



Page 

Sandwiches, Lettuce 240 

Sandwiches, Liverwurst 240 

Sandwiches, Mayonnaise, with 

Olives 239 

Sandwiches, Olives 239 

Sandwiches, Plain Ham 234 

Sandwiches, Raisin 239 

Sandwiches, Roast Beef 239 

Sandwiches, Sausage 240 

Sandwiches, Spanish 240 

Sandwiches, Tomatoes 240 



SALADS 



Page 

Advice 195 

Salad, Apple and Celery 196 

Salad, Artichokes, Jerusalem 196 

Salad, Asparagus 195 

Salad, Beans, Green 196 

Salad, Calf's Brains 196 

Salad, Carrot and Green Peas 196 

Salad, Cauliflower 197 

Salad, Celeric 197 

Salad, Cheese 196 

Salad, Chicory 196 

Salad, Cream Dressing 197 

Salad, Cream Dressing. Sour 197 

Salad, Cucumber 197 

Salad, Dandelion 198 

Salad, Endive 198 

Salad, "F. F. V." 198 

Salad, French Dressing 198 

Salad, Fruit 198 



Page 

Salad, Grape Fruit 198 

Salad, Harlequin 199 

Salad, Jardiniere 199 

Salad, Lettuce 199 

Salad, Lettuce with Cream Cheese 199 

Salad, Lettuce and Nuts 200 

Salad, Lobster 200 

Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing 200 

Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing, Soyers 201 

Salad, Orange 200 

Salad, Oyster 200 

Salad, Pretty 199 

Salad, Potato, 1 201 

Salad, Potato, 2 201 

Salad, Potato, Hot 202 

Salad, Potato, with Nuts 201 

Salad, Potato Wurtemburg 201 

Salad, Romaine Dressing 202 



366 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



SALADS— Continued 

Page 



Page 



Salad, Romaine 202 

Salad, Russian 202 

Salad, Russian Dressing 204 

Salad, Roquefort Cheese Dressing 202 

Salad, Spanish 202 

Salad Dressing 203 

Salad, Tomato with Caviare 203 



Salad, Tomato Jelly 203 

Salad, Tomato with Celery 203 

Salad, Tomato French Dressing 203 

Salad, Vegetable 203 

Salad, Walnut and Peas 204 

Salad, Watercress, 1 203 

Salad, Watercress, 2 204 



SAUCES 

Page 

Sauce, Algonquin 169 Sauce 

Sauce, Anchovy 170 Sauce, 

Sauce, Anchovy Cream with Cod 170 Sauce 

Sauce, Apple, to serve with Duck 170 Sauce 

Sauce, Asparagus 170 Sauce 

Sauce, Bearnaise, 1 171 Sauce 

Sauce, Bearnaise, 2 171 Sauce, 

Sauce, Bechamel, 1 170 Sauce, 

Sauce, Bechamel, 2 171 Sauce 

Sauce, Brains, Force Meat 172 Sauce, 

Sauce, Bread, 1 171 Cust 

Sauce, Bread, 2 172 Sauce, 

Sauce, Bread, with Onion 172 Sauce, 

Sauce, Butter, for Asparagus Hoi- Sauce 

land 170 Sauce, 

Sauce, Butter, with Milk 172 Sauce 

Sauce, Brown 173 Sauce 

Sauce, Brown Butter 172 Sauce 

Sauce, Brown Caper 173 Sauce 

Sauce, Brown Gravy 173 Sauce, 

Sauce, Brown Sugar 173 Sauce 

Sauce, Caper 173 Sauce 

Sauce, Celery 174 Sauce 

Sauce, Cherry, German 175 Sauce, 

Sauce, Cream, 1 173 Sauce, 

Sauce, Cream, 2 174 Sauce 

Sauce, Cranberry 174 Sauce 

Sauce, Cucumber 174 Sauce, 

Sauces, Custard for Puddings 175 Sauce 

Sauces, Devonshire Clotted Cream.. 174 Sauce 

Sauce, Diable 175 Sauce 

Sauce, Dutch 175 Sauce, 

Sauce, Dutch, for Fish 175 Sauce 

Sauce, Egg Balls 176 Sauce 

Sauce, Egg 176 Sauce 

Sauce, Epicurean 176 Sauce 

Sauce, for Boiled Fish 176 Sauce 

Sauce, for Fish and Lobster 176 Sauce 

Sauce, Fairy Butter 176 Sauce, 

Sauce, Foamy 176 Sauce 

Sauce, Force Meat Balls 176 Sauce 

Sauce, Garlic Wine 177 Sauce 

Sauce, German 177 Sauce 

Sauce, German Wine 177 Sauce, 

Sauce, Genevaise 177 Sauce 

Sauce, Giblet 177 Sauce 

Sauce, Gooseberry 177 Sauce 

Sauce, Making Gravies, 1 169 Sauce, 

Sauce, Making Gravies, 2 169 Sauce 

Sauce, Gravies, Flavoring for 169 Sauce 

Sauce, Hard, 1 177 Sauce 

Sauce, Hard, 2 for Puddings 178 Sauce, 



Hollandaise 

Horseradish with Beef, 1 

Horseradish with Beef, 2 

Horseradish Butter 

Horseradish Vinegar 

Jelly for Game 

Jelly for Mutton 

Jelly for Venison 

for Lemon Butter 

Lemon Brandy for Cake and 
ards 

Lemon Syrup 

Maple Sugar 

Maitre d' Hotel 

Mayonnaise 

Melted Butter 

Mint, 1 

Mint, 2 

Montpelier 

Mustard 

Onion for Coloring 

Onion, 1 

Onion, 2 

Onion Juice 

Onion Puree 

Onion with Game 

Orange with Game 

Orange Syruo 

Oyster for Fish 

s, to Prepare 

to Prepare 

Pepper, 1 

Pepper, 2 

Piquante 

Princess 



Poivarde 

Pudding 

Queen Mary's 

Ravigote 

Robert 

Romaine 

Roux 

Sabyllion 

Sage 

Sevilliane 

Spanish 

Soubise, 1 

Soubise, 2 

Swedish, for Fish 

Tartar 

Tartar, Tomato 

Thickening v/ith Eggs 



Page 

178 
178 
178 

178 
178 
178 
178 
178 



179 
]79 
179 
179 
180 
179 
180 
180 
180 
181 
181 
181 
181 
181 
181 
182 
182 
182 
182 
169 
169 
182 
182 
183 
183 
183 
183 
180 
183 
184 
184 
184 
179 
185 
185 
185 
184 
184 
185 
185 
185 
187 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



367 



SAUCES— Continued 

Page Page 

Sauce, Vanilla 186 Sauce, White 186 

Sauce, Wine, 1 186 Sauce, Wine, for Saddle of Mutton.. 187 

Sauce, Wine, 2 186 Sauce, for Wild Ducks 187 

Sauce, White, for Mushrooms 187 Sauce, Yellow 187 



SAVORIES 

Page 

Savories, Anchovy 122 Savories, 

Savories, Anchovy Sandwich 122 Savories, 

Savories, Anchovy Straw 122 Savories, 

Savories, Aspic Jelly 122 Savories, 

Savories with Bacon 12.3 Savories, 

Savories with Butter 125 Gras .. 

Canape Piquante 125 Savories, 

Canapes, Caviare 123 Savories, 

Caviare on Toast 126 Savories, 

Savories, Crackers, Russian 127 Savories, 

Savories, Cheese and Eggs 125 Savories, 

Savories, Cheese Patties 122 Savories, 

Savories, Eggs 125 Savories, 

Savories, Eggs 127 Savories, 

Savories, Eggs Stuffed 123 Savories, 

Savories, Gascony Butter 123 Savories, 

Savories, Gascony Butter 127 Savories, 

Savories, Ham Butter 124 Savories, 

Savories, Hot Crackers 123 Savories, 

Savories, Hors d' Oevre 126 Savories, 

Savories, Hors d' Oevre, iced 128 Savories, 



Page 

Iced Souffle 125 

Olives 126 

Olives with Anchovies .... 126 

Olive Custard 124 

Olives and Pate d' Foi 

126 

Olives Rolled in Pork 124 

Olives, How to Stone 124 

Oysters Raw 126 

Puff Paste with Bloaters.. 124 

Salmon, Smoked 128 

Sausage Lyons 128 

Sardine Butter 124 

Sardines 124 

Sardines Broiled 124 

Sardines 127 

Sardines Maitre d' Hotel.. 127 

Sardines with Cheese 124 

Sardines on Toast 124 

Savory Butter 125 

Scotch Woodcock 126 



SOUPS 



Ptge 



Advice about 



Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup, 
Soup, 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup, 
Soup 
Soup, 
Soup, 
Soup, 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup, 
Soup, 
Soup 
Soup, 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 
Soup 



a la Peine 21 

Artichoke 9 

Asparagus 9 

Bean 10 

Bean, baked 10 

Bean, black 10 

Bread Panada 11 

Brown Stock for 10 

Bouillon 9 

Bouillon, cold 9 

Bouillon and Dumplings 11 

Calf's Head 12 

Carrot 12 

Celery 12 

Chicken Broth 13 

Chicken Gumbo ]3 

Clam Bouillon 13 

Clam 

Clam Chowder 127 

Claret 13 

Cock-a-Leeky 14 

Coloring for 15 

Consomme 14 

Corn 14 

Corn 17 

Corn Chowder 14 

Crecy 15 

Cucumber 15 

Fish 15 



Page 

Soup, Flemish 15 

Soup, Game 15 

Soup, Glaze 16 

Soup, "Left-overs" for 17 

Soup, Milk 17 

Soup, Minestrone 17 

Soup, Mutton 17 

Soup, Mutton broth 23 

Soup, Normandy 18 

Soup, Onion baked 18 

Soup, Oxtail 19 

Soup, Oyster 19 

Soup, Oyster Chowder 19 

Soup, Peas, dried 19 

Soup, Peas, green 19 

Soup, Peas, old 20 

Soup, Pot-au feu Gouffe's 20 

Soup, Potato 20 

Soup, Pumpkin 20 

Soup, Quenelles for 21 

Soup, Rice and Tomato 21 

Soup, Souffle balls for 21 

Soup, Spinach cream 21 

Soup, Stock for 8 

Soup, Tapioca 22 

Soup, Tomato 22 

Soup, Tomato, cream 22 

Soup, Turnip 21 

Soup, Veal 23 

Soup, Vegetable 23 

Soup, White Stock for 23 



368 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



THINGS WORTH REMEMBERING 



Page 

About Appetizing Stews 336 

Articles Needed in Kitchen 341 

Antidotes for Poisons 349 

Automobile Veil, to Clean 344 

Bait for Rat Traps 343 

Black Beetles 343 

Black Goods, to Clean 344 

Broiling 342 

Cake Crumbs 334 

Canned Fruits 334 

Clean Fruits 334 

Cleaner for Carpets 348 

Cleaner for Rugs 348 

Cleaner for Woolens 348 

Cleaners 347 

Cleaners for Brass 347 

Clogging of Sinks 336 

Church Suppers 353 

Chairs in Kitchen 347 

Cold Cream 342 

Coffee Stains 336 

Colors to Restore 357 

Copper, to Clean 342 

Dish Towels 351 

Drains, to Clean 343 

Economy 335 

Egg Stains 342 

Feet, "Very Tired" 349 

French Terms Used in Cooking 335 

Flour, to Brown 337 

Flour, to Sift 337 

Flat Irons 343 

Furniture Polish 344 

Parsley, to Chop 334 

Paste 347 

Paint Spots 347 

Perfume Bags 348 

Perfume for Baths 348 

Piano Keys 347 

Piano Polish 347 

Refrigerators 343 

Restore Colors 351 

Rules for Health 352 

Salt, Uses of 350 



Page 

Scissors in Kitchen 336 

Gelatine 334 

Gelatine Granulated 334 

Grease Tins 336 

Grease on Stoves 336 

Hands, Chapped 345 

Hair Tonic 349 

Herbs Used in Cooking 337 

Herbs, Sweet 338 

Hiccoughs 349 

Hot Plates 334 

Iron Kettles, to Clean 334 

Ink Spots 349 

Javelle Water 345 

Keeping Food Warm 337 

Kettles, to Clean 343 

Kitchen Chairs 352 

Lemons, to Keep 342 

Leftovers 334 

Meats, to Keep 337 

Meringues 347 

INIortar, to Remove 337 

Measure, How to 351 

Metals, to Clean 345 

Mosquitos, Remedy for United 

States 342 

Old Newspapers 342 

Odor from Cabbage 338 

Old Glass Jars 337 

Onion Juice 348 

Oven Doors 336 

Paper Bags 345 

Seeds, to remove 337 

Scrubbing Brushes 342 

Scorch Marks 345 

Spice Plaster 345 

Sting from Bees 351 

Shiny Look on Seams 244 

Tired Feet, Remedy for 349 

Turpentine, Uses for 345 

Turpentine, Value of 345 

Washing Glass 342 

What to Serve with Food 341 



TRIPE 

Page 

Tripe, to cook 73 

Tripe, creamed 73 

Tripe, digestive 73 

VEAL 

Page 

Veal 64 

Veal "Birds" 64 

Veal, Breast of 64 

Veal, Cream of 64 

Veal Cutlets 65 

Veal Cutlets with Macaroni 65 



Page 

Tripe Cutlets 73 

Tripe, fried 73 

Tripe and Oysters 73 

Page 

Veal Cutlets fried in cream 65 

Veal Cutlets with cream 64 

Veal Fricandeau of 66 

Veal Fricandeau with Soinach 66 

Veal Imitation Pate de Foie Gras 67 

Veal, Italian Cheese 67 



Cook Book 365— No. 2. 



369 



VEAL — Continued 



Page 

Veal Liver and Bacon 67 Veal 

Veal Liver, baked 68 Veal 

Veal Liver, Braised 67 Veal 

Veal Liver with cream 68 Veal 

Veal Liver, Larded 68 Veal 

Veal and Ham Pie 69 Veal 

Veal and French Pie 69 Veal 

Veal Loin, braised 6U Calf 

Veal Loaf 70 Calf 

Veal, Minced with Eggs 70 Calf 

Veal Mock Terrapin 72 Calf 

Veal Sweetbreads, Asparagus Sauce 71 Calf 

Veal Sweetbreads, baked 70 Calf 

Veal Sweetbreads, Cutlets 70 Calf 

Veal Sweetbreads, fried, 1 71 



Page 

Sweetbreads, fried, 2 71 

Sweetbreads, Havanese 72 

Sweetbreads in Oven 71 

Sweetbread Patties 72 

Sweetbreads, truffled 72 

Scallops 72 

Spanish Sauce 71 

s Brains, to prepare 65 

s Brains, baked 66 

s Brains, fried .'. 66 

s Feet 66 

s Head, baked 68 

s Head, boiled 68 

s Head Terrapin 69 



VEGETABLES 



Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 
Vegetab 



Page 

129 

Artichokes 130 

Artichoke Jerusalem 131 

Artichokes Creamed 131 

Asparagus 131 

Asparagus Creamed 131 

Bananas baked 131 

Beans, baked 131 

Beans, Green, Creamed,.. 131 
Beans, Green "Snaps".. 132 
Beans, Green "Snaps".. 132 

Beans, Lyonnaise 132 

Beans, Lima, 1 132 

Beans, Baked Boston, 2.. 133 

Beans, to Can 132 

Beans, Baked Boston, 1.. 132 
Beans, Baked Boston, 2.. 133 

Beets 133 

Brussel Sprouts 132 

Cabbage boiled 133 

Cabbage with Butter 133 

Cabbage, Cold Slaw 133 

Cabbage Escalloped 133 

Cabbage, Hot Slaw 134 

Cardoons, boiled 134 

Carrots 134 

Carrots, German 134 

Carrots Glace 134 

Carrots Maitre d' Hotel 135 

Carrots, sliced 134 

Carrots, stewed 135 

Cauliflower, baked 135 

Cauliflower, boiled 135 

Cauliflower with Cheese 135 

Celery, fried 136 

Celery, raw 136 

Celery, stewed 135 

Corn, baked 136 

Corn, boiled 136 

Corn Cake 136 

Corn Cakes 137 



Page 

Vegetables, Corn Chowder 137 

Vegetables, Corn, creamed 136 

Vegetables, Corn Fritters 137 

Vegetables, Corn Pudding 137 

Vegetables, Cucumbers 137 

Vegetables, Cucumbers, dressed 138 

Vegetables, Cucumbers, fried 138 

Vegetables, Cucumbers for Fish 138 

Vegetables, Cucumbers, raw 138 

Vegetables, Cucumbers, stuffed 138 

Vegetables, Dandelions 138 

Vegetables, Egg Plant 139 

Vegetables, Egg Plant, escalloped .. 139 

Vegetables, Egg Plant, fried 139 

Vegetables, Egg Plant, stuffed, 1 .... 139 

Vegetables, Egg Plant, stuffed, 2 140 

Vegetables, How to Cook and Use.... 129 

Vegetables, Kohlrabi 140 

Vegetables, Leeks 141 

Vegetable Marrow, stuffed 161 

Vegetables, Mushrooms, baked 140 

Vegetables, Mushrooms, baked un- 
der glass 140 

Vegetables, Mushroooms with But- 
ter 140 

Vegetables, Mushrooms, creamed 140 

Vegetables, Mushrooms, stewed, 1 .. 141 
Vegetables, Mushrooms, stewed, 2 .. 141 
Vegetables, Mushroooms on Toast.. 141 

Vegetables, Okra 144 

Vegetables, Onions, baked 141 

Vegetables, Onions, buttered crumbs 142 

Vegetables, Onions, Bermuda 141 

Vegetables, Onions with Cream 142 

Vegetables, Onion Custard 142 

Vegetables, Onions, fried Devon- 
shire 142 

Vegetables, Onions, fried 143 

Vegetables, Onion fritters 142 

Vegetables, Onions, glazed 143 

Vegetables, Onions in Gravy 143 

Vegetables, Onions, stuffed 143 



370 



Cook Book 365~No. 2. 



VEGETABLES— Continued 



Page 

Vegetables, Onions, Spanish baked .. 143 
Vegetables, Onions, Spanish fried .. 144 
Vegetables, Onions, Spanish Maitre 

d' Hotel 144 

Vegetables, Parsley, to dry 144 

Vegetables, Parsley, fried 144 

Vegetables, Parsnip Balls 144 

Vegetables, Parsnips, boiled 144 

Vegetables, Parsnip Fritters 145 

Vegetables, Peas, Green to cook 145 

Vegetables, Peas, dried 145 

Vegetables, Peppers, to can 146 

Vegetables, Peppers, stuffed with 

Chicken 146 

Vegetables, Peppers, stuffed 146 

Vegetables, Peppers, stuffed with 

Sweetbreads 146 

Vegetables, Peppers, to prepare for 

Winter 145 

Vegetables, Potato "Anna" 147 

Vegetables, Potato Balls 147 

Vegetables, Potatoes, baked 147 

Vegetables, Potatoes, baked with 

butter 148 

Vegetables, Potatoes, baked, stuffed 148 
Vegetables, Potatoes, boiled and 

cold 147 

Vegetables, Potato Cakes 150 

Vegetables, Potatoes with Cheese 140 

Vegetables, Potatoes with Crumbs.. 140 

Vegetables, Potatoes, creamed 147 

Vegetables, Potatoes, creamed 149 

Vegetables, Potatoes, creamed baked 149 
Vegetables. Potatoes, new, boiled .... 148 

Vegetables, Potato Croquettes 149 

Vegetables, Potatoes, crumbed 150 

Vegetables, Potatoes, fried 150 

Vegetables, Potatoes, French fried.. 150 
Vegetables, Potatoes, fried with 

Parsley 150 

Vegetables, Potatoes, hashed brown.. 150 

Vegetables, Potato Loaves 151 

Vegetables, Potatoes, Lyonnaise 151 

Vegetables, Potatoes, Maitre d' 

Hotel 150 

Vegetables, Potatoes, mashed 151 

Vegetables, Potatoes with Mustard.. 151 

Vegetables, Potatoes, princess 151 

Vegetables, Potatoes, puff 152 

Vegetables, Potatoes, roasted with 

Meal 152 

Vegetables, Potatoes, Saratoga 152 

Vegetables, Potato Swiss Pie 152 

Vegetables, Potato Snow 152 

Vegetables, Potatoes, stewed, 1 152 

Vegetables, Potatoes, stewed, 2 153 

Vegetables, Potato Souffle 153 

Vegetables, Potato Turnovers 153 



Page 

Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, baked, 1 153 
Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, baked, 2 153 
Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, boiled.. 153 
Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, broiled 153 
Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, candied, 

1 153 

Vegetables, Potatoes, Sweet, candied, 

2 154 

Vegetables, Potato Straws 155 

Vegetables, Potato Pumpkin 155 

Vegetables, Salsify, boiled 155 

Vegetables, Salsify Cakes 156 

Vegetables, Sauer Kraut, to prepare 156 

Vegetables, Sauer Kraut, cooked 156 

Vegetables, Steaming 130 

Vegetables, Succotash of Beans 155 

Vegetables, Spinach Puree, 1 155 

Vegetables, Spinach Puree, 2 155 

Vegetables, Squash, summer 156 

Vegetables, Squash, summer, fried.. 156 
Vegetables, Squash, summer, stewed 156 
Vegetables, Squash Griddle Cakes.. 156 

Vegetables, Squash, winter 157 

Vegetables, Tomato Aspic 157 

Vegetables, Tomato Bisque 157 

Vegetables, Tomatoes broiled 159 

Vegetables, Tomatoes Devilled 157 

Vegetables, Tomatoes with Eggs .... 158 
Vegetables, Tomatoes with Eggs 

poached 157 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, fried 158 

Vegetables, Tomatoes au Gratin 158 

Vegetables. Tomatoes, Green, fried.. 159 
Vegetables, Tomatoes, Help to 

Housekeepers 159 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, Paste of 159 

Vegetables, Tomatoes with Rice 159 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, stewed 159 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, stuffed with 

Brains - 157 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, stuffed with 

Chicken 157 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, to can 160 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, to can 

whole 160 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, to can 

whole 161 

Vegetables, Tomatoes, to can 

whole 161 

Vegetables, Turnips and Bread 

Crumbs • 160 

Vegetables, Turnips, stewed in but- 
ter ; 160 

Vegetables, Turnips, stewed in gravy 160 

Vegetables, Turnips, mashed 160 

Vegetables, Turnips and Peas 161 

Vegetables Marrow, boiled 161 

Vegetables, Washing of 130 



I 



4 



