
EFFICIENCY 

HOME MAKING 

AND 

IRSTAIDTDGODD OMSNG 



TX 

145 



ROBERTSON 




Class TXL-^lSL- 

Book - Tf^T 

Copyright N° 



C01»YK!GHT DEPOSfT. 



EFFICIENCY 



IN 



HOME-MAKING 



AND 



FIRST-AID 



TO 



GOOD COOKING 



BY 

GEORGIA ROBERTSON 

'l 

Author of 

Common Sense Recipes for Every-day Use 

The Money Value of Good Health 
Health and Good Cooking in the Home 



ROBERTSON, PUBLISHER 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
THE KENESAW 



^ 






Copyrighted 1915 



GEORGIA ROBERTSON 

WASHINGTON. D. C. 



0EC-7I9I5 



IAKP.R PRINTING CO. 
NBWARK. N. J. 



1 CI. A 4 t H 8 5 



To those who would aid in the better 
upbuilding of our nation, mentally, morally 
and spiritually, by a more perfect physical 
development, this little book is dedicated. 



Selecting the Home for Health 
and Efficiency 

Name Three Important Points in Selecting a Home. 

First. Healthful location, far from marshy ground, 
stagnant water, polluted stream, or noisy surroundings. 

Second. Dry, airy cellar ; never damp, moldy, ill 
smelling, or water standing in it. 

Third. Light rooms, with sunshine at least part of 
the day. 

Why will a damp cellar affect the rest of the house? 

The air and dampness pass through minute pores and 
crevices, and enter the rooms above. 

How can you prove this? Close all windows and 
doors, and burn some ground coffee in the cellar and 
you will notice the odor in the rooms above. The floor 
of the cellar and the sides as far up as the level of the 
ground outside should be concreted to keep the damp- 
ness and ground air out. In a city there are many gas 
and sewer pipes underground and gases escaping make 
their way through the earth into the house. 

What harm will it do to have impure, damp air in the 
house? Impure air and dampness lower vitality and 
resisting power, making one more susceptible to disease. 

Are dark cellar and basement closets, and all sinks, 
wash-stands, and tubs with enclosed plumbing objection- 
able? Very, for dark and damp places favor germ 
growth. 

Will a handsome exterior compensate for living in 
rooms not penetrated by sunshine ? No ; sunless rooms 
mean gradual undermining of vitality. 

What other conditions may make a house or apart- 
ment undesirable? If it is exposed to fierce, bleak winds 
and cannot be heated sufficiently, or in a hot climate not 



6 Efficiency in Home Making 

sufficiently large air chamber above, and sunshine beat- 
ing directly on many large windows all day. 

What kind of a house makes for efficiency living? 
One, the proper care or oversight of which, leaves time 
for the best development of the members of the family. 
One that is so large or so furnished, that it is an undue 
tax upon either the income, the time, health or nerves 
of its occupants is not worth while. 

THE WATER SUPPLY. 

Why is there so much danger from impure water? 
Water passes out of the stomach quickly, so its secretions 
cannot act on it as thoroughly as on food, destroying 
the germs. 

Can one retain health and not drink plenty of water? 
No ; for the body is two-thirds Avater by weight, and in 
addition must have plenty to wash out impurities and 
waste material. 

How much water a day is required besides that in the 
food ? Three pints. 

If water has no odor, is clear and sparkling, is that 
a test of its purity ? No ; it may be swarming with bac- 
teria. 

If obliged to use impure water how should it be puri- 
fied? Filter through a good, slow filter, not one that 
runs a full stream from the spigot. Then boil, cool, and 
place in the ice box in covered fruit jars near the ice. 
Ice should not be put in drinking water but next it. 

How can the flat taste of boiled water be overcome? 
Pour back and forth from one jar to another in a clean 
place free from dust, or partly fill can, put on cover and 
shake thoroughly. 

How should the filter be cared for. It must be washed 
every day, scrubbing the porcelain tubes with a brush 
used for nothing else. They should be baked every few 
days, to kill any microbes or germs. 

Is well water better than good city water ? Seldom ; 
for well water is very liable to contamination, from sur- 



Efficiency in Home Making 7 

face drainage. Stables, outhouses, or any kind of pollu- 
tion, though some distance away may make the well 
water unfit for use. 

Why is the modern driven well preferable to the old 
style dug wells ? No surface water can get into it, which 
is very important. If the small driven pipe is not re- 
placed by a large iron one it becomes self cleansing, and 
the water must be fresh, as there is no space for it to 
stand. Such a well, of course, does not need cleaning, 
or ventilating. 

What precaution must be taken with the old style well 
or the driven well if it has a large tank pipe? It must be 
covered in such a way at the top that no small animals 
can fall into it, that the water cannot trickle back, carry- 
ing filth that may have fallen on, or been tracked across 
the covering, and it must have a ventilating shaft. It 
must be cleaned regularly, and the water analyzed. 

Are the old style wells with a rope to be drawn up by 
hand objectionable? Very, indeed; the perspiration, 
dirt, microbes and germs from the hands are transferred 
to the rope, to be washed down from it into the next 
bucket of water. A well should be so placed that water 
from a cemetery, slaughter house, stables and closets 
will not drain towards it. 

Are rain water and snow pure? Not that which first 
falls, for they have washed down all the dust and germs 
in the air. If used for drinking, do not let them run into 
the cistern ; but rinse the roof off first with that. 

What special care do cisterns need? To be properly 
ventilated and cleaned regularly. Do not have an ill- 
smelling cistern ; it is insanitary. 

HEATING THE HOUSE. 

Is it economy to buy a small heater that has to be 
forced to heat the house ? No ; a larger one will last 
longer and give more satisfactory service. 

What advantage has hot water heating over steam ? 
The heat is not so dry ; it gives a more even temperature 



8 Efficiency in Home Making 

to the house, as with steam the water has to reach boil- 
ing before the heat comes up, and as soon as it falls 
below boiling, it ceases to carry heat above. 

Can very large buildings be heated by hot water ? Not 
satisfactorily. 

Are steam and hot water heat preferable to hot air? 
Yes ; there is dust from the hot air furnace in the rooms 
above, and gas is liable to enter through the heating 
flues. These flues must be kept free of dust, and intake 
of fresh air must be from a point where the air is pure, 
not under a veranda, or from the cellar or drawn from 
any room in the house. 

How can an inexpensive heater be provided for a six- 
room house ? There is now a small hot air furnace cost- 
ing less than $100.00, which will heat six rooms comfort- 
ably, but one must see that fresh air is constantly sup- 
plied in the house, because the air for the heater is drawn 
from the living rooms, but no air from the cellar passes 
into the heating flues. It is not so hygienic as a furnace 
that receives air from outdoors, but it costs less, is better 
than heating with stoves, probably no more expensive, 
and much easier to take care of, as the coal and ashes 
are all in the cellar. 

Is it desirable to defer starting the furnace until very 
late in the fall ? No ; for the house becomes chilly and 
damp, and is uncomfortable as well as liable to cause 
colds and rheumatism. 

How can too much heat be avoided? By only shaking 
down the furnace enough to prevent the fire going out, 
and after putting on furnace coal, put a layer of fine 
pea coal over that. 

Can a fire be kept very low this way ? It can for days 
at a time, so there will be scarcely any heat; just enough 
to prevent chill and dampness. 

Where steam heat or a hot air furnace is used what 
must be done to prevent excessive dryness in the atmos- 
phere? A dish of water must be kept on the radiator, 
or a pail of water below the register grating, unless the 
furnace has a reservoir for water. 



Efficiency in Home Making 9 

What harm will an excessively dry atmosphere do ? It 
will dry out the furniture, and injure it, and also affect 
the skin, hair, and lining of the nose and throat of the 
occupants of the house. It will predispose them to catar- 
rhal troubles. 

Can one judge of the proper temperature of a room 
by the feeling ? No ; the only safe way is to use a ther- 
mometer. 

What is considered the best temperature? 68°. 

What should be done to the heater when warm weather 
is assured? It should be thoroughly cleaned and put in 
readiness for fall. 

Why is it important to remove the soot from the smoke 
stack? It readily absorbes dampness, and the pipe will 
rust until it is only a thin sheet, and is liable to cause a 
disastrous fire, when used. The soot also gives off an 
unpleasant odor when damp. Dust should be cleaned 
from all flues in a hot air furnace. 



LIGHTING THE HOME. 

Why is electric light preferable to any other kind? 
It does not use any of the oxygen in the air ; every other 
kind does. 

What other important advantage has it? It does not 
give off any gases in burning as all other lights do. 

Is indirect lighting better than the direct? It is; it 
diffuses a soft light all over the room which is better 
for the eyes than a glaring light. The contrast between 
dark shadows and a glare of light in the room is bad 
for the eyes. Of course, there must be plenty of light 
to read or sew by, for it is a strain on the eyes and the 
nervous system also, to work in a poor light. 

Are Welsbach lights more economical ? Yes ; they in- 
crease the amount of light very much, so one burner will 
do the work of two or three. 

Where should a drop gas light be turned out? At the 
fixture above, for if the gas remains confined in the 



io Efficiency in Home Making 

tubing it will injure it, and is liable also to leak when 
not burning. 

When the gas flame is uneven, what should be done ? 
Clean out the gas tip. Turn the light out and run a thin 
card back and forth through the tip. 

Should a kerosene lamp be turned down ? No ; it will 
use as much oil, and also give off a poisonous offensive 
odor, from a gas which will be formed by the low heat 
of the reduced flame. 

How should the burners be treated? They should be 
boiled occasionally in soda and water, and dried thor- 
oughly. 

How often should oil lamps be filled ? Every time they 
are used, for though a little space should always be left 
when filling them, if the oil gets too low, an explosive 
gas is liable to form in the space above the oil. 

Why should a little space be left in filling them? So 
the oil will have space to expand from the heat. 



THE WALL PAPER. 

Which two colors are considered most restful for the 
eyes and nerves ? Nature's two colors ; blue and green, 
in soft tones. 

For a room with only a northern exposure, and poor 
light, what color would give most cheerfulness to the 
room ? Light yellow, the sunshine color. 

Is there any choice in the designs of wall paper? If 
paper has a figure that stands out with such prominence 
you are conscious of it when in the room; or if it has 
a design one is constantly figuring over, it is very dis- 
turbing when ill. Such papers are never as restful as 
less obtrusive ones. In these days of intense living, the 
more quieting and restful one's surroundings, the better 
for health. 

Are striped papers desirable? Yes; they increase the 
apparent height of the ceiling. Striped paper in soft 
gray, pink, and white are dainty for bed-rooms. 



Efficiency in Home Making ii 

SELECTING THE FURNITURE. 

What kind of furniture is most desirable? That best 
suited to the needs and income of the family. 

Are hangings and upholstery of light satin brocade 
desirable? Only for drawing-rooms, used for special 
occasions ; not in a room for family use. 

Why not? Sunlight is Nature's free disinfectant, and 
must not be shut out to protect the furnishings. The 
health of the family is of more importance. Happily the 
darkened parlor with its musty odor belongs to the past. 

What kind of hangings and upholstery should be 
selected? Those that will stand the light; can be kept 
clean easily, and will wear well. 

Are elaborate carvings, deep tuf tings, and fringes, sat- 
isfactory? No; they are very difficult to keep free from 
dust. 

Is heavy furniture desirable? No; it is difficult to 
move in cleaning. 

Are ornate decorations, and faciful shapes in good 
taste ? No ; well-made furniture with graceful lines, but 
plain in design, is always to be preferred. 

Is there danger of overcrowding a room with furni- 
ture and ornaments? It is a common mistake. If many 
homes had much of the furniture and many of the orna- 
ments removed, they would be much more attractive, 
and hygienic. Try this in a room and note the improve- 
ment. Homes were not intended for an annex to a fur- 
niture store, or for museums, and old curiosity shops ; 
an attic might be set aside for such use, and be very 
attractive. 

Is mahogany or oak furniture preferable? Solid ma- 
hogany in simple designs is always in good taste if one 
can afford it ; cheap imitations are not desirable. Fumed 
oak in Mission style, or weathered oak, makes a charm- 
ing living room, if everything is in harmony with it. It 
is also suitable for a den or dining room. 

Should one style of furniture be used throughout the 
room? The effect is very much better. Try not to mix 



12 Efficiency in Home Making 

mahogany and oak ; or fumed and golden oak ; or white 
enameled furniture. 

Is white enameled furniture satisfactory? It makes 
a lovely bed-room, if other things are in harmony, but 
for hard usage, it chips off, and needs refinishing every 
few years, but is very dainty and attractive. 

If two persons have to occupy the same room, is it 
better to have two single beds? It is very much better, 
for several reasons. Two persons may not require the 
same amount of covers, besides it is much more hygienic. 
Colds and contagious diseases may be taken in this way. 

Why will a person sleep better alone? He is undis- 
turbed by movements of another and does not fear to 
move himself. The thought that one must lie still is 
very disquieting. 

Should a well person occupy the same bed with one 
who is ill; if not with a contagious disease? No; it is 
bad for both of them. Neither should a child sleep with 
an elderly person. 

Is there objection to children sleeping together? It 
ought to be avoided. Never, under any circumstances 
should a little brother of seven or nine occupy the same 
bed with his little sister. Some mothers are criminally 
careless in this matter. 

Must a baby sleep alone? It must. If it cannot have 
its own little crib a laundry basket will answer the pur- 
pose, or even a box, properly padded around the sides 
and raised from the floor. 

RUGS OR CARPETS. 

Are carpets in crude bright colors desirable? No; 
soft toned ones are in much better taste. 

Are rugs to be preferred to carpets ? Yes ; they are 
much more hygienic. The uncovered spaces can be 
wiped free of dust every day in a few minutes, and the 
rugs can be taken out often to air and clean. 

In a bed-room is one large rug preferable to two or 
three smaller ones ? No ; it is better not to have the rug 



Efficiency in Home Making 13 

go under the bed, for dust accumulates there more 
quickly than anywhere else. 

For what two reasons are many draperies, fancy bags, 
baskets, etc., in a bed-room even more objectionable than 
in other rooms Bed making, dressing and undressing, 
make much dust, besides one ought to spend from nine 
to ten hours out of the twenty-four in the bed-room ; 
hence it should be reasonably free from dust catchers. 

What is the most desirable covering for the kitchen 
floor? Linoleum. It is easier to stand on, and to clean. 

If one cannot afford linoleum, what can be used? A 
runner or rubber between the stove and table where the 
most steps are taken, and a piece in front of the sink. 

Is oilcloth satisfactory for the kitchen? Not if it is to 
have hard wear. The first cost is less than linoleum, but 
it soon gets worn and shabby, and in the end costs more 
than linoleum. 

Will a floor finished in oil show the grease spots as 
badly as in hard finish? No. 

SELECTING BED AND TABLE LINEN. 

Is linen more desirable than cotton for the sheets and 
pillow cases ? No ; for it musses and wrinkles so much 
easier, and in cold weather it feels colder than cotton. 

What is desirable in winter, where there is no heat in 
the room ? Sheets made of outing flannel. 

What sized cotton sheeting should be bought? For a 
full sized double bed, ten-quarters width ; for a two- 
thirds width bed, eight-quarters ; for a cot or single bed, 
six-quarters. 

What size for pillows? Five-quarters or forty-five 
inches is a large size, forty-two inches medium. 

What brands of sheeting are considered the best? The 
Wamsutta, Fruit of the Loom and Pequot. 

Should tablecloths, napkins, towels and tea towels be 
of linen ? Yes ; good linen is always desirable for the 
table, but if one has a very limited amount to spend, so 



14 Efficiency in Home Making 

every cent counts, the mercerized cotton can be used for 
every day use. 

How can the life of a tablecloth be prolonged? As 
they always wear out first along the center fold, if after 
a time an inch or two is cut from one side that gives a 
new place for the center fold, and increases its length of 
service. 

Will very fine linen wear well? Not so well as that 
with a little coarser thread. 

What points will aid one in buying linen? Select that 
which is firm, but not too stiff with starch, and a pattern 
that covers the cloth will wear better than one with long 
unbroken threads. 

Why is linen desirable for towels? It absorbs moisture 
muck quicker than cotton. 

Is damask linen preferable for towels? No; it is too 
smooth, so does not absorb the water as quickly as the 
huckaback, and is not as satisfactory if one wants to pro- 
duce a glow to the skin. 

What make of huckaback is best? Either the Scotch 
or Irish. It may be bought cheaper by the yard and 
hemmed at home. 

Are fringed towels desirable ? No ; the fringe wears 
off. 

What is usually preferred for bath towels? Turkish 
toweling. They are woven so they absorb moisture 
quickly though they are cotton. 

How are linen lists and silver lists easily kept? On 
index cards. 

EFFICIENCY ARRANGEMENTS OF CLOSETS. 

What increases space for garments in a closet? A rod 
on which they can be hung over coat hangers. 

How can this be fixed with little expense? Have a 
shelf 12 inches wide about 5 feet and 7 inches from the 
floor, with a straight row of three or four down-hanging 
hooks, on under side, about one-half inch from front edge. 
On these lay a brass rod such as is sold for about three 



Efficiency in Home Making 15 

cents a foot for sash curtains. One about a yard long 
will hold •sixteen garments. Each garment is in sight, 
and easily reached. Nightgowns that have given out may 
be slipped over suits to protect them. 

If a bedroom has no closet how can this plan be worked 
out? Have the shelf 18 inches wide, and the hooks 9 
inches from the front edge. Have curtains reaching to 
the floor, fastened on a rod on front edge of shelf. 

What is the most convenient arrangement of boxes on 
shelves? If the shelf is wide, unless the boxes are large, 
put them across the shelf; they will be easier to reach. 
The contents should always be marked on the outside. 
The Dennison's gummed labels are very convenient, and 
look neat. 

Why is it much better to keep hats in boxes? It pro- 
tects them from dust and light. 

How can they be more easily taken out and replaced? 
Fasten cover on with two strips of Dennison's gummed 
tape about four inches long, like a hinge, allowing a little 
extra play at edge of cover. This can be reinforced by 
inserting paper fasteners with head and two projections 
to bend outward. The cover will open as though hinged 
on. If the shelf is so high it is inconvenient to reach in 
the box, stand box on side with hinge on top, and rest 
hat on brim (if it is stiff) on soft paper. Then the cover 
opens out towards you easily. 

What other way can the hat box be placed? It may 
be tacked against the wall, in a corner of the closet, if 
one of the strong reinforced boxes. Two clothes hooks 
may be fastened underneath for it to rest on, and the 
tape on outside of box, on side that has no support, can 
be fastened to a screw-eye in the wall. The hinged covers 
are very much more convenient. 

What is most convenient for keeping shoes? A large - , 
cretonne shoe bag, with three or four rows of pockets. 

How should the efficiency closet have sewing supplies 
arranged? In a place easy to reach, have a small box 
with black hooks, eyes and snaps; another, with white 



16 Efficiency in Home Making 

ones, one with white buttons and one with colored. These 
should all be plainly labeled on the end, so that they can 
be found without trouble. A yardstick in a convenient 
place is desirable. 

EFFICIENCY IN CARE OF LIVING AND 
SLEEPING. ROOMS. 
VENTILATION. 

What should everyone do the first thing on rising in 
the morning? Put the bed to air, opening it clear to the 
bottom. 

Why is this necessary? Insensible perspiration filled 
with waste products is constantly passing off from the 
body (the feet also) so it is necessary to air the bed thor- 
oughly, and this can be most effectually done while the 
bedding is still warm from the heat of the body. Put the 
pillows by an open window. 

Does the clothing worn during the day need to be aired 
at night? Yes; the underwear should always be spread 
out so the air can penetrate it, the stockings hung over 
the back of a chair. 

How often should the house be aired? Every room 
should have a bath of fresh air every morning; if it can 
sweep through a few minutes it is better. The sleeping 
rooms should always have one or more windows opened 
a ways at night, besides being thoroughly aired in the 
morning. 

How can a direct draft be avoided at night? A thin 
cheesecloth curtain the width of the window, can be 
stretched across on a rod and fastened at lower corners 
and in middle of bottom, by small brass rings fastened 
to same and slipped over brass headed tacks. Plenty of 
fresh air at night is essential to health. 

Do the rooms need fresh air during the day? Some of 
the windows should have either patent ventilators, or a 
board three inches high, just fitting across window, put 
under lower sash, then air will come in between upper 
and lower sash, without a draft. 



Efficiency in Home Making 17 

Do the closets need airing? Yes ; the closet door should 
be opened every morning before leaving the bedroom. 

Why is extra ventilation required in a living room at 
night where gas or oil lamps are used? Because of the 
air they consume, and the gases they give off in burning, 
and there are usually more persons present in the evening. 

If one is deprived of exercise in the open air and has 
much housework to do, what is very beneficial ? To have 
the windows where one is working, open several hours, 
even in cold weather, putting on an extra garment for 
warmth. 

How many small children be given fresh air in stormy 
weather when they cannot be taken out? Put on their 
wraps, and bonnets, and open the windows, try to avoid 
a direct draft, and let them play in the cool fresh air. 

Why does one take cold readily in going from a very 
warm room where there are many people? There is an 
excess of moisture from the breath and perspiration of 
the crowd. The air being so saturated with moisture it 
cannot take away the perspiration from our bodies, the 
clothing becomes moist, the skin sensitive, and going into 
the cold, dryer air, it quickly takes up this moisture from 
body and clothing, and this evaporation takes away so 
much heat from the body that it sometimes causes a chill. 

BED-MAKING. 

What should be done before making a bed? Hang up 
all the clothing, and close the closet door, also the bed- 
room door. 

Why is this necessary? Bed-making raises more dust 
than any other kind of housework except sweeping. The 
door should remain closed awhile until the dust has set- 
tled, or it will find its way into the other rooms. 

How often should the mattress be turned ? About every 
other day or three times a week. 

What should be put over the mattress? A regular 
padded mattress cover or a clean blanket. 

How should the first sheet be put on? Wide hem at 



18 Efficiency in Home Making 

top, and right side up. Smooth out evenly, and tuck in 
firmly all around. 

How should second sheet be put on? Wide hem at 
top, and wrong side up. It should be up high enough 
to fold over top of blankets. 

Is it necessary to tuck each of the covers in separately? 
No ; spread each on smoothly, turn over the top and tuck 
in before putting on spread. Put spread on, smoothing 
it out after getting it exactly in the middle; if it is an 
iron or brass bed, do not tuck in. 

How will the pillows look best? If after shaking and 
beating a bit, to get fresh air in them, they are smoothed 
out flat and stood carefully in place, they will •support the 
shams better, and make a neater looking bed. 

EFFICIENCY SWEEPING AND DUSTING. 

Is a vacuum cleaner better than a broom? Very much 
better, for when thoroughly used, it removes the dust 
imbedded in the carpet, and no dust is raised in the room ; 
it is all drawn into the cleaner. 

Will a carpet sweeper clean a carpet thoroughly ? No ; 
it removes the surface dirt, keeping most of it, but not 
all, in the sweeper. 

If a room must be swept with a broom how ought it 
to be done ? First open windows to blow the dust out ; 
it is well to lower one from top ; shake the curtains and 
hangings free of dust, and pin back close together. Dust 
the furniture; take light pieces out of room, and cover 
over heavy ones. Dampen a broom, shake the water off 
carefully, and then sweep with short strokes, not throw- 
ing the broom and dust up into the air. Rinse the broom 
several times, always shaking thoroughly. The dust that 
is stirred up flies about the room, settling on walls and 
furniture, and the room is no cleaner for having had it 
stirred up. 

How long should the dust settle after sweeping? An 
hour or more, then remove covers carefully ; go over all 
the base boards and doors, and large surfaces ; wipe the 



Efficiency in Home Making 19 

dust into the cloth, and shake out of the window occa- 
sionally. Do not flirt the dust off furniture into the room. 

How should polished floors be cleaned? Wipe them 
over with a three-cornered floor dust mop. A tiny bit 
of oil may be put on the mop to collect the dust so it will 
not fly about. 

What places should one watch out for? At the ends of 
radiators, where the pipes are. Turn the mop on edge 
to slip behind pipe, and across the other way, between 
radiator and pipe; this will prevent the little triangle of 
dust sometimes seen, around radiator pipes, which looks 
very badly. 

Is a feather duster desirable? No; it should never 
be used ; it simply removes the dust from one place to 
settle in another. The room is no cleaner than before 
dusting, the dust is simply scattered somewhere else. 

What should be used to dust with? A soft cheese- 
cloth duster, with a little coal oil, or furniture oil, patted 
and wrung into it thoroughly, or better still close it up 
tight in a can or jar kept for that purpose — over night. 
The oil will then penetrate every thread. 

Is there danger of putting on too much oil? Yes ; there 
should not be enough to leave any oily streaks. Pat and 
wring the duster until the oil is evenly distributed, There 
needs to be just enough so the dust will cling to it. 

What rule should be followed in dusting either floor 
or furniture? Always begin at a particular place, and 
follow a regular plan ; the dusting will take less time 
than if no system is followed. Begin at the right of 
entrance door, and dust around outside of room, and half- 
way across spaces between rugs, and across the other half, 
when doing other side. 

In dusting the furniture what plan is best? If the top 
of dining room table is very dusty, it is best to wipe that 
off carefully first, and 'shake the dust cloth out of the 
window. See that the wind is not that way so dust is 
blown back in. It is a good plan to begin with the fur- 
niture at right of entrance door, and go around on out- 
side, then any in centre. 



20 Efficiency in Home Making 

In dusting chairs, what is a good order? Begin at 
bottom of left back leg, then the back, down back right 
leg; front legs and cross pieces, then the seat. If there 
are any large surfaces particularly dusty, it is well just 
before shaking the duster to wipe over them carefully. 

Why is it better to follow a regular routine this way? 
It saves time, and habit makes it easier. 

In cleaning several rooms every day, is it better to finish 
one before going to the next? No; it is better to go over 
all with the sweeper if they need brushing up ; then with 
the floor duster, and lastly dust. The dust has more 
chance to settle, and it saves time and steps to go the 
rounds with one implement, instead of changing con- 
stantly. 



CARE OF THE VACUUM CLEANER. 

In using a vacuum cleaner what two things will make 
it work unsatisfactorily? If the bag becomes too full of 
dirt the air will be held back and not enough will be 
drawn in to remove the dust, or if a stick or leaf becomes 
lodged in the hose or metal handle the dust will lodge 
there, and it will gradually cut off the current of air, 
and the cleaner will not take up the dust at all. 

How can these troubles be avoided? Empty the bag 
every time after cleaning or using for a couple of hours 
or so. Pull the handle off the hose ; hold the hose out 
straight a few minutes, with the power turned on ; pull 
off the handle and give it several brisk taps on the floor, 
raising it up and down ; this will usually dislodge any 
fluff accumulated in it. A wire or whalebone can be 
pushed through the tool opening that runs over the car- 
pet, to see that nothing has lodged in the bend. A cleaner 
choked up with dust will not work well. 



Efficiency in Home Making 21 

CARE OF THE CARPET SWEEPER. 

How should the carpet sweeper be cleaned? Empty- 
dust from sides, and if threads or hair is wound around 
the brush, run the shears between the rows of bristles, 
cutting the hair or thread, then it will pull out much 
easier, without injuring the sweeper. Oil it occasionally, 
according to directions with machine. 

CLEANING AGENTS. 

Is ammonia a valuable cleaning agent? It is. It is 
better to buy it at the drug store and then dilute it at once 
with water, about one-half ; or much of it will be lost as it 
is very volatile. Do not put it in very hot water, as it 
will evaporate, and do no good. 

Is coal oil valuable in cleaning? Very; it cuts many 
kinds of dirt. 

Is borax useful in cleaning? Very, and is the least 
injurious of the alkalies. 

It is better to use when washing colored goods than 
ammonia, as it has less effect on colors. 

How can you determine whether a substance is an acid 
or an alkali? Blue litmus paper will turn red in an acid 
solution, and red litmus paper will turn blue in an alkaline 
solution. 

WASHING WINDOWS. 

Wipe over inside and out first with a dry cloth to re- 
move the dust; then after washing the framework with 
a wet cloth, cleaning the corners with a wooden skewer, 
wash the glass with warm water with a little ammonia or 
soda in ; always wring the cloth quite dry. Wipe dry with 
dry cloths and polish with crumpled newspapers. Or a 
thin paste may be made of whiting and ammonia, and a 
little water. Rub this on in a thin film, let dry thor- 
oughly, then polish with soft paper. This cleans them 
very quickly. 



22 Efficiency in Home Making 

CLEANING METALS. 

How can most metals be cleaned? By washing in hot 
water with some borax or soda, or they can be wiped off 
with a little kerosene. 

What brass polishes are good ? There are several good 
ones on the market. 

Should ammonia be used in cleaning brass? Never. 

Why will silver wrapped in white tissue paper some- 
times tarnish? If •sulphur has been used in bleaching it 
will act on the silver and turn it. The sulphur in rubber 
bands will turn it. 

If silver tarnishes very quickly, what does it indicate? 
That there is either coal or illuminating gas escaping in 
the room. 

What must one guard against in silver polishes? Any 
gritty substance which would scratch. 

Is it advisable to use electro silicon? It cleans the sil- 
ver nicely, but is hard on it as it rubs off imperceptible 
quantities ; long continued use will show, especially on 
plated silver. 

Is the old-fashioned whiting good for cleaning silver? 
Most of the silver polishes for which we pay fancy prices 
are made of it. 

How can it be used? Sift through a fine cloth, unless 
it is very fine already ; make a paste with ammonia or 
alcohol, coat the silver over with it, and when dry, rub 
off with tissue paper or soft cotton cloth, and polish with 
chamois. 

How can rust be removed from iron or steel, if not 
very deep? Rub with coal oil. 

CARE OF THE BATH ROOM. 

What is the easiest way to remove the film of dirt from 
sides of bath tub? Wash thoroughly with good naphtha 
soap. Keep a piece handy, and insist where a tub is used 
by more than one member of the family, each one must 
wash it out as soon as the bath is finished. Infectious 
diseases may be contracted from a tub used by another, 
or from towels. 



Efficiency in Home Making 23 

How should the toilet seat be cared for? After all the 
slop jars have been emptied, it should be thoroughly 
flushed, and a curved toilet brush run all over it, and 
inside the curved neck. 

If the china part has become discolored through neglect, 
what should be used to restore it? Muriatic acid will 
remove discolorations, and also dissolve any sediment in 
bottom of urinals. But it is a deadly poison, and must 
not even be gotten on the hands or clothing, as it will 
injure them. The plumbing must be very thoroughly 
flushed after using, as it is otherwise hard on iron pipes. 

Why should all the woodwork about the seat be kept 
thoroughly varnished or coated with Japalac? Because 
unprotected wood quickly absorbs water and odors also, 
and becomes insanitary. 

Should the same cloth be used to wash out the wash 
basin, and the toilet seat? No; all excretions from the 
body contain body poisons, and sometimes disease germs, 
this is doubly true of that from the intestines and kidneys, 
so brushes or cloths used for cleaning urinals or toilet 
seats should be kept for that purpose only. 

Are brushes to be preferred to cloths? Very much, 
for they dry so much quicker, and damp cloths quickly 
become insanitary. 

What should be done with wet brushes? They should 
be shaken and stood brush side down. If turned on the 
back, water will soak into the wood and injure the 
bristles. 

How should the pipes in bathrooms and sinks be cared 
for? They should be flushed once a week with plenty 
of scalding water, and while hot, have a solution of wash- 
ing soda one pint to three gallons of boiling water, poured 
down them. About a quart to each pipe, and two to the 
kitchen sink. 

Are large rugs objectionable in a bathroom? They 
are ; they absorb odors, and are liable to be soiled. There 
should always be a bath mat hanging in the bathroom. 
The wash bowl and standard top need washing every 
morning. 



24 Efficiency in Home Making 

OUT-DOOR CLOSETS. 

In the country and villages where there is no sewer 
system, what precautions should be taken with the out- 
door closets? A box of dry earth (not sand) should be 
always kept in the toilet, and a small shovel. Excreta 
should have a sprinkling of this dry earth over it always, 
for it acts as a disinfectant, and prevents flies having 
access to it. 

What other precautions are necessary? Copperas dis- 
solved in water ; three pounds to two gallons of water, 
or a strong solution of carbolic acid, should be freely 
dashed down over the contents, at regular intervals. 

Is country air in a village always pure and wholesome? 
It is not. Often the closets are so poorly cared for in 
villages that they are an offense in the summer time espe- 
cially in the evening to those passing along the street. 
Such conditions should not be tolerated. 

Should flies be allowed free access to open closets? 
No ; they crawl over the filth and then make their way 
to the kitchen and dining room there to deposit their bur- 
den of filth and disease germs on the food, dishes and 
dish towels. Typhoid is carried in this way. 

What must be done for the protection of others when- 
ever there is a case of typhoid? All excreta from the 
patient, whether liquid or solid, must be thoroughly 
treated with carbolic acid, before emptied into the city 
plumbing, or buried in the ground in the country. 

FLIES, MOSQUITOES, WATER BUGS, 

ROACHES AND BED BUGS, NOT 

FOUND IN THE EFFICIENCY 

HOME. 

Is it necessary to have flies in the kitchen ? They should 
not be tolerated in the house. 

How can they be kept out? The windows and doors 
should be carefully screened. If the netting springs loose 
it must be tacked on again. If one cannot have screens 
for the windows, netting can be tacked over them. 



Efficiency in Home Making 25 

Why is it so important to keep all flies out ? They are 
hatched in filth, seek it wherever they go, and particles 
of it cling to their feet and wings; besides they carry 
the deadly germs of typhoid fever, other intestinal dis- 
eases, and tuberculosis, diphtheria, etc. In our Spanish 
war more of our soldiers were killed by typhoid carried 
by flies, than by the bullets of the enemy. Protect your 
family from flies as you would from wild beasts. 

What can be done besides screening the house ? Have 
fly spats always at hand and kill every one. Fly paper 
may be kept around in the kitchen. 

What other way is there of killing them? Shut the 
room up tight, and put twenty drops of carbolic acid on 
a hot shovel, or lid, the fumes will kill them. It will not 
injure the person using it this way, but must be kept 
most carefully out of reach of children, or where it might 
be taken by mistake, for it is a deadly poison. Keep the 
kitchen clean, leave nothing about for them to feed on; 
crumbs will attract them. 

What precaution should be taken with the garbage 
pail ? Keep it tightly covered ; never let bits of refuse 
fall outside, or water leak from it ; keep a fly trap on top 
of it. Use newspaper to line garbage can, as it will help 
to keep it cleaner. 

When is the most important time to destroy flies? In 
the very early spring, when there is only an occasional 
one. It is because they multiply with such unbelievable 
rapidity, that they become so numerous by August. 

Does one fly killed in early spring make much differ- 
ence? It will make millions less flies before the summer 
is over. 

What other time is it so important to kill them? In 
the late fall, after the cold sets in, for only a few survive 
the winter, so every one of these killed means millions 
less the next summer. Fly traps should be kept on 
porches. 

Should mosquitos be allowed in the house? No; for 
one variety carries malaria, and yellow fever, and they 
all should be carefully guarded against. 



26 Efficiency in Home Making 

How can one prevent them from breeding? Keep all 
cisterns and rain barrels covered with netting, and see 
that there are no tin cans, or other places for water to 
stand. 

Where do they sometimes breed in city houses? In 
unused toilets and wash bowl traps. 

How should pools of stagnant water be treated? With 
a little film of coal oil. It will destroy the larva. 

Should water bugs and cockroaches be allowed in the 
kitchen? Never, under any circumstances. 

In an apartment where there is a ventilating flue they 
can crawl through from other apartments, what will keep 
them out? Tack fine wire gauze over the ventilator. 

If there is a dumb waiter in the apartment what should 
be done? Put a border of insect powder all along the 
ledges in the inside. 

What should be done if bed bugs get into a bed. It 
should be taken apart and cleaned thoroughly ; use some 
good bed bug poison. 

How can the nits or eggs be destroyed? By varnish- 
ing the bed carefully, over all the inside, after taking it 
apart, going over every particle of it and every crack, 
also the woodwork of the springs, then varnish the base 
boards of the room, reaching up into the cracks along the 
lower and upper edges. 

What good will this do ? The bug poisons will not kill 
the nits or eggs, but the varnish will coat them so they 
can never hatch. 

If they have gotten under the wall paper, what must 
be done ? It must be all torn off, and bed bug poison put 
on all along the top of the base board, and in all the 
cracks. Varnish or paint the baseboards, not letting a 
single crack escape. 

To rid the house of insects of various kinds write to 
the Bureau of Entomology, of the Department of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C, for information. It will be 
furnished free of charge. 



Efficiency in Home Making 27 

THE UNSEEN ENEMIES IN THE HOME. 

What may we call unseen enemies in the home? Bac- 
teria, or germs ; for while they are too minute to be seen 
without a powerful magnifying glass, they have power 
to destroy health and even life itself. 

How large are bacteria ? It is estimated that 600,000,- 
000 could be comfortably lodged in a space occupied by a 
grain of sugar. 

Who first began to grow and cultivate these bacteria 
or dust plants? Louis Pasteur, in France, less than sev- 
enty years ago. He laid the foundation for the science 
of bacteriology. 

Who discovered that bacteria is the cause of disease, 
and not the effect of it ? Robert Koch, more than twenty 
years after Pasteur made his experiments, built up the 
germ theory of disease. Many brilliant discoveries have 
since been made regarding germ diseases. 

Mention some germ diseases. Typhoid fever, yellow 
fever, tuberculosis, malaria, Asiatic cholera, pneumonia, 
colds. 

Why is it so necessary for the surgeon to wash and 
scrub his hands, and also use powerful germicide, before 
coming in contact with a surgical case? Because the 
wrinkles in the skin of the hands have the depth of ditches 
six or eight feet deep in comparison with bacteria, and 
only a powerful germicide can destroy them when so 
deeply lodged. 

What effect do bacteria have on our food? They 
change it into a moldy, putrid mass, unfit for use. 

What makes milk sour? The bacteria in it. They are 
much more abundant if the cow has not been carefully 
cleaned before milking; if the hands and clothing of the 
milker are not clean; if a wide open pail is used, or if 
the air of the stable is not fresh and clean and tree from 
dust. 

Why should milk be quickly cooled after milking, and 
then be kept covered? Because the bacteria multiply 
much more quickly in a warm temperature, and if milk 



28 Efficiency in Home Making 

is left uncovered, additional bacteria from the air, get 
into it. 

Is unclean milk dangerous? It causes the death of 
thousands of young children every year. 

Why will canned fruit spoil unless thoroughly cooked, 
and the cans and covers washed clean and sterilized by 
scalding or heating, and also unless the cans are airtight? 
Because any bacteria that has not been destroyed by 
heat, or get in because the can is not tight, will grow and 
multiply, and thus cause the fruit to ferment and spoil. 

In canning why should one not touch the inside of a 
fruit jar or cover after it has been sterlized, or leave it 
standing in the air ? Because of the ever-present bacteria, 
or dust plants, on our hands and in the air. 

Is there ever living yeast plants left in bread after it 
is baked? Yes; if it is not thoroughly baked, and rapidly 
cooled afterwards to prevent further growth of any bac- 
teria that have not already been killed. 

Was bread ever made from yeast plants found in the 
center of a slack-baked loaf of bread? Yes ; in the labor- 
atory. 

If canned fruits or vegetables that are difficult to keep 
are reheated the second day will they need so long cook- 
ing the first day ? No. 

Is slack-baked bread unwholesome ? It is ; and may 
cause serious digestive disturbances. Twice baked bread 
is much better for one suffering from indigestion. 

Why do dried foods keep while the same food quickly 
spoils in its natural state? Because bacteria cannot live 
and thrive without moisture. 

Why is salt used in preserving meat? Because bacteria 
will not grow in a strong salt solution. 

Why will vinegar keep pickles from spoiling? Be- 
cause bacteria cannot thrive in strong acids. 

How are we protected from the many bacteria we 
must necessarily swallow in the food we eat, the water 
we drink and the air we breathe? The secretions of the 
stomach destroy some of the bacteria, and the white cor- 



Efficiency in Home Making 29 

puscles of the blood our "white guardians" as they have 
been called, destroy still others. 

Does cold paralyze these "white guardians" so they are 
not able to destroy the disease germs so well? Yes; the 
germs then have a better chance. That is why some germ 
diseases are more prevalent in cold than in warm weather. 

Why are some germ diseases favored by insufficient 
clothing, and lack of food? Because the body tempera- 
ture is lowered by insufficient clothing and lack of body 
fuel in the form of food. 

When is the body able to destroy the germs to such an 
extent that they will not injure it? When In perfect 
health, and not over fatigued. 

What effect has alcohol on these "white guardians"? 
It paralyzes them so they are not longer able to lay hold 
on the disease germs and destroy them. 

If one is intoxicated when he contracts pneumonia, 
what is the result? Almost certain death. 

What conditions weaken the body so it will easily suc- 
cumb to disease? Living in damp, sunless, ill-ven- 
tilated, dusty rooms, eating badly cooked food, and either 
too little or too much food, lack of exercise, and neglect- 
ing to keep the body free from waste products of diges- 
tion, lack of sufficient pure drinking water, and regular 
bathing. 

Why is it more sanitary to have clothing boiled when 
it is washed ? Because there may be bacteria in the secre- 
tions of the body, and boiling destroys them. 

Are there bacteria or microbes on wash cloths and tooth 
brushes? Unless they are thoroughly cleaned. Wash- 
cloths should be hung in an airy, light place ; in the sun- 
shine if possible, and should be boiled often. 

Are washcloths left where they do not dry thoroughly 
and have a bad odor fit to use? No ; if a clean washcloth 
has to be carried damp in traveling, sprinkle borax over 
it before rolling up, and it will keep sweet all day or 
longer, even in hot weather. 

How should tooth brushes be treated occasionally? 
Soak in a strong solution of borax, or boracic acid. 



30 Efficiency in Home Making 

Is it well to leave sweepings and soiled dustcloths 
around? No; the sweepings should be burned, and the 
dust cloths washed. 

Why does the escape pipe of the refrigerator and the 
kitchen sink need to be carefully cleaned? Because it 
will otherwise become covered with a mass of slimy bac- 
terial growth ; there will also be many germs of putrefac- 
tion. 

Are closets in old houses that are damp and dark suit- 
able places to keep food ? No ; the woodwork and plaster 
are often so filled with mold spores or seeds that are 
floating in the air, and will quickly cause the food to 
mold if the air is warm and moist. 

What should be done to make an old house more sani- 
tary? It should be thoroughly dusted, scrubbed and 
cleaned, whitewashed, painted and disinfected. 

Will dust plants injure the furnishings of the house? 
They will cause mildew on clothing, books, etc., and may 
develop so far as to destroy them, and they injure the 
health of the occupants of the house. 

Where are bacteria generally found? Clinging to dust 
particles, that is why dust is so dangerous in the home. 

In most cases what causes food to spoil? It is the 
growth of the little invisible bacteria, or plants that have 
been carried onto or into it through ordinary dust. 

Are there any good bacteria ? Yes ; they are found in 
great numbers in the •soil where they lay hold of every 
particle of dead animal and vegetable matter and convert 
it into harmless inorganic matter. There are other harm- 
less bacteria that give flavor to cheese and butter, and 
others also that have a high commercial value. 

Are not candies for sale on the street, and left exposed 
to the air in department stores, laden with bacteria too? 
They are and should never be eaten. Some day we may 
become sufficiently civilized not to have any of our foods 
exposed for sale in places where they become laden with 
bacteria and disease germs ; but until then let us protect 
ourselves by not buying those foods when they cannot be 
washed, and see that those that can be are well washed. 



Efficiency in Home Making 31 

LABOR SAVING DEVICES THAT ARE 
WORTH WHILE. 

What labor saving devices are worth while? First of 
all the vacuum cleaner, the carpet sweeper, the triangular 
floor mop for dusting polished floors, the self-wringing 
mop, instantaneous gas lighter for the gas range, the radi- 
ator brush, the long-handled lambs' wool duster, for wip- 
ing down walls and ceilings, the long-handled crooked 
toilet brush, the long wire-handled refrigerator pipe brush, 
the drip pan brush, the vegetable brush, the fireless cooker, 
the wire dish drainer with a pan to hold it, with holes to 
allow water to run out as dishes are scalded, with the 
oblong one a sheet iron roasting pan can have holes driven 
at one end and be placed a little beyond end of drain 
board, so water will run into sink ; the dish mop, the dish- 
cloth of woven strips of tinsel for washing cooking dishes 
where food has cooked on, the meat grinder, the Dover 
egg beater, the wire whip for beating whites of eggs, 
the apple parer, the apple corer, the putty knife to clean 
grease that has caked on to griddles, etc., and food boiled 
over on the tray under the burners of the gas range, or 
food burned on (this is very useful and can be had for 
fifteen cents), measuring cups and spoon, potato ricer, 
and as soon as a satisfactory one is invented, more use- 
ful than anything else will be a good dish washer. Then 
indeed will woman's long delayed emancipation from 
kitchen drudgery be accomplished ; but in the meantime 
do not lean over the sink to wash dishes or allow any- 
one in your kitchen to. This is an entirely unnecessary 
burden to be put upon anyone. And last, but not least, 
the high kitchen stool. And, of course, if any laundry 
is done in the house, some kind of a washing machine ; 
even in a small apartment kitchen, one of the little hand 
vacuum washers, or the vacuum washer that is used in 
a wash boiler, is most useful when there is not room for 
a regular machine. An electric or gas iron saves many 
steps and time, and reduces the heat. 



32 Efficiency in Home Making 

SELECTION OF COOKING DISHES. 

Are seams in cooking dishes objectionable? Very in- 
deed. They are lodging places for dirt, grease, dishwater 
and microbes. 

What kind of wear is best? Aluminum, for it does not 
scale off, or crackel, is light to handle and is very durable. 

Should food that has been salted be put away in alu- 
minum dishes? No. 

What is best for a tea pot? Earthenware. 

Are earthenware dishes desirable for mixing and stor- 
ing food? Not after they begin to crackel; they absorb 
dirt, grease, and have a rancid odor, and should not be 
used then, either to hold food, to mix, or bake in. 

When are they especially good for baking? Where a 
slow heat is required, as they cook more slowly. 

What is best to keep butter in ? A graniteware bucket 
with cover. It should be rather broad and not too deep, 
so the butter can be sliced off nicely in it. Never use a 
stone crock for butter. It will soon get so it will absorb 
the oil and become rancid, and give the butter an unpleas- 
ant taste. It is heavy and clumsy to handle, even if small. 

What is best for cooling" water? Large mouthed glass 
jars, with glass covers that clamp down with a wire 
spring. They are much better than bottles, for they can 
be more easily washed, and the sediment in the bottom 
removed. 

What is best for a dishpan ? Heavy block tin, because 
it is lighter to handle than a large one of agate ware. 

What is best for keeping lettuce or watercress? A 
pail that shuts up tight and can be put in the ice box, 
or a cool place. They keep better shut away from the 
air as do other fresh vegetables. 

Is a small refrigerator desirable ? No ; it will not hold 
enough ice in very hot weather, and is very inconvenient 
for holding much food. 



Efficiency in Home Making 33 

EFFICIENCY ARRANGEMENT IN THE 
KITCHEN. 

What is efficiency arrangement in the kitchen? The 
best possible placing of furniture and utensils, the table 
or mixing board in the light; gas range out of a direct 
draft ; refrigerator where ice man will not have to track 
across floor, and as far as possible from the range. The 
furniture and utensils placed so the fewest steps will be 
taken in preparing a meal, and putting things away. 

What is a great time and nerve saver in the kitchen? 
Having everything in the best place for it, and always 
in that place. Avoid reaching up high, or at arms' length, 
to open closet doors or to reach things in constant use. 
Have fasteners lowered if too high. 

How should dishes be arranged in a closet where one 
door has to be opened before the other? Place the dishes 
or utensils most used, so they can be reached when first 
door is opened. 

What can be substituted for a kitchen cabinet, if nec- 
essary? A large closet, fitted with shelves and doors. 
It should be so built, that there can be either a table or 
shelf, not too wide, under it and about 32 inches from 
the floor, or if it has a narrow top of its own between 
an upper and lower closet, a shelf or mixing board, the 
right height may be arranged to draw out, by putting 
heavy strips at each end for it to slide under, it should 
be reinforced with strips underneath for strength. 

How can space be economized? Have a narrow shelf 
three inches wide at back, above lower shelf to hold spice 
boxes, etc., each carefully labeled. It will not interfere 
with things on the shelf below. 

What else will add to its efficiency? A narrow shelf 
resting on the cross pieces at the back, where small flour 
and sugar cans are kept. This closet should also hold 
measuring cup and spoons, egg beater, knives, basins, 
stew pans, and mixing and baking dishes most used. 

What spells inefficiency in the kitchen? A sink over 
which some one has to bend the back when washing 



34 Efficiency in Home Making 

dishes. This can always be avoided in some way, and 
should never be tolerated. It is a drain on the nerves and 
strength that no human being should be subjected to. 
One may not realize the relief it is, until after getting 
accustomed to the new way, for we are such creatures 
of habit. 

Where should the tea pot be kept? Near the tea can- 
ister ; and the coffee pot near the coffee can, with measur- 
ing spoons near by. 

Where should the salt box be kept? One covered one 
near the range, and one near the working table. 

What is a convenient way to keep the can opener, cork- 
screw, gimlet, bottle opener, etc. ? In a drawer with a 
row of screw-eyes or hooks they can be thrust through, 
across inside of front of drawer. Hammer can be hung 
with head resting on two nails a little way apart. 

What will save an endless number of steps in prepar- 
ing a meal and putting food away? To have the refriger- 
ator near by, in the kitchen, if cooking is done by gas. 
It may be very poor economy to save a little ice and have 
to go to the cellar constantly for supplies. Perhaps a 
window could be cut in the kitchen, and the refrigerator 
placed outside, opening into the kitchen, when the window 
was raised, and a shelter made of two large boxes, with 
sawdust between that would enclose the exposed sides 
of the ice box, if a little shelter could not be built for it. 

Is a large kitchen desirable? No; it makes too many 
steps from stove, to table, sink and closets, and there is 
more floor space to be swept and mopped. It should be 
well ventilated, and now that blue flame oil stoves for 
cooking have been perfected, if one can not have a gas 
range, they may well be used in summer in place of a 
coal fire. 

It is very interesting to plan a more efficient arrange- 
ment of the kitchen. Many housewives walk unneces- 
sary miles in the kitchen. If there is but one pair of 
hands to do everything, perhaps cutting a small window, 
would allow things to be slipped through into the dining 
room, and back again. 



Efficiency in Home Making 35 

What is the most satisfactory waste basket for the 
kitchen ? A good sized one of papier mache ; dirt cannot 
fall through, it is light to handle, can be washed and kept 
clean. 

Name one indispensable article of furniture for the 
kitchen? A high stool to sit on when working at the 
table, preparing vegetables, fowls, fruit, etc. It eases 
tired feet and aching back, and is very soothing to irri- 
tated nerves. It is like oil on troubled waters. 

Why keep a few newspapers in the kitchen ? They are 
most excellent to wipe off the top of the kitchen range. 
They remove the grease and dirt without soiling the 
hands. They are also good to empty the carpet sweeper 
on. 

What should be done with the broom? It should be 
hung up, in a broomholder, never stood on the floor, as 
it will get out of shape. 

How is a good way to have recipes in frequent use 
arranged? On cards that come in card index sets, they 
can be hung over a nail in a convenient place, when in 
use. 

How can the recipes in this book be conveniently used? 
Clamp in an ordinary strong letter-holding spring clip, 
and slip it over a nail. 

What will help in keeping the kitchen floor clean? To 
have a cloth always at hand, and wipe up at once any- 
thing spilt on the floor before it is tracked about. 

Are damp cloths and mops objectionable in the kitchen? 
They are very insanitary ; they breed germs, and attract 
water bugs. 

What is the best way to avoid water bugs, roaches, etc., 
in the kitchen? Never leave crumbs of food around, 
keep everything scrupulously clean, and drv. 



36 Efficiency in Home Making 

EFFICIENCY IN DISH WASHING. 

What is required first of all? That one should not 
bend over even a little in washing dishes. If the sink 
is too low a board with flanges can be put across one end. 

What is another inefficient arrangement? Having the 
drain board, or rinsing pan, at right of dishpan, so every 
dish and piece of silver has to be passed over the right 
hand, or taken hold of by it before it can be put down. 
Time, strength and energy is thus wasted, that might be 
better employed. A carpenter may be able to arrange a 
folding or sliding board at right side of drain board. 
Better carry the pan a few steps to empty than to lean 
over it washing dishes. 

What should be done with dishes that have had milk 
in them? Rinse first in cold water. Those with egg or 
flour mixtures on, rinse or soak in cold water as hot 
will cook them on the tighter. Those with gelatine stuck 
on, soak in cold water. 

What if greasy? Wipe the grease off with paper first, 
then pour hot water over. 

What are the first steps in efficiency dish washing? 
Fill cooking dishes and milk bottles with cold water as 
soon as emptied. Scrape and sort the dishes ; a soft 
paper, or a rubber dish scraper is best ; is not so hard on 
the gold and other decorations. Wash glass first, then 
silver, china, and lastly cooking dishes. The table dishes 
can be put in wire draining basket set in pan with holes 
at end — so water will drain into sink — scalded, and will 
be nearly dry by the time the cooking dishes are washed. 
Some maids prefer to wash the cooking dishes between 
serving the courses at dinner, which is an excellent plan. 

How can one avoid having to wait for hot water? 
Form the habit of seeing that the water will be hot when 
wanted. Turn on the spigot while sorting the dishes if 
water has to run a little while to be hot. Hot water is 
necessary to wash dishes easily and well. 

Do tea towels need special attention? They do; for 
if they are not rinsed out every time or two they are 



Efficiency in Home Making 37 

used they will have a rancid or unpleasant odor which 
will be noticed when drinking from glasses wiped with 
them. Never use tea towels that do not smell fresh and 
clean. 

What should be done with the dish cloth? It should 
be washed with soap every time after using and thor- 
oughly rinsed ; scalding hot water poured over it helps 
to keep it sanitary. A dish cloth should be of porous 
material and hung in an airy, light place, as well as the 
dish towels so it will never remain in a damp condition. 
A dirty, greasy, sour, ill-smelling, or slimy dish cloth 
belongs to the dark ages ; it has no place in the up-to-date 
kitchen, and is a disgrace to any housewife, and a menace 
to the health of the family. How can you prevent the 
sink becoming stopped up? Always pour the water into 
a sink strainer and do not pour in grease. 

In cooking, if anything burns on, what can be done? 
Fill dish with hot water, add washing soda and boil, this 
will loosen the burnt food. Do not allow grease to be- 
come caked and burned on griddle or roasting pan. Boil 
in strong washing soda, and scrape with old knife; or 
putty knife is better. A dish cloth of woven strips of 
metal is most useful in removing food that sticks to bak- 
ing dishes. 

How can the housewife who has everything to do her- 
self save time and extra steps? By having a silver box, 
in which the flat silver can be dropped in the separate 
compartments as wiped, and set aside from the dust until 
meal time, when it can be carried directly to the table, 
and arranged. The needed number of glasses, bread and 
butter plates, and any other used at every meal without 
warming, can be put on a tray as wiped, set aside, and 
carried to the table when needed, thus saving quite a little 
unnecessary handling in the course of the day. 

Should the sink be washed out with the dish cloth? 
No; never. Keep a special cloth for it. The water the 
floor is mopped in is emptied in it containing filth and 
germs tracked in from the street, hands are often washed 
there, and much dirt and germs cling to it. 



38 Efficiency in Home Making 

CARING FOR THE REFRIGERATOR. 

Does the refrigerator need much attention? It does, 
or it will not be a fit place to keep food. Never allow 
food to remain in it until it becomes moldy, or spoiled. 
If anything is spilled, wipe it up at once with a damp 
cloth; never leave it to dry on. 

How often should the refrigerator be washed out? 
Once a week. Remove shelves, scrub and wash them, 
and the sides and bottom of refrigerator. Look care- 
fully for dirt in the creases and corners. Clean the pipe 
with a long wire-handled brush that is made especially 
for the purpose; see that it reaches through bottom of 
pipe. Scald it down with boiling water in which a little 
washing soda has been dissolved. See that drip pan is 
empty first, that it may have the benefit, then scrub that 
out. Sometimes get down and reaching under, run the 
finger up pipe to make sure there is no slime in it ; unless 
the pipe is a removable one, you can examine without. A 
refrigerator with a slimy pipe is no fit place to keep food. 
Run the fingers over the drip pan 'sometimes to make 
sure it is free from slime for it will accumulate there if 
not properly cared for. 

Should there be any special arrangement of food in 
the refrigerator? If the butter, milk, eggs and fresh 
fruit are each kept in a particular place, also the left-over 
meats, vegetables and desserts in one place, one can put 
the hand at once on what is wanted, also it is much easier 
when going to market, to tell quickly what is wanted, or 
in planning a meal, what left-overs there are. 

How much ice should be ordered at once? A large 
piece every other day will keep better than a small one 
every day, and it saves dirt and trouble. Never put warm 
food in the refrigerator. 

How is the best way to guard against the drip pan run- 
ning over? By emptying it the first thing every morning, 
then it will not be forgotten, and much time and trouble 
will be saved. 



Efficiency in Home Making 39 

MANAGEMENT IN THE HOME. 

Can one manage a home successfully without special 
training? It is impossible to, unless one has informa- 
tion, and working schedules that have been carefully pre- 
pared. 

Is it as important fcr the home-maker to have a knowl- 
edge of home-making as it is for the business man to 
have special training along his line of work? It is; for 
the health and happiness of the family depend largely on 
the knowledge and skill of the one at the helm. 

Can one direct others in matters she does not thor- 
oughly understand herself, or make a fair, just schedule 
for work if she knows nothing about the time and effort 
it takes to do the work properly ? No ; one should know 
the exact time necessary to do each task about the house 
properly and well. 

What is a great help in housekeeping? To have a reg- 
ular order of work for things that have to be done every 
day, and one for the extra things that come each day. 

What amount of work is it right to expect of a maid? 
That depends upon the size of the family ; whether there 
is much company and entertaining; whether the home is 
large or small ; whether the rooms are sensibly furnished, 
or cluttered up; whether there is much answering the 
door bell ; whether there are many steps to take in ans- 
wering it; whether the refrigerator is in the kitchen, and 
everything so arranged that few steps are necessary in 
preparing a meal ; how elaborate the meals are, whether 
there are several maids ; whether the maid has to help 
with the children; whether there is an invalid to be waited 
on ; whether personal service is required ; whether some 
members of the family are irregular at meals. So we 
can see that it is impossible to standardize the work in 
various homes, when such a wide range of conditions 
prevail. 

What will help in keeping the household machinery 
running smoothly? Being thoroughly skilled yourself. 
Try as far as possible, to carry out the Golden Rule. Try 



40 Efficiency in Home Making 

to put yourself in the other one's place, and ask what you 
would think fair and right. Require the work done prop- 
erly, but be just, fair, and considerate. See that your 
maid's work is planned with intelligence ; that she has the 
necessary tools to do it properly and well ; that she has a 
comfortable room, and a couple of hours to rest each 
afternoon. That on her afternoon out she gets out in 
good season, and dinner might be put a little later that 
day, and be made simple, if she is to return to prepare 
it. That she has only the necessary work to do on Sun- 
day, and a dinner that does not require a lot of extra 
work. That she has each Sunday afternoon off after the 
"early dinner" work is over, not returning for supper, if 
she is required to return from her regular weekly after- 
noon off, to get dinner. 

Is it any economy not to furnish some of the labor 
saving devices ? No ; for they are a saving of time. 

Where there is a maid of all work ; or in a large family, 
where the housemaid has much to do, or is a long dis- 
tance off, or has to go up or down one or more flights 
of stairs, in answering the door bell, what should the mis- 
tress do? Always carry her own latchkey. It is helpful 
sometimes for the family to have a special ring ; as three 
short taps ; then if the maid is busy, she need not wait to 
change her apron. This saves her time and that of the 
family as well. 

Should the kitchen be made attractive? Yes; for it 
is much easier to work in pleasant surroundings. It 
reacts on the feelings and disposition. To be shut up 
all day in a dingy, unattractive kitchen, is trying to the 
health and nerves. 

If much overtime has been necessary, should special 
recognition be made of it? Yes; either by extra pay, or 
extra time off. 

In a family of growing children, with a limited amount 
of help, what is the best way to have the children help 
in the home tasks? By giving each one, both boys and 
girls, a definite task to perform, and make each one re- 
sponsible for it. 



Efficiency in Home Making 41 

If the mother has no helper is it advisable for her to 
require nothing of the children, in order that they may 
have more time for study? No; it is a great mistake; 
it is not giving them a square deal, for it will make them 
selfish and unappreciative. 

Where a mother does her own housework, how old 
should the children be before they are allowed to help 
with it? When they are not more than three or four 
years old they will be perfectly delighted to bring the 
dust cloths, or help smooth out the blankets on the bed, 
or put the shoes in their places. Even if it is more of a 
hindrance than a help, it gives the child a sense of help- 
fulness, and aids in his character building. It will pre- 
vent children from becoming selfish and unwilling to help 
when they are a little older. 

Would this plan not be very troublesome where there 
were many children? One mother with five children had 
trained them in this way, and every morning before leav- 
ing for school each child under her careful direction — 
the boys as well as the girls — assisted in doing up the 
dishes, making the beds, putting the house in order, and 
dusting. They were a happy, contented family. They 
became efficient helpers, and the mother was not looked 
upon by her family as their rightful drudge. 

What other effect did it have on the children? They 
grew up into helpful, efficient, self-reliant young people. 

Where does efficiency begin? It has been rightly said 
that efficiency begins in the stomach ; and the health and 
happiness of the family certainly depend more upon the 
kind of food, the way it is cooked, served and eaten than 
upon anything else except a clear conscience, and a real, 
vital belief in an all-wise, over-ruling Providence. No 
one would think of trusting an unskilled mechanic to 
repair his automobile, tune his piano, install his electric 
lights, or heating system, to invest his money, or prepare 
the plans for his house. No woman would give expen- 
sive materials for her gown into the hands of an unskilled 
seamstress, but when it comes to the preparation of food, 
upon which the efficiency, health and happiness of the 



42 Efficiency in Home Making 

family depend, we have thought that any one, no matter 
how ignorant or unskilled, would answer the purpose. 
Many a home has been wrecked because its mistress was 
ignorant or indifferent to her responsibilities. Many a 
man has been driven to drink, by cold meals and bad cook- 
ing. No one can direct others wisely and well in any 
line of work she does not know how to do herself, and 
the proper length of time it takes to do it well. Skilled 
efficient domestics cannot always be had at any price ; 
neither can they be expected to do their best when em- 
ployed by one incompetent to direct them. Emergencies 
may arise when help cannot be had, therefore, no one 
has a right to assume the responsibilities of a home- 
maker, whatever the size of the income, without fitting 
herself for the high responsibility. A turn of Fortune's 
wheel may make her dependent upon her own resources. 
Employers are largely responsible for the incompetence 
of those in domestic service, for it every woman employ- 
ing help were properly fitted to direct them every home 
would become a training school to raise the efficiency of 
the workers therein. But as long as the mistress feels 
housework is degrading and beneath her attention, so 
long must we expect indifference and incompetency in 
domestics. 

SYSTEM IN HOUSEWORK. 

Is system necessary to the efficient running of a home ? 
It is ; for much more can be accomplished in a given time 
and with less fatigue and nerve strain, than without 
system. 

Why is it better to have the housework carefully 
planned, so that it is evenly divided over different days? 
Because it prevents days of strenuous cleaning and over- 
exertion during an entire day, without rest. 

What harm will that do? While all the muscles need 
work, or exercise of some kind, to keep them strong and 
healthy, exercise or work tears down the cells of which 
the muscles are made. These broken down tissues enter 



Efficiency in Home Making 43 

the blood, poisoning it, but it is purified as it passes 
through the lungs, where these waste products are thrown 
out into the air by the breath, excreted through the kid- 
neys, or destroyed in the liver. During a normal amount 
of working time, these waste cells are eliminated or de- 
stroyed by the body, but during long periods of exertion 
they accumulate faster than they are expelled ; then the 
body becomes fatigued or literally and actually "pois- 
oned." 

How can this be prevented? By resting occasionally 
for three or four minutes, taking deep long breaths, and 
relaxing perfectly. 

Does it require more effort to work when one is tired? 
It does ; so the body becomes more poisoned doing the 
same amount of work than when rested. 

Does it take a longer period of rest for the body to 
expel these poisons when over- fatigued than when slight- 
ly tired? It does, very much. That is why long hours in 
industry are so injurious to the workers. Overtime for 
shop girls during the Christmas season, and for factory 
workers during rush periods require a long rest time, 
perhaps months, for them to recuperate from this exces- 
sive poisoning. 

Why are late hours even when spent in social amuse- 
ments, with lack of sleep, injurious to those who are con- 
stantly employed during the day ? The body cannot elim- 
inate all the poisons, and build up the tissues again, before 
the beginning of the next working day, for the body re- 
cuperates more quickly during sleep. 

Is the same true of girls in school? It is; for faithful 
school work acts on the brain, and plenty of sleep is nec- 
essary to keep it in good working order. 

What bearing has nourishing, properly cooked food on 
fatigue? The body needs it to build up the torn down 
tissues ; these cannot be built up without proper food. 
The young wage-earner, or school girl who makes her 
lunch off pickles, pie, candy, and coffee or tea, will cer- 
tainly injure her health and reduce her efficiency. 



II 



EFFICIE \i\ in I [OME M \ki\ ( ; 



Have the efficiency experts made any discoveries in 
regard to labor thai are of value to the housewife? Yes; 
she tnighl learn wisdom from the experiment tried .it the 
Bethlehem Steel Works where the men were loading pig 
11 on Each man picked up a pig weighing about 92 
pounds, carried 11 up an inclined plank, and dropped it 
on .1 car. rhe men averaged loading 12] \ tons ol iron a 
day, rhen the efficiency expert took one man and tim- 
ing him with .1 stop watch, made him rest every so many 
minutes, At the end of the daj he had loaded •(,"' 2 tons, 
instead oi 12 tons, and was no more tired, 

Why was this? rhe study of fatigue has shown that 
"Rest musl adequately balance exertion." When the man 
w.is working constantly, he used up the tissues oi his 
arms, both holding and carrying the heavy weight, fastei 
than the blood had .1 chance to restore them 10 their nor 
1u.1l condition, When he rested ever} so many minutes, 
the blood luuh up the tissues that had been torn down 
In the heavy work. When carrying half pigs he did not 
need to rest as often, foi the strain on the muscles of the 
.tuns was not so great, Having learned how to Increase 
the amounl oi work, his wages weir increased 60 per 
cent it he had not been taught how many minutes to 
work and how man) to rest, bul had just been promised 
the increase in wages it' he moved the 1" 1 • tons he would 
have gone at it without stopping doubtless, and would 
have worn himself out by n 01 12 o'clock, with his task 
unfinished, because his muscles would not have had a 
chance to recuperate by frequent rests. But having ac 
quired the habit ol resting at propei intervals, he was 
able to work .dl d.i\ at even gait, Even it one is doing 
brain work, to rise from the desk, stretch, take .1 few 
deep breaths, and relax completely in an easy chair for 
three 01 fom minutes, gives the brain tune to recuperate, 
.unl more can be accomplished with less fatigue, 

Is u worth wlule for the home makei to n\ this plan? 
it would result in hei accomplishing more in a given time 
with less fatigue, Ihit when she relaxes, she must relax 



Efficiency in Home Making 45 

completely, and not be on nervous tension to get back to 
her work. 

In what other way may household tasks be lightened? 
By cutting out every unnecessary movement in doing the 
work. A young girl attracted much attention at an exhi- 
bition, by the rapidity with which she pasted labels on 
boxes. Gilbreth, the efficiency expert, showed her she 
was not doing it the best way, and following his instruc- 
tions, cutting out all unnecessary motions, instead of past- 
ing twenty-four in forty seconds she pasted fifty-two in 
forty seconds, and without any more effort, simply be- 
cause she avoided all unnecessary motions. 

Of what help is this example to the housewife? She 
can lighten her tasks by doing away with unnecessary 
motions. If she has to open two closet doors to get a 
measuring cup, put it where she only has to open one. 
Let her count the number of times she goes up and down 
stairs to the refrigerator in the course of the day, and 
see if some way cannot be made either to have a trap door 
or dumb waiter running into the cellar screened in such 
a way as to keep out flies, and leave some of the things 
on it in the cool cellar without having to go to the re- 
frigerator so much. Or better still have the refrigerator 
either in the kitchen or just outside, properly protected. 
Let her study in every way to lessen the number of steps 
and motions it is necessary to take during the day. Let 
her get her housekeeping reduced to a science. It has 
been found that workmen accomplish just as much in an 
eight-hour day as they did in a ten-hour day, because they 
are more rested and in better condition for working. The 
desirable way is not to have the housework drag around 
all day, but by frequent rests of three or four minutes, 
with deep breathing and perfect relaxing to keep the 
muscles up to normal, to finish the work and then have 
time for recreation, or a nap. A short nap after the noon 
meal is a wonderful restorer of health, and nerve force. 
The body recuperates more quickly during sleep. If your 
family is large and your home cares many try these sug- 
gestions faithfully and see if life will not seem brighter 



46 Efficiency in Home Making 

and more worth living, and if you yourself will not be 
worth much more to your family and the world. 

Is it possible to have a plan of work, that will fit every 
household? No; for conditions vary so. Below is a plan 
that worked well in a conveniently arranged eight-room 
apartment with two grown people and one maid. There 
was not much company and little entertaining. The meals 
served, were simple and nutritious ; the laundry was sent 
out with the exception of the knitted underwear, stock- 
ings, handkerchiefs and white waists. 

EVERY DAY WORK FOR MAID. 

Put own bed and room to air. Bring in milk bottles, 
wipe off same. Empty refrigerator pan. Go over floors 
of dining room, parlor, library and entrance hall with 
dust mop. Dust same rooms. Get breakfast, set table, 
serve breakfast, bring up mail during first course. After 
breakfast, do up dishes, wash out sink, wipe off stove, 
sweep kitchen, and wipe up if needed, wipe out fireless 
cooker, if damp. Make beds, go over bedroom floors and 
halls with dust mop, dust same. Wipe out bath tub, clean 
same, if needed ; wash bowl, fold towels, empty slops 
from own room; use mop stick in toilet; wipe floor if 
soiled ; polish door knob, if needed. Get and serve lunch- 
eon and dinner, do up dishes ; open beds at night. 

SPECIAL WORK FOR MAID. 

Monday. Over rugs with carpet sweeper; washing 
knitted underwear, handkerchiefs, and white waists. 

Tuesday. Ironing same. 

Wednesday. Go over rugs with carpet sweeper ; shake 
doilies, and bureau covers out of window ; wash cut glass, 
and silver on side-board, and rub up silver when tar- 
nished. 

Thursday. Wipe off lower sashes of inside of win 
dows and mirrors with dry chamois, dust middle casing 
of windows ; dust all base-boards thoroughly with lamb's 
wool duster; dust picture frames; polish brass. 



Efficiency in Home Making 47 

Friday. Vacuum clean rugs, one hour and forty-five 
minutes; scrub up bath-room floor, wipe off tiling, and 
china of seat. 

Saturday. Brush out ovens of stove, clean tray under 
burners and pipes ; wash our refrigerator, cleaning pipe 
thoroughly with brush, and scald it down ; scald butter 
pail, also bread box ; wipe off soiled places on wall or on 
cupboards, wipe out kitchen drawers if needed ; mop up 
floor. Wash floor dust mop. 

Once a month go over underside of rugs with vacuum 
cleaner, and floor under them with dust mop. Once a 
month go over top of door and window ledges and pic- 
ture moldings with long lambs' wool duster. Once in 
two weeks dust framework of bed springs rest on, and 
dust backs of bureaus. 

How long did it take to do properly the work listed 
here under every day work? A test was made by the 
mistress of the apartment. Without hurrying she did all 
the work listed here under every day work in two hours. 
She also noted the time it took her maid to do it four 
different mornings, which was a little less than two hours. 
The maid was unconscious she was being timed. This 
did not include doing the maid's room. Of course, if 
the rooms had been cluttered with furniture it would 
have taken longer to put them in order and dust all the 
useless furniture and ornaments. The rooms had about 
ten pieces of furniture each ; the halls hardly any. It 
would also have taken longer had there been more in 
the family, or had muffins or hot bread been made for 
breakfast. The breakfasts consisted of fruit, cereal, 
toast; perhaps bacon, and coffee. Also had the apart- 
ment rooms not been arranged compactly with no long 
halls to traverse ; if the beds, instead of being so placed 
that one could go around them, had had to be moved out 
to make. 

A plan which worked well in a house of about four- 
teen rooms, besides baths, and lavatories, and seven halls. 
There were three grown persons in the family; some 
company; but not much entertaining. There were two 



48 Efficiency in Home Making 

maids ; and the coachman cleaned the walks and rugs, 
and took care of heater; coal for the kitchen and laundry 
fires. 

EVERY DAY WORK FOR HOUSEMAID. 

Put own room to air ; arrange shades in rooms on first 
floor ; open front door and windows to air first floor ; 
dust ledges of front door and screen door, and sills of 
windows opening on front porch; polish knobs of front 
door and screen door when needed to keep them bright; 
wipe up tiling in vestibule. Dust dining room carefully 
going over floor around rug with floor mop, dusting all 
the furniture. Change water on cut flowers, removing 
wilted ones; set table, properly placing butter, glasses of 
water and fruit just before announcing breakfast. Serve 
breakfast, and after eating her own, wash and put away 
dishes from dining room. Put bedrooms in order, empty- 
ing any waste water, and seeing that all bedroom china 
is properly scalded and free from odor. Beds properly 
made, floors gone over with dust mop, and rooms dusted. 
Wash out basins in lavatory and bath, and the tops of 
the stationary stands; also bath tub. Wipe down front 
stairs, lower front hall, parlor, and library floors, and 
dust them. Attend to guest rooms in same way when in 
use, and keep her own room in good order. 

Set table for luncheon, and dinner, and serve same and 
do dishes from dining room. At night light the front 
hall, and rooms on first floor. 

SPECIAL WORK FOR HOUSEMAID. 

Mondays. Clean toilet and bath-rooms, and wash her 
own clothes, dust doors. 

Tuesday. Sweep upstairs porches, and iron own 
clothes, over rugs with carpet sweeper. 

Wednesdays. Clean dining room, sweep down all back 
stairways, dust baseboards, wash tiling in front of fire- 
places ; afternoon out. 



Efficiency in Home Making 49 

Thursdays. Clean bedroom No. 3, clean all doorknobs, 
spigots, fireplace rims, dust doors ; next week clean bed- 
room No. 1, clean silver, dust doors, once in two months 
wash transoms. 

Next week clean bedroom No. 3, all door knobs, "spig- 
ots, and fireplace rims, dust doors. 

Next week clean parlor, wash light globes, and dust 
fixtures, dust doors. 

Fridays. Clean bedroom No. 2, and lavatory, wash 
windows on second floor, carpet sweeper over rugs. 

Next week clean guest rooms, wash windows on 3rd 
floor, carpet sweeper over rugs. 

Next week, clean bedroom No. 2 and lavatory, wash 
windows on second floor. 

Next week clean library and bedroom No. 1, wash 
windows on first floor, carpet sweeper over rugs. 

Saturdays. Clean all front and back halls (6) and 
own room ami butler's pantry, and dust baseboards. 

EVERY DAY WORK FOR THE COOK. 

Getting the three meals, setting the kitchen table, wash- 
ing and putting away the dishes from it, keeping the 
kitchen clean and in order, sweeping the back porch and 
steps. 

THE COOK'S SPECIAL WORK. 

Monday. Washing, mopping up laundry, and washing 
stationary tubs, sprinkle and fold down clothes, wash up 
kitchen floor. 

Tuesday. Sweep basement back stairs and lower base- 
ment hall, wash kitchen floor, iron. 

Wednesday. Bake bread, wash kitchen floor, finish 
ironing, clean servant's sitting room. 

TJiursday. Sweep basement hall and basement stairs, 
clean closets and drawers, wash kitchen floor, afternoon 
out. 



50 Efficiency in Home Making 

Friday. Clean servant's bath and toilet, her own room, 
vegetable cellar, refrigerator, bread box, and wash 
kitchen floor. 

Saturday, Wash up basement hall, sweep laundry and 

basement stairs, hake bread. 

NOTE: — A good washing machine was provided. 
Where one can send flat work to a good, reliable laundry 
it is doubtless cheaper and preferable to having it done 
at home. 

A LIST OF ODD THINGS FOR THE COOK 

TO DO WHILE WAITING. IN ORDER 

TO SAVE TIME. 

Go down to laundry and sort clothes, putting them to 
soak. 

Wash dumb waiter. 

Mould bread. 

(."lean potatoes for baking. 

Prepare bread crumbs. 

Remove meat from bones, grind for hash. 

Put bones over for SOUp. 

Put beans to soak. 

Make cold dessert. 

Open clams. 

SETTING THE TABLE. 

What should be put on under the tablecloth? A silence 
cloth, either a regular one. or one of canton flannel. 

What is the most acceptable kind of tablecloth? One 
of fir sk linen; it should be put on evenly, with 

fold in center, and hang over the edges, at least one-quar- 
ter oi a yard. 

How may the number of tablecloths used be lessened? 
By substituting a lunch cloth for breakfast and lunch 
or supper, if dim:. 

Are doilies advisable in • doth? 

With a nice table they are very attractive, and t' 
they save laundering a cloth, it makes a . eal of 



Efficiency in Home Making 51 

bother putting a number on each time and taking them 
off, SO it is a question whether it is any saving. 

Where there is a family of only two or three, and much 
for one pair of hands to do, what might be substituted 
at breakfast? Tray cloths at each place. 

What is meant by the "cover"? A place at table for 
each person, and the plate, napkin, glass, knives, forks, 
and spoons needed for the meal. 

At a formal meal where much silver is required, should 
it all be put on first? Tart of it may be put on then and 
the rest as needed with each course served. 

How much space should be allowed for each person? 
Twenty inches is the least. Place plate for each person 
one inch from edge of table. 

How should the knives be placed? At the right oi the 
plate, with cutting elge ne.xt it, and about one-half inch 
from the edge of the table. Put the one to be used last, 
next the plate, and so on out. 

How should the forks be placed? With tines up at 
left o\ plate, one-half inch from edge of table, the last 
to be used next the plate, and so on out. with the excep- 
tion of the oyster fork, which is placed at the right of 
plate beyond the spoons. 

How should the spoons be placed? At right of knives, 
bowls up. in the order they are to be used, working 
towards the plate. 

Where should the napkins be placed? They should be 
folded and put at left of the forks, or if fresh in center 
of plate. 

Where should the glass be placed? Just above the 
point of the knife: it should be tilled with water to with- 
in a little less than an inch of top, and placed just before 
meal is served. 

Where is the bread and butter plate put? At left, just 
above the forks: the butter spreaders may be placed on 
these, across edge, also the butter cube or ball. 

Where are the salts and peppers placed? In front of 
each cover, or between each two covers, or at corners 
of table. 



52 Efficiency in Home Making 

WAITING ON TABLE. 

Should a tray be used in waiting on table? Where 
very large dishes or platters are to be passed it is more 
convenient to use a folded napkin on the hand without a 
tray, but for silver or smaller dishes (especially where 
the hand comes close to the food) the tray is preferable. 

What is important in serving? To have hot dishes 
served hot, and cold ones served cold. 

Which side should food be served from? The wait- 
ress should always go to left of person with dishes to be 
served from, and hold dish near the plate, low enough so 
it can be easily reached. Where individual portions are 
served, waitress goes to the right of person, and places 
dish in front of him using right hand to place it. 

How should a course be removed from the table? 
After all have finished take all large dishes containing 
food from table, then remove plates, with the soiled silver 
on them ; if there are side dishes, they may be placed on 
the large plate or tray and removed at the same time, 
but do not pile plates up on the tray. 

When should the table be crumbed ? Before the dessert 
is passed, and between courses, if necessary. 

What should be used? It is perfectly proper to use a 
plate and folded napkin. 

What should the waitress watch out for? That the 
glasses are kept filled, that the bread and butter are passed 
without being asked for, and other things at hand as 
needed. 

What will the efficient waitress always remember? To 
serve a meal very quietly, not making any noise with the 
dishes, and to move quietly and quickly, to be neat and 
clean in person and appearance, hair properly brushed, 
and finger nails clean. 

When should finger bowls be used ? Always when fruit 
is served. At breakfast they may be put on with a little 
water in them (not ice water) before breakfast is called. 
If individual portions of fruit are placed at each cover, 
the finger bowl may be placed at left side just above the 



Efficiency in Home Making 53 

fork; if not place on fruit plate, in front of each cover 
with doily between. For luncheon or dinner, they are 
placed before the dessert is served, in front of each per- 
son, on a plate with a doily between; each individual 
removes his own with its doily to the left of his plate. 
At a very formal dinner, they are placed before the black 
coffee is served, after the dessert. ' 

When the family is through eating why is it well to 
press the button twice for the maid instead of once? If 
she is busy about something, or is eating her own meal, 
or is not ready for her dessert, she can then wait a few 
minutes undisturbed before going to the dining room. 

If there is no waitress what is of great assistance? A 
tea cart. Not only in bringing in the dishes and food, 
and in removing them, but also in changing the courses. 
Put the salad and dessert, and dishes for them, on top ; 
the soiled plates can be put on lower shelf, without get- 
ting up, if the housewife has the tea cart by her side. 

SERVING THE COMPANY DINNER. 

If dinner cards are used, where should they be placed? 
On the napkins, but they should be small and simple, 
just the name of the guest, or they may also have the 
monogram or initials of the hostess, or a dainty little 
hand painting. 

How should the table be decorated? With a center- 
piece, either of embroidery or lace, on which is a low 
vase or bowl of flowers, and at elaborate dinners a bunch 
of flowers, or a single flower may be placed at each place. 

Are many courses desired at a company dinner? That 
depends entirely upon the occasion, and the general style 
of the establishment. It would be in very poor taste 
to attempt an elaborate dinner without plenty of help to 
prepare and serve it. A simple dinner, daintily served, 
and every dish well selected and prepared, served at the 
proper temperature, and most of all, suited to the income 
of those entertaining, is vastly more enjoyable than an 
elaborate one poorly cooked and badly served, or more 
expensive than one can afford. 



54 Efficiency in Home Making 

Should the small silver or glass dishes with the relishes, 
bon bons, and salted almonds, be placed on the table ? It 
is proper to place them on the table, or the serving table. 

Are butter plates used at a formal dinner? No; as 
no butter is served at a formal dinner. Each course is 
supposed to be served with its sauces. 

How should a formal dinner be served? Either of two 
ways. The most formal is to have each course served 
from the pantry on individual plates, the butler or wait- 
ress carries the tray with the portion on it in the left 
hand and with the right hand places it in front of the 
person, from the right. It should be placed upon the 
service plate until after the soup or boullion course, when 
the service plate is removed with it ; after which the dish 
is set in front of the person, near the edge of the table. 
If anything is to be served with the course, it is passed 
at the left side of each guest and held low enough, so 
he can help himself easily with his right hand. 

If one wishes to follow the quite unnecessary way of 
keeping a plate all the time before the guests, what is 
the correct way to serve? The waitress goes to the right 
of the guest, and with her left hand removes the plate, 
and with her right hand places the following course, or 
the empty plate. The waitress does not use a tray when 
serving this way. 

In what order should the guests be served? Begin at 
the right and left alternately of the host and hostess, 
going in opposite directions. 

What are simpler ways of serving? After the plates, 
knives and forks have been placed, put the course on a 
tray, after it has been cut in small pieces and carefully 
arranged, with the necessary serving spoon and fork. (If 
the dish is too large it may be carried without the tray.) 
Offer it to each guest going to his left. 

How should the course be removed? After every one 
has finished go to the right of the guest, holding the tray 
in the left hand; with the right hand take the plate and 
put it on the tray. If a guest has carelessly left any of 



Efficiency in Home Making 55 

the silver on the table, quietly remove it, putting it on 
the plate on the tray. 

If there are not enough waitresses to wait quickly, dis- 
pense with the tray and take a dish in each hand. 

When should the coffee be served? If it is to be served 
at the table, the finger-bowls should be placed in front 
of each guest, and then the black coffee, in small cups. 

At an informal dinner how may the soup be served? 
By the hostess, from a tureen at the table. The maid 
places one plate at a time before the hostess ; when filled, 
she places it on the service plate of each guest, going to 
the right side. 

How may the fish and meat courses be served ? In the 
same way, only the host does the carving. 

How are all vegetables and sauces served? From the 
side. They are placed on the side table and passed to the 
left of each guest. 

How is the salad served? The host or hostess may 
make it at the table if preferred. 

How should the dessert be served? By the hostess, 
the maid passing it. 

How is the coffee served? The hostess may pour it 
or it may be brought in, in little cups. It is placed at 
the lower right hand of the guest, and sugar and cream 
passed to his left. 

How should a company dinner be served when there 
is to be only the maid of all work? The table should 
be set as for the formal dinner, but the service plate 
should be omitted ; all the knives, forks and spoons needed 
put on the table. Also salts and peppers at the corners 
of the table or one of each for every two persons. 

What else should be put on before dinner is announced? 
A bread and butter plate at the left of each place with 
a butter ball, and bread or roll, and if butter knives are 
used, a small one on each plate ; glasses should be filled 
with ice water to within about an inch of top, and every- 
thing be on the serving table. Three or four plates are 
placed at a time before the host or hostess ; the maid 
places one as filled on the tray, and with the right hand, 



56 Efficiency in Home Making 

standing at the right side of the guest, places it before 
him. 

How is the formal luncheon served? Like the formal 
dinner except that with a very handsome table, doilies 
and a centerpiece may be used instead of the cloth. But 
the cloth can be used, if preferred. 

How is the soup served at a luncheon? In boullion 
cups. 

Is the heavy roast omitted at luncheon ? Yes ; and 
very few vegetables are served. 

How are the salad, dessert and coffee served ? Usually 
from the side, but the hostess may serve them if she 
wishes. 

What is the difference between the informal dinner 
and the informal luncheon? No roasts are served at the 
informal luncheon, and if the hostess wishes, she serves 
tea from a teapot arranged with the cups and saucers, 
sugar and cream on a tray with a cloth under them ; or 
omitting the tray she uses the tray cloth only. 

WHY NOT USE ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS IN 
COOKING? 

Is there any reason why it is dangerous or unwise to 
use alcoholic liquors in cooking? A brandied peach, or 
food or sauce flavored with rum or wine have not enough 
alcohol in to do injury; but their use may create (and 
has created) a liking for alcoholic beverages which is 
distinctly harmful. One not accustomed to liquors in 
cooking, does not miss them; why then create the desire? 
If one has formed the taste, all the more reason why it 
may be perilous to gratify it. 

Why is there any objection to serving wines or cham- 
pagne at dinners or luncheons? Modern science has dis- 
covered that alcohol is a narcotic poison, and a habit- 
forming drug. That the amount in even two glasses of 
beer is sufficient to reduce efficiency for eight hours or 
more. Its continued use in large quantities causes liver 
cirrhosis, heart and kidney diseases, hardening of the 



Efficiency in Home Making 57 

blood vessels, gout, and nervous troubles. One glass of 
champagne, or one cocktail, has caused many an adoles- 
cent girl to take her first side step from the path of virtue, 
for it inflames the baser passions, and at the same time 
puts to sleep temporarily the nerves of moral sense. 
Alcohol destroys the white corpuscles of the blood which 
protects us from disease, thus predisposing one to tuber- 
culosis and other contagious diseases. Therefore, it 
would seem that any woman of really high ideals and a 
fine moral sense would not be willing to place before her 
guests, or stamp with her approval in any way, anything 
that produces such disastrous results. If patriotism in 
time of war calls for the banishing of alcoholic drinks, 
why should not love for one's friends call for the banish- 
ing of alcoholic drinks from the table? Are you willing 
to assume the responsibility of putting this temptation 
before your guests? 

HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS. 

Is it worth while to keep household accounts ? It is ; 
and with the Economy Expense book, it is not a difficult 
matter if attended to regularly. There are two columns 
at the left, one to enter the amounts received, the other 
what is paid out ; and a space beyond, to post the expendi- 
tures under the different heads, so one can easily tell if 
the account balances, and at the end of the month the 
amount spent under different groups. 

What help is this? It enables one to see how the in- 
come is being spent, and where it would be wise to cut 
out any needless or unduly large expenditure. 

What practice should one especially avoid? Going in 
debt ; it is demoralizing and leads one into expenditures 
she cannot afford. It does not matter so much what 
one's income is, as whether one lives within it, saving up 
a little for "a rainy day." Debt is like a millstone about 
one's neck, and has many times dragged a man down to 
suicide. One should gauge her expenditures by her in- 
come and not by the income of a neighbor, and heroically 
go without what cannot be afforded. 



58 Efficiency in Home Making 

LAUNDRY V/ORK. 

What makes water hard? It is the compounds of lime 
or magnesia it has taken up from the soil. 

How may this sometimes be corrected? By boiling, 
if it is calcium carbonate (carbonate of lime) or by 
putting a little sal soda, borax or ammonia in. 

Can clothes be washed well in hard water? No; they 
cannot be washed well, and it takes very much more soap. 

Will soap act on the dirt as long as there is lime in the 
water? No; it will unite with the lime and form lime 
soap. 

How can this lime soap be removed from the tubs and 
boiler ? It is insoluble in water, but can be readily wiped 
off with a cloth dampened with coal oil. 

Is it advisable to soak clothes before washing? It helps 
to loosen the dirt. They should be put in cold or luke- 
warm water, and soap rubbed on the parts badly soiled, 
rolling them up to get the full benefit of the soap. 

Should the water be softened first? Yes; with a little 
washing soda solution. 

Should washing soda be put in the water after the 
clothes have been put in? Never! Always dissolve it 
thoroughly in the tub of water first ; about two ounces to 
a large tub of water. 

What should be done next ? Wring out the clothes ; 
then wash them clean in hot soap suds, and then scald. 
They are more sanitary if boiled about ten minutes, in- 
stead of having scalding water poured over them. 

What will help in whitening the clothes? If a table- 
spoonful of borax to each gallon of water is put in the 
boiler before putting them in to boil. 

Is there any other advantage in the borax? It acts 
as a disinfectant. 

Why do the clothes need to be thoroughly rinsed? 
Otherwise the dirty water will not be removed, and the 
soap will also make them look yellow. 

Should the clothes be thoroughly wrung between each 
change of water? Yes; or so much soiled water will be 



Efficiency in Home Making 59 

left in them it will take several rinsings to remove it. 

Why do clothes that have been blued look whiter? A 
blue white always seems whiter to the eye than a yellow 
white. 

What will help in washing greasy clothing or dish 
towels? A tablespoonful of coal oil to about a gallon 
of water, will cut the grease ; they must be thoroughly 
boiled afterwards with plenty of soap, and very thor- 
oughly rinsed, and hung in the open air. 

Why should stains be removed before clothes are put 
in hot soap suds or soda water ? Because hot water, soda 
and soap set many stains. 

Why does linen shrink more than cotton? Because it 
has little notches or joints along its walls, but these little 
teeth are not so long as on wool fiber. 

Do alkalies, like washing soda, borax and ammonia, 
have much effect on cotton? Not very much, but they 
should be rinsed out thoroughly, especially washing soda, 
for when the cloth dries the absence of water makes the 
remaining amount of soda full strength, and it will act 
for some time on the cloth. 

Why will clothes dry quicker in a draft? Air will only 
absorb a certain amount of moisture, and that next the 
clothes becomes saturated and cannot take up any more 
moisture ; but dry air blowing against them continues to 
absorb the moisture. 

WASHING WOOLENS. 

Why do woolen garments shrink more in washing than 
any other kind? The wool fibers are marked by cross- 
wise divisions with little teeth-like projections, which 
become knotted together when the garment is rubbed ; 
hot water and strong alkalies also make them curl up 
and tangle together. 

Why does wool shrink less if cotton or some other 
material is mixed with it? Because there are less of 
these little teeth to get tangled up. 



60 Efficiency in Home Making 

Should alkalies be used in washing woolens? No; for 
they have a hardening effect on them. Just enough to 
soften the water may be used. 

What special care must be used in washing woolen 
goods? The different waters used should be of the same 
temperature, never hotter than the hand can bear com- 
fortably, and they should not be allowed to soak, but 
be washed and dried quickly. 

Should soap be rubbed on the wool? No; be sure to 
dissolve it, and use in liquid form ; white soap only should 
be used. 

What is best to do before putting woolens in the water? 
To shake or brush them first because the little tooth-like 
projections catch so much dust, and on the inside the 
particles of skin that are constantly being thrown off 
become lodged in them. 

Should woolens be rubbed? No; they should be 
squeezed, and soused up and down and they should not 
be wrung by hand but through a wringer. 

Should woolens be allowed to freeze in drying? No; 
the little teeth will become knotted and hard. 

What is a good way to dry them? After putting 
through the wringer, roll up tightly in a dry towel or 
sheet, squeezing them until all the moisture is absorbed. 

WASHING COLORED CLOTHES. 

Should colored clothes be soaked? No. 

What kind of soap should be used? Only a white soap 
free from alkali, and it should never be rubbed on, but 
dissolved in the water. 

How should they be hung out? Wrong side out, and 
in the shade, for the direct sunshine on them will fade 
them about twenty times as quickly. 



Efficiency in Home Making 6i 

STARCHED CLOTHES. 

Will clothes stay clean longer if starched? They will. 

How should cooked starch be made? Moisten the 
starch thoroughly in a little water and then the right 
amount of boiling water can be poured over it, stirring 
it rapidly, then cook until it is clear. 

Will starch stick worse if it is lumpy and if not thor- 
oughly cooked? It will. 

How can anything be starched very stiff, like shirt 
fronts ? Have the goods dry so as not to thin the starch 
which must be thick, and rub and work it in with the 
hands spatting it thoroughly. 



MERELY A SUGGESTION OF STARCH. 

i tablespoonful of starch. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

2 quarts of boiling water. 

This is right for table linen if one wishes just a sug- 
gestion of starch to help keep it fresh looking longer than 
when no starch is used. 



VERY STIFF STARCH FOR SHIRT BOSOMS, 
COLLARS AND CUFFS. 

i tablespoonful of starch. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

i gill of boiling water. 

If they are to be wet afterwards in cold starch use one- 
half pint of boiling water. For dresses and articles 
wanted fairly stiff use one pint of boiling water. 



62 Efficiency in Home Making 

RAW STARCH. 

i tablespoonful of starch. 

*/2 pint of cold water. 

% teaspoon ful of borax. 

A few drops of turpentine. 

Do not increase the amount of borax and turpentine 
or they will injure the cloth, but they give whiteness and 
gloss to starched linen. Cold starch settles very quickly, 
so it must be stirred every few minutes. Let what is left 
settle, pour off the water, and use next time for making 
hot starch. 

What is very important in starching? To pat the 
starch in thoroughly and evenly. 

IRONING. 

In ironing, what is necessary? To have the clothes 
evenly dampened, no dry spots in them or they will not 
look well; they must be damp enough, but not too wet, 
or the iron will cool too quickly. 

Is it better to sprinkle clothes the night before, and 
fold down carefully, rolling them tightly? It is. Then 
spread a damp cloth over them. 

Does cold starch need a hot iron in ironing? Yes; or 
the starch will not be well cooked and will not stiffen 
much. 

Should table linen be starched? No; it should be 
ironed while quite damp all over. If the cloth is very 
old and thin, it may be dipped in just the least suggestion 
of starch, to give it the body of good linen. 

Will a table look well if the cloth is badly ironed, or 
mussed? No; it is worth special effort to have the cloth 
clean and well ironed, for it gives a feeling of cheerful- 
ness and comfort to sit down to an attractive table. 



Efficiency in Home Making 63 

REMOVING SPOTS. 

In removing spots from clothing how is the best way? 
To have a thick pad of cloth underneath, so that the 
cleaning fluid or water will be absorbed, taking the grease 
or soil with it. 

How can a soiled yoke and collar of lace be cleaned? 
By putting it over a pad, this way, and rubbing with 
gasoline, or white soap and water, or borax and water. 

Is there danger in using gasoline? It is very dangerous 
if there is a flame or fire in the room ; in fact the vapor 
from it may go from one room into the next, if the door 
is open, and cause a fearful explosion if there is a candle, 
lamp or gas jet lighted, or a fire in the stove, if it has 
a lid off, or damper open over the fire. 

What precaution should one take in using gasoline? 
It is best to use it out of doors, if possible, if not, have 
the window open, to let the fumes escape, and make sure 
there is no open flame anywhere, or that any one carries 
a light or strikes a match there until the fumes have dis- 
appeared. 

How may fresh coffee, tea and fruit stains be removed ? 
By stretching the stain over a dish and pouring boiling 
water through it. 

Should these stains be allowed to dry in, in table linen? 
No ; wash them out at once. 

How can vaseline stains be removed? Always soak 
in kerosene before using water or soap. 

What can be used to remove paint? Turpentine. 

What for varnish or pitch? Turpentine, alcohol is 
also good to remove it. 

How may ink stains sometimes be removed? Wash in 
a little skimmed milk before they dry. If they can be 
left in until the milk sours if the stain is an old one, it 
will sometimes help. 

What else can be used? Moisten the stain with lemon 
juice, and cover with salt and put in the sun. Wash 
out thoroughly. 

How can blood stains be removed ? Soak in cold water, 
wash thoroughly, then use hot water and soap. 



64 Efficiency in Home Making 

SOAP MAKING. 

How can soap for kitchen use be made easily? Care- 
fully and slowly add a can of potash to three pints of 
cold water; it will boil and spatter when it touches the 
cold water, so care is necessary. When cool, pour it 
slowly over five pounds of clean fat that has been saved 
in the kitchen, melted, and strained through cheese cloth 
to remove all specks of brown. Stir with a stick until 
they are thoroughly mixed and about as thick as honey. 
Do not stir too long as they may separate. 

How can it be molded? Line a wooden box with sev- 
eral thicknesses of wrapping paper, oiling the last one. 
It will harden in a moderately warm place ; then cut into 
cakes. It is good for scrubbing and coarse work. 



WASHING FLUID. 

i lb. of good potash Yz oz. salts of tartar 

y 2 oz. salts of ammonia I gallon of water 

Add the potash very carefully to the water, as it will 
bubble up and run over unless put in slowly, then add 
the other ingredients, mix thoroughly and when cool 
put in bottles tightly corked. 

In using soak the clothes in cold water, wring out and 
put over to boil in cold water to which has been added 
Yz cup of the fluid to 3 pails of cold water. Mix this 
thoroughly before putting in the clothes, never add any 
fluid after the clothes have been put in the water. 

After boiling suds and rinse thoroughly, then blue, 
and hang out. If these directions are followed carefully 
the clothes will wash very easily, will wear better than 
when rubbed in the old way, and will keep beautifully 
white. 



Efficiency in Home Making 65 

HOW MUCH SHOULD BE SPENT ON THE 
TABLE. 

Those who have made a careful study of actual cases 
tell us that the proportion of the income spent for food, 
decreases as the income increases. 

Why is this? Persons must have a certain amount of 
food to sustain life and strength. If a family has but 
$300 to live on it is evident that a much larger portion, 
or percentage of it will have to go for food (to the exclu- 
sion of all the comforts of life) than in a family that 
has an income of $3,000. About 60% or 6/10 in the first 
case, and about 25% or Y^ in the second. 

How small an expenditure for raw food could one live, 
or exist on ? It is estimated eight to ten cents a day would 
keep one alive. This means only the very cheapest food. 

How much would allow a limited amount of fresh 
vegetables and fruits in season, coffee, tea, some milk 
and quite a variety of food? From twenty-five to thirty 
cents per person. 

How much for raw food would give an excellent table, 
but not strawberries in January, or game and luxuries of 
that kind? Fifty cents per day a person. 

Can the same food be served cheaper in a large institu- 
tion than in the family? Yes; for one can buy much 
cheaper in very large quantities, and the service is less. 

What increases very much the cost of food for the 
table? The preparation of it, the service required, and 
the fuel. The fuel may be lessened by using a fireless 
cooker, utilizing the oven for baking beans, etc., when 
ironing if coal is used. 

Name three things that unnecessarily increase the cost 
of food? Buying that which is out of season, when the 
price is very excessive; buying more than is needed, and 
wasting food through poor cooking. 

Does serving a family dinner in four courses, instead 
of three, increase the cost? It requires more service, and 
time has a real value. 

What is true economy? Spending money or time in 
such a way as to get the largest real return from it, 



66 



Efficiency in Home Making 



PURE FOODS. 

What special knowledge is required in buying groceries, 
etc.? A knowledge of which are pure and which are 
adulterated. 

Are the substances used in adulterating food always 
harmful ? Sometimes the preservatives are ; especially 
if one is not very robust, or with children, and invalids. 
But even if the substance with which food is adulterated 
is not harmful, why should we pay. the price of a pure 
food when a cheap substitute has been added to increase 
the profit of the manufacturer. It is simply throwing 
money away. 

How can the housewife guard against buying adul- 
terated food? Dr. Harvey W. Wiley's "iooi tests of 
foods, beverages, and toilet accessories" can be bought 
for $1.25, and is an invaluable guide to the purchaser, 
for he shows up with a fearless hand the adulterated, 
misbranded articles, and gives the names of those brands 
it is safe to buy. He has rendered the housewife an in- 
valuable service in this book. 



BALANCED RATIONS, OR FOOD VALUES. 

Is it necessary to figure out the proportion of food 
values for each person? No; most foods have minute 
quantities of the five different food substances, including 
water, so that by selecting something from each of the 
following divisions for each meal, one will get a fairly 
balanced ration. 



Protein. 

Meat 

Fish 

Eggs 

Milk 

Cheese 

Legumes 

Nuts 



Fat. 

Butter 
Cream 
Bacon 



Carbohydrates. Mineral Content. 



Sugar 

Starch 

Bread 

Cereals 

Tapioca 

Dried Fruits 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Macaroni 

Hominy 



Green vegetables 

Fruits 

Whole wheat 



Efficiency in Home Making 67 

Eggs, milk also have much mineral content, and cheese, 
nuts and fat meat much fat. 

Which one of these classes of food does the body use 
for growth and repair? The proteins. 

What purpose do the carbohydrates and fats serve in 
the body? They both produce heat and energy — or the 
power to work. This work is two kinds, internal and 
external. 

What is the internal work? Performing the regular 
functions of the body itself, breathing, digesting, circula- 
tion of the blood, elimination of waste products, thinking 
or brain work. 

In furnishing heat for the body, which goes the fur- 
thest, fat or carbohydrate? Fat produces twice as much 
heat. 

When one eats much fatty food does he require more 
fresh air? Yes; for he needs the oxygen, to help in 
digesting it as it contains less oxygen than starch and 
sugar. That is one reason a person working out of doors 
can eat pork, pie and fried cakes, when a person of seden- 
tary habits cannot. 

How does the body use the mineral matter found in 
green vegetables and fruits, and in eggs and milk? They 
are used in the teeth, bones and nails. 

How does the body use fat ? Considerable fat is stored 
in the body as a reserve fund ; but its principal office is 
to keep the body's machinery going. 

Would bean soup, roast beef, potato souffle, egg salad, 
and plum pudding be a well balanced menu? No; it 
contains entirely too much protein. 

Should bean soup or egg salad be used with a heavy 
meat ? No. 

Would potato soup, fish, baked potatoes, macaroni, and 
rice pudding make a well balanced menu ? No ; there are 
too many carbohydrates. 

What two foods should be generously provided ? Vege- 
tables and fruits. 



68 Efficiency in Home Making 

Why? They are necessary brooms for the human body 
to keep it swept clean of refuse matter which would clog 
up the system. 

Are fresh fruits and vegetables preferable? Yes; if 
the price is not too high; then substitute dried, evapo- 
rated, or canned ones. 

Can one judge of the nutritive value of food by its 
price? Not at all. The scarcity of a food increases its 
price. Fruits and vegetables out of season cost several 
times more. 

What is the comparative amount of nourishment in 
cheese and meat? There is twice as much nourishment 
in a pound of cheese. 

Is milk an economical food ? It is, although it is mainly 
water it contains all the five fundamental types of food 
material. 

Name seven kinds of foods one pound of which would 
have nearly the same amount of nourishment . Macaroni, 
bread, corn meal, dried peas, dried beans, rice, or white 
Hour. 

Is there as much nourishment in a quart of milk as in 
a quart of oysters ? Yes ; it has been proved by the Agri- 
cultural Department. 

Is there much water in meat? The flesh of the larger 
animals will average about two-thirds water. 

How does the amount of protein in a pound of lean 
meat compare with the amount in a pound of milk? 
There is about five time as much in the meat. But re- 
member you must take the bone and fat all out first, then 
reckon what your pound of lean meat cost, and compare 
it with the cost of your pint or pound of milk, remem- 
bering there is five times more protein to the pound of 
lean meat, but even so, you may be surprised at the com- 
parative cost of protein in the milk, and realize that it 
may better be substituted in liberal amount instead of 
too much meat. 

Is the meat from young animals as nutritions as that 
from older animals, or in other words is lamb as nutriti- 



Efficiency in Home Making 69 

ous as mutton, or veal as nutritious as beef? Meat from 
young animals is not as nutritious, does not keep as well, 
but is more tender. 

Is there more nourishment in the expensive cuts of 
meat? There is not as much nourishment, but they are 
more tender, so are more easily and quickly cooked. 

Are all scientists agreed on the amount of protein a 
person requires? No; there is great diversity of opinion. 
Voit, after very careful experiment some years ago was 
firm in his belief that an adult weighing 150 pounds, 
should have 118 grams of protein a day. His statements 
were published in 1881. This was the generally accepted 
theory, and as people in comfortable circumstances were 
accustomed to about that amount from choice, without 
any scientific reason, it was very acceptable. 

Are there any later scientists who contend that less 
protein is required? Yes; five or more. (Hirschfeld, 
Klempirer, Pechsel, Siven and Chittenden.) 

What amount do they claim necessary? For a man 
of average size 40 grams or less ; this is less than one- 
third Voit insisted on. 

Have enough extended investigations been made to 
really establish without doubt the amount of protein one's 
diet should contain that he may reach the highest point 
in efficiency. No ; there have not. Many persons are 
greatly benefited by cutting down the amount of meat 
they are accustomed to eating. 

To what has the human body been compared? To an 
engine. The food being likened to the coal ; the refuse 
matter to the ashes, the air taken in through the lungs to 
the draft, and the waste matter expelled through the 
lungs and skin might be lightened to the smoke and gases 
through the chimney. 

When food is burned in the body why do we not have 
any light from it as with the coal in the stove? Because 
the combustion in the body is much slower. Combustion 
or oxidation takes place in every tissue of the body, not 
in one central place like in the stove, and doubtless the 



jo Efficiency in Home Making 

food first becomes a part of body tissues before it is 
burned, or oxidation takes place. 

Does a person's size have anything to do with the 
amount of food he needs ? Yes ; it takes more heat to 
keep a tall, large, person warm than a short, small one; 
also it requires more material to keep a large body in 
repair than a small one. 

Does this apply to children? No; for they use up a 
tremendous amount of energy in constant motion, and 
they need a large amount of material for both growth and 
repair. 

What kinds of food do they especially need? Proteids, 
for growth and repair, and carbohydrates and fats for 
warmth and energy, and mineral salts for the bones and 
teeth. They must have fruits and vegetables to keep 
the system clear of refuse, so it will not become clogged. 

Does the amount of food affect the mental powers of 
a child? Very much; underfed children are often back- 
ward in school, and when supplied with a nutritious 
luncheon, the improvement is so marked, it is now being 
regarded as very poor economy on the part of the Gov- 
ernment to provide schools for underfed children without 
providing them with additional food. 

Do young children require a special diet? They most 
certainly do. They should never be given tea, coffee, 
fresh bread, griddle cakes, fried potatoes, fried cakes, 
fried meat and eggs, pie, cake, pickles of any kind, tur- 
nips, cabbage, or cheese — not even a little taste of these 
things. Even older children should not have many of 
these foods. 

Will it handicap them later in life if they are not fed 
properly in childhood? It will. Improper feeding may 
result in obstinate indigestion which will prevent them 
from ever becoming as efficient either mentally, physically 
or morally, as they might have been, if properly fed in 
infancy and childhood. 

What other neglect may hamper them all their lives? 
Not taking proper care of their teeth. 



Efficiency in Home Making yi 

Why is this? Food cannot be digested properly unless 
it is thoroughly masticated, and it cannot be thoroughly 
masticated unless one has good teeth. A child's teeth 
are worth thousands of dollars to him, and parents are 
neglecting their duty shamefully, if they do not see that 
each child has his own brush and that his teeth are 
brushed every night and morning. 

Do elderly people need as much food as those in middle 
life? No; none is needed for growth, and little for re- 
pair if they are inactive. 

Should proteids be reduced in their diet? They should, 
and if they are inactive very much reduced. 

PLANNING MEALS. 

What should one avoid in planning meals? Getting 
into a rut and having the same kinds of food day after 
day. 

Is it a good way to have a certain menu made up for 
each day of the week, and use it week in and week out? 
No; even having a certain kind of meat for every day in 
the week, is a poor plan. 

Is it not well to select favorite dishes to the exclusion 
of those less liked? No; for they will no longer please, 
if they appear too often on the table. 

Should there be a great variety of food at one meal? 
No ; it is better for the digestion not to have too much 
of a mixture. A light dessert should follow a hearty meat 
course. With a heavy dessert serve a lighter meat course. 

Is it worth while to save a tablespoon ful of different 
kinds of vegetables left over? It is; nothing should ever 
be wasted. Put the various bits of vegetables, a little 
steak bone, or bone from the roast, the little pieces of 
bread or toast, and a little gravy left over into a stew 
pan and let it simmer for an hour, or put in the fireless 
cooker, rub through a sieve ; boil up, adding a little but- 
ter, if there was not enough gravy or meat bone to flavor, 
add a little paprica, or kitchen bouquet, and you will have 
a nice soup. 



72 Efficiency in Home Making 

How can gravy left over, be used? Add to a can of 
tomatoes, cook half an hour, strain, add paprica, and 
salt and serve with toasted bread. 

How can small quantities of rice, macaroni or potato 
be used? Mix with a little chopped meat or fish, moisten 
with gravy or milk, put in shells or ramekins, with bread 
crumbs over, bake until brown on top. 

How can left over soft boiled eggs be used? Put in 
boiling water, remove from stove, let stand until hard, 
then use as a garnish for spinach, lettuce, etc., or press 
through a sieve and add to a white sauce. 

What should the housekeeper always have on hand ? A 
reserve store of canned goods, to fall back on, when 
supplies run short. This saves a troublesome trip to the 
store or market at the last moment. 

Should a few cans of evaporated milk be included? 
It will often help out to great advantage. 

What should be done with small dry pieces of bread? 
They may be toasted and cut into little squares for soup, 
or they may be kept in a clean muslin bag, until thor- 
oughly dry and crisp (they may be dried out in the oven) 
then crush and roll into fine crumbs, and put in glass cans 
ready for scalloping, crumbing, or using in various ways. 

What may well be substituted for meat at luncheon, 
or at supper? Bean soup, or a cream soup made with 
milk and peas or potatoes, etc., or a cheese souffle, or 
macaroni with cream and cheese dressing, or baked beans, 
or lentils, or egg salad (the eggs must be cooked below 
the boiling point) or scrambled eggs, or cheese sand- 
wiches, or graham sandwiches with nut filling or nut 
bread, or graham muffins with cocoa. 



Efficiency in Home Making 
DESSERTS WITHOUT MILK. 



73 



Fresh fruits. 

/Prunes. 

~ , ] Peaches. 

Stewed < . 

) Apricots. 

Figs. 

Baked apples. 

Dates and crackers. 

Orange jelly. 

Apple tapioca pudding. 

Brown Betty. 

Gingerbread. 



Carrot plum pudding. 
Boiled rice with hard 

sauce. 
i offee jelly with cream. 
Rolled griddle cakes with 

lemon sauce. 
Graham crackers with 

hot cocoa. 
Crackers and cheese. 
Nuts and raisins. 



DESSERTS WITH MILK. 



Boiled custard. 

Baked custard. 

Floating island. 

Baked chocolate custard. 

Baked coffee custard. 

Tapioca lloat. 

Snow pudding. 

Rice custard pudding 

(baked). 
Rice pudding without eggs. 
Bread pudding. 



A'anilla. 
Junket < Coffee. 
Gineer. 



Delmonico pudding. 
Cereal pudding. 
Baked Indian meal pudding. 
Steamed Graham pudding. 
Spiced pudding. 
Tapioca pudding. 
Cottage pudding, hard, 

vanilla, chocolate or jam 

sauce. 
Dropped cookies. 



A'anilla ice cream. 
Strawberry ice cream. 
Frozen (Peach ice cream. 
Lemon sherbet. 
. Coffee mousse. 



74 Efficiency in Home Making 

HINTS ON MARKETING. 

In marketing, what is a great saving of time and annoy- 
ance? Going early, as one can be waited on much more 
promptly. This saves a good deal of time if purchases 
are made at several places. It is most annoying to have 
to wait for the delivery of marketing, and as one should 
allow a reasonable length of time for delivery, it is a 
great help to go to market early. 

MEATS. 

From what part oi the animal are the tenderest cuts 
of meat? From the middle of the hack, as this is the 
part least exercised. 

Which are the toughest, cheapest pieces? Those from 
the parts exercised the most. The legs, especially the 

Front ones, and the neck and shoulders. 

What general rule prevails? The cuts decrease in 
price from the center of the hack both back and front 
and downward. 

Mow should good beef look? It should be dark red 
when first CUt, and grow brighter after exposure to the 
air a short time. The fat should be yellowish white. 

What should he the color oi the fat oi mutton and 
lamb? It should be white and firm, the lamb meat pink. 

Is there much water in meat? ddie tlesh oi the larger 
animals is tw thirds water. 

Does the fore quarter or shoulder have more hone 

than the hind quarter or leg? Yes; always, this increases 
souii-wh.it the lower cost oi the fore-shoulder. 

Should there he a Strong odor to meat when in good 

condition? No. 

Is meat better if well marbled with fat? Yes. 

Wdiat can the neck he used for? For mince meat, and 
broth. 

What part is used for soup meat ? The shin ; it is divi- 
ded into three pieces; the most meat is on the upper part, 



Efficiency in Home A Taking 75 

but the lower bone is very rich in gelatin, and should 
not be thrown away. 

Which is the highest priced steak? The tenderloin. 
because it is the tendcrest, but it has not so much nourish- 
ment as the round. 

What is a filet of beef? It is the entire tenderloin, 
and is very expensive. 

Are both sides of a round steak equally tender? No; 
the outside or bottom round as it is called (the side next 
the skin) is the toughest and cheapest. Those muscles 
are exercised more than those on the inside of the leg". 

Which of the organs of an animal are used for food? 
The liver, sweetbreads, kidneys, heart, and in beef, the 
lining of the stomach. 

What special precaution is necessary in selecting the 
kidneys and liver? These two organs, as their use is to 
remove the impurities of the blood, are very liable to 
be diseased, so if they are spotted or streaked, they 
should never be used. Calves' liver is more expensive 
than beef, but it is perhaps less liable to be diseased, and 
is much more tender. 

POULTRY. 

What kind of poultry is most expensive to buy? Very 
young poultry, not only because the price is more per 
pound, but the proportion of waste in head, feet and bones 
to the amount of meat is greater than in older chickens. 

Which contains the greater amount of meat compared 
to the waste, a three pound fowl or a five pound? The 
live pound, because the head, feet and bones will weigh 
about the same in the two fowls. 

What are some of the marks to distinguish a young- 
fowl ? There are usually pin-feathers, less fat, and the 
feet are smoother. The tip of the breast bone is not so 
hard. 

If a fowl has long hairs is it an indication of age? Yes. 

Are dry picked fowls better than those scalded first ? 
Yes; very much. 



76 Efficiency in Home Making 

FISH. 

What arc indications of freshness in fish? Full life- 
like eves, linn llesh, red gills, stiff (ail, not flabby. 

Is a plump, short lish better than a long, slim one of 
the same kind ? Yes. 

Arc lish that are just caught preferable to those that 
have been out of the water for some time? Very much. 

Is there as much nourishment in lish as in meat? No; 
hut it may well he substituted for it frequently. 

Is under-cooked fish wholesome and palatable? No; 

it should he thoroughly cooked, but not overdone. 

Why are mackerel, salmon, blue lish and shad nunc 

difficull to digest than other kinds of lish? Because the 
oil is distributed through the llesh instead of in the liver. 
Is halibut really as much more expensive than small 
lish as the price per pound would indicate? No; for 
being a very large lish, one docs not get the head or tail, 
and there is very little waste. 

What special precaution is necessary in buying oysters, 
clams and lobsters? To make sure they are perfectly 
fresh, and that the oysters have not been fattened in a 
stream where the water is polluted. 

Is there danger from eating raw oysters? Many cases 
of typhoid fever have resulted from it, when they were 

taken from water polluted with sewage. 

VEGETABLES. 

In buying vegetables, are those dcsirahle that are 
wilted and stale? No; there is no economy in buying 
food that has to he thrown away because unlit for use. 

What size is desirable in vegetables? A medium size, 

for if too small there is too much waste in parings, etc., 
and if too large they are apt to he coarse tihci vd, and 
tasteless. 

Which kind of winter squash is best ? The green 
Hubbard squash, and it should he pood sized and hard. 

What are the best varieties o\ coin? Evergreen and 
Country Gentleman, 



Efficiency in Home Making yy 

Of peas? Telephone and marrowfat. 

What is necessary with both corn and peas? That 
they be cooked ;is soon as possible after picking, as they 
lose- their sweetness very quickly after being gathered. 

EGGS. 
Mow can one determine if eggs are fresh? Learn how 

to candle them, the outfit is inexpensive. 

I low can one scenic fresh eggs in winter at lower 
price? If there is a cool place to keep them buy per- 
fectly fresh eggs in May or early June; unfertilized 
ours keep better. Put down in water glass (state it is 
for putting down eggs) exactly as directed by the Agri 
cultural Department, Washington, IX (.". (pamphlet free) 
and yon will have imhhI eggs the following winter, natural 
flavor, and no taste of water glass. 

DRY GROCERIES. 

Is it advisable to bny groceries in large quantities? 
If the family is Large, and if there is a suitable place to 
store them, there is a very decided saving in buying [00 
pounds of sugar; Hour by the barrel; canned goods by 
the dozen or case ; and fruits by the box or bushel. 

What precaution must be taken with perishable sup 
plies? To look them over often, and remove all decay 
ing ones as they will quickly make those next decay also. 
'The loss may more than overbalance the higher cost in 
small quantity. 

How is a good way to buy oatmeal, cracked wheat, 
hulled wheat, corn meal, graham Hour? By parcel post 
direct from some good, reliable mill; this will save sev- 
eral cents a pound on some kinds. They can be gotten 
this way prepared by the old water ground system. 
Whole wheat berries can be bought this way. Soaked 
eight hours, then cooked half an hour and put in tireless 
cooker with hot stone and left over night it makes a deli 
cious breakfast food. 



7$ Efficiency in Homk Making 

Should one eat polished rice? No; it has had the most 
valuable part removed. In the Philippines it was found 
that the prisoners thrived on the unpolished, while sick- 
ness resulted when put on a diet of polished rice. 

Is rice artificially coated sometimes? It is, with a 
preparation of chalk and parafin. By buying" the un- 
polished, one avoids this adulteration. 

What may be substituted Eor olive oil? Peanut oil. 
If it is thoroughly refined, it has absolutely no taste; is 
more easily digested than olive oil, and much cheaper, 
costing only about $1.00 for half a gallon, and it is as 
nutritious. It makes very nice salad dressing. 

What kind of ilour is most nutritious? Whole wheat 
flour, not entire wheat Ilour, which is a trade-mark and 
is not made of the whole wheat. 

Mow many will one pound of good coffee serve? It 
will make thirty full cups of strong coffee. 

1 low long should one pound of eofl'ee last? It should 
last one person a month, or four a week. Allowing one 
cup a day per person. 

How much butter should one person eat at the table 
where cream is used? One ounce, or two level table- 
spoons a day. or half a pound a week to each person. 

I low much should be allowed per person including that 
for cooking? About one pound. 

What max be substituted for shortening? Carefully 
prepared drippings, always without any bacon or sausage 
fat, also uncolored butterine, or crisco or snowdrift. 

THE KITCHEN FIRE. 

What is one of the most important things in cooking ? 
To have the tire right. 

Is a hard coal tire difficult to manage? Not if one 
knows bow and takes the right care of it. 

What should be done first in building a coal tire? All 
the ashes and coal should be cleaned out of the firebox : 
then the ash pan should be emptied. 



Efficiency in Home Making 79 

Why need the ash pan be emptied ? Because the ashes 
will absorb part of the heat as well as prevent a free 
circulation of air which is necessary if the fire is to burn 
well. 

How should the fuel be put in? Twist up some pieces 
of paper lightly ; put in the bottom of the grate; lay some 
pieces of kindling wood lightly 011 this, crossing each 
other so the air can pass through easily ; on top of 
this a layer of hardwood cut in rather small sticks; put 
on the covers, open the dampers, and light the paper. In 
two or three minutes, when the wood has begun to burn, 
sprinkle on lightly a thin layer of coal ; when this is burn- 
ing well till the firebox with coal to within two inches of 
its top. 

\\ hy not till it full clear up to the covers? Because it 
wastes the coal ; and it heats the top of the stove so that 
it warps and destroys it. 

But will it not make the oven hotter to have the stove 
crowded full of coal and the lids red hot? No, it will 
not; the air has no chance then to pass over the hot coals 
and around the oven, which is necessary if the oven is to 
be heated well. 

What four things are apt to make the oven bake badly? 
Not keeping the layer of ashes, which will settle on the 
top of the oven, cleaned out, and also those that settle 
under the oven, and allowing pieces of coal to lodge on 
the top of the oven just above the firebox, so tin- current 
of hot air is prevented from circulating around the oven; 
also allowing the ashes to fill the ash pan when one is 
baking, as they will absorb much of the heat. 

As soon as one finishes using the fire what should be 
done? Coal should be put on ami all of the dampers 
closed, and the check which allows the cold air to pass 
in over the coal should be opened. 

Will the fire burn much if left this way? No, it can be 
kept for a long time, and when wanted, if the ashes are 
raked out, the clampers opened, and the check closed, the 
fire will burn briskly in a few minutes. 



80 Efficiency in Home Making 

Will it make less work to care for the fire if it is kept 
turned off in this way when not in use? It will; for it 
not only will save the coal but there will be that much 
less coal to bring up and put on the fire, and less ashes 
to rake out and empty; so it pays in the amount of labor 
as well as in coal saved, and the oven does not clog up 
with ashes so soon, and there are less ashes to settle 
through the house in handling. 

Where must the cold air in a stove enter in order to 
make the fire burn? Always below the firebox, and flow 
up though the fire. 

Where must it enter to check the fire from burning? 
Above the firebox, so it will pass over the fire, and not 
through it. 

Should the coal burn to a white heat? No, never. 

Why not? It exhausts the coal before it does its work. 
The lire will be burned too low before fresh coal is put 
on and the drafts will have to be opened and the fire 
started vigorously, to prevent it from going out. Or, if 
fresh coal is put on as soon as it reaches white heat, it 
will start up vigorously at once, even if it is all closed. 
Therefore, it is a waste of coal, time, and strength ever 
to allow a fire, whether it bo in the kitchen range or a 
house furnace, to burn to a white heat. 

W r hat is the mistake that is often made in caring either 
for a coal range or a furnace fire? It is in allowing the 
fire to burn to a white heat before putting on fresh coal. 

If this happens with the furnace fire what should be 
done? A good supply of coal should be put on, and then 
a thin layer of pea coal; or the fresh coal will in turn 
burn up to a white heat very quickly, the house will be 
over-heated, and after a short time the fire will burn out, 
and have to be started again. 

Is this an extravagant way to run a fire ? It is ; for it 
takes more coal, makes more work, and the heating is 
never satisfactory. 



Efficiency in IIomk Making 8i 

What is one of the best things to do when the top of 
the range is soiled? Take a piece of newspaper and wipe 
it thoroughly. 

Which damper should always be kept closed, except 
when starting the fire or when it is low? The one which 
carries the smoke and heat from the stove into the pipe. 

Can the oven be heated when this damper is open ? 
No, it cannot, as all the heat passes up the chimney and 
is wasted. 

What causes clinkers in the stove? Allowing the coal 
to burn to a white heat. 

How can they be gotten rid of? When the fire is red 
hot put on some oyster or clam shells, or, if they cannot 
be obtained, put a little quick lime on the fire. 

Will there ever be clinkers if the fire is rightly cared 
for? No, there will not. 

Is it cheaper to start up the coal range when preparing 
one or two hot dishes for supper or luncheon, if they are 
quickly cooked? No, it is cheaper to use the gas or oil 
stove. 

THE GAS RANGE. 

In using gas to cook with, what mistake is most often 
made? Using too much gas and so having too hot a fire. 

How can this he prevented? By using the small burn- 
ers as much as possible, turning the gas partly down so 
the food will cook more slowly, and only lighting the 
oven about ten minutes before time to use. After put- 
ting the food in, turn the burners partly down ; the back 
one may sometimes be turned out entirely. 

In what other way can the gas be saved? By using 
both the upper and lower oven at the same time. 

How can this be done ? Bake the potatoes above while 
the steak is broiling below or while custards or puddings 
that require a moderate oven are baking above; bring the 
potatoes to a boil on top of the stove, then put them in 
the lower oven to finish boiling. 



82 Efficiency in Home Making 

How may the cost of gas be reduced in cooking besides 
using the fireless cooker? Do not light gas until ready 
to put the food directly over. In heating water put over 
about the amount wanted ; to heat more is a waste of gas. 

Is it a saving of gas to use a little portable oven instead 
of the large one on the gas range? Yes, it takes much 
less gas. 

THE FIRELESS COOKER. 

Name some of the advantages of a fireless cooker. 
Cost of fuel reduced, especially if gas, or oil is used in 
cooking; the pots are easier to wash, they last longer, 
there are less odors in the house, and time and labor are 
saved, and there is less heat in the kitchen in summer. 

What foods are best adapted to fireless cooking? The 
cereals, dried beans, peas, lentils, hominy, string beans, 
beets, soup bones, boiled ham; and meats can be success- 
fully roasted in them. 

Is it advisable with meats to leave them in a long time 
after the heat has fallen to blood heat? No; the meat 
deteriorates as it would at that temperature in the room. 
But it may be left over night with a good cooker, for it 
will still be hot. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 83 



First Aid in Good Cooking 

What is the first aid in good cooking? To have the 
right amount of heat for the kind of food to be cooked, 
and to cook it the proper length of time. Eggs cook be- 
low the boiling point, and should never be actually boiled. 
They may be heated to the boiling point, but taken off 
the stove just as soon as the water reaches boiling. Or 
they may be put in boiling water, and left to stand until 
cooked. Scrambled eggs, custards, and custard puddings 
are very superior, if cooked at very slow heat. Cook in 
a dish of hot water, first placing a piece of paper in the 
water under the dish. The moisture reduces the heat. 
Oysters also require very slow cooking, and should not 
be cooked too much. Remove the little piece of tough 
muscle from each one first, and they will be much more 
digestible and nicer. Meats require slow cooking after 
searing over outside to keep the juices in. 

How may the tougher parts be prepared? By long, 
slow cooking (never at a high temperature, except the 
first few minutes to sear over the outside and keep the 
juices in), or they may be ground through the meat cut- 
ter, and made into Hamburg steak, or meat loaf. 

How can Hamburg steak be greatly improved? By 
putting through the grinder twice, and adding about a 
tablespoonful of water to each half cup of ground meat, 
and also a little table oil. 

Will thin, small portions of bread doughs or cake cook 
quicker than thick ones ? Yes ; and they may have a hot- 
ter oven than a loaf of bread or cake. Starchy foods like 
cereals, macaroni, bread, biscuits, rolls, griddle cakes, 
etc., need to be thoroughly cooked to break open the tiny 
starch envelopes and make them easy to digest. Under- 
done starchy foods are not fit for a human being to eat ; 
in time they will undermine the digestion, and diminish 



84 First Aid to Good Cooking 

one's efficiency. More ill-health, bad temper, inefficiency 
and drunkenness are chargeable to over-cooked eggs, and 
egg mixtures ; hard cooked and fried meats, under-cooked 
bread, cereals and other starchy foods, boiled tea, and 
greasy cooking, than most persons realize. 

Why are fats heated to a very high temperature irri- 
tating to the stomach ? Because it decomposes them, 
causing the formation of an acid that is very irritating. 

Why are fried foods more indigestible than if cooked 
in some other way? Because of this irritating acid. 
Water can never be heated hotter than 212 F. It is a 
waste of gas to keep it boiling rapidly for the extra heat 
only goes off in steam, which heats up the kitchen, and 
the food does not cook one bit quicker than when gently 
boiled. 

Fat can be heated to 300 or 400 and will brown food 
cooked in it unless there is water in the fat which will 
reduce the temperature ; so it must be heated until that 
is evaporated before it will brown nicely again. 

What harm does it do to have steam, and vapor from 
cooking fats escape through the house? They form a 
film of grease and moisture on walls, woodwork and 
hangings, which catches dust and germs. 

How may this be removed from the woodwork ? With 
a cloth with a little coal oil on. But the kitchen door 
should be kept shut to prevent these vapors from getting 
into the rest of the house. Unnecessary steam should be 
avoided, by not letting water boil long before it is wanted ; 
and food cooks just as quickly when it boils gently as 
when rapidly, which only means the heat is going off in 
steam. 

Will moisture evaporate more quickly from a large sur- 
face than a small one? It will, so the same pudding 
baked in a large, shallow dish, will be much dryer than if 
baked in a small, deep one. 

Is this true in making sauces, etc., in a large, shallow 
pan, or in a small, deep one? It is; it will be thicker 
cooked in a large, shallow pan. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 85 

Should chicken be soaked in water when cleaning it? 
Never. Before cutting it up, rub a little baking soda all 
over the skin, then scrub it off with a clean cloth or 
brush kept for the purpose. Wash out the inside thor- 
oughly after all the contents have been removed. 

In baking, how much soda is required to one pint of 
sour milk? One level teaspoon ful. 

Should baking powder, or soda be mixed with the flour, 
milk or molasses? Always mix it with the flour, never 
with the liquids. Why? It needs the moisture to pro- 
duce the gases formed by the combination, and when 
the baking powder or soda is put in the liquid these are 
lost in the air instead of being retained in the batter. 

Why are pie crust and biscuits lighter when the in- 
gredients are cold? Because air expands when heated 
and the colder it is the more it expands when put in the 
hot oven, so forcing the particles of dough apart, and 
making the pie crust lighter. Also when the shortening 
and flour are warm it sticks together, so less air is mixed 
in when rolling and folding it. 

Is as much baking powder required when several eggs 
are used ? No ; for the eggs help to make the cake light. 

Is a cake improved by having an excessive amount of 
baking powder? No; it will make the cake coarse- 
grained. 

How may a greater variety be obtained in cooking? 
By using different seasonings and flavorings. 

Name some of them. Paprika, onion salt, celery salt, 
bay leaves, bitter almond, preserved ginger, capers. 

In seasoning a roast of beef where should the salt be 
put? On the fat portion, as it will then penetrate the rest, 
and not draw out the juices as it will if put on the fresh 
cut lean part. 

Will vegetables cook tender in hard water? It is diffi- 
cult to cook them tender. A little soda will help to make 
them more tender, especially beans, lentils and dried peas. 

What is one important point in serving food? To 
have it the right temperature. Soups, cereals, potatoes, 



86 First Aid to Good Cooking 

and other vegetables served partly warm are not appetiz- 
ing. 

Name some fruits and vegetables that are much im- 
proved by serving very cold? Grape fruit, oranges, 
grapes, melons, olives, sliced tomatoes and celery. 

Are bananas and peaches better eaten cold? No. 

HOW TO MEASURE. 

What should one use for measuring? Always keep 
regular measuring cups, marked off for thirds, quarters 
and halves. They can be bought for five or ten cents, 
and it is impossible to be sure of the result in cooking 
unless one measures accurately. 

Is a measuring spoon helpful? It is, very, in measur- 
ing half and quarters, etc. 

How should flour be measured? Sift the flour first; 
fill the cup lightly, and even off with a knife. 

Should any light substances, baking powder, spices, 
etc., be pressed down in measuring? No; fill lightly, and 
even off with a knife. Measure dry ingredients first to 
save extra dishes. 

TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS. 

3 teaspoons make i tablespoon. 

3 tablespoons make i wine glass. 

2 cups make I pint. 

2 pints make I quart. 

4 quarts make i gallon. 

i quart of flour 

3 cups of corn meal 
i pint of butter 
i pint of milk Make I pound. 

io eggs 

2 cups of granulated sugar 

2 cups of rice 
1 6 tablespoons of liquid make i cup. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 87 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING MEATS. 

Chops or steak, 1 inch thick about 5 minutes on each 
side after searing over. 

Leg of lamb, 4^ lbs. about 2 hours in moderate oven. 

Rib roast of beef, or rib or breast of veal, from 15 to 
20 minutes to the pound. 

Loin of pork, for 3 lbs. about 3 hours. 

Pot roast of beef, lamb or veal, 4 or 6 hours accord- 
ing to size. 

Boiled ham, weighing 8 or 9 lbs., 3 to 4 hours. 

Corned beef, 3 to 4 hours. 

Stewed chicken, 1^2 hours if young, 4 to 5 if old. 

Beef loaf (2 lbs.) 1^2 hours. 

Scalloped oysters, y 2 to 24 of an hour — have very 
moderate heat. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING EGGS. 

That depends on the amount of water used, whether 
the dish is large and shallow, or deep and small around, 
whether the eggs are very cold from the refrigerator, or 
have been standing in a warm room. 

The proper way is to have one special dish that holds 
the amount of water necessary for the number of eggs 
usually cooked. If you use a little water it will not hold 
the heat so long and the eggs will not be cooked so much ; 
if there are many eggs they will lower the temperature 
of the water more than if there are only one or two, and 
they will not be so well done. See pages 121 and 122. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables that are young and tender, and freshly 
gathered, require less time for cooking than those that 
are tough, and some time gathered. 

Potatoes (white) boiled, 30 minutes. 

Potatoes (white) baked, 45 minutes. 

Potatoes (sweet) boiled, 50 minutes. 

Potatoes (sweet) baked, 60 minutes. 

String beans, 3 hours. 



88 First Aid to Good Cooking 

Boiled beets, i to 4 hours. 

Stewed celery, about 45 minutes. 

Creamed cabbage, from 30 to 45 minutes. 

Hot slaw, from 30 to 45 minutes. 

Cauliflower, 1 hour. 

Boiled spinach, from 20 to 30 minutes. 

Kale, from 45 minutes to 1 hour. 

Water cress greens, 1 hour, or until tender. 

Boiled onions, about *{\ of an hour, if medium size. 

Boiled turnips, about Y\ of an hour. 

Canned tomatoes to scallop, ^4 of an hour. 

TIME TABLE FOR BREAD AND MUFFINS. 

Bread, 1 hour. 

Baking powder biscuit (small size), about 15 minutes. 

Corn bread, about 30 minutes. 

Wheat muffins, about 15 to 20 minutes. 

Graham muffins, 25 minutes. 

Pop-overs, about 30 minutes. 

TIME TABLE FOR CEREALS. 

Hulled wheat, over night in tireless cooker, after soak- 
ing 6 or 8 hours and cooking 20 minutes. 

Large hominy, cook all day slowly, or over night in 
tireless cooker, after soaking all night, and cooking about 
30 minutes. 

Rolled oats ; cook about 10 minutes, then over night in 
tireless cooker, or cook two to three hours in double 
boiler. 

Cream of wheat, Y\ hour. 

Hominy grits, soak about 4 hours, cook 15 minutes, 
then over night in tireless cooker. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING FRUITS. 

Apple sauce, about 20 to 30 minutes. 

Baked apples, about 45 minutes. 

Baked bananas, 30 minutes or longer. 

Cranberries, about 30 minutes. 

Evaporated fruits, about 2^/2 hours, very slowly. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 89 

Underlying Principles of 
Cooking 

BAKED FOODS. 

Is there danger of having the oven too hot in baking? 
Yes. 

Why? Because in baking if the oven is too hot, even 
though the food is not burned, it will be dried out and 
tasteless. A delicious roast of meat may be entirely 
spoiled, by having the oven too hot while baking, after it 
has been seared over. This is more liable to occur with 
a gas oven, but there is no excuse for it, because one can 
regulate the heat perfectly after a little practice. 

Is it very important to have the oven the right tem- 
perature for batters and doughs ? It is ; for it makes all 
the difference between a light, fine grained, or a coarse, 
tough heavy food. 

Why is this? The heat makes the bubbles of gas and 
air expand, and this pushes the particles of the batter or 
dough apart and so makes the food light; if the oven is 
too hot they will expand so fast that they will burst their 
separate cells and form a smaller number of large ones ; 
so making the food filled with large holes and solid 
masses between. 

What is a good rule to follow in baking batters and 
doughs? The thicker the batter or dough, the hotter the 
oven required. A thin batter like pop-overs or angel cake 
requires a very moderate oven, while bread and biscuit 
require a hot oven. 

Why should cakes made with molasses be cooked in a 
slow oven? Because molasses burns at a low heat, and 
if the oven is hot the cake will have a burnt taste. 

What is the danger in moving a cake or other kinds of 
dough, except bread or biscuits, that is baking? If it is 
moved before the batter has had time to set — that is, 



90 First Aid to Good Cooking 

before the cell walls have hardened — it will collapse like 
the walls of a tent when the poles are taken down, and 
the food will be heavy. 

Will the amount of heat make any difference in baking 
custard or custard puddings? It will a great deal. If 
the oven is hot the custard will be tough, hard, and indi- 
gestible, because eggs cook at such a slow heat ; they 
shrink and become hard and indigestible if cooked at a 
high heat; but in a dish of hot water, baked in a moderate 
oven it will be soft and jelly-like. 

FRIED FOODS. 

What is the most extravagant and most unhealthful 
way to fry food? To put about half an inch of fat in 
the dish used for frying. 

Why? Because the food will soak up more grease 
than if plunged into a half kettle of hot fat, so that it is 
covered all over at once. 

Why? The entire outside is then scared over, so it 
will not take up more of the fat. 

Why does food take up more fat when put in a small 
quantity of it? Because the air passing over the food 
keeps it at such a low temperature that it soaks up the 
grease all along the edges where it is exposed to the air. 

Why is it that food browns quicker in fat not used 
before? Because fat that has water in it can never be 
heated to as high a temperature, and having used it to 
fry in before, it has absorbed some water and that water 
must be cooked out of it or evaporated before it can be 
heated as hot; then it is just as good to fry in again. 

Is butter good to fry in ? No ; it can never be heated 
as hot as snowdrift or lard without burning. It is the 
most unhealthful fat there is to fry in, because the food 
will soak up so much of it. 

Is there any other reason why butter is unhealthful to 
fry in? Yes, uncooked butter is easily digested, but when 
it is allowed to reach a high temperature, as in frying, its 



First Aid to Good Cooking 



9i 



nature is entirely changed and it becomes very irritating 
to the stomach. 

Is frying a good way to cook food? No; but food 
properly fried in deep snowdrift or crisco is not nearly 
so indigestible as when fried in a small amount of butter 
or fat of any kind. 

How can you tell when fat is hot enough for frying? 
Drop in a soft piece of bread, about an inch square, and 
if it turns a golden brown in 40 seconds, it will be right 
for frying croquettes, fish balls, etc.; but for uncooked 
mixtures like fritters and doughnuts, it must not be quite 
so hot, or they will burn before they are cooked through. 
When the bread browns in one minute, the fat will be the 
right heat for them. 

CEREALS. 

In cooking cereals how can you prevent them from 
being lumpy? If the water is actually boiling, and the 
cereal is dropped in so slowly that the water does not 
stop boiling, it will never be lumpy. 

Does it make any difference whether the salt is put in 
before the cereal? It does; the salt should always be 
put in the water first, and the cereal should never be 
stirred after the first few minutes. 

Why should it not be stirred? It will make it sticky 
and pasty. 

After cooking it on the stove five minutes what should 
be done with it? It should be put either in the bottom 
of the double boiler filled with boiling water or on an 
asbestos mat, where it will cook more slowly; forty-five 
minutes if it is cream of wheat, or two or three hours if 
Pettijohn's or rolled oats. 

Would it injure rolled oats or cracked wheat to cook 
longer? No, one can hardly cook those cereals too long. 
Cook them the day before and heat them very hot the 
next morning without stirring. It is better to use a fire- 
less cooker. 



92 First Aid to Good Cooking 

Why should cereals be so thoroughly cooked ? Because 
they are made so largely of starch, and this is most indi- 
gestible unless thoroughly cooked ; the best digestion 
would be ruined in time by eating constantly under- 
cooked starchy foods. 

BREAD-MAKING. 

What is needed in making good bread? Perfectly 
clean hands and finger nails, clean dishes, the best flour, 
fresh yeast, shortening, a little salt, sugar, water or milk, 
and a hot oven. 

What is yeast? It is a very small plant that needs 
nourishment, water, air. and warmth to make it grow. 

How large are the yeast plants? They are so small 
they cannot be seen without a magnifying glass. 

Will the yeast plants grow if the dough is made out of 
cold flour? No, it would be like expecting house plants 
to grow in a cold room, just above freezing. 

Why does bread get light so much quicker sometimes 
than at other times? Because the temperature of the 
dough makes a great deal of difference in the rapid or 
slow growth of the yeast plants. 

What makes the dough light? These little yeast plants 
in growing give off carbonic acid gas and this pushes 
apart the particles of dough. 

Is there danger of the yeast plants getting chilled if 
the dough stands in a draft? Yes, it will injure their 
growth more than it would a hothouse plant. 

Should the yeast be mixed thoroughly through the 
dough? Yes, or all parts will not be equally light; that 
is one advantage in using a good bread mixer. 

What should be done if the bread does not rise fast 
enough. Stand it in a dish of warm water, and add more 
warm water about every half hour; but do not keep it too 
warm. 

How long should it take to rise the first time? Four 
hours, when it should have doubled in bulk, and the sec- 



First Aid to Good Cooking 93 

ond time it should take one hour, when there should be 
twice as much as was put in the baking pans. 

Will it injure the bread if the dough gets too light? 
Yes, especially the second time, when it has been shaped 
into loaves, it will be coarse-grained, and will fall when 
put into the oven, and there will be a heavy line near the 
bottom of the loaf. 

Does bread ever have this heavy line on the bottom 
from any other cause? Yes, if it is put to rise where 
the heat on the bottom of the pan is too great it will kill 
the yeast plants and stop the bread from rising in the 
bottom of the pan. 

What causes sour bread? It is caused by an acid 
given off by undesirable bacteria in their growth in the 
bread; these bacteria, like yeast, are little microscopic 
plants. 

How did they get in the bread ? They may have come 
from unclean hands or dishes, or the dough may have 
been left to stand too long, so that the yeast in it stopped 
working, and the dangerous bacteria then had a good 
chance to grow. 

Is there danger of having the oven too hot? Yes, if 
it is too hot, when the bread is put in, it will form a thick 
crust on top and prevent the heat from reaching the cen- 
ter of the loaf, so that part of the bread will be under- 
done and very indigestible, while the outside crust may 
be burned. Besides, the gas cannot penetrate the hard 
crust and it will make large holes just under it. 

When should the fire be attended to that the oven 
may be right for the bread? When the bread has been 
in the baking pan one-half hour, if coal is used. The 
ashes should be shaken down and coal put on, so the fire- 
box will be half full evenly across; see that no pieces of 
coal have lodged between the top of the stove and the top 
of the oven to prevent the heat passing over the oven; 
open the dampers, and in ten minutes close some of them. 

How hot should the oven be when the loaves go in? 
Rolls and small long loaves require a hotter oven than 



94 First Aid to Good Cooking 

large ones. When it is nearly time to put the bread in, 
scatter a spoonful of flour on a piece of paper and put 
in the oven; if it browns nicely in five minutes it is right 
for the large loaves ; but it should be quite brown in three 
minutes for rolls. 

How can the loaves be made to rise evenly in the oven ? 
By turning them after they have been in five minutes, 
though they look even. 

Why does the loaf continue to rise after it is put in 
the oven ? After a while, though the heat kills the yeast 
plant it makes the gas bubbles expand and forces the 
particles of dough farther apart, and also turns some of 
the moisture into steam which makes it still lighter. 

Why should it be thoroughly cooked? To kill all of 
the yeast plants in the very center of the bread and burst 
open the little indigestible cells that holds the starch 
grains, so it can be digested ; for we cannot digest raw 
starch. 

When will the bread be baked enough? In one hour. 
The loaf should contract some so it will slip easily from 
the pan ; if it is underdone, there will be so much steam 
escaping from the bottom of the loaf you cannot hold 
your hand on it; then it must be returned to the oven 
and baked longer. The heat of the oven should be re- 
duced the last 15 minutes by closing the dampers. 

What should be done with the bread when it is baked ? 
It should be taken from the tins and tipped against some- 
thing to let the air circulate around it, or it can be placed 
on a wire cooling rack, in some place out of the dust, 
but left uncovered until cold, then put away in a perfect- 
ly clean bread box without any cloth or paper over it; 
if an apple is put in the box it will help to keep the 
bread moist. 

What shows that bread is underdone? If a crumb of 
the bread is rolled between the fingers it will crumble 
apart if it is sufficiently baked; but if not it will form in 
a solid ball. 

Is bread a wholesome food? It is, if properly made 



First Aid to Good Cooking 95 

from good flour and well baked ; but poor bread badly 
baked is very injurious. 

Is bread an economical food? It is, for there is no 
waste if all the pieces are saved, as they should be, and 
it is completely digested. 

How can dry bread be used ? For milk toast, or French 
toast, bread pudding, scalloped tomatoes or meats, in 
meat loaf, dressing for fowls, and for bread crumbs for 
frying. 

How should bread crumbs be prepared ? Dry the bread 
in a cool oven until crisp, roll on the bread board, sift 
through the flour sieve, put away in a glass jar until 
needed. 

Why is well-made bread a good food ? Because it has 
the three kinds of nutrients in about the right propor- 
tions needed by our bodies. 

Is good home-made bread better than baker's bread? 
Good home-made bread is delicious, but if it is sour, 
heavy, or slack baked it is inferior to good baker's bread. 

Can as good bread be made with a bread mixer as by 
hand? There are good bread mixers on the market 
which will knead the bread in three minutes with no effort 
and give just as good bread as kneading by hand, and 
it will be more cleanly and sanitary. 

What is the best method of greasing bread, cake, and 
muffin tins, etc.? Use a small 5 or 10 cent paint brush 
kept for the purpose, with a little fresh snowdrift or lard. 
There should never be enough used to make the outside 
of the food greasy when baked. Muffins which grease 
the fingers in handling are very unattractive. 

What is the best way to grease the griddle? Use a 
little piece of salted pork, or a small piece of fat from 
roasted meat. This will grease the griddle sufficiently, 
and the cakes will be much more wholesome than where 
a lump of butter is put on the griddle and brushed around 
with a knife. 

If the cakes stick to the griddle what should be done? 
Put on a spoonful of salt, and rub thoroughly with a 
crust of bread. 



96 First Aid to Good Cooking 

TEA AND COFFEE. 

In making tea or coffee why should one use fresh water 
just brought to the boiling point? Because parts of the 
gases of which water is made up are lost in boiling, and 
this will make the tea or coffee have a flat taste; it will 
lack that delicious freshness, and it will not draw out the 
flavor of the tea or coffee so well. 

What is the first thing necessary in making tea or 
coffee? To have a perfectly clean tea or coffee pot; then 
scald it thoroughly. 

Is it better to have the coffee pulverized? It is; for 
more of the strength is thereby saved. 

Is boiled tea injurious? It is; for it is full of tannin, 
which is very injurious to the stomach and very bad for 
the nerves. 

Should tea or coffee stand long on the leaves or grounds 
after making? Never but a few minutes; if any is left 
over it should be poured off and used as cold tea, or as 
coffee flavoring for jellies, custards or puddings; if 
allowed to cool and then be reheated it will never have so 
fine a flavor. 

What kind of a tea pot should be used? A stone or 
earthenware one — never a tin one ; because as soon as a 
bit of the tin is worn off the tannin will act on the iron 
on which the tin is plated and form tannate of iron, 
which is very injurious. 

How can a coffee pot in daily use be kept free from all 
stale coffee odor? Keep it well aired in the sun and once 
a week fill it up with boiling water, add one teaspoon ful 
of soda and boil several hours ; wash out thoroughly with 
a cloth, rinse and dry. 

BUTTER. 

Does butter need to be kept covered? It does, for it 
quickly absorbs the odors around it, which will spoil its 
flavor, besides it will become contaminated with bacteria 
from the air. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 97 

SOUPS. 

Why should meat for making soup be cut into very 
small pieces? Because more of the surface of the meat 
is brought in contact with the water and more juice is 
drawn out in the soup. 

Why should it, then, stand in cold water one-half 
hour? It will help very much in drawing the juices out, 
which is what we want in making, soup. 

Why should meat for soup always be put in cold water 
to cook ? Because hot water will sear over the outside of 
the meat and stop the juices from coming out. 

W hy should soup meat always be cooked very slowly 
just at the bubbling point? More of the goodness of the 
meat will be drawn out. 

Should it finish cooking at a higher temperature? Yes, 
to dissolve the connective tissue and the gelatine in the 
bones and cartilage. It is only an ignorant cook who 
puts her soup bone whole into a kettle of boiling water 
and boils it vigorously. 

Is there any nourishment left in soup meat? There is 
a good deal, for albuminoids are not soluble in water, so 
they cannot be extracted from the meat, and it should 
not be thrown away. 

In what ways can it be used ? It can be chopped very 
fine, or put through a meat cutter, seasoned with salt 
and a little pepper, and onion juice if liked, moistened 
with a little water, pack down in a tin, let stand with a 
heavy weight on top until firm. Slice thin, or cut in thick- 
slices, dip in white of egg, slightly beaten, with a table- 
spoon of water ; roll in bread crumbs, and fry in a deep 
fat— crisco or snowdrift is best. Soup meat may also 
be used in making croquettes, or in hash. 

MEATS. 

Why should chops, steaks, stews, roasts, and boiled 
meats be cooked at a very high temperature the first few 
minutes? To sear over the outside and keep all the 
juices in. 



98 First Aid to Good Cooking 

Why should they finish cooking at a slow heat? So 
the fibre of the meat will become softened without the 
albumen becoming hard, as it surely will if cooked at a 
high temperature. 

How can steak be made more tender ? Rub it with one 
tablespoon of vinegar and two of olive oil mixed to- 
gether and let stand several hours. 

How does this make it more tender? The acid of the 
vinegar dissolves the connective tissue. 

EGGS. 

Why should eggs always be cooked at a very slow 
heat, below the boiling point? Because eggs are nearly 
all albumen, and this cooks at a very slow heat, and if 
cooked at a high heat it becomes very hard and indigesti- 
ble. 

Should the water boil in which eggs are being cooked ? 
No, neither in their shell nor as poached eggs, and if 
they are being scrambled the dish should always be set 
in hot water or on an asbestos mat — never directly on the 
stove. 

Why should custards and all custard puddings be put 
to bake in a dish of hot water with a piece of paper in 
the bottom of it? So the albumen of the eggs will cook 
at a slow heat and be a soft jelly-like mass instead of 
hard, tough and indigestible. 

VEGETABLES. 

If one has to use vegetables that are at all wilted, what 
should always be clone to them? They should be put in 
cold water several hours to freshen. 

Why should the water always be boiling when the 
vegetables are put in to cook (except dried beans and 
peas) ? Because they retain their flavor and color better. 

Why is it better to cook vegetables in an uncovered 
dish? Because they keep their color better and there is 
much less odor when cooking cabbage, onions, turnips. 
cauliflower, and kale if they are left uncovered. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 99 

Why should a teaspoon of salt be put into each quart 
of boiling water before the vegetables are put in to cook? 
Because they will have a very much finer flavor than if 
cooked in unsalted water. With dried beans and peas 
the salt can be added after they have cooked a little while. 

Should vegetables cook slowly or rapidly? They are 
better if cooked slowly, but the water should not fall 
below the boiling point or they will become water- 
soaked. 

Should vegetables be boiled in a large quantity of 
water ? No, or a large part of their flavor and sweetness 
will be wasted in the water. 

POTATOES. 

When potatoes are rightly cooked, are they a good 
food? Yes, because they help to furnish some of the 
needed bulk and waste for the system, though there is 
not much nourishment in them. 

Should new potatoes be given to children and invalids? 
No, they are like unripe fruit, the starch in them is not 
ripened, and is hard to digest. 

Why should potatoes cooked at one time be of as nearly 
the same size as possible? So they will all be ready to 
take up at the same time. 

Why should potatoes be pared thin? The most nour- 
ishing part of a potato is next the skin. 

Why should they be put to cook in boiling water ? Less 
of the goodness of the potato is lost in hot water than 
if cold water is used. 

Should potatoes boil violently in cooking? No, it is 
apt to make the outside broken and ragged. 

Should the water be kept boiling all the time they are 
cooking? Yes, or they will be water-soaked. 

Should potatoes be thoroughly cooked ? Yes ; for all 
starchy foods are hard to digest unless thoroughly 
cooked. 

Should potatoes be taken out of the water as soon as 
tender? Yes, or they will become water-soaked. 



ioo First Aid to Good Cooking 

Should all the water be carefully drained from them? 
Yes ; then the kettle should be shaken over the fire a few 
seconds until every particle of the water and steam is 
dried out, and they look like white, mealy balls. 

Is this necessary if they are to be mashed? It is, very. 
Mash them thoroughly, beat vigorously with a wooden 
spoon, add more salt if needed, and a very little hot milk, 
keep them hot while fixing them. 

Should they be patted down in the serving dish? 
Never! They should be put in loosely and left uncov- 
ered. 

Should potatoes be put in a hot oven to bake? Yes; so 
they will not be watery and soggy. 

How can you make baked pohiloes mealy? When they 
are nearly baked, protect the hand with a clean cloth and 
break open the skin a little; this will let the steam out 
make them mealy. 

Should they be eaten as soon as baked? Yes; they are 
not nearly as good if they stand. 



MILK. 

Is there danger in putting an uncovered dish on the 
steps, for the milk to be left in? There is great danger; 
it should never be done under any circumstances. 

What should milk be kept in? Glass jars or milk bot- 
tles are best, but a well-glazed earthen dish, or fresh tin- 
ware that is perfectly bright, but never if it is old. 

Is it necessary that milk should be kept cool? It is 
very. It should be cooled as soon as it is milked, and 
kept cool. The bacteria in it will grow very rapidly if 
it is not, and cause it to sour more quickly. 

If ice cannot be had for keeping it cool what should be 
done? It should be kept in a dish of cold water, chang- 
ing the water occasionally to keep it cool. 

Will this prevent it from souring in a thunderstorm? 
It will if the water is cold enough. 



First Aid to Good Cooking ioi 

Why should milk never be left standing uncovered? 
There are always germs floating in the air, and these will 
collect in the milk if uncovered, and multiply there very 
rapidly, making the milk unfit for use. Diphtheria, scar- 
let fever, typhoid fever, and tuberculosis are often con- 
tracted by using milk which has been infected with these 
germs. Even if no disease germs find their way into the 
milk other germs or bacteria, which will make the milk 
sour more quickly, will get in if milk is left uncovered. 



IMPORTANT QUESTIONS. 

Why should meat to be used in making soup be cut 
in small pieces? 

Why should meat for soup always be put over to cook 
in cold water? 

Why should soup meat always cook very slowly until 
the last half hour or so? 

Why should meats always be cooked at a high tempera- 
ture the first few minutes — except for soups? 
Why should meats finish cooking at a slow heat? 
How can steak be made more tender? 

Why should eggs be cooked at a slow heat, always be- 
low the boiling point? 

Why should custards and custard puddings be baked 
in a dish of hot water ? 

If obliged to use vegetables that are a little wilted what 
should be clone to them? 

Why should vegetables always be put over in boiling 
salted water? 

Why should onions, cabbage, kale, string beans, greens, 
turnips and cauliflower be cooked in an uncovered dish? 
Should vegetables cook slowly or rapidly? 

Why should vegetables be cooked in a small quantity 
of water? 



102 First Aid to Good Cooking 

In cooking cereals how can you prevent them from 
being lumpy? 

Why should cereals never be stirred after the first few- 
minutes? 

Why do cereals require long cooking? 

Why should water for tea or coffee be put over fresh 
and just brought to the boiling point? 

Why should the coffee or tea pot be scalded just be- 
fore using? 

Why is boiled tea injurious? 

Why should tea or coffee never stand long on the 
leaves or grounds ? 

Why should tea and coffee never be left standing 
around in the pot? 

Why should only the amount of tea or coffee wanted 
be made at one time? 

Why should one never use a tin tea pot? 

How can a coffee pot be kept from all odor of stale 
coffee ? 

Why should new potatoes not be given to children and 
invalids? 

Why should potatoes be pared thin? 

Why should potatoes not be boiled violently? 

Why should potatoes be thoroughly cooked? 

How can boiled potatoes be made mealy and dry? 

How can baked potatoes be made mealy? 

What is the most extravagant and most unhealthful 
way to fry food? 

Why is butter the most unhealthful fat for frying? 

What is needed in making good bread? 

What is yeast? 

How large are the yeast plants? 

Why does bread rise quicker sometimes than at other 
times ? 

What makes the dough light? 

Is there danger of the yeast plants getting chilled ? 



First Aid to Good Cooking 103 

What should be clone when the bread does not rise 
quick enough? 

Will it injure the bread if the dough gets too light? 

What two things may cause a heavy line at the bottom 
of the loaf? 

Is there danger of having the oven too hot? 

When should a coal fire be attended to that the oven 
may be at the right heat when the bread is ready to go 
in? 

How hot should the oven be when the loaves go in ? 

How can the loaves be made to rise evenly on both 
sides in the oven? 

Why should bread be thoroughly baked? 

How can you tell when it is thoroughly baked ? 

What shows that bread is underdone? 

What is one of the most important things in cooking? 

Is a hard coal fire difficult to manage? 

How is the best way to build a coal fire? 

Will it make any difference if the ash pan is full of 
ashes? 

Why should the coal never come up higher than two 
inches below the top of the fire box? 

Will the oven be hotter if the stove is filled close to the 
lids ? 

What four things will make the oven bake badly? 

When one is through using the fire what should be 
done ? 

Where must the cold air enter to make the fire burn? 

Where must the cold air enter to prevent the fire from 
burning? 

Should the coal burn to a white heat? 

What mistake is often made in caring for a kitchen 
fire or a furnace? 

What causes clinkers in the range or furnace? 

How can they be removed? 

If anything is spilled on the stove what is the best 
thing to do? 

What mistake is most often made with a gas range ? 



104 First Aid to Good Cooking 

How can this be prevented? 

How can the gas be saved in cooking? 

Is there danger of having the oven too hot in baking? 

Can meat be spoiled by roasting in too hot an oven ? 

Is it important to have the oven at a certain heat in 
baking bread, muffins, etc.? 

Why will too hot an oven make the food coarse grained 
and heavy? 

Why should food mixed with molasses have a very 
moderate oven? 

Why should cake or muffin batter have time to set 
before moving or jarring it in the oven? 

Note. — Answers to these questions will be found on 
the preceding pages, and should be carefully studied. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 105 

Fruits 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Y^ peck apples. 1 cup boiling water. 

6 tablespoons sugar. 
Wash and pare thin ; cut into eighths ; put in stew pan 
and pour over the boiling water. Sprinkle the sugar 
over, cover tightly and cook about 20 minutes, or until 
tender, on an asbestos mat, shaking the dish often to 
keep from burning. Turn out carefully. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Wipe and core sour apples ; fill with sugar, put in 
granite pan, pour in a little boiling water, bake in moder- 
ate oven until very tender and soft looking. Some kinds 
take longer than others. Serve hot or cold. Or the 
apples may be pared after coring. If the apples are 
very tasteless a little spice may be mixed with the sugar. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

6 bananas. 6 tablespoons hot water. 

1/3 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons melted butter. 
Remove the skins of bananas ; scrape off the rough 
strings under; then cut in halves lengthwise, then once 
across ; put in layers in shallow granite pan ; mix the 
other ingredients together and spread between layers of 
bananas and on top ; bake 30 minutes or longer in slow 
oven until rich in color. Serve hot either as a vegetable 
or for dessert. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash them very carefully one by one; put V/2 pints 
of cold water in the stew pan for each pint of prunes. 



106 First Aid to Good Cooking 

Cook very slowly on the back of the stove where they 
can only simmer for 2,y 2 hours. Cooked in this way 
they will not need any sugar and will be delicious. 

JELLIED CRANBERRIES. 

Look over and wash i pint cranberries ; put in granite 
kettle with y 2 pint sugar, y 2 cup water. Cook very 
slowly 30 minutes, pressing down occasionally with 
wooden spoon. Pour out to cool ; arrange in broken 
pieces in serving dish. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Proportion as above. Boil the berries in the water 
10 minutes or until all of them have burst; rub through 
a fine strainer — using wooden or granite spoon, as tin 
or iron will spoil the flavor — add the sugar; cook 10 
minutes. Pour out into molds and chill. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 107 

Beverages 

{See Underlying Principles, page 96.) 

TEA. 

1 scant teaspoon tea. 1 teacup boiling water. 

Scald an earthen or stone teapot ; put in 1 scant tea- 
spoon tea for each cup wanted ; pour on same number 
cups of freshly boiled water. Stand on back of stove, 
where it cannot boil, 5 minutes. Then serve. 

COFFEE. 

Always allow 1 heaping teaspoon of pulverized coffee 
for the pot and for each cup of coffee wanted, and 1 
cup of boiling water for each cup of coffee. Scald the 
coffee pot ; put in top a bag made of thin unbleached 
muslin, draw over the top of pot and tie cord around 
to hold it in place. Put in the pulverized coffee, pour 
on the boiling water, drain it off and pour through again. 
Serve at once, before it has chance to cool, for coffee 
that has cooled and been reheated will never have a fine 
flavor. 

Coffee made this way is much less injurious than when 
"steeped," or boiled, as it contains less caffeine and coffee 
tannin. A china coffee pot does not effect the flavor of 
the coffee as any kind of metal one does. 

A very convenient coffee bag with wire attachment to 
fit top of pot can be bought for a few cents. The coffee 
bag must be washed thoroughly in cold water every time 
after using. 

CEREAL COFFEE. 

Six heaping teaspoons Postum cereal to 1 quart of cold 
water. Stir and put on to cook with butter size of a 
pea. Boil 15 minutes. After the boiling point is reached, 



108 First Aid to Good Cooking 

strain through a fine sieve. If it is served with milk 
instead of cream, scald the milk first. A beaten egg 
stirred into the milk improves it. 

COCOA. 

i pint of milk. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 

1 pint of water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

34 cup boiling water. 
Mix cocoa and sugar together, pour on the boiling 
water; cook a few minutes stirring all the time; then 
add milk and water boiled on asbestos mat or double 
boiler. Beat with a dover egg beater to make it nicer. A 
few drops of vanilla improves it. A quart of milk instead 
of milk and water of equal parts makes it richer. Serve 
hot. 

HOT CHOCOLATE. 

1 square of unsweetened 1 quart milk or 3 cups 

chocolate. milk and 1 of water. 

Dash of salt. Few drops of vanilla. 

Cut up the chocolate in a little hot water and cook ; 

stir until smooth, bringing the milk to a boil on asbestos 

mat ; add the chocolate, salt, sweeten to taste ; add the 

vanilla and serve. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 109 



Breads, Muffins, Etc. 

(See Underlying Principles, pages 92 to 95.) 
BREAD. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cake compressed yeast. 

1 tablespoon snowdrift. 3 pounds or quarts of 

1 tablespoon sugar. flour. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Put shortening, sugar, salt, and yeast cake, dissolved 
in a little warm water, all into a quart measure and fill 
up with warm water. Put into a patent breadmixer; 
when all is dissolved add the flour, turn crank 3 minutes. 
Set over night to rise in warm place ; in the morning turn 
crank few times, form into 2 loaves, let rise till twice its 
size, bake in moderate oven I hour. After 5 minutes 
turn loaves around. The bread should rise in oven 15 
minutes, partly brown the next 15 minutes and finish 
baking the last 30. 

HOT ROLLS. 

Make the same as for bread, but shape into rolls instead 
of loaves. The oven should be hotter than for bread. 
They are much more digestible if they are largely crust, 
with very little of the soft inside, as this part in eating 
forms a solid mass and is very difficult for the digestive 
juices to act upon it. Bake about 20 minutes. 

PULLED BREAD. 

Take half a loaf of bread and break off crust and 
pull the rest of it into small pieces ; put this with the 
crust in a shallow pan, place in a moderate oven until 
thoroughly dried out, then increase the heat until it is 
a golden brown all over. This is especially nice if made 
from long crusty French bread. 



no First Aid to Good Cooking 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

One quart sifted flour, i teaspoon salt, 4 level tea- 
spoons baking powder sifted 4 times, 2 teaspoons snow- 
drift or lard, enough cold milk to make a stiff dough 
(patent flour will require about 1 pint). Rub the short- 
ening and flour between the thumb and fingers to make 
it into fine flakes, or better, use a wire potato masher 
with wires close together; add the milk gradually, mix- 
ing and cutting through with a knife till the whole is a 
light spongy mass. Turn on a well-floured board and 
press with hands to 1 inch in thickness, use a 2-inch cut- 
ter and let rise 10 minutes and bake in a very hot oven. 
This will make just 18 and fill one biscuit pan. 



DELICIOUS BRAN STICKS. 

Use recipe for baking powder biscuit, given above, 
only use 3 cups of flour instead of 1 quart, and add one 
cup of bran. Bake in a sheet iron pan that is divided into 
narrow compartments, so they will be small crusty sticks 
about one inch thick when baked. They have a nutty 
flavor baked this way and are delicious. 



RICE CORN BREAD. 

1 cup cold boiled rice. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup white Indian corn 2 eggs. 

meal. Vz teaspoon salt. 

1 cup wheat flour. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

2 cups milk. 

Mix the dry ingredients and add beaten eggs mixed 
with milk and melted butter. Pour into shallow greased 
pans. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



First Aid to Good Cooking hi 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD OR SPOON BREAD. 

I pint of milk. 2 eggs well beaten. 

1 cup cornmeal. ^2 teaspoon salt. 

Butter size of an egg. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Boil the milk, stir in the cornmeal, let stand a few min- 
utes ; add butter, eggs well beaten, salt and baking pow- 
der. Bake in greased pan 20 or 30 minutes. Serve 
immediately. 



GOLDEN CORN BREAD No. 2. 

Y\ cup corn meal. Y^ teaspoon salt. 

1% cups flour. 1 cup milk. 

% cup sugar. 1 egg. 

4 teaspoons of baking 1 tablespoon snowdrift. 

powder. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add milk, egg well 
beaten, and snowdrift ; bake in shallow buttered pan, in 
hot oven 20 minutes. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

2 eggs. yi teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. Slices of bread. 

Beat the eggs without separating, add milk and salt, 
dip into this the slices of bread cut about }4-inch thick. 
Have frying pan hot, put in a little butter to prevent 
sticking, and brown a light golden brown. Serve at once. 
Syrup can be eaten with it if preferred. 

WATER TOAST. 

Cut stale bread in %. inch slices, or take pieces of 
bread left over ; put in oven or toaster held some dis- 
tance from fire until one side is dry, then the other. Hold 
near the coals until a golden brown on both sides ; scrape 
if it is burned. Stand in warm place until all is toasted, 
dip quickly in boiling salted water, allowing y 2 teaspoon 
salt to 1 cup boiling water. Spread lightly with warm 
butter. Serve very hot. 



H2 First Aid to Good Cooking 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast bread as above ; dip quickly a slice at a time 
into hot milk, with a little butter and salt in it. Serve 
very hot. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

i pint of flour. I beaten egg. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. I tablespoon shortening 
y 2 teaspoon salt. melted, 

i cup milk. 
Sift all the dry ingredients together, except the bak- 
ing powder; add the milk, the beaten egg, and shorten- 
ing — either butter, lard or snowdrift. Beat vigorously, 
add the baking powder, stir a moment, and bake quickly 
in hot oven about 15 minutes. 

GRAHAM OR ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS. 

1 cup flour. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon of melted 

1 cup graham or entire butter. 

wheat flour. 4 teaspoons of baking 

1 teaspoon salt. powder. 

i l /4 cups milk. 

Mix and sift together all the dry ingredients except 
the baking powder ; add milk gradually, egg well beaten, 
and melted butter; beat vigorously. Then add the dry 
baking powder; stir in lightly; bake in rather hot oven 
in greased gem pans 25 minutes. 

POP-OVERS. 

1 cup flour. 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Put flour in bowl, add milk and yolk of egg beaten 
light; beat vigorously about 10 minutes, then cut in the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff. Have the gem pans already 
greased, fill even full ; bake in moderate oven 30 minutes 
or until thoroughly done, when they will be twice as large 
and very crusty. They will be spoiled if underdone. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 113 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons of melted 
1 teaspoon salt. butter. 

3 teaspoons of baking iy 2 cups milk, 
powder. 2 eggs. 

Sift together the flour and salt ; to this add the eggs 
beaten very light and mixed into the milk without 
stirring much, so the air will not escape from them ; beat 
this batter vigorously ; then add the dry baking powder, 
stir very little, just enough to mix it in evenly, and bake 
on hot griddle greased very lightly with a bit of salt 
pork or suet. 

WAFFLES. 

1 $4 cups flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. Whites 2 eggs. 
y 2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup milk. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add milk gradually, yolks 
well beaten, butter, and whites of eggs beaten stiff ; cook 
on waffle iron, well heated and greased on both sides be- 
fore iron is filled. In filling, put a tablespoonful of the 
mixture in each compartment, near center of iron, and 
mixture will spread to just fill iron. If sufficiently heat- 
ed, it should be turned almost as soon as filled and cov- 
ered. In using a new iron, have it greased thoroughly 
or waffles will stick. 



ii4 First Aid to Good Cooking 



Cereals 

(See Underlying Principles, pages 91, 92.) 

ROLLED OATS. 

1% quarts boiling water. T /i quart rolled oats. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

Sift oats slowly into boiling water, let cook 5 minutes, 
put into double boiler and cook from 2 to 3 hours — 
without stirring. Better to use fireless cooker. 

BOILED RICE. 

Look over and wash thoroughly 1 cup rice, drop slow- 
ly into 2 quarts of rapidly-boiling water which has 1 tea- 
spoon of salt in it. Stir only the first few minutes. Boil 
fast 30 minutes or until soft; drain in strainer; pour 
over a quart hot water ; put back in kettle, cover and let 
steam until dry. Kernels will separate. Serve hot. 

CREAM OF WHEAT. 
1 quart boiling water. }i cup cream of wheat. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Have water boiling rapidly, add salt, drop in the wheat 
slowly enough so it will not stop boiling (then it will not 
lump) ; stand dish on asbestos mat or in double boiler 
and cook slowly % of an hour. 

LARGE HOMINY. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 pint hominy. 
2 teaspoons salt. 
Use either an earthen crock or granite kettle. Put 
hominy into boiling salted water and cook all day, with- 
out stirring. If in earthen crock stand on back of stove ; 
if in granite kettle on an asbestos mat. 

FINE HOMINY (Grits). 

Soak one cup hominy grits over night in a pint of 

water, add another pint boiling water and 1 teaspoon salt, 

cook briskly Y\ of an hour. It must be soaked over night 

to be properly cooked. Better cooked in fireless cooker. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 115 

BOILED BREAD AND MILK. 

1 cup milk. ]/2 cup of bread broken in 

y 2 teaspoon butter. small pieces. 

1-8 teaspoon salt. 
Rinse a clean kettle with cold water to keep the milk 
from sticking; pour in the milk set on an asbestos mat; 
when it reaches the boiling point drop in the bread, hav- 
ing added an )A of a teaspoon of salt ; let scald a minute ; 
then remove from the fire and serve at once. The milk 
should not be boiled, as it is apt to cause constipation; 
but is good boiled in case of summer complaint. 

CREAMED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break % pound of macaroni into pieces about 1 inch ; 
drop into 2 quarts boiling salted water and boil about 
1 hour. While boiling grate Y\ pound cheese. Place y 2 
pint of milk in a double boiler; rub together 1 rounding 
tablespoon each butter and flour, add to the milk when 
boiling, and stir about 2 minutes. Add y 2 teaspoon of 
salt and a speck of cayenne. When the macaroni is ten- 
der drain it and add to the cream sauce; add the grated 
cheese and stir until dissolved. Spaghetti is nicer than 
macaroni. Cook the same way. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 cup of tomato juice. y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 
2"tablespoonfuls of flour. y 2 teaspoonful of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1 slice of onion. 

Melt the butter carefully and mix with the flour. Take 
from fire, slowly add the tomato juice, stirring constantly. 
Add seasonings, boil until it thickens, remove onion. 
Place alternate layers of macaroni that has been cooked 
about 45 minutes in boiling salted water, and the tomato 
sauce in buttered baking dish. Cover the top with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until thoroughly heated through and 
crumbs are browned. Rice may be cooked in the same 
way. 



n6 First Aid to Good Cooking 



Soups 

(See Underlying Principles, page 97.) 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

2 ounces of corned pork. 1 large tomato. 

1 large potato. 8 clams. 

1 large onion. About a quart of water. 

Cut pork into dice, fry light brown ; chop the onion ; cut 
potato in dice, chop the clams, slice the tomato, or use 
same amount of canned tomatoes ; add vegetables and 
clams with their liquor to the browned pork, add the 
water, or part water, and part white stock if wanted extra 
nice. White stock can be made by boiling veal knuckle 
•or bones from chicken or turkey, as for soup. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

1 dozen clams. i J /> pints cold water. 

Scrub off the clams ; pour over them plenty of boil- 
ing water ; let stand until they begin to open ; slip small 
knife in the opening and cut muscle to separate shell ; 
scrape out clams; drain from juice and chop fine; add 
juice and cold water, slowly bring to a boil, simmer few 
minutes, add bit of salt if needed. Serve hot with bread 
or crackers. Nice for the sick. 

CLAM BISQUE. 

1 dozen clams. 8 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups cold water. 1 egg may be added if 
1 quart milk. preferred. 

2 tablespoons butter. 
Scrub off the clam shells, pour over them boiling 
water, let stand in the water until they begin to open, 
take out quickly so as not to lose the juice, run a small 
knife in the opening to cut the muscles that hold the 
sides of the shells together. Scrape the clams out, re- 
move the clams from the juice and chop fine, add the 



First Aid to Good Cooking 117 

juice and the cold water to the clams, slowly bring to a 
boil ; simmer a few minutes ; skim ; add the flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold water; cook thoroughly; pour in 
the heated milk, add the butter, a dash of red pepper, 
and serve hot. The heated milk should not be added until 
a few minutes before serving, as it is apt to curdle. Add 
the beaten egg after taking from stove, or it may be 
left out. 

BEAN TOMATO SOUP. 

3 cups cold baked beans i l / 2 cups stewed tomatoes. 

or stewed beans. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 pints water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 slices onion. Salt. 

Pepper. 

Simmer beans, water, onion and tomatoes together for 
30 minutes. Rub through a sieve, add salt and pepper 
to taste, bind with the butter and flour cooked together, 
serve very hot. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

y 2 can corn. y 2 onion sliced. 

i l / 2 cups of potatoes cut 2 cups scalded milk. 

in yi inch slices. A few crackers. 

}i tablespoon snowdrift. i l / 2 tablespoons butter. 

Salt and pepper. 
Brown onion in hot snowdrift, stirring to prevent 
burning. Boil the potatoes in small amount of water 
until tender then add to onion with two cups of the potato 
water or boiling water, add heated milk and corn, bring 
to boiling point, add salt, pepper, butter and crackers 
moistened in cold milk. Serve hot. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY SOUP. 

Take bones and scraps that are left from a roasted 
turkey or chicken, put over the fire in cold water, slowly 
bring to a boil, stand where it will cook slowly for 3 or 



u8 First Aid to Good Cooking 

4 hours ; set away to cool ; remove the cake of fat from 
the top, strain, add two tablespoons of rice, salt to taste, 
boil until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Serve hot. A 
little celery may be added if preferred. 

LAMB BROTH. 

3 or 3/^ pounds of lamb 3 pints cold water. 

from the neck. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

Wipe off meat with a clean cloth, cut in small pieces, 
put over in cold water, let simmer 3 hours, adding more 
water if needed. There should be 1 or 1^2 pints of broth 
when finished. Strain, set aside to cool, then remove 
cake of fat and any particles of it that may remain on 
top by passing a clean cloth wrung out of hot water over 
the top. 

POTATO BISQUE. 

3 medium-sized potatoes cooked in boiling water until 
done; rub through a strainer. Scald 1 quart milk with 

2 slices of onion, remove onion and add potatoes. Melt 

3 level tablespoons of butter, add 2 tablespoons flour, 
\ l / 2 teaspoons salt; stir this until well mixed and add to 
soup; cook just 1 minute. Garnish with a teaspoon of 
finely cut parsley and serve. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Half pint green split peas — wash, soak over night; cook 
in 3 pints of cold water and 1 teaspoon salt. Boil 3 hours. 
In another saucepan put 1 tablespoon of butter in which 
brown 1 tablespoon each finely chopped onion, carrots, 
turnips ; then add these to the soup and boil 1 hour. Rub 
through sieve and add Y\ spoon pepper, 1 tablespoon 
flour wet with milk. Boil 2 minutes. Note. — Some 
kinds of green split peas do not need soaking and will 
cook in about 1 hour. The green split peas are nicer 
than the yellow and less expensive. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 119 

PEA SOUP. 

1 can peas. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 2 tablespoons flour. 
1 pint cold water. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 pint milk. }i teaspoon pepper. 
Drain the peas, add sugar and cold water; cook very 

slowly 20 minutes. Rub through a sieve, reheat, thicken 
with the butter and flour cooked together, add the milk 
slowly, stir smooth ; add the salt and pepper. Serve very 
hot. 

CORN SOUP. 

Corn soup is made the same way, only use a can of 
corn instead of the peas, and chop the corn before putting 
over to simmer. After simmering 20 minutes, put 
through a sieve and finish as for pea soup. 

TOMATO BOUILLON. 

3/2 can tomatoes. y 2 onion. 

2 pints boullion. Little salt. 

Y2 tablespoon sugar. 
Boil this until nearly one-half quantity ; strain ; season 
to taste. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

^2 can tomatoes. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 quart of milk. y 2 saltspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 saltspoon soda. 
2 tablespoons flour. Dash of cayenne. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 onion scalded in milk. 

Stew tomatoes until very soft ; put through sieve ; put 
strained tomatoes in granite saucepan ; add the soda. 
When its stops foaming add the butter, little at a time; 
add salt and pepper. Put milk in dish on asbestos mat; 



120 First Aid to Good Cooking 

stir in the flour mixed with a little of the milk, cook 
thoroughly ; then pour the tomatoes slowly into the milk ; 
beat well together. Serve at once. If put together and 
left to stand it is apt to curdle. 

TOMATO SOUP (without stock or milk). 

i quart can tomatoes. x teaspoon salt. 

2 heaping teaspoons flour. i teaspoon sugar. 
i tablespoon snowdrift. I pint hot water. 

Half an onion sliced. i bay leaf. 

Rub snowdrift and flour together, moisten with i table- 
spoon cold tomato juice. Boil the tomatoes and onion 
together fifteen minutes, add the prepared flour and snow- 
drift and seasoning, boil fifteen minutes longer; mb 
through a sieve, heat and serve with bits of toasted 
bread. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Scrape clean the outside of a soup bone; cut the lean 
meat from it into inch cubes ; put all together in soup 
kettle with 2 quarts cold water ; let stand 30 minutes on 
back of stove ; heat gradually to boiling point ; remove 
scum as it arises ; cover and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours, 
keeping below boiling point. Remove from fire, drain 
from the bone and meat and let stand until cold ; after 
which fat should be taken off from top. Return to stove 
and add *)4 cup of cabbage, washed and shaved ; 1 good- 
sized potato, pared and sliced thin ; */> cup onion, sliced 
thin ; 1 cup tomatoes, a few celery leaves, 1 saltspoon 
barley, 1 tablespoon sago ; salt to taste ; boil 1 hour. 

NOODLES. 

To one unbeaten egg add flour, beat well and add % 
teaspoon salt, J / 2 teaspoon baking powder (scant), and 
finally enough flour to make stiff batter. Drop from 
spoon into boiling soup. Cook until done. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 121 



Eggs 



(See Underlying Principles, page 98.) 

BOILED EGGS. 

Never let eggs boil, as the part next the shell will be 
hard and indigestible if they do. Take a kettle that will 
hold 2 quarts, put in 6 eggs, fill with boiling water, cover 
closely and stand near the stove for 7 minutes for very 
soft boiled eggs, and 12 to 15 minutes if they are wanted 
very firm. The dish should be shaken occasionally. If 
the eggs have been standing in the refrigerator or in a 
very cold room they will not cook as quickly, of course, 
as eggs that have been standing in a warm room, or if 
less than 2 quarts of actually boiling water to 6 eggs is 
used. As trifling as these things seem they make a great 
difference in the time it takes to cook the eggs, and that 
is why it is so difficult to always get eggs cooked just as 
one wants them, unless special care is taken. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 heaping tablespoon of 

3 teaspoons of flour. butter. 

1 pint of milk. l /> teaspoon salt. 

Put eggs in large kettle of boiling water and let stand 
on table y 2 hour; pour cold water over them to peel 
easily. Cut whites up fine and put on toast ; heat the 
milk, rub flour and butter together, stir slowly into the 
milk ; cook a few minutes ; pour over toast ; crumble yolks 
on top. 

HARD COOKED EGGS. 

Place in water that is boiling and stand where it is 
below the boiling point 30 or 45 minutes. 



122 First Aid to Good Cooking 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

5 eggs. Yz teaspoon salt. 

l /z cup milk. i tablespoon butter. 

Put milk in perfectly clean granite dish, having rinsed 
it with cold water to prevent sticking; stand on asbestos 
mat until it is scalding hot; add the salt and butter, then 
the eggs, breaking them one at a time in a saucer ; draw 
the mat with the dish to the back of the stove ; stir from 
the bottom of the dish as they cook, so they will be in 
large flakes of mingled white and yellow, delicate and 
soft like a baked custard ; which they will not be if cooked 
at a high temperature. Take from the stove before they 
have all thickened and stir a moment longer. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have a shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling salted 
water, y 2 teaspoon salt to i quart of water ; break each 
tgg separately into a cup, and carefully slip into the 
water ; it should cover the eggs. Remove the dish to the 
very back of the stove where the water will keep warm; 
put cover on dish and let stand until the white is a soft 
jelly ; remove carefully with a cake-turner, and place on 
pieces of buttered toast or bread. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Place the eggs carefully in a kettle of boiling water. 
Stand them back on the stove where they cannot pos- 
sibly boil ; let stand from 40 to 45 minutes. When hard 
plunge them in cold water so they will be less apt to 
discolor. Shell carefully, cut lengthwise, remove the 
yolks, crumble fine, add salt and pepper, a little melted 
butter ; and if preferred some finely chopped cold boiled 
ham. Fill the whites with the mixture and serve cold 
on lettuce leaves. They are nice for picnics or school 
lunches. (See boiled eggs.) 



First Aid to Good Cooking 123 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. A few grains cayenne. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. % cup sharp cheese. 
l / 2 cup scalded milk. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

y 2 teaspoonful of salt. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Melt the butter, add flour, mix thoroughly, add gradu- 
ally the scalded milk, salt, cayenne, and the cheese either 
grated or ground in a meat grinder, remove from fire, 
add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon colored. Cool the 
mixture, and cut and fold in the whites beaten until 
stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking dish, bake 20 
minutes in a slow oven. Do not move for 15 minutes, or 
slam door. Must be eaten at once or it will fall. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 teaspoonful of flour will 
*4 teaspoonful of salt. keep it from stringing. 
% teaspoonful of mustard. z / 2 pound of cheese. 

A dash of paprika. 
Warm the butter, stir in the flour, add other ingredi- 
ents, let cook until smooth; add one egg, % cup milk 
beaten together. Cook over slow fire, stirring constantly 
to prevent curdling, until thick enough to serve on 
crackers. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. y 2 teaspoonful of mustard. 
(The flour keeps it from y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 

stringing). J4 pound of cheese, grated 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. or put through the meat 
1 cup of milk. cutter. 

Serve on heated crackers, or thin slices of toast ; shake 
a little paprika over the top. A trifle of cayenne may 
be used in the dressing when making. 



124 First Aid to Good Cooking 



Meats 

(See Underlying Principles, pages 97, 98.) 
CHOPS OR STEAK. 

To cook chops or steak perfectly they should first be 
scraped lightly where they have been handled, then placed 
on a hot broiler very close to a hot fire to sear over the 
outside in order to keep all the juices in; then finish 
cooking further from the fire until the inside is properly 
cooked. With a gas range, if they are cut 1 inch thick, 
after searing both sides near the flame, they should be 
lowered 6 or 7 inches below the burners and cooked 5 
minutes ; then turn and cook other side 5 minutes. If 
coal fire is used it must be burning clear and bright — free 
from gas. Hold the steak in wire broiler near the fire, 
turning every 20 seconds for 5 minutes, until seared over ; 
then place about 6 inches above the fire and cook slowly 
on one side about 6 minutes ; then on the other, if an inch 
thick. Dust with salt. Serve on a hot platter at once, 
either with or without a little butter spread on top. 

ROAST OF BEEF, LAMB, PORK OR VEAL. 

Wipe off the outside of meat with a clean cloth kept for 
the purpose ; salt and pepper the roast on all sides ; place 
in the pan raised on a rack skin side down ; put in a very 
hot oven to sear over the outside, or sear over in hot 
skillet on top of stove ; then lower the heat, pour boiling 
water into pan Yz inch in depth, and cook slowly 15 to 
20 minutes to the pound for a rib roast of beef, or rib or 
breast of veal ; for leg of lamb, 4^2 pounds, about 2 hours 
in moderate oven; loin of pork, for 3 pounds, about 2 
hours. Baste often. Turn and brown other side when 
half done. Drain off half the gravy in the pan, add 1 
heaping teaspoon flour for each cup of gravy in the pan ; 
stir until smooth ; add hot water until right thickness, 
stirring all the time. Salt to taste. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 125 

POT ROAST OR STEWED BEEF, LAMB OR 

VEAL. 

Wipe off the outside of a piece of shoulder clod, or 
chuck roast, with a clean piece of damp cheese cloth kept 
for wiping meats. Heat frying pan hot, salt and pepper 
the roast and sear it over in the pan without any fat. 
Then heat an iron kettle and fry out in it 2 or 3 slices of 
bacon or a little piece of fat, which will improve the 
flavor of the meat; an onion may be sliced and browned 
in this if preferred. Then put in the meat it will cook 
in its own juice; set back on stove where it will cook 
very slowly for 4 or 6 hours, according to size or until 
tender, having added water if needed. Brown a rich 
color. Take out the meat, pour off the grease, add 
a little hot water and stir in a little flour wet in cold 
water. About 2 heaping tablespoons of flour if there 
is to be a pint of gravy. Cook thoroughly for a few 
minutes. 

Stewed Lamb or Veal is prepared in the same way. 

BAKED HALIBUT WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Put a layer of thin slices of salted pork in bottom of 
roasting pan ; put the piece of fresh halibut on this, salt- 
ing it slightly on the outside, put thin 'slices of the pork 
on top, add a little hot water ; bake in moderate oven ^ 
of an hour basting occasionally. Have white sauce ready, 
add a little salt and the white of a hard-cooked egg 
chopped fine. Put fish on platter, pour sauce over, 
crumble yolk of egg on top. 

BOILED HAM. 

Dissolve a teaspoon of borax or soda in lukewarm 
water ; wash and scrub the ham in this until clean. Put 
in kettle of boiling water ; add 1 teacup of sugar. When 
it begins to boil remove the scum and put where it will 
barely bubble ; if it boils hard it will toughen it ; cook 
until very tender — about 3 or 4 hours if it weighs 8 or 9 



126 First Aid to Good Cooking 

pounds. Boiled ham is very seldom cooked long enough 
to be as good as it might be. Set off from stove and let 
cool in the liquor it was boiled in ; then remove the skin, 
dredge with fine crumbs that have been put through a 
sieve, or with light brown sugar, stick with cloves about 
an inch apart, and bake in oven until brown and crispy. 
If preferred without baking, put back on the stove to 
heat till boiling again; then remove skin and serve hot, 
or let cool and slice. Standing to cool in the juice seems 
to improve it. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Wash off the corned beef; put into a kettle with plenty 
of boiling water ; let come to a boil ; then set back where 
it will cook slowly about 3 or 4 hours, according to size. 
Three-quarters of an hour before serving dip out some of 
the broth and put in the cabbage, which has been washed 
and cut up into eighths, watching for worms in it, and the 
carrots washed and scraped ; and if large cut lengthwise 
into quarters. Dip out more broth into another kettle, 
adding hot water if needed, and cook the potatoes in this 
by themselves about 20 or 30 minutes. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Take a couple teaspoons of soda, moisten with a little 
water, and rub all over the outside of the chicken after if 
has been drawn and singed. This cuts the grease and 
dirt that is always on the skin of a fowl. Rinse off 
thoroughly, scrubbing with a clean cloth. Cut up the 
chicken ; wash thoroughly in cold water ; put into kettle 
of boiling salted water; let come to a boil rapidly, then 
set back on stove where it will just bubble for i l / 2 hours 
if young, or 4 or 5 if old. Skim several times. The 
water should be cooked nearly out when the chicken is 
done. Lay a few slices of stale bread over the chicken 
and steam just a few minutes ; remove the bread to a hot 
platter ; lay pieces of chicken on top ; set where it will 



First Aid to Good Cooking 127 

keep hot. Cook the broth down a little more if neces- 
sary. Mix up about 2 heaping tablespoons flour with a 
little cold milk ; add very slowly to the broth ; cook 
thoroughly ; add a little milk, salt to taste and let come 
to a boil ; add a tablespoon chopped parsley, and pour 
over chicken and bread. Serve at once, or serve on a 
platter with a border of boiled rice or baking powder 
biscuits. 

FRIED SAUSAGE. 

Take the sausage that comes in packages, add season- 
ing if desired. Make up into small flat cakes, put in fry- 
ing pan, pour over hot water enough to cover, boil an 
hour, when the water should be boiled out. Pour off the 
grease, brown the sausage a rich color, take out, pour a 
little hot water in the frying pan, let come to a boil, pour 
in dish with the sausage. 

PICKLED OR SALTED PORK. 

Slice pickled pork )/§ inch thick ; put in spider with 
quart water ; cook 1 hour ; after the water has cooked out, 
flour and fry brown. Take meat out and add 1 table- 
spoon flour, a little salt and pepper ; stir around in fat 
until smooth ; then add either milk or water until thin 
enough. 

CREAMED CANNED SALMON. 

Make a white sauce of : 
1 tablespoon butter. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup of milk. % teaspoon salt. 

Melt the butter in frying pan, stir in the flour and salt 
carefully, add the milk slowly, cook thoroughly a few 
minutes ; then add one can of salmon from which all the 
bones and skin have been removed and the fish broken 
into small pieces ; let come to a boil. Serve very hot. 



128 First Aid to Good Cooking 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in small even-sized pieces or cubes, 
make white sauce as for creamed salmon and heat chicken 
in it until it comes to a boil; let simmer a few minutes, 
and serve in hot dish or on nicely toasted bread. 

MOCK FRIED CHICKEN. 

Take a roasting chicken, singe, draw, wash thoroughly, 
rubbing a little soda over the outside, wash again, cut up 
as for frying. Heat a few tablespoons of snowdrift in 
an iron kettle, or griddle, wipe pieces of chicken dry on 
clean cloth, sprinkle with salt, flour well, brown a piece 
at a time in the hot kettle, arrange in bottom of roasting 
pan, add cup boiling water, cover closely, cook in moder- 
ate oven two hours. Arrange on platter, keep hot while 
making gravy by adding milk to water left in pan, thicken 
with flour moistened with cold milk. This will be much 
more tender and juicy than fried chicken. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF. 

Pull y§ pound chipped beef into small pieces; melt I 
tablespoon butter in frying pan; add beef, and stir until 
edges begin to curl. Remove the beef, then take pan 
from the stove and thoroughly mix 2 tablespoons flour 
with the butter remaining in the pan ; add very slowly I 
cup water or milk. Return to stove, stirring until it 
thickens, and serve in dish or on toast. 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

54 pound nice codfish, or ij^ cups milk. 

1 cup picked-up fish, washed 3 level tablespoons flour. 

in cold water. 2 eggs. 

1 cup warm water. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Wash the codfish thoroughly in two or three waters; 
add 1 cup warm water and bring to a boil ; stir in slowly 
the flour ; rubbed to a smooth paste, with part of the milk ; 
cook thoroughly; add rest of milk; as soon as it boils 
remove from stove; stir in the beaten eggs and lump of 
butter. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 129 

SCALLOPED MEAT, FOWL OR FISH. 

Take cold fish, canned salmon, or cold lamb, veal or 
mutton ; cut in small pieces, removing bone, fat and 
gristle. Put thin layer of bread crumbs in bottom of 
baking dish, then layer of the cut meat, dash of salt ; then 
layer of breadcrumbs, alternately, until dish is full ; have 
crumbs on top ; moisten well with hot water with butter 
melted in it, or part milk or gravy ; bake in moderate oven 
until well cooked and browned on top. Or hard-boiled 
eggs cut up may be sprinkled through it ; this improves it. 
For a change, make a white sauce (find on page 131), and 
mix the meat or fish with this first. Or the meat may be 
put in baking dish, and potato as prepared for potato puff 
be put in thick layer on top. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

1 quart oysters. 3 cups bread crumbs. 

Milk to moisten. Salt. 

y 2 cup melted butter. Pepper. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters ; put in dish of cold 
water and rinse ; remove the oysters, watching for bits of 
shell. Put thin layer of bread crumbs in bottom of shal- 
low baking dish, then layer of the oysters ; sprinkle salt 
and pepper; add a little butter, then layer of crumbs, 
layer of oysters, salt, pepper, and butter again ; then fin- 
ish with layer of crumbs ; moisten well with milk or 
half milk and half oyster juice ; bake in moderate oven 
from y 2 to Y\ of an hour, until oysters in middle of dish 
have sides curled and are nicely cooked. 

OYSTER PIE. 

1 quart oysters, washed in a dish with 3 pints of cold 
water ; drain ; pepper, salt and butter to taste ; 1 quart 
flour, 2 tablespoons of lard, 1 teaspoon salt ; mix with 
water for pie crust ; butter plate, then line pie plate with 
crust, fill with oysters, seasoned; put over a crust and 
bake. 



130 First Aid to Good Cooking 

DELICIOUS RABBIT. 

Clean a young rabbit, and cut up as for frying. Then 
follow recipe for mock fried chicken, and it will be even 
nicer than chicken. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST. 

Take cold meat, either steak, chops, or roasted meat or 
fowl of any kind ; remove all the gristle, skin and bone ; 
chop very fine or put through a meat-cutter; moisten 
with hot water, milk or gravy ; add a little butter if water 
is used, a dash of salt; heat very hot, and serve on slices 
of evenly toasted bread. Spread only a thin layer on the 
toast so it will look dainty and appetizing. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

1 Yi pounds of beef chopped 1 teaspoon salt. 

in a meat cutter. x /\ teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons water. 

Mix well together, form into small cakes, being careful 
to keep them light and fluffy. Do not patdown hard. 
Broil, or pan-broil, them. Have a strong heat the first 
few minutes to sear over the outside, to keep the juices 
in. After both sides are seared over finish cooking at a 
slower heat. 

BEEF LOAF. 

2 pounds of ground beef. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs broken into meat % teaspoon pepper. 

without beating. 1 teacup bread crumbs. 

Mix all together and form into a roll. 

Put into pan and dredge with flour. Over this pour 
boiling water, adding a tablespoon butter and bake in the 
oven \]/z hours, basting often. Then remove roll, and 
add 1 tablespoon flour mixed with a little cold water. 
Cook until thickened, finally adding milk, pepper and salt 
to taste. Sometimes for a change add a little salt pork 
ground in the cutter with the beef. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 131 

SALMON LOAF. 

1 pound of canned salmon. 1 tablespoonful of melted 

3 eggs. butter. 

y 2 cup of bread crumbs. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Drain and break the salmon into flakes with a fork, 
removing dark skin or bone, add the egg yolks well 
beaten, crumbs, butter, salt, beat thoroughly, then fold 
and cut in the stiff beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven about 30 minutes. 

FISH BALLS. 

Boil about 5 potatoes, or enough to make 1 pint when 
mashed. When nearly done pour off most of the water 
and add half box of shredded codfish, after rinsing it in 
cold water. When potatoes have finished cooking drain 
off water, shake kettle over fire, mash, and beat very 
light ; add 2 level tablespoons of butter, 1 egg, and a little 
salt if needed ; form into balls, dip in flour, then into egg 
beaten with a little water, then into bread crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat until light brown. 

MEAT CROQUETTES. 

1 quart of cold boiled meat, 2 tablespoons of chopped 
chopped fine (either chicken, parsley. 

lamb, veal or beef). 1 saltspoon of red pep- 

2 level teaspoons of salt. per. 

Mix well together. 

WHITE SAUCE. 
For Croquettes, or Other Dishes. 

1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoons of butter. 

4 tablespoons of flour. 
Rinse dish withhold water, pour in the milk and heat, 
rub the flour and butter to a smooth paste; add to the 
milk, stirring until smooth and thick ; add the meat, mix 
well and turn out to cool. When cool form into cro- 
quettes, dip in egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat, heated until it will brown a bit of bread in a few 
minutes. Serve plain or with peas. 



132 First Aid to Good Cooking 

LAMB STEW WITH VEGETABLES. 

2 necks of lamb or about 3 1 cup tomatoes. 

or 3^4 pounds. 2 carrots. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 onion. 

4 potatoes. 1 tablespoon rice. 

Trim and wipe meat with damp cloth ; put over in 
warm water; cook slowly 1^ hours; add potatoes cut in 
halves, carrots cut in 8 pieces each, onion in half, toma- 
toes, rice and salt ; cook until all the vegetables are tender. 

GOOD HASH. 

Remove the bones and gristle, etc., from cold meat, 
soup meat will do, there is nourishment in it as there is 
only the meat extractives that are soluble in water not 
the nourishing part, grind in a meat cutter, add twice as 
much hot freshly boiled potato (these having been 
washed thoroughly and boiled with the skins on, as the 
most valuable part is the salts next the skin), put through 
the meat cutter, moisten with a little milk or gravy, salt 
to taste, add a little butter, or sweet fresh drippings, cook 
several minutes, spread in a greased pie tin, and bake a 
golden brown, in the oven or under the flame of a gas 
oven. It is both delicious and nourishing. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 133 



Vegetables 



{See Underlying Principles, pages 98, 99.) 
STRING BEANS. 

Wash the beans, string and cut them across in J^-inch 
pieces, drop into boiling water; boil slowly 3 hours. 
After they have cooked 2 hours add salt — about 1 tea- 
spoon to a quart of beans. If they are cooked 3 hours 
slowly they will be very much more delicate in flavor 
than if cooked a shorter time. They should then be 
cooked nearly or quite dry ; if not drain off water, add 
a small amount of milk, salt and butter to taste. Do not 
let them boil long in the milk or it will curdle. Serve 
hot. 

MARROWFAT BEANS. 

1 quart beans. % pound salt pork. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Look over and wash well the bean's ; put on stove to 
cook, with the piece of pork. Add salt and boil slowly 
several hours until tender. Cook down and serve. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Look over 1 pint beans, wash and cover well with cold 
water ; soak over night. In the morning drain, cover 
with fresh water, heat slowly, % teaspoon of soda makes 
the skins more tender, keeping below boiling point for 

2 hours ; drain ; put in bean pot with 1 tablespoon salt 
and 1 pound pork chops cut in 3 pieces, scattered through 
pot. Pour over beans about 1 cup of hot water (or 
enough to cover), in which is mixed 1 tablespoon of 
molasses. Bake slowly several hours, 8 or 10 improves 
them. 



134 First Aid to Good Cooking 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash carefully without breaking the skin much, so 
the sweetness will be retained. Drop whole in boiling 
water ; cook slowly from i to 4 hours ; drain ; pour over 
cold water so the skins will slip off easily ; slice, reheat, 
with a little butter, sugar, salt and vinegar, if liked. 
Serve hot. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Wash, scrape and cut the outer stalks of celery in 
3^-inch pieces ; drop in boiling salted water ; cook slowly 
about 45 minutes, or until tender ; drain thoroughly ; add 
a very little milk, butter and salt ; let come to a boil. 
Serve hot. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Have a large kettle half full of boiling water ; add 1 
teaspoon salt for each quart of water. When it begins 
to boil again drop in the cabbage, which has been washed 
and shaved, and as soon as it comes to a boil, push to the 
back of the stove, where it will simmer slowly for 30 
minutes. Take out and drain carefully. Melt 1 table- 
spoon of butter in the kettle ; add 1 tablespoon flour ; 
stir until smooth and cooked ; add ^ pint milk ; stir until 
it has boiled 2 minutes ; add y 2 teaspoon salt ; let cabbage 
simmer in this a minute. 

HOT SLAW. 

2 quarts shaved cabbage. 4 teaspoons salt. 

3 quarts boiling water. 1 cup vinegar. 

6 tablespoons sugar. 
Add salt to the boiling water and drop in cabbage. 
Boil slowly 20 minutes or until tender, then drain care- 
fully ; add vinegar and sugar and toss around lightly 
until thoroughly mixed. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 135 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Remove the leaves and stalk. Four or five pieces of the 
leaves may be left on for a garnish if preferred. Soak in 
cold salted water, head down, for y 2 hour to draw out 
all the insects that may have found their way in. Cook 
slowly (uncovered) in boiling salted water for 1 hour. 
Place in serving dish with head up ; pour over white 
sauce. (See page 131.) 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil as above ; break the flowerlets apart and put in 
baking dish in layers, with a grating of cheese, dash of 
red pepper, and cream sauce between ; sprinkle bread 
crumbs on top. 

CREAMED CARROTS. 

Wash and scrape the carrots; slice very thin; drop in 
enough boiling salted water to cover; cook until very 
tender, when the water should be boiled nearly out. 
Drain ; add a little milk, butter and salt to taste ; cook a 
few minutes longer and serve hot. 

BOILED SPINACH. 

Take l /\ or J / 2 peck of spinach, remove roots, look over 
carefully ; wash in several pans of water to make sure 
there is no grit left on it. Put over to boil in a little 
water, allowing 1 teaspoon salt to a quart of water. Cook 
slowly in uncovered kettle from 20 to 30 minutes, until 
tender ; drain thoroughly ; replace on stove to dry all the 
water out ; cut through several times with a knife and 
fork ; season to taste with butter and salt. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs. Some prefer spinach cooked in its own 
juice, put through a colander and moistened with cream. 



136 First Aid to Good Cooking 

KALE. 

Look over and wash % peck of long-leaved kale, break- 
ing out the stalk through the center; put into V/i quarts 
boiling water with 2 teaspoons salt ; boil from 45 minutes 
to 1 hour. Drain, pressing the water all out. Add 1 
small tablespoon of butter, a little more salt and a little 
vinegar. 

WATERCRESS GREENS. 

Look over the greens carefully; wash thoroughly; put 
them over in boiling salted water; cook 1 hour or until 
tender. Then remove from kettle and press all the water 
out ; add a little butter and more salt if needed. Serve 
very hot. They are much more digestible this way than 
cooked with meat. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Take the skins off the onions, holding them under 
water to prevent smarting the eyes. Put in a saucepan, 
cover with boiling water; add 1 teaspoon salt to a quart 
of water and 1 teaspoon sugar ; boil very slowly until 
tender — about }i of an hour if medium size. Drain thor- 
oughly ; add a little butter and let come to a boil. 

DELICIOUS BAKED ONIONS. 

Peel and slice the onions, add a bit of soda, simmer 
until tender in just enough boiling salted water to cover, 
when tender, drain; mix with white sauce (see page 
131), put in baking dish, sprinkle with sifted bread 
crumbs ; brown in the oven. In preparing a quart and a 
half of onions use about \]/i cups of milk for the white 
sauce, have it rather thick. 

BOILED POTATOES— MASHED POTATOES. 

Wash potatoes thoroughly with vegetable brush; peel 
very thin ; drop in boiling salted water — about 1 tea- 
spoon salt to each quart of water. Cook 25 minutes, or 
until tender. Drain off all the water; shake the kettle 



First Aid to Good Cooking 137 

over the fire until they look white and mealy. If they 
are to be served whole, send to the table at once in an 
uncovered dish. If obliged to stand, place kettle on 
back of stove with a piece of clean cheese cloth folded 
over them. This will absorb the steam and help to keep 
them from becoming soggy. If to be mashed, mash 
thoroughly; add a little heated milk and a level table- 
spoon of butter; stir and beat with a spoon until they 
are light and creamy. Heap loosely in a deep uncovered 
dish and send to the table very hot. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Take medium size potatoes; scrub clean; put in clean 
dripping pan ; bake in hot oven 45 minutes, or until soft. 
Before they are quite done cover with a cloth and strike 
with the palm of the hand to break the skin and let the 
steam escape so they will be mealy. They will not be 
good if baked in a slow oven. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Prepare as for baked potatoes ; when done cut in halves 
lengthwise, scoop out of the skins, mash thoroughly; 
and for six potatoes add 1 level tablespoon of butter, 
about 3 tablespoons of milk, 1 teaspoon of salt ; beat vig- 
orously ; heap lightly into about six of the half shells, and 
brown a light golden brown in the oven. In the gas oven 
it will take about 10 minutes if placed under the flame 
of the broiler, but in the upper part of the oven or in a 
coal -stove oven it will take about 20 minutes. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes; slice them very thin; 
put in a baking dish in layers, seasoning each layer with 
salt and butter; add enough milk to cover, and bake in 
a moderate oven until tender. 



138 First Aid to Good Cooking 

DELICIOUS POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes ; put in boiling salted water ; 
cook until they will pierce with a silver fork; drain off 
water ; put on stove ; shake gently ; let stand until so dry 
they will almost stick to the kettle; have a little butter 
melted in dish, roll potatoes in this ; place in oven, or 
under flame in gas oven, until a golden brown. Serve 
at once. 



SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Wash and pare 2 or 3 fine, large potatoes ; slice very 
thin on a vegetable sheer ; wipe dry ; fry in hot deep fat. 
Snowdrift is best. It should be hot enough to brown 
nicely, but not hot enough to brown too quickly. Put 
in only a few pieces at once and keep them separated 
while cooking with a wire egg beater. Take out when a 
delicate yellow, tinged with brown ; place on a tin to 
drain. Sprinkle with salt and stand on paper to absorb 
the grease. They may be prepared earlier in the day and 
heated in the oven before serving. 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare small potatoes ; cut in eighths length- 
wise; dry on a clean cloth; fry in deep fat — snowdrift is 
best; drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. If the 
fat is too hot they will not be cooked well on the inside 
when they are brown enough on the outside. 



POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups mashed potatoes; stir into it 2 tablespoons 
melted butter ; beat to a white cream ; add 2 eggs beaten 
very light ; 1 teacup cream or milk ; salt to taste. Bake 
in a deep dish in a quick oven until nicely browned. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 139 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

4 hot boiled potatoes. 1 slice bacon. 

y 2 teaspoon salt. Dash of pepper. 

Peel and boil the potatoes ; drain ; chop very fine ; have 
bacon tried out in frying pan ; remove bacon, put in 
potatoes, pat down closely and brown carefully. Fold 
like omelet and serve hot on heated platter. 

SWEET POTATOES BAKED WITH APPLES. 

4 large sweet potatoes or 1 cup sugar. 

six medium size ones. ^2 cup butter. 

The same number of 1 cup of hot water. 

apples. 

Scrub potatoes clean ; boil until tender ; slice, after 
having peeled them, in slices % of an inch thick ; pare 
the apples ; slice them in same way ; put in baking dish 
in alternate layers ; sprinkle sugar on top and scatter the 
butter over the top; pour over the water; bake 1 hour 
slowly. Serve hot, as a vegetable. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Wash and pare the turnips ; drop in boiling salted 
water ; add 1 teaspoon sugar. Boil about 24 of an hour 
or until tender. Drain dry and place on stove 5 minutes 
— until they are dry ; mash thoroughly ; then cook dry 
on stove again ; add butter and salt to taste ; moisten with 
milk. Serve very hot. 

TURNIP CUPS. 

Select small turnips of uniform size. Pare, scoop out 
a little of the center and boil until tender — in boiling 
salted water. Have ready some white sauce in which 
heat some peas — either fresh, canned or the green split 
peas — carefully cooked. When hot fill the turnip cups, 
sprinkle with parsley. Serve hot. 



140 First Aid to Good Cooking 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Open can of tomatoes ; pour out at once ; drain some of 
the juice off; season with salt and a very little pepper 
and sugar ; put in a buttered baking dish in alternate lay- 
ers with bread crumbs, having layer of crumbs on top. 
Dot with pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven y$ 
of an hour. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 141 



Salads 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Yz teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar or 

l /4 teaspoon pepper. lemon juice. 

4 tablespoons olive oil. 
Mix salt, pepper and oil; add vinegar slowly; beat 
thoroughly. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

2 teaspoons flour. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 egg. 6 tablespoons vinegar and 

Yz teaspoon (scant) salt. 4 of water. 
1 tablespoon sugar. % teaspoon mustard. 

Mix all together with the beaten egg and cook over 
hot water until right consistency. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Remove the leaves and stalk; stand in salted water 
an hour, head down, to draw out any insects ; drop in 
boiling salted water — teaspoon to each quart. Cook 
an hour or until very tender. Set away to cool ; break 
into small flowerlets ; pour over French dressing ; toss 
it over to get well seasoned. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

CABBAGE SALAD— Chopped. 

1 quart chopped cabbage. % teaspoon pepper. 

2 teaspoons salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

j4 cup vinegar. 
Mix all together, then pour on vinegar. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Shave part of a firm head of cabbage very fine, not 
thicker than the blade of a silver knife, let stand in very 
cold water half an hour or more, drain thoroughly just 
before serving, and add French dressing. It is very nice 
with a little bit of onion shaved very thin and sprinkled 
through it. 



142 First Aid to Good Cooking 

CHICKEN OR VEAL SALAD. 

Cut the meat into small pieces after removing gristle 
and bone. Add y 2 as much celery that has been washed, 
scraped and cut into small pieces. Moisten with Mayon- 
naise dressing or salad dressing made of : 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon of melted 

2 teaspoons flour. butter. 

y 2 teaspoon mustard. 6 tablespoons vinegar and 

y 2 teaspoon (scant) salt. 4 of water. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 

Mix all together with the beaten egg and cook over 
hot water until right consistency. Let cool before using. 
Most chicken salad is made of part veal. Soup meat 
makes a good salad, or for croquettes. There is much 
nourishment left in it and it should not be wasted. 



LETTUCE SALAD. 

If the lettuce is not very crisp and tender, let stand 
in cold water several hours. Look over carefully, watch- 
ing for insects ; wash thoroughly. Then with a pair of 
clean scissors cut up into shreds about 1/16 of an inch 
wide, cutting across the leaves. Add French dressing of 
oil and vinegar and strew a few capers over it. Where 
the lettuce is very tender serve without shredding, but 
if a little tough, shredding will improve it very much; but 
it must be used soon after preparing. 



LETTUCE SALAD. 

Wash the lettuce thoroughly after looking over care- 
fully ; serve very cold with French dressing. A tiny 
bit of finely shaved onion scattered through it makes a 
pleasant change, or a few capers. Make Philadelphia 
cheese into balls, dust them with paprika, and serve on 
the lettuce. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 143 

POTATO SALAD. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes with vegetable brush, 
put over to cook in boiling salted water. When tender 
drain, pare, cut in thin slices, grate a little onion juice 
over them, add a cooked salad dressing ; toss lightly until 
mixed ; pour a little of the dressing over the top. Some 
omit the salad dressing and have a few pieces of bacon 
fried, crumbled up and mixed with the potato; pour a 
little vinegar in the skillet with the fat and pour over the 
salad. This gives it a slightly smoky taste. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Remove salmon from can, take out all the bones, skin 
and fatty pieces; separate into pieces of uniform size; 
arrange on lettuce leaves with slices of lemon. 

MIXED VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Most kinds of cold cooked vegetables that have not 
had milk dressing on them can be utilized for vegetable 
salad— cold string beans, salsify, asparagus, etc. Served 
with any kind of salad dressing over them after they have 
been cut into suitable sized pieces. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

One can of tomatoes. y 2 chopped onion. 

1 ba > r leaf - y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of brown sugar. A dash of cayenne pep- 
A pinch of allspice. per. 

1 pinch of ground nutmeg. 
Put all in stew pan and simmer slowly. If it becomes 
too thick, add a little water, strain through a fine sieve. 
To each pint add 1 tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in 
half a cup of hot water. It may be molded in punch cups, 
or a dish, and cut up into cubes, or just heaped roughly 
on lettuce leaves, with a portion of mayonnaise dressing. 
Can be garnished with stuffed olives or capers. 



144 First Aid to Good Cooking 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolk of one egg. Yz teaspoonful of mustard 

i cup of oil (either olive if preferred. 

or peanut). 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon 

Yz teaspoonful of salt. juice or vinegar. 

A dash of red pepper. 

Put the dish for making in the refrigerator, the egg 
and the oil next the ice as they must be cold to work 
successfully. Then beat the yolk of the egg with a silver 
or wooden fork, add the oil drop by drop, beating all the 
time. If it gets too thick, a little lemon juice or vinegar, 
not more than two teaspoonfuls in all, may be added. Do 
not add the salt until it is finished, as it causes it to sep- 
arate, then stir in. It is a great help in making mayon- 
naise, to use an oil dropper that comes especially for the 
purpose. Hook it over a pail on the outside, and stand 
on the edge of a table, and sit down, letting it drop into 
the dish. If it should separate in making, beat it with a 
Dover egg beater. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 145 



Desserts 

{See Underlying Principles, pages 89, go.) 
BOILED RICE. 

1 teacup rice — washed in 3 pints boiling water. 
3 waters. l / 2 teaspoon salt. 

Cook slowly on asbestos mat — ^4 of an hour, or until 
all the water is boiled out. Add 1 cup milk, piece of 
butter size of walnut. Stir carefully to prevent break- 
ing rice. Pour into dish, and over the top sprinkle brown 
sugar and nutmeg, or omit sugar and nutmeg and serve 
with 

HARD SAUCE. 

r/ * 2 tablespoons of boiling 

water. 
Stir together until creamy and add 1 cup granulated 
sugar ; flavor with nutmeg. 

RICE PUDDING— Without Eggs. 

4 cups milk. y 2 teaspoon salt. 

1/3 cup rice. 1/3 cup sugar. 

Nutmeg to taste. 
Wash rice, mix ingredients and pour into buttered pud- 
ding dish ; bake 3 hours in very slow oven stirring 3 
times during first hour of baking to prevent rice from 
settling. 

BREAD PUDDING No. 1. 

2 slices bread. 2 x / 2 tablespoons sugar. 
2 cups milk. y 2 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. Dash nutmeg. 

Break bread in small pieces and pour over it the milk. 
Mix eggs and sugar together and beat into bread and 
milk. Add flavoring ; pour into baking dish and dot with 
butter. Put baking dish into larger pan partly filled with 
water. With paper between the two pans bake 30 
minutes. 



146 First Aid to Good Cooking 

LEMON RICE PUDDING. 

1 level cup of cold boiled 1 lemon. 

rice (salted). 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 
1 pint of milk. sugar. 

y 2 tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls pulverized 

1 saltspoonful of salt. sugar. 

2 eggs. 

Warm the milk, add the rice, butter, grated rind of 
lemon (having washed and wiped it first), the granulated 
sugar, and salt. Stir thoroughly ; when not too hot stir 
in the beaten yolks of eggs. Beat whites to stiff froth 
with the powdered sugar, add the lemon juice, pour 
pudding into buttered baking dish, spread the whites of 
eggs on top and bake in a slow oven 30 minutes. 

BREAD PUDDING No. 2. 

Make custard as for baked custard, pour in a baking 
dish; take slices of bread %-inch thick — stale bread will 
do — butter on one side and fit entirely over top of cus- 
tard, with butter side up. Stand baking dish in another 
dish filled with hot water and bake in moderate oven 
until custard is firm and the bread nicely browned. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

y 2 cup buttermilk. y 2 heaping teaspoon sal- 

1 cup molasses. eratus (soda). 

1 cup graham flour. y 2 heaping teaspoon cin- 

y 2 cup white flour. namon. 

y 2 heaping teaspoon of cloves. 
Sift dry ingredients together and add milk and mo- 
lasses ; steam 2 hours in 1 pound baking powder cans 
filled half full, and set in kettle of boiling water; boil 
steadily 2 hours without taking covers from cans, or if 
sweet milk is used y 2 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup 
sweet milk, \y 2 cups graham flour, spices and soda as 
above. Adding the milk and molasses, to soda, flour and 
spices sifted together. Steam as above. Serve hot with 
sauce. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 147 

SAUCE. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 good teaspoon corn 

y 2 cup butter — cream to- starch or 2 flour. 

gether. 1 pint boiling water. 

Flavor with nutmeg; cook until clear or sufficiently 
thick. 

JUNKET. 

1 quart fresh milk. Y\ teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

1 junket tablet. 
Dissolve the tablet in one tablespoon cold water. While 
it is getting soft heat the milk luke-warm — neither hot 
nor cold— stirring in the sugar and salt. Remove from the 
fire and pour in the dissolved tablet, give one stir and 
pour quickly into small junket glasses. Do not jar or 
move it for 10 minutes. When it hardens set away to 
cool. Sometimes put tiny cubes of preserved ginger 
on top. 

COFFEE JUNKET. 

Coffee junket is delicious made as above; only use 
thin cream instead of milk and flavor with about four 
tablespoons of very strong coffee. Serve very cold. 

CARAMEL JUNKET. 

2 cups of milk. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
1/3 cup of sugar. Nut meats ground in meat 
1/3 cup of boiling water. grinder. 

1 junket tablet. Whipped cream, flavored 

1 pinch of salt. and sweetened. 

Heat milk until luke warm. Put sugar in stew pan 
over fire and stir until light brown, add the boiling water 
slowly, cook until reduced to 1/3 cup. Cool and add milk 
■slowly to syrup. Pulverize junket tablet in cup, with 
wooden-handled knife, add to mixture with salt and 



148 First Aid to Good Cooking 

vanilla. Turn in small cups to set. Leave in warm room 
until it has set, being careful not to jar for a little while. 
When set, put in refrigerator to chill. Turn out on indi- 
vidual plates, cover with whipped cream, and sprinkle 
with chopped nuts. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

3 cups milk. 6 tablespoons sugar. 

2 eggs. A little nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs lightly add the sugar, salt and nutmeg ; 
pour into the milk ; see that the sugar is dissolved ; pour 
into baking dish or into small custard cups ; set in a pan 
of hot water; bake in a very slow oven. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Same materials as for cup custard, only the milk is 
heated in a dish set in hot water on top of stove, and the 
beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg, with dash of salt, have 
the hot milk poured slowly over them, stirring all the 
time. Pour back in dish over hot water and cook slowly, 
stirring all the time, until it thickens and coats the spoon ; 
remove from fire at once, as it will curdle if cooked too 
long. 

BAKED CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 

y 2 cup sugar. % teaspoon salt. 

%. cup grated chocolate. 2 tablespoons boiling water. 

While milk is heating in double boiler, or on asbestos 
mat, mix chocolate and sugar together, add the boiling 
water and stir over the fire until it looks smooth and 
glossy ; remove from fire and beat in gradually the hot 
milk. Add salt, pour over the eggs, well beaten, stirring 
all the time. Pour in a baking dish, and put into pan 
of hot water in a moderate slow oven. Bake until firm 
in center, about thirty minutes. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 149 

TAPIOCA FLOAT. 

i quart milk heated on pearl tapioca I hour. 

asbestos mat. Vz cup sugar. 

2 eggs. i/^ teaspoons vanilla, or 

% teaspoon salt. flavor to taste with nut- 

%. cup of tapioca, soaked meg. 

over night, or if it is 

Stir the tapioca after soaking into the hot milk; let 
cook until the tapioca is clear, then add gradually the 
beaten yolks and sugar mixed together, and the salt. 
Remove at once from the fire, so it will not curdle, and 
stir the whites in, having first beaten them stiff. The 
heat of the custard will cook them enough. Stir in the 
flavoring and put aside to cool. If nutmeg is used it is 
to be added to the beaten eggs. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

i l 4 cups sugar. H cup water. 

y 2 cup snowdrift, very 2 cups flour. 

small measure. 1 heaping teaspoon bak- 

1 egg. in? powder. 

Cream the snowdrift and sugar, add the egg, without 
beating; beat until creamy, add water slowly, sift in the 
flour and baking powder, having sifted them together. 
Bake in 1 or 2 layers — in hot oven— until it shrinks from 
the pan. Serve hot with sauce made of 1 pint hot water 
thickened with 3 tablespoons flour wet up with little 
water; cook thoroughly, add l / 2 cup sugar, tablespoon 
butter, little salt, nutmeg to taste. 

WOODFORD PUDDING. 

3 eggs. z<2 cup flour. 

1 cup of sugar. 1 cup jam or preserves. 

V 2 cup butter. Cinnamon and nutmeg to 

1 tablespoon sweet milk. taste. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix butter, sugar and eggs together, beat thoroughly, 
add milk and jam, and baking powder mixed with flour. 



150 First Aid to Good Cooking 

Bake slowly in a pudding dish about 30 minutes. Serve 
with cream or sauce. 



CREAM OF WHEAT MOULDS. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Yz cup cream of wheat, or 24 CU P if the pudding is to 
be eaten hot. Have the water rapidly boiling, add salt 
and drop in cream of wheat slowly, so it will not stop 
boiling. Then it will not lump. Stand dish on asbestos 
mat and cook slowly 24 of an hour. Pour out in a dish 
rinsed with cold water and let stand several hours to 
harden. Then loosen with a knife around the edges and 
slip it down one side to let the air under. Then it can 
be easily turned out. Serve with milk, sugar and a dash 
of nutmeg: for dessert. 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

1 pint sifted flour. 2 level teaspoons baking 

About 24 CU P mi ^> or powder. 

enough to make a stiff 2 tablespoons snowdrift or 

dough. lard. 

Yi teaspoon salt. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together twice, rub 
the shortening into this between the thumb and fingers 
until it is in small flakes. Add milk gradually, mixing 
and cutting through with a knife till the whole is a 
spongy mass. Turn on a well-floured board, divided 
in two equal parts ; pat each out into a flat cake to fit a 
pie pan ; put one in the greased pan, butter the dough well 
with melted butter and put the other one on top ; let stand 
10 minutes ; bake in hot oven until thoroughly done. Then 
they will separate easily ; butter and spread with crushed 
strawberries mixed with sugar to taste ; pile one on top 
of the other and cover in like manner. It will take from 
1 to 13^2 quarts of berries. Serve hot. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 151 

ORANGE JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine, or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons granulated \y 2 cups orange juice. 

gelatine. 3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

y 2 cup cold water. i l / 2 cups boiling water. 

Soak gelatine in cold water 20 minutes, unless it is the 
granulated, when it may be moistened 2 minutes, dissolve 
in boiling water, strain, add to sugar, orange and lemon 
juice. Turn into moulds and chill. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Omit the orange juice from above receipt, use only y 2 
cup of boiling water and l /> cup lemon juice. Prepare 
the same way. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

l / 2 box gelatine — J / 2 cup cold water for 2 

soaked in minutes. 

Two cups of strong coffee made by pouring 2 cups of 
boiling water on 3 heaping teaspoons of pulverized coffee ; 
let stand 3 minutes without boiling. Pour 1 cup boiling 
water on softened gelatine and add the strained coffee 
and 1 cup of sugar, 1 saltspoon salt. Stir well and pour 
into a mold. When cold and firm serve with milk poured 
from the top of a bottle of milk, or thin boiled custard. 

CARROT PLUM PUDDING. 

Wash and boil 1 cup of flour. 

1 quart of carrots and add j4 pound seeded raisins. 

to them y pound of citron. 

% cup of sugar. y 2 teaspoonful of salt and 

%. pound of suet chopped cinnamon. 

fine. A little nutmeg and clove. 

Flour the fruit, mix all well, and cook for 3 hours in 
a double boiler. This will keep for weeks, and may be 
warmed in double boiler before using. Very good. 



152 First Aid to Good Cooking 

TO FREEZE CREAMS AND ICES. 

Crack off the ice in large pieces with an ice pick, put in 
burlap bag, strike with the side of an ax or mallet until 
about the size of a hickory nut or less; put the can in the 
outside of freezer; see that it is altogether so it turns 
properly, then put in 1 measure of salt to each 3 of ice. 
If the freezer is nearly full (there should always be room 
left for it to expand in freezing), have the ice come up 
well on top ; but if there is only a little in the can, have 
the ice and salt come a little higher up than the cream. 
Turn the crank slowly until it begins to thicken ; then a 
little more rapidly. Do not draw off the salt water until 
the cream is frozen, unless there is danger of its getting 
in the can. The salt makes the ice melt, and the ice in 
melting draws all the warmth out of the cream or cus- 
tard until it becomes so cold that it freezes. When frozen, 
remove the dasher, being careful not to get any salt in the 
can, scrape the ice cream from the sides of the can and 
pack clown with a spoon ; put on top, fit a cork in the 
opening, draw off the water, add more salt and ice, this 
time using 1 part salt to 4 of ice, put newspapers or thick 
carpet on top, let stand a few hours if possible. When 
ready to serve lift out the can, stand in cool water 1 min- 
ute, or, if it will not slip out of can then, wring a cloth 
out of hot water and pass around the can and it will slip 
out. 



COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Make syrup with T /z cup sugar and 1 cup strong coffee, 
pour this while hot over two beaten egg yolks, beating 
it in. Cool and mix with one pint thick cream beaten 
stiff. Fill mold and pack in equal parts cracked ice and 
salt, let stand three or four hours after turning the freezer 
a few minutes and removing dasher. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 153 

MILK SHERBET. 

4 cups milk. 1 J/2 cups sugar. 

Juice of 3 lemons. 
Dissolve the sugar in the juice; add milk slowly, 
stirring constantly to prevent curdling. If the milk is 
ice cold it will not curdle. Freeze and serve. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

1 pint milk. %. cup flour. 

1 pint thin cream. 2 eggs. 

1 saltspoon salt. 
Scald the milk, saving enough out to mix the flour to 
a smooth paste ; add slowly to the milk ; cook in a double 
boiler or on an asbestos mat until very thoroughly 
cooked, and there is no raw taste to it ; remove from stove 
and add the beaten eggs ; stir well, add sugar and salt ; 
strain. When cool add the cream and flavor to taste with 
vanilla, remembering it needs to be a little too strong as 
some of it freezes out. A level tablespoon of butter 
melted in the custard makes it much nicer, and a half 
pint of double cream makes it extra nice. If this is 
added a little more sugar will be needed. Freeze as 
above. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

y 2 cup of sugar. 1 stick of cinnamon. 

1 cup of water. 2 squares of chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. 
Mix sugar and cornstarch together, add to boiling 
water, cook thoroughly with the cinnamon stick, remove 
it, and add chocolate, which has been softened in cup 
set in warm, not hot, water. 



154 First Aid to Good Cooking 



Cake 

{See Underlying Principles, pages 89, 90.) 
LAYER CAKE. 

1%. cups sugar. ^ CU P of water. 

x / 2 cup butter or a little 2 l / 2 cups of flour. 

less of snowdrift. 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

2 eggs. powder. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the eggs without beating, 
then beat hard, add the water very slowly, the vanilla, 
and sift in the flour and baking powder. Bake in three 
layers in well-greased pans in piping hot oven about 7 
minutes each. Test with a broom •splint, and if it does 
not stick to it at all cake is done. It will begin to shrink 
from sides of pan when baked enough, and if pressed 
lightly on top with the finger will not remain dented. 
Remove from tins to a cake cooler or wire rack, and put 
together with any kind of filling preferred. 

LEMON FILLING. 

1 pound confectioners' ]/\ cup boiling water. 

sugar. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Moisten the sugar with the water, grate into this the 
yellow rind of a lemon, being careful not to get any of 
the white from the rind. Beat to a smooth paste and 
put between the layers. 

FIG FILLING. 

y 2 pound figs chopped 1/3 cup sugar. 

fine. 1/3 cup boiling water. 

Mix all together; cook in a double boiler until thick 
enough to spread. 



First Aid to Good Cooking 155 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

2Y-2 squares chocolate. 3 tablespoons milk. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Yolk of 1 egg. 

y 2 teaspoon vanilla. 
Melt chocolate over hot water, add ]/ 2 of the sugar and 
the milk; mix rest of sugar and egg together; cook in 
double boiler until it thickens; stir for several minutes 
so it will be smooth. Cool slightly, flavor and spread. 
Brown sugar may be used instead of powdered. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

1^4 cups light brown y 2 cup milk. 

sugar. Butter size of hickory nut. 

Vanilla to taste. 

Heat sugar, milk and butter; stir constantly over hot 
water until a drop on a cold plate will not stick to the 
fingers ; add vanilla. Let stand in hot water while spread- 
ing. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of 6 eggs. H CU P of powdered sugar. 

Yz teaspoon cream tartar. y 2 cup flour. 

Beat whites of eggs stiff, add cream tartar and beat 
dry, about 20 minutes in all ; sift in slowly the sugar, fold- 
ing it in, add about y+ teaspoon vanilla, sift the flour in 
very slowly, and cut it in; do not stir it. Bake in an 
ungreased pan, made with a tube in the center, }i of an 
hour in a very slow oven. 

INEXPENSIVE SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. iy teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar. powder. 

1 tablespoon hot water. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup of flour. Whites of 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoons vinegar. 
Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon-colored, add 
sugar slowly, beat well ; then add water, flour sifted with 



156 First Aid to Good Cooking 

baking powder, then whites of eggs beaten stiff, with the 
salt in them ; these should be cut in carefully with as little 
stirring as possible to prevent the air in the beaten eggs 
from escaping; add the vinegar. Butter and flour the 
baking pan. Bake in a moderate oven 35 minutes. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Y\ cup snowdrift and l /\ cup sugar creamed together; 
break in egg and beat together. 1 egg, y 2 cup water 
•slightly warm and y 2 cup molasses, stirred together, add 
to above mixture. \]/ 2 cups flour, ]/ 2 teaspoon soda and 
1 teaspoon ginger sift together and add slowly. Bake 
30 minutes in very slow oven. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

1 cup molasses. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

y 2 cup butter. A little salt. 

x / 2 cup sugar. % cup water. 

1 teaspoon soda. About 4 cups flour. 

Scald the molasses, take from stove, add the butter, 
sugar, ginger and salt; when cool add the water; sift the 
soda in about 3 cups of the flour; add to the above mix- 
ture, using the other cup of flour, or more if needed. Roll 
out a portion at a time on a floured board till about one- 
eighth of an inch in thickness ; bake in a moderate oven 
or they will burn, as they are made with molasses. 

Note. — By using a little less flour the batter may be 
dropped from a spoon on to the buttered pan. This saves 
much trouble and time and they are equally nice. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

]/ 2 cup butter. y 2 cup milk or water. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

1 egg. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Warm the mixing bowl slightly, put in the butter and 
cream it, add the sugar slowly, then the egg without beat- 
ing ; beat all vigorously together ; sift the flour and baking 



First Aid to Good Cooking 157 

powder together; add this and the milk or water alter- 
nately to the first mixture. Divide the dough and flavor 
half with vanilla (about 2 teaspoons) or lemon, and the 
other half with an ounce of melted chocolate or a couple 
tablespoons of cocoa sifted with a little flour. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough, about two-thirds of a 
cup or more according to the flour. Flour the bread 
board, roll out a portion of the dough about an eighth of 
an inch thick and cut out with a cooky cutter or a tum- 
bler. Bake in a hot oven, watching to avoid burning 
them. (See note on preceding page.) 

OLD FASHIONED DOUGHNUTS. 



1 cup sugar. 


y 2 grated nutmeg. 


2 teaspoons butter. 


A pinch of salt. 


2 eggs beaten without 


3 cups of flour. 


separating. 


3 teaspoons baking 


1 cup milk. 


powder. 



Cream butter and sugar, add nutmeg, salt, eggs and 
milk, and the flour with the baking powder sifted with it 
twice; dredge the board, roll out, cut in strips, twist to- 
gether, or cut in rings with a cutter ; fry in deep snowdrift. 
If the fat will brown a bit of bread in 1 minute it is the 
right heat. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
See that they are cooked all the way through. Drain 
carefully and lay on coarse paper to absorb the grease. 
Roll in powdered sugar when cold if preferred. 

As each doughnut is taken from the hot fat, if it is 
plunged for an instant in hot water, it will remove some 
of the grease and make them more digestible. 



INDEX 

Page 

Accounts, Household 57 

Alcoholic Liquors, Why not use 56 

Arrangement, of Kitchen 33 

Closets 14 

Balanced Ration, Food Values 66 

Bath Room, Care of 22 

Bed Linen, Selecting 13 

Beds, Making 17 

Carpet Sweeper, Care of 21 

Carpets 12 

Cleaner, Vacuum 20 

Cleaning Agents 21 

Metals 22 

Windows 21 

Closets, Arrangement of 14 

Out-door 24 

Cook, Everyday work for 49 

List of odd things to do while waiting 50 

Special work for 49 

Cooking Dishes, Selecting 32 

Dish Washing 36 

Dusting 18 

Enemies in the Home, Unseen 27 

Fireless Cooker 82 

Flies, etc 24 

Food Values, Balanced Ration 66 

Foods, Pure 66 

Furniture, Selection of 11 

Gas, How to Save 81 

Range 81 

Heating, the House 7 

Home, Management in the 39 

Selecting the 5 

Housemaid, Everyday work for 48 

Special work for 48 

Housework, System in 42 

Ironing 62 



II 

Page 

Kitchen, Arrangement of 33 

Fire 78 

Labor Saving Devices 31 

Laundry Work 58 

Living Rooms, Care of 16 

Lighting the House 9 

Maid, Everyday work for 46 

Special work for 48 

Marketing, Hints on : 

Dry Groceries 77 

Eggs 77 

Fish 76 

Meats 74 

Poultry 75 

Vegetables 76 

Meals, Planning the 71 

Refrigerator, Care of the 38 

Rugs 12 

Soap, Making 64 

Spots, Removing 63 

Starch, Raw 62 

Very stiff, for shirt bosoms, etc 61 

Merely a suggestion of 61 

Starched Clothes 60 

Serving the Company Dinner 53 

Sleeping Rooms, Care of 16 

Sweeping 18 

Table, How much spent on 65 

Linen 13 

Setting 5° 

Waiting on 52 

Vacuum Cleaner, Care of 20 

Ventilation J 6 

Waiting on Table 5 2 

Wall Paper 10 

Washing, Colored Clothes 60 

Dishes 3 6 

Fluids 64 

Woolens 59 

Water Supply 6 



Ill 

Page 

First Aid to Good Cooking 83 

Care of Butter 96 

Milk 100 

Desserts without Milk 73 

with Milk 73 

How to Measure 86 

Table of Measurements 86 

Time Table for Cooking : 

Bread and Muffins 88 

Cereals 88 

Eggs 87 

Fruits 88 

Meats 87 

Vegetables 87 

Underlying Principles of Cooking: 

Baked Foods 89 

Bread Making 92 

Cereals 91 

Eggs 98 

Fried Foods 90 

Meats 97 

Potatoes 99 

Vegetables 98 

Making Soups 97 

Tea and Coffee 96 

Test Questions 101-104 

RECIPES 

Beverages, Underlying Principles of 96 

Tea 107 

Coffee 107 

Cereal Coffee 107-108 

Cocoa 108 

Hot Chocolate 108 

Bread, Underlying Principles of 9 2_ 95 

Bread 109 

Hot Rolls 109 

Pulled Bread 109 



IV 

Page 

Bread (continued) : 

Baking- Powder Biscuits no 

Delicious Bran Sticks no 

Rice Corn Bread no 

Southern Corn Bread, or Spoon Bread in 

Corn Bread No. 2 in 

French Toast in 

Water Toast 1 1 1 

Milk Toast 112 

Wheat Muffins 112 

Graham or Entire Wheat Muffins 112 

Pop-overs 112 

Griddle Cakes 113 

Waffles 113 

Cereals, Underlying Principles of 9 r_ 9 2 

Rolled Oats 114 

Boiled Rice 114 

Cream of Wheat 114 

Large Hominy — Fine Hominy 114 

Boiled Bread and Milk 115 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese 115 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 115 

Cake: (See Underlying Principles) 89-90 

Layer Cake 154 

Lemon Filling 154 

Fig Filling 154 

Chocolate Filling 155 

Caramel Filling 155 

Angel Cake 155 

Inexpensive Sponge Cake T 55 _I 56 

Ginger Bread 156 

Molasses Cookies 156 

Sugar Cookies 1 $6-1 57 

Old Fashioned Doughnuts 157 

Desserts : (See Underlying Principles) 89-90 

Boiled Rice with Hard Sauce 145 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs 145 

Bread Pudding No. 1 145 

Bread Pudding No. 2 146 



V 

Page 

Desserts (continued) : 

Lemon Rice Pudding- 146 

Steamed Graham Pudding 146-147 

Sauce for Pudding 147 

Junket 147 

Coffee Junket 147 

Caramel Junket 147-148 

Baked Custard 148 

Boiled Custard 148 

Baked Chocolate Custard 148 

Tapioca Float 149 

Cottage Pudding 149 

Woodford Pudding I49- I 5° 

Cream of Wheat Molds 150 

Strawberry Shortcake 150 

Orange Jelly 15 1 

Lemon Jelly 15 1 

Coffee Jelly 151 

Carrot Plum Pudding 151 

To Freeze Cream and Ices 152 

Coffee Mousse 152 

Milk Sherbet 153 

Vanilla Ice Cream 153 

Chocolate Sauce 153 

Eggs, Underlying Principles of 9& 

Boiled Eggs, hard and soft 121 

Creamed Eggs 121 

Hard Cooked Eggs 121 

Scrambled Eggs 122 

Poached Eggs 122 

Deviled Eggs 122 

Cheese Souffle 123 

Welsh Rarebit (without Eggs) 123 

Welsh Rarebit (with Eggs) 123 

Fruits : 105 

Apple Sauce 105 

Baked Apples 105 

Baked Bananas 105 

Stewed Prunes 105 



VI 

Page 

Fruits (continued) : 

Jellied Cranberries 106 

Cranberry Jelly 106 

Meats : (See Underlying Principles) 97~98 

Chops or Steak 124 

Roast of Beef, Pork, Lamb or Veal 124 

Pot Roast or Stew of Beef, Lamb or Veal 125 

Halibut with Egg- Sauce 125 

Boiled Ham 125 

Boiled Dinner 126 

Stewed Chicken 126-127 

Fried Sausage 127 

Pickled or Salted Pork 127 

Creamed Canned Salmon 127 

Mock Fried Chicken 1 28 

Creamed Chicken 128 

Creamed Dried Beef 128 

Creamed Codfish 128 

Scalloped Meat, Fowl or Fish 129 

Scalloped Oysters 129 

Oyster Pie 129 

Delicious Rabbit Pie 130 

Minced Meat on Toast 130 

Hamburg Steak 130 

Beef Loaf 130 

Salmon Loaf 131 

Fish Balls 131 

Meat Croquettes 131 

White Sauce 131 

Good Hash 132 

Lamb Stew with Vegetables 132 

Soups, Underlying Principles of 97 

Clam Bouillon 116 

Clam Bisque 116 

Clam Chowder 116 

Bean Tomato Soup 117 

Corn Chowder 117 

Chicken or Turkey Soup 117-118 

Lamb Broth 118 



VII 

Page 

Soups (continued) : 

Potato Bisque 1 18 

Split-Pea Soup 118 

Pea Soup 119 

Corn Soup 1 J 9 

Tomato Bouillon 119 

Tomato Bisque 119-120 

Tomato Soup (without Stock or Milk) 120 

Vegetable Soup 120 

Noodles 120 

Salads : 

Salad Dressing (cooked) I4 1 

French Dressing I4 1 

Cauliflower Salad I4 1 

Cabbage Salad (chopped) 14 1 

Cabbage Salad I4 1 

Chicken or Veal Salad 14 2 

Lettuce Salad *4 2 

Potato Salad 143 

Salmon Salad 143 

Mixed Vegetable Salad 143 

Tomato Jelly Salad 143 

Mayonnaise J 44 

Vegetables : (See Underlying Principles of) 9 8_ 99 

String Beans *33 

Marrowfat Beans 133 

Boston Baked Beans 133 

Boiled Beets 134 

Stewed Celery 134 

Creamed Cabbage 134 

Hot Slaw 134 

Creamed Cauliflower 135 

Baked Cauliflower *35 

Creamed Carrots 135 

Spinach J 35 

Kale 136 

Watercress Greens 136 

Boiled Onions I3 6 

Delicious Baked Onions 136 



VIII 

Page 
Vegetables (continued) : 

Boiled Potatoes 136-137 

Mashed Potatoes 1 36-137 

Baked Potatoes 137 

Stuffed Potatoes 137 

Scalloped Potatoes 137 

Delicious Potatoes 138 

Saratoga Potatoes 138 

French Fried Potatoes 138 

Potato Puff 138 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 139 

Sweet Potatoes Baked with Apples 139 

Boiled Turnips 139 

Turnip Cups 139 

Scalloped Tomatoes 140 



