Directions for Making 



Chocolate Candy 

At Home 



With HalVs Home Outfit 



ILLUSTRATED 



COPYRIGHTED, 1915 
By N. C. HALL 



THE TUTTLE, MOREHOUSE & TAYLOR COMPANY 
NEW HAVEN, CONN. 



Directions for Making 

Chocolate Candy 

At Home 

With Hall's Home Outfit 



ILLUSTRATED 



N. C. HALL 

LYME, CONNECTICUT 






J 




©CIA397168 

MAR 17 1915 



If you have never made chocolate-covered candies, or 
the cream centers, do not expect perfect results the first 
trial, and this is true, usually, with any kind of candy. 

The following instructions will start you right and by 
observation as you go along your results will improve fast. 

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS 



Always use the best of material, at least know that it 
is pure. 

Use chocolate that is made for dipping candies or the 
results will not be satisfactory. 

In boiling sugar always put in the water before the 
sugar, and when for fondant be careful not to stir while 
boiling; to wash down the grains from the sides. To cover 
for two or three minutes will help dissolve any that may 
be left. 

Always wash the thermometer clean before putting it 
away. 

Keep the starch dry and clean by putting it away in a 
tin can or pail. 

Never put water in dipping-chocolate. If too thick, a 
little cocoa butter will thin it; also never get it hot. 

If chocolates are dipped in a room where the thermometer 
is above /O they will dry off gray. They may be just 
as good to eat but it hurts their appearance. In hot 
weather a light dry cellar is often a good place. 

Leaky chocolate creams will not keep but will become 
hard in a few days. With caramels it does not make so 
much difference. 



• Vi Br r -"^aM 





LEVELING THE STARCH 



7 

In making caramels it is hard to have them free from 
grain without the use of corn syrup. 

If you use the fondant tray for caramels, place the iron 
rods across, making' the size space that you will need. 

If the fondant tray has been used for caramels, always 
wash off any grease that may he on it with hot water 
before using" again for fondent. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CHOCOLATE 
CREAMS 
Making the Fondant: 

Put half pint of cold water in a small kettle, and a pinch 
of cream of tartar, add two pints (2 lbs.) granulated sugar. 

Place on the stove and stir with the wooden paddle until 
it is dissolved (do not let it boil while stirring). 

When it begins to boil, wash the grains from the sides 
and cover for two or three minutes. 

Remove the cover, put in the thermometer and boil to 
240 , or if you have no thermometer, until it will gather 
and make a soft ball in cold water. 

Remove from the stove at once and pour gently on the 
fondant tray. 

When cold (do not let it stand too long) fold up with 
the aluminum paddle, using one side of the paddle only, 
turn and work until it forms a white creamy mass. (Page 

4-> 

Cover with a bowl or damp cloth and let stand for half 
an hour or more. 

While waiting you can get the starch tray ready. 

Tjie Starch Tray: 

You will need three or four pounds of powdered corn 
March to fill the tray, but this starch can be used over and 
over again ; keep it dry. 




MAKING THE IMPRESSIONS 



Put some of the powdered starch in the tray, and spread 
with the smoothing stick ; add starch until it is level and 
smooth on top. ( I 'age 6.) 

Take the mold yon want to use; start at one end of the 
tray and make the impressions the full size of the mold.-. 
(PageS.) 

Melting and Molding Cream: 

Place the fondant in the double boiler with hot water 
in the outer part and flavor. (See about flavoring further 
on. ) 

Place on the stove and stir all the time until it has all 
softened; if very thick, add a few drops of water; do 
not let it get hot, little more than blood warm is about 
right ; when ready it should be smooth and creamy. 

Put the stick in the dropping funnel, pour in part of the 
cream, hold over an impression in the starch and by raising 
the stick a very little, punch out enough to fill the impres- 
sion. (Page 10.) 

Let the candies stand in the starch until cold and firm 
enough to handle. 

Take from the starch with the wire scoop and dust with 
the brush. (Pages 11-12.) 

But while the candies are cooling in the starch get the 
chocolate ready. 

Covering with Chocolate: 

With the double boiler, washed and dry. 

Put in one or two pounds of chocolate coating; melt 
the same way you did the fondant; do not let it get hot, 
a little above blood heat is about right. 

Dipping the candies in the chocolate must be done in a 
ro<»m where the thermometer is not above /O , 65 to 70 
is best. 

Use a table not too high, place a dipping paper smooth 
side Up on the dipping board, fasten with the thumb tacks 
at the corners. 



K) 




DROPPING THE CREAM 




TAKING UP Till c \ \ 



\2 




13 

I 'our a small quantity of the chocolate on the paper, take 
vour thumb and the tips of your four fingers and stir 
the chocolate around to the size of a saucer, continue 
stirring until cold and mostly hardened on the paper. 
(Page 14.) 

( )n this pour out as much more, stir as before, keeping 
it on the hardened chocolate. 

When it commences to feel cold, drop in with the other 
hand one of the candies. 

Work it over in the coolest part of the chocolate near 
the edge, and when well covered drop it top side down on 
the dipping- paper. (Page 15.) 

When the chocolate on the dipping board gets too thick 
and cold, take out more and prepare as before. 

When through dipping, this hardened chocolate will 
come off the paper and can be remelted. 

If the candies dry off gray, your chocolate was not cold 
enough or the room too warm. 

It will probably take a few trials to get a satisfactory 
start at dipping. 

FLAVORING 

Flavor before the fondant is all melted and about as 
follows : 

For Vanilla, one teaspoonful to each pound of fondant. 

For Peppermints, eight drops of the oil of peppermint 
to a pound. 

For Wintergreen ten drops of oil of wintergreen to 
a pound. 

To flavor with the oil of birch, lemon, or orange, use 
about ten drops to each pound. 

For Bitter Almond, six drops to the pound. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR VARIETY 
Chocolate Cream Walnuts: 

Take one or two pounds of fondant in the double boiler, 
flavor with vanilla and melt as for molding cream-. 



J 4 




15 




i6 







^ * J 1 1 


-*<ir^ ^H 



DROPPING CREAM NUTS 



n 

When ready drop in a walnut meat, and with the dipping 
fork see that it is covered with cream; take out and drop 
on wax paper ( I 'age 16) ; when cold cover with chocolate. 

Chocolate Creamed Ginger: 

Cut preserved ginger in pieces the size of a walnut meat 
and cover with unrlavored fondant in the same manner as 
creamed walnuts. Cover when cold with chocolate. 

Maple Fondant: 

Take one pound of maple sugar and one pound of gran- 
ulated sugar; place in a small kettle with a half pint of 
cold water, and a pinch of cream of tartar, and proceed 
exactly as with plain fondant. 

Use this fondant for maple creams, molded in starch, or 
for maple walnuts, dipped same as creamed walnuts. 

Chocolate Almonds: 

Put the almonds in boiling hot water ; stir them around 
until they will pop out of the skin when squeezed between 
the thumb and finger. After blanching;, roast brown in the 
oven ; when cool, cover with chocolate. 

Chocolate-covered Filberts: 

Roast the same as almonds, and when cold the skin will 
mostly rub off ; cover with chocolate. 

Farm House Fudge: 

y 2 pint of cream. 
2 lbs. brown sugar. 

Boil, stirring all the time to 230 , or until it strings. 
Take from the fire, flavor with 
1 teaspoon ful vanilla. 
Beat until it creams. 
Pour on the buttered tin. 



i8 

Chocolate Caramel : 
i pint of milk, 
i lb. white sugar. 
15^2 lbs. corn syrup. 

Stir and boil to 238 , add 
V\ lb. melted butter, mixed to a paste with about 
)/\ lb. white flour. 

Boil to about 240 , add 
y 2 lb. bitter chocolate, cut fine. 
Boil and stir to 246 °. 
Pour on the buttered tin. 

Vanilla Caramels: 
1 pint of milk. 
1 lb. white sugar. 

1 lb. corn syrup. 

Have ready and add 
34 lb. melted butter, mixed to a paste with about 
H lb. flour. 

Boil and stir to 250 . Flavor with 

2 spoonfuls of vanilla. 

Pour on the buttered tin. 



^J&Hz 



