HOBART 
BOULEVARD 
COOK BOOK 





THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 





Compiled and Published by the Women of 
Hobart Boulevard Methodist Episcopal Church 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 
1915 



PREFACE 

In compiling this book it has been our en- 
deavor to have in it only such recipes as have 
been tested. 

Because of duplication many excellent recipes 
have had to be omitted. 

We wish to thank all those who, by their as- 
sistance, have made this book possible. 



MRS. M. A. CASEY, 

MRS. ALBERT SCUDDER, 

MRS. A. U. SOULE, 

Committee. 



SOUPS 

Grandmother's Soup 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 quart of seasoned stock, 1 egg, y* 
cup of bread crumbs. Mix butter and flour, add stock, boil. 
Beat egg without separating, add it to the bread crumbs; 
after the soup is off the stove add the egg slowly. Serve im- 
mediately. Mrs. Mac Bride. 

Celery Soup 

One head of celery, 1 pint water, 1 pint milk, 1 table- 
spoon each of chopped onion, butter and flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), % teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. 
Wash celery and cut into small pieces. Put it into 1 pint of 
boiling salted water and cook until very soft. Mash it in the 
water in which it has been boiled. Cook the onion with the 
milk in the double boiler 10 minutes and add it to the celery. 
Put all through a coarse strainer and boil up once; cook the 
butter and flour together and stir it into the boiling soup. 
Add the salt and pepper and boil 5 minutes. 

Mrs. W. H. Paulin. 

Tomato Bisque 

Stew enough tomatoes to make a pint (when stewed), 
when soft put through a strainer. While the tomatoes are 
boiling stir one tablespoon of corn starch into a quart of 
milk and cook until it is like cream. Add Yz saltspoon of 
baking soda, 1 level teaspoon pf salt, a very little cayenne 
pepper and J4 saltspoon of white pepper and turn into this 
mixture the strained tomatoes. Add a heaped tablespoonful 
pf softened, but not hot, butter. Stir thoroughly and serve 
immediately. Mrs. W. H. Paulin. 

Stewed Oysters 

Bring 1 pint milk to boil, add a small lump of butter, 12 
oysters, salt and pepper. Allow the milk to boil up once 
and serve at once. This serves 2 persons. 

Mrs. A. R. Hofer. 



Oysters Fried in Batter 

Make a batter of 3 eggs, well beaten, 3 tablespoonfuls 
milk, 1 tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), and liquor 
of oysters. Put butter into frying pan and when hot drop 
the oysters, one at a time, into the batter, filling the spoon 
with batter, drop them into the hot butter and fry until rich 
brown. Mrs. A. A. Hyde. 

Lima Bean Soup 

Wash 1 pint lima beans, soak over night. In the morning 
slip the skins off as in blanching almonds; put in a double 
boiler, cover with boiling water and cook for 2 hours; add 
salt, pepper and 1 small onion, grated, and just before serv- 
ing add a heaping teaspoon of beef extract dissolved in 1 
quart of boiling water. Mrs. Hofer. 

Corn Chowder 

Cut 10 cents worth of salt pork into cubes and fry out 
in a saucepan. In this fat fry 2 medium-sized sliced onions 
until yellow, then add 2 raw potatoes, sliced and cut in dice, 
and the corn from J^ dozen ears, a pint of boiling water, salt 
and pepper to taste. Let simmer until the potatoes are ten- 
der, then add a pint of scalded milk which has been thickened 
by the addition of one tablespoon of butter rubbed into two 
tablespoons of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow). Simmer for 
5 minutes and serve. Lydia McMillan. 

Clam Chowder 

Four medium-sized potatoes, 4 medium-sized onions, J4 
pound lean salt pork, 1 can Underwood Little Neck Clams. 
Put vegetables and pork through food chopper separately. 
Fry out salt pork in frying pan until almost crisp, add veg- 
etables and enough hot water to keep from burning. Cover 
and cook for y 2 hour. Just before vegetables are done add 
can minced clams. Boil well 15 minutes, add 1 quart milk, 
boil 5 minutes. This will serve 5 people. A. Y. Soule. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Grate corn from % dozen small ears. Put cobs in kettle 
and cover with 3 pints boiling water; let boil slowly 30 
minutes. Take out cobs, put in grated corn and boil until 
soft; press through sieve, season and let simmer. Rub 3 
tablespoons butter and 2 of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow) to- 
gether, add to soup and stir. Add 1 pint milk, cook 1 minute 
and add beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Harold Loomis. 



Cream of Corn Soup 

1 can of corn, 1 cup of water, boil for 20 minutes, add 

1 scant quart of milk, season with salt, pepper and butter, 
thicken with 2 teaspoonsful of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
bring to the boil, have two hard boiled eggs chopped fine, 
strain soup, add eggs, serve. Mrs. Mac Bride. 

Five-Minute Tomato Soup 

Four large ripe tomatoes, 1 large tablespoon flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow) 4 ounces butter, J^ onion (grated), 
Y-2, teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon soda, 1 pint boiling water, pep- 
per. Slice tomatoes into stewpan, add salt and soda, stew. 
Put butter and onion in large skillet; when it begins to 
brown add flour, working it smooth; add water, stirring all 
the time until it boils; then pour in the tomatoes through a 
sieve, stirring until evenly mixed. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. George E. Haney. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Take 1 quart of tomatoes, add a small onion sliced fine 
and 1 bay leaf, let simmer J4 hour, run through sieve; put 1 
quart of milk on to heat, add 2 tablespoons butter and a 
small spoon of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), rubbed together, 
add salt and paprika to taste; add a pinch of soda to the 
tomatoes, then pour them into the boiling milk and serve. 

Vegetable Soup 

Take a IS cent soup bone of beef and about the same of 
mutton, put in jarge kettle with 5 quarts of cold water, add 

2 turnips, 3 onions, 2 potatoes, 2 carrots, 2 large tomatoes, 
1-3 bunch of celery, all cut in small pieces, 2 bay leaves, 3 
cloves; simmer y 2 day, add salt and pepper to taste, add 1 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Soup 

One pound chopped beef, y 2 cup corn meal, 1 onion, 1 bell 
pepper, 2 tomatoes, 2 quarts water. Mix the meat with corn 
meal, add chopped vegetables and water and boil 1 hour; sea- 
son. Mrs. Forrest Casey. 



MEMORANDA 



FISH AND MEATS 

Baked Fish 

Place fish in a baking pan and sprinkle with lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. Have in readiness J4 cup each of celery 
and carrot and 2 tablespoons each of green pepper and pars- 
ley, 1 tablespoon of onion, all of which has been chopped very 
fine and simmered for 10 minutes in ^ cup of olive oil. 
Spread this over fish, cover and bake from 20 to 30 minutes. 

Maude M. B. Scudder. 

Baked Fish With Tomato Sauce 

Cook 2 cups tomatoes with 1 cup water and 1 slice onion, 

3 cloves and 1 tablespoon sugar. Melt 3 tablespoons butter, 
add 3 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), and stir it 
into the tomatoes. Add % teaspoon salt and ^ teaspoon 
cayenne pepper; cook 10 minutes and strain. Clean the fish, 
put in baking dish, pour around it J4 of the sauce and bake 
35 minutes, basting often. Remove to hot platter and pour 
around it the remaining sauce. Mrs. C. E. Casey. 

Salmon Croquettes 

One pint of white sauce, using 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups hot 
milk; cook until thick and smooth, then add 1 can salmon 
broken in small pieces; season with salt and pepper, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon minced parsley. When cold 
shape into croquettes, roll in cracker crumbs, then in beaten 
eggs and in crumbs again; let stand a couple of hours. Fry 
in deep fat, using a wire basket. Mrs. Edith Baxter. 

Shrimp Wiggle 

Two tablespoons melted butter, 2 tablespoons flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 pint hot milk. Boil, then add 2 cans 
shrimps; boil, then add 1 can peas, season and serve on but- 
tered toast. Mrs. C. Boicourt. 



Fried Clams 

Select large, fresh clams, wash thoroughly and dry; dip 
in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, season with salt and 
pepper and fry in hot butter until rich brown. H. H. H. 

Salmon Loaf 

One can salmon, 2 cups stale bread crumbs, 2 well beaten 
eggs, butter size of walnut, J4 cup sweet milk, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Place in buttered tins and steam Vz hour, then 
bake }4 hour. Can be steamed 54 hour and not baked; baking 
dries it. Mrs. Fahs. 

Steamed Salmon Loaf With Pimiento Sauce 

Remove the contents of a can of salmon and rinse thor- 
oughly with hot water; remove skin and bones, season with 
1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon salt, Y& teaspoon pap- 
rika; let stand while you cook }4 cup soft bread crumbs and 
l /2 cup milk together, stirring all the time until smooth; add 
this to the fish and the yolk of 3 eggs beaten till very light; 
then fold in the beaten whites of 3 eggs, turn into a buttered 
pan, cover with butter paper and steam until done; unmold, 
garnish with parsley and pour the sauce around. 

Pimiento Sauce 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter, add 1% tablespoons flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snaw), then \ l / 2 cups milk, and cook, stirring 
constantly. Take from fire, season with salt and 3 pimientoes 
pressed through a sieve. E. L. W. 

Creamed Tuna 

One heaping tablespoon butter, melted, add 1 level table- 
spoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow); stir until smooth, then 
add 1^4 cup milk; stir until thick; season to taste with salt 
and pepper; then add 1 small can tuna minced fine. Serve on 
toast. Mrs. Thos. Brown. 

Salmon Chartreuse 

One cup rice, 1 can salmon, 2 cups cream sauce, 1 lump 
butter size of walnut. Boil rice in salted water until soft, 
strain and add to cream sauce with shredded salmon, oil of 
salmon and butter. One or 2 beaten eggs added is an im- 
provement. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bake 20 
minutes. Mrs. A. Y. Soule. 

10 



Baked Ham 

One slice ham 1 inch thick, bake 40 minutes in a covered 
pan. Before baking pour over it the following sauce: One 
tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
grating of onion, 6 tablespoons tomato catsup, 1 cup water. 
Boil on slow fire until smooth. 

Beef Loaf 

Two pounds round steak, 54 pound of pork steak, 1 small 
onion, celery, cayenne, salt and pepper to taste; 1 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 egg, 1 cup of milk. Form 
into a loaf and bake in hot oven 20 minutes, then pour over 
it the following sauce: Mix 1 tablespoon of flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow) and 1 of butter over the fire until boiling. Boil 
1 pint of strained tomato with a pinch of sugar and pour over 
the flour and butter. Then pour this sauce over the loaf and 
bake 1 hour. Grace H. Paulin. 

Tomato Farcies 

Carefully peel large, firm tomatoes and scoop out the 
centers. In the hollow thus left put a layer of minced ham. 
Set the tomatoes in a bake pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
put a bit of butter upon the top of each and cook for 10 min- 
utes; then drop upon the minced ham in each tomato a raw 
egg; dust with salt and pepper and cook until the eggs are 
"set." Mrs. G. W. Russell. 

Meat and Spaghetti 

One-quarter pound of butter, heated, 2^4 pounds of steak 
or veal, cut in cubes; let brown in heated butter with 3 onions 
sliced thin; let simmer for a few minutes, then add 1 quart 
can of tomatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, }4 teaspoon cinnamon, pep- 
per and paprika to taste; also a few stalks of celery, cut fine, 
a piece of garlic size of navy bean; let simmer from 2 l / 2 to 3 
hours. Add 1 package of spaghetti cooked in boiling water; 
also 1 can of mushrooms, and cook 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Wilmer Hogeboom. 

Sweetbread Ramequins 

Clean and parboil sweetbread, cut in cubes, melt 2 table- 
spoons butter, add 3 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
gradually pour on 1 cup chicken stock; reheat sweetbreads 
in sauce and add ^4 cup cream and 1^ teaspoonsful beef ex- 
tract; season with salt, paprika and lemon juice. Fill rame- 
quin dishes, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
crumbs are brown. Mrs. Perry. 

11 



Chili Con Carne 

One pound ground beef, 3 large potatoes and 3 large 
onions; put through the meat chopper; 1 can kidney beans, 
1 can tomatoes, 1 dessertspoon chili powder, 2 tablespoons 
butter or bacon grease, salt to taste; cover with water and 
boil about 2 hours; add water if necessary to make about 4 
quarts when done. Cook it over an asbestos mat, as it burns 
easily. Mrs. C. E.Casey. 

Beef Loaf 

Two and three-quarter pounds lean beef, chopped fine, 
Ya, pound salt poork, chopped fine, 8 soda crackers, rolled 
fine, 1 cup milk, ^ cup butter, 4 eggs, well beaten; salt and 
pepper to taste. Pack in tin and bake 2 hours in moderate 
oven. Miss Olmstead. 



Beef Loaf With Mexican Sauce 

Two pounds lean, chopped beef, 1 tablespoon chopped 
onion, 1 level teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon black pepper, 1 table- 
spoon chopped parsley, 1 cup stale bread crumbs. Mix all 
together and moisten with strained tomatoes; shape in loaf 
and bake 40 minutes in greased pan, basting often with 
tomato juice. Serve on hot platter surrounded with 

Mexican Sauce 

One-quarter cup chopped onion, J4 CU P green and red 
peppers, 54 CU P butter. Cook until soft, then add 4 table- 
spoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), \y 2 cups boiling water or 
brown stock, and 1 cup stewed tomatoes. Season with salt. 
This is enough to serve 4 or 5 people. Mrs. Thos. Brown. 

Fricassee Chicken 

Cut up 2 young chickens and boil until tender, adding 
salt, pepper and butter to taste; fry until brown. In the pan 
in which you have fried the chicken put 2 tablespoons flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow, smooth; add the stock left from boil- 
ing the chicken, a little milk and the yolks of 2 well beaten 
eggs. Let all boil 1 minute. Put chicken on deep platter, 
pour over gravy and serve. 

Swiss Steak 

Take a round steak, cut about 2 l / 2 inches thick, pound un- 
til very tender, dash in cold water, salt and then knead as 
much flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), as possible into the steak. 
Brown in hot fat, partially cover with hot water and simmer 
for 3 hours in covered skillet. Mrs. O. V. Pratt. 

12 



Mexican Meat Balls 

One pound pork or 1 pound beef, chopped fine, 1-3 as 
much bread crumbs as meat, 1 egg, 1 small onion, chopped 
fine, 1 teaspoon chili powder, salt and oepper to taste, 2 table- 
spoons water. Put into a pan and mix thoroughly. Make 
into balls the size of small orange. Make a sauce as fol- 
lows: One quart of tomatoes, 1 chopped onion, 1 teaspoon 
chili powder, salt and pepper. Simmer until onion is done, 
place meat balls in this sauce and boil gently until done, about 
an hour. Place meat balls on platter, thicken sauce and pour 
over meat. Mrs. Haney. 

Veal Loaf 

Take 3% pounds raw veal, both lean and fat, 1 pound 
salt pork, chopped fine, 6 small crackers, rolled fine, 2 beaten 
eggs, butter the size of an egg, salt to taste, 1 teaspoon pep- 
per, l /2 grated nutmeg. Mix all thoroughly and work into the 
form of a loaf; place in a baking pan, put bits of butter and 
sprinkle cracker crumbs over the top. Bake in moderate 
oven 2 hours, basting several times with water. 

Miss Cox. 

Boiled Ham, Southern Style 

Soak ham over night in cold water, wipe well before put- 
ting in to boil. Put the ham into enough boiling water to 
cover the ham, boil for 5 or 10 minutes, turn fire down and 
let simmer for the rest of the time of cooking, allowing 20 
minutes to the pound as a minimum. When done remove 
the rind, cover the ham with a thick paste of flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), and water, put in a baking pan and cook for 
Vz hour, then remove the paste, cover the top with thin 
slices of lemon and whole cloves, baste with sugared water, 
put back in the over until nicely browned. Can be served 
either hot or cold. Mrs. S. T. Allen. 

Cold Meat Loaf 

One hock veal, cook until thoroughly done, about 2 to 
3 r /2 hours, season with salt and pepper; take from the broth 
and let cool; pick all meat from the bone, put through grind- 
er, put back in the broth and add */2 package of gelatine, 
which has been soaked in 1 cup cold water 10 minutes. Put 
back on the fire and let boil up once. Put a layer of hard 
boiled egg and pimiento in the bottom of a pan, then pour in 
a layer of the meat and keep alternating. Finish with the 
meat on top. Let harden. Serve sliced. Mrs. Potoff. 

13 



Croquettes 

One pint cold meat chopped, 1 scant teaspoon salt, 1 
tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon grated onion, dash 
red pepper. Mix thoroughly 1 cup soup stock or broth, heat- 
ed; 1 teaspoon butter, 2 teaspoons flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow); add the meat, mix well and cool; form into croquettes 
and dip in beaten egg; roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep 
fat. Mrs. Sedwick. 



Meat Toast 

Take scraps of lean meat, grind it fine, make a rich 
gravy of butter with what juice of the meat you may have, 
season with salt and pepper. Toast bread and butter it, cov- 
er with the mixture and serve hot. An excellent breakfast 
dish. Mrs. Sylvester. 

Vegetarian Roast 

One cup walnuts, 1 large onion, chopped, 2 tablespoons 
olive oil, 1 teaspoon salt, }/2 teaspoon sage, \ l /2 cups toasted 
bread crumbs, enough hot water to make it hold together, 
add 1 beaten egg. Bake y*. hour. Serve with thickened toma- 
to juice, seasoned with salt and peanut butter. 

Mrs. Myrtle Hutchison. 

Boiled Ham 

Pour boiling water over ham and when cool enough wash 
and scrape or brush to remove all mold and dust. Steam 
until tender when pierced with a fork. When done place in 
a pan to skin. Dip hands in cold water, take skin between 
fingers and skin like an orange. Put in baking pan, lean side 
down; sift rolled crackers or dried bread crumbs over the 
top and bake 30 minutes. Serve with mustard or horse radish. 

Mrs. Albert Brown. 



Meat Pie 

One pound round steak cut in small pieces, slice small 
onion, fry in 2 spoonsful of suet; don't scorch it; add the 
meat and 1 tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow); stir un- 
til it is seared over, add enough hot water to come up 
through it; salt and pepper to taste; let simmer until tender; 
put in deep baking dish and add about 15 ripe olives; put on 
a cover of rich biscuit dough and bake. 

14 



Veal Loaf 

Three pounds of raw veal, chopped very fine, butter size 
of egg, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons of cream or milk; if milk use 
a small piece of butter; mix eggs and cream together. Mix 
with veal 6 crackers, crushed fine, % teaspoon black pepper, 
1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon of sage. Mix well together 
and form in a loaf. Bake 3 hours, basting with butter and 
water while baking. Serve cut in slices. Ruth Brown. 

Cream Chicken 

One chicken of 4 pounds, 4 sweetbreads, and 1 can mush- 
rooms; boil chicken and sweetbreads separately; put chicken 
and mushrooms and sweetbreads, cut up in small pieces, in a 
dish, add 4 tablespoons of butter, 5 teaspoons flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), scald 1 quart of cream and put in mixture, 
season with salt and pepper, cover with bread crumbs and 
pieces of butter on top. Bake 15 to 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Albert Brown. 

Chicken Patties 

Make a nice rich puff paste, cut a round from it with a 
medium large cookie cutter, and with a smaller size cutter 
cut out the middle of the round, thus leaving a ring. Bake 
to a light brown in a quick oven, then brush them over with 
beaten egg, and put in the oven 1 minute to glaze; fill these 
crusts with minced boiled chicken, well seasoned, and beaten 
well into a white sauce made of the water in which the 
chicken was boiled. Serve hot. Ruth Brown. 

Chinese Noodles 

Two eggs, a pinch of salt and as much flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), as eggs will absorb; rub together with the 
hands, then roll very thin and cut into noodles J4 of an inch 
wide and 20 to 30 inches long. Boil in rich chicken broth 20 
minutes; serve in broth with very small pieces of bacon on 
top. To be properly appreciated should be eaten with chop- 
sticks. Iva M. Miller, Tientsin, China. 



15 



MEMORANDA 



MEMORANDA 



MEMORANDA 



VEGETABLES 

Rice Croquettes With Jelly 

Wash ^2 cup rice, add Yz cup boiling water, Vz teaspoon 
salt, cover and steam until rice has absorbed all the water, 
then add 1 cup scalded milk and stir lightly with a fork; cover 
and let steam until rice is soft, then take from the fire and 
add 1 rounding tablespoon butter and yolks of 2 eggs, spread 
on a shallow plate to cool; shape in croquettes and roll in 
cracker crumbs, then dip in egg and again in crumbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown; arrange in dish with cubes of cur- 
rant jelly on each, and eat with roast lamb. 

Mrs. Thos. Brown. 

Fried Apples 

Cut 3 large apples crosswise into a skillet, pour on Y-i. 
teacup water, put on stove, cover and cook until tender; add 
1 teacup brown sugar and l /t teaspoon butter and fry until 
brown; stir often to keep from burning. 

Mrs. Myrtle Hutchison. 

Boston Baked Beans 

One pint of pea beans having been soaked and parboiled 
until the skins slip, put one small onion in the bean pot and 
cover with half the beans, add salt, 2 tablespoons molasses 
and 1 dessertspoon of mustard. Rest of the beans with more 
salt and l /2 pound salt pork (scored) on top and cover with 
hot water. Bake all day in moderate oven, adding more 
water if beans get dry. Mrs. G. F. Atkinson. 

Spanish Beans 

Put 1 quart of pink beans to soak over night. In the 
morning put them on with plenty of water over a slow fire 
with no salt; cook about 3 hours. Make a sauce of 2 large 
onions, 2 strong chili peppers and 4 medium size tomatoes, 
chopped fine; after the beans have cooked 2 hours pour this 
in and salt to taste and cook slowly 1 hour more. 

Mrs. Arthur B. Shaffner. 

Buttered Beets 

Boil beets until tender and cut into dices. Dress with 
1 heaping tablespoonful flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), mixed 
with 3 tablespoonsful vinegar, butter size of an egg and water 
if necessary. Boil together until creamy. Serve as a veg- 
etable. Mrs. G. F. Atkinson. 

19 



Cabbage Dumplings 

Pull a head of cabbage apart, leaf by leaf. Wash well 
and cook only until slightly tender. Flavor some hamburger 
steak with a little onion, salt and pepper and form into small 
balls; place a ball of the meat in the center of 2 or 3 of the 
cabbage leaves; bring leaves up and fasten with string or 
toothpicks. Put in a steamer and steam, or drop in boiling 
water and boil slowly, cooking until the meat is well cooked. 

Eva M. Russell. 

Escalloped Cabbage 

Put a layer of cold cooked cabbage in a buttered baking 
dish, then a layer of medium white sauce (grated cheese may 
be added to white sauce if desired). Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake 20 minutes, or until crumbs are brown. 

Corn Saute 

Six ears corn cut off as for stewing, 1 tablespoon butter 
or Crisco, 2 tablespoons sweet pepper, cut fine. Season with 
pepper and salt; simmer over slow fire. 

Nellie M. Schultz. 

Potato Roll 

Two cups mashed potatoes, y\ pound grated cheese, 1 
egg yolk, 2 tablespoons milk, teaspoon onion juice, salt, table- 
spoon minced parsley, if you like. Mix, form in roll, brush 
with milk, roll in bread crumbs, bake. Serve with white 
sauce with ^ cup of peas in it. 

White Sauce 

Two tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 1 cup milk; cook; salt and pepper to taste. 

Rice Croquettes 

Cook in double boiler % cup rice, 2 cups milk (or part 
water), ^ teaspoon salt. The mixture should be quite soft 
when rice is done. If dry add water. Mix 2 tablespoons sugar 
and 2 well beaten eggs, and cook with the rice, stirring con- 
stantly for 3 or 4 minutes. Add ^ teaspoon vanilla and 
spread on platter to cool. Form in 6 balls, roll in egg and 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Mrs. J. P. Holland. 

20 



Corn Oysters 

Place a pint of corn (canned or fresh), on the stove, and 
allow it to simmer for 20 minutes. If too dry add a little 
water. Then season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful 
of butter, % teaspoonful of pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk. Allow it to become cool and then stir in two well beat- 
en eggs and about a cupful of cracker crumbs. Put a table- 
spoonful of bacon grease in the frying pan and when it has 
become smoking hot drop in the corn batter by spoonfuls. 
When a delicate brown turn over and brown other side. 

Anna Kennedy. 

Baked Corn 

One can corn, 1 cup grated cheese, 1 egg, ^ cup milk, 1 
bell pepper cut in small pieces; salt and pepper to taste. Bake 
until nicely browned. W. E. L. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Six medium-sized potatoes, ^ cup sugar, 4 tablespoonsful 
water, 1 tablespoonful butter. Wash and pare potatoes, cook 
10 minutes in boiling salt water; drain, cut in halves length- 
wise, and put in buttered pan. Make a syrup by boiling sugar 
and water 3 minutes; add butter; brush potatoes with syrup 
and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining syrup. 

Mrs. P. F. Hill. 



Currie and Rice 

Cut 1 pound mutton in dice; put 1 tablespoon butter in 
spider and 1 large onion cut up; fry, then put in the meat; 
simmer 1 hour or more; add a little water if necessary; stir 
1% tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoon salt 
and 1 tablespoon curry powder with a little water; put it in 
the meat and let it thicken; cook ^ cup rice and salt it; 
spread the rice on a platter and pour the meat over it. 

Mrs. M. A. Casey. 

Spanish Rice 

One and one-half cup cooked rice, \y 2 teaspoons salt, 2 
tablespoons butter, paprika, Y$ onion (sliced thin), 2 or 3 cups 
stock or water, 1 can tomato pulp, y 2 cup grated cheese. Melt 
butter in sauce pan, add the onion and let cook until the but- 
ter is absorbed; then add the boiled rice, tomato pulp, salt, 
paprika and liquid, if needed. Let cook 5 to 10 minutes, then 
stir cheese in carefully with fork. Serve very hot, or pour 
into buttered casserole; cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake in over. Mrs. Warren T. Smith. 

21 



Spanish Rice 

One cup rice, partly cooked, 4 large tomatoes, 1 onion, 
3 green chili peppers, cut up, from which seeds are removed, 
l /2 cup butter or bacon. If bacon is used, onion is fried in it; 
salt to taste. Cook slowly 4 hours. Excellent put in cooker. 

Mrs. E. J. Ruenitz. 

Fried Summer Squash 

Cut stem and blossom ends from squash, cut crosswise 
in slices about 1 inch thick, and fry in bacon drippings until 
brown on both sides; salt and pepper. Cook with cover on 
skillet. Mrs. Hofer. 

Baked Bananas 

Remove the skins from 6 firm bananas, place in a shal- 
low pan, dredge well with sugar, add 2 tablespoons soft but- 
ter and the juice of 5/2 a lemon; bake about ^ hour, being 
careful not to burn. Serve hot with meat course. 

Maude M. B. Scudder. 



Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Peel and cook moderate sized sweet potatoes until ten- 
der, then slice lengthwise and put in a skillet containing }/ 
cup Karo Corn Syrup and butter the size of an egg and fry 
slowly until browned. Mrs. F. O. Hubbell. 

Bell Peppers Stuffed With Corn Custard 

Cut large peppers in halves crossways, remove seeds and 
membranes, cook 1 minute in boiling salted water, drain; cook 
1 tablespoon butter and 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion un- 
til onion is yellow in color, add 1 teaspoon flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), and stir until smooth, add 1^4 cups milk and 
cook, stirring constantly until boiling; take from fire and add 
1 can corn, chopped fine, 2 eggs beaten slightly, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Fill peppers with mixture, set close to- 
gether in pan and bake in moderate oven until custard is 
firm. E. L.W. 

Fried Peppers 

Remove seeds, heat in oven very hot, wrap in wet cloth 
until skin blisters and can be removed; chop peppers and mix 
with equal parts of cheese; mix with batter made of 1 egg, 
heaping spoon of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 spoon of 
milk. Fry brown. J. C. 

22 



Stuffed Tomatoes 

Scoop out 6 tomatoes, take equal parts of ground walnuts 
and bread crumbs, salt, onion juice and pepper to taste; 
tablespoon melted butter. Fill the tomatoes with same and 
bake. 

Creamed Turnips 

Cut in dice, soak in cold water, then put them in boiling 
water, salted; let them stand boiling hot, but don't boil hard 
until transparent; make a white sauce, put the turnips in; 
let stand over hot water 20 minutes. To make white sauce, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
rubbed together; add a cup of milk and cook; season with 
salt and pepper. 

Egg Plant 

Pare egg plant, cut in cubes, stew in salted water until 
tender; drain off water, let cool. Into this stir 2 well beaten 
eggs; drop with a spoon into hot fat in a skillet and fry like 
hot cakes. Mrs. A. R. Hofer. 

Egg Plant 

Parboil egg plant without pealing for 10 to 20 minutes, 
according to size; cut lengthwise, scoop out seeds and with 
them mix 1 cup bread crumbs, 2-3 cup chopped walnut meats, 
salt, pepper, pinch of sage, a very little onion; heap in shells 
of egg plant, put lump of butter on top and bake for 15 min- 
utes. Hazel Hofer. 



23 



MEMORANDA 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 

Carrot Salad 

Pare 5 medium-sized carrots, put through fine grinder, 
mix with cooked or French salad dressing and serve on let- 
tuce leaf. Celery or tomatoes ground with the carrots make 
a good salad. Mrs. Hofer. 

Easter Salad 

Take hard boiled eggs, shell them while warm and press 
into shape of apple with finger and thumb; paint with fruit 
coloring to resemble apple; put clove in one end and piece of 
watercress with leaf in other. Serve with mayonnaise or 
French dressing. Mrs. T. R. Brown. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

One-half can tomatoes, l / 2 teaspoonful salt, 2 bay leaves, 
y$ teaspoonful pepper, y* small onion, 1-3 box gelatine, 1-3 
cup cold water, 2 tablespoonsful lemon juice; simmer first 5 
ingredients 15 minutes, dissolve the gelatine in the cold water, 
and strain, add lemon juice, put in molds; serve on let- 
tuce leaves with mayonnaise, putting a ball of cottage cheese 
on the side of each plate. Mrs. Mac Bride. 

Lemon Gelatine Salad 

Make lemon gelatine according to directions; mould in 
flat dish; when jellied cut into squares, serve on lettuce 
leaves with spoonful of mayonnaise on top of each. Beside 
each square of gelatine on each plate place two dried prunes 
stuffed with halves of walnuts. 

Beet and Celery Salad 

Boil beets, scoop out centers, leaving beets cup-shaped. 
To the removed portion add tender stalks of celery and 
radishes chopped fine; season and moisten with mayonnaise; 
fill the beets with the mixture; serve on lettuce leaves; top 
with spoonful of mayonnaise; garnish with rings of radishes. 

Mrs. F. J. Perry. 

25 



Mushroom Salad 

Mix equal parts of canned mushrooms, diced celery, nuts 
and stuffed olives with mayonnaise; serve on lettuce leaves 
with spoonful of mayonnaise on top of each. 

Mrs. Perry. 

Tongue Salad 

The small end of a cold boiled tongue, 1 small cup of 
chopped nuts, 1 small cup of chopped celery, not too fine, 2 
hard boiled eggs, a little celery salt and pepper; mix with a 
mayonnaise dressing; serve on a lettuce leaf. 

Mrs. H. L. Putnam. 

Combination Salad 

Small bunch celery, ^ pound stoned dates and Vz pound 
nuts, chopped fine. Mix with pulp of 3 grapefruit. Add 
mayonnaise. Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

Cabbage and Pepper Salad 

Shredded cabbage and minced peppers mixed with 
French dressing makes a good salad. Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

Veal Salad 

Take cold stewed or roast veal, chop coarsely and add 1 
bunch celery cut in small pieces, ^ cup English walnuts or 
almonds chopped; mix all with a mayonnaise dressing and you 
have a salad equal to chicken, with less expense and trouble. 

Mrs. M. G. 

Almond Salad 

One pound almonds, blanched, 1 ten-cent box marshmal- 
lows (cut in several pieces), 1 medium-sized can sliced pine- 
apple, cut in small pieces; mix with this dressing: 5 egg yolks, 
% cup water, y 2 cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon corn 
starch; cook until thick in a double boiler; when cold add J4 
pint cream, whipped stiff. Mix with the salad. 

Mrs. Belle Neely. 

Appetizer 

Squares of tomatoes mixed with a white fish and celery 
and soaked in a French dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. G. W. Russell. 

26 



Cottage Cheese Salad 

Slice ripe tomatoes on lettuce leaves; in center place ball 
of cottage cheese and pour over a spoonful of salad dressing 
made by thinning a heaping teaspoonful peanut butter with 
juice of y^ lemon and a little hot water and pinch of salt. 

Mrs. A. Y. Soule. 

Fruit Salad 

Two apples, peel and cut in cubes, 2 bananas sliced, 4 
slices of pineapple, cut in cubes, 1 pear, peel and slice, 1 small 
bunch celery, cubed, l /2 cup chopped nuts, 8 marshmallows; 
mix all together with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mayonnaise 

One egg, beat until light, then add salad oil, drop by 
drop, beating all the time until egg begins to thicken; then 
add juice of one lemon, J4 teaspoon salt, pinch of paprika, 
then salad oil until thick. Mrs. Thos. Brown. 

Combination Salad 

Two cups chopped cabbage, J4 cup minced celery, l /t cup 
minced apple, 3 soda crackers rolled fine; toss and mix and 
dress with cream dressing or mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Stevenson. 

Fancy Salad 

One lettuce leaf, 1 slice pineapple (hole in center); cut 
pieces of pimiento peppers to represent poinsettia leaves and 
arrange on pineapple; put yellow mayonnaise dressing in cen- 
ter. Mrs. Geo. E. Haney. 

Tomato Oyster Salad 

Cut off top of medium-sized tomatoes, remove seeds and 
fill with the following: Scald oysters in their own liquor 
until they begin to ruffle and stir so that every part may be- 
come cooked. Remove from fire and drain; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and mix with a few spoonsful of vinegar. Set in 
a cool place. At serving time mix with crisp celery and 
mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. Tait. 

Lima Bean Salad 

One pint cooked lima beans, 1 shredded onion, 3 hard 
boiled eggs; mix with either a boiled dressing or mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Tait. 

27 



Salmon Salad 

One can salmon, 4 hard boiled eggs, Vz pound grated 
cheese, 5 or 6 pickles (chopped), 3 tablespoonsful vinegar, l /* 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful mustard. Mix all with butter 
size of walnut. This requires no salad dressing. 

Mrs. Tait. 

Tomato Cheese Salad 

Spread a layer of Blue Hill chili cheese between two 
slices of tomato and place spoonful of mayonnaise on top. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with garnish of olives. 

Mrs. Perry; 

Raw Carrot Salad 

Put carrots through food chopper, grind fine; mix with 
this 1 can of Campbell's Tomato Soup; mould in custard cups 
and turn out on lettuce leaf with spoonful of mayonnaise on 
top of each. Mrs. Perry. 

Pineapple Celery Salad 

Take equal parts of pineapple cubes, diced celery, 54 cup 
mayonnaise and J4 CU P f whipped cream. Serve on lettuce 
leaf with spoonful of mayonnaise mixed with whipped cream 
on top. Mrs. Perry. 

Salad Suggestions 

Equal quantities of fresh pears and thinly sliced cucum- 
bers on lettuce leaves served with mayonnaise. 

Fresh or canned peas and pecan nuts. Serve with mayon- 
naise on lettuce leaves. 

String beans and sliced tomatoes; serve on lettuce leaves 
with French dressing. Mrs. Mac Bride. 

Serve canned pimientoes on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. 

Cold macaroni and sliced celery; mix with mayonnaise; 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Make a plain lemon jelly, add oranges, bananas and pine- 
apple; put in molds; serve with mayonnaise on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. Mac Bride. 

Scoop out the inside of fresh firm tomatoes; mix what 
you have taken out with bread crumbs, salt and Vz dozen 
white grapes, skinned and seeded, to each tomato; fill the hol- 
low in each tomato with the mixture; place mayonnaise on 
top. Serve on lettuce leaves. Mrs. Mac Bride. 

28 



Log Cabin Salad 

Four bananas, peeled and cut lengthwise. Place in orange 
juice % hour, on ice; arrange log cabin style on individual 
plates with lettuce leaf; fill center with red and white cherries 
or green grapes and red cherries; pour over fruit dressing, 
made as follows: Three tablespoons sugar, and juice of 1 
lemon; stir until sugar is melted; add 3 tablespoons orange 
juice; cool on ice before serving. Hrs. Lockwood. 

Mayonnaise Dressing Without Oil 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and add 1 teaspoonful corn 
starch, ^ teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 cup of 
milk, YT. cup of vinegar and a small lump of butter. Place over 
fire and heat until thick. Miss Cox. 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 

One cup sour cream, 2 tablespoonsful vinegar, 1 heaping 
teaspoonful mustard, J4 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar, 2 eggs, well beaten. Stir constantly while cooking. 

Mrs. Tait. 

Salad Dressing 

Yolk of fresh egg, 4 tablespoons olive oil, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, J^ tablespoonful salt; beat quickly with egg beater. 
Put all in bowl, set in ice water. Mrs. R. C. Barrett. 

Fruit Salad Dressing 

One orange, juice and rind (none of the white); Yt 
lemon, juice and rind, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour; mix 
flour and sugar and add lemon and orange, then add 1 cup 
boiling water, and boil until smooth. Before using above, it 
is improved by addition of 1 cup cream whipped stiff, and 
both whipped well together. Mrs. E. J. Ruenitz. 

Salad Dressing for Sliced Pineapple or Fruit Salad 
(For Twelve Persons) 

Juice of 3 small oranges, juice of 2 lemons, yolks of 3 
eggs, 1 cup sugar. Cook in double boiler until thick; when 
cold mix with twice the quantity of whipped cream and 10 
cents worth of marshmallows cut in small pieces. Beat well 
and let stand 1 hour before serving. 

Mrs. J. P. Holland. 

29 



French Salad Dressing 

One tablespoon olive oil, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
sauce, juice of Yz lemon, thoroughly beaten together. 

Mrs. Ford. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

One-half cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of mustard, salt, 
tard, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 egg (well 
beaten); mix all together and boil slowly, stirring slowly, un- 
til it thickens; set away to cool, and when ready to use add 
a little sweet cream, salt and pepper, to suit taste. 

Mrs. S. T. Allen. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

One-half cup vinegar, % cup water, y 2 teaspoonful mus- 
corn starch and flour, J4 teaspoon pepper, 1 cup of cream or 
canned milk, 2 beaten eggs; heat and add 1 cup of vinegar. 
Bring to a boil; when cooking add butter size of a walnut. 
Whipped cream can be added for fruit salad and less sugar 
when using for meat salad. Mrs. Mac Bride. 



30 



MEMORANDA 



/ co T^t 3 

}(J J J I , , 

(jz^vkr 




MEMORANDA 



DESSERTS 

Apple Custard Pie 

One cup of milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 3 or 4 grated apples, 
small spoon of melted butter, Vz cup of sugar, nutmeg to 
flavor, small pinch of salt; bake in one crust; make a frost- 
ing with the whites of eggs and 2 spoons of sugar; brown 
delicately. Mrs. Arthur B. Shaffner. 

Boston Pie 

One cup of cranberries cut in halves, ^ cup of raisins, 
1 cup sugar, 2 level tablespoons of flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), 1 teaspoon of vanilla and a piece of butter. Rub flour 
and sugar together, pour 1 cup of boiling water over all. 
Bake between 2 crusts. Mrs. Franklin. 

Chocolate Pie 

Mix and bring to a boil 1 cup milk, % cup sugar, large 
tablespoon of chocolate and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut. Mix together 2 egg yolkes, 1 tablespoon of flour, a 
little milk and a pinch of salt ;stir this into the boiling mix- 
ture and when the whole is boiling turn into the baked crust. 
Beat the 2 whites, add 1 tablespoon sugar, put on top of pie 
and brown in oven. Mrs. Forrest Casey. 

Cream Pie 

Scald 1 full pint milk, 3 rounding tablespoons sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 3 egg yolks, 1 
teaspoon flavoring; sprinkle salt; mix together with a little 
cold milk, and add to the scalded milk; cook a minute or 
two; put in a crust and bake. Make frosting of the 3 whites, 
beaten; add two tablespoons powdered sugar, flavor, spread 
on top, put in oven and brown. Mrs. J. O. Knighten. 

Lemon Pie 

Two and one-half cups powdered sugar, 7 eggs; beat 
whites stiff, then pour yolks onto beaten whites and beat all 
together; juice of 3 lemons and grated rind of 1 lemon, but- 
ter size of an egg, melted; mix all together well; put into un- 
baked crust and bake slowly. Makes 1 very large or two 
small pies. Mrs. Hogeboom. 

33 



Custard Pie 

Three eggs, well beaten, y?. cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
1 pint milk, pinch of salt; bake with 1 crust. 

Mrs. J. M. Howe. 

Nut Mince Pie 

One cup walnuts, 2 cups apples cut fine, YT. cup vinegar, 
^2 cup watef or fruit juice, Vz cup sugar, 1 cup raisins, ^ 
teaspoon each cinnamon, allspice, cloves and salt; the spices 
and sugar are mixed, then add all other ingredients. This 
amount makes two pies. Mrs. Hutchison. 

Orange Cream Pie 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of 2 eggs with ^ cup sugar, 
add 1 heaping tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 
even tablespoon corn starch, dissolved in milk; pour into 1 
pint boiling milk and cook until thickened; let cool and flavor 
with extract of orange; pour into a baked crust; beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, add l /2 cup sugar, flavor with orange; 
spread on top; brown in oven. Mrs. J. M. Howe. 

Raisin Pie 

One and one-half cups raisins, y 2 cup sugar, 1 cup water, 
1 tablespoon corn starch, dissolved in l / 2 of the water; cook 
until a little thick, then add juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Bake with 2 crusts. Mrs. Hutchison. 

Strawberry Pie 

Two eggs well beaten, 1 cup cream (small), Yz cup sugar, 
good measure, 1 tablespoon flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 
box or more of berries. Mrs. E. J. Ruenitz. 

Sour Cream Pie 

One cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, yolks 2 eggs, J4 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, J4 teaspoon cloves; bake in 1 crust; use 
whites of eggs for meringue. Nellie M. Schultz. 

Rhubarb Pie 

i , 

Two cups rhubarb, cut in pieces, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoons each of butter and flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
Y% teaspoon lemon juice. Mrs. L. E. Rowe. 

34 



Lemon Pie 

Juice and a little of the grated rind of 1^ lemons, 1 cup 
sugar, heaping, yolks of 3 eggs and white of 1, 1^ table- 
spoo f '\l (large) corn starch, butter size of walnut, water 1^4 
cups; bake slowly in crust. Make meringue of remaining egg 
whites beaten stiff, folding in 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Cool 
pie before putting on meringue. Mrs. Winget. 

Squash Pie 

Cook hubbard squash and put through a collander; for 
each pie take 1 cup squash, y 2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful each 
of cinnamon, cloves and salt, IVz cups rich milk, 1 large (or 
2 small eggs, well beaten. Mix thoroughly and bake with 
under crust in a moderate oven. Mrs. S. T. Allen. 

Tartoni 

One pint rich cream, 1 dozen macaroons, }4 cup sugar, 
YZ cup water, 3 eggs. Boil sugar and water until it threads, 
beat yolks and whites of eggs separately, very light. Mix, 
then add hot sugar, gradually beating with egg beater until 
thick as cream; cool; add 1 teaspoon vanilla when ready to 
freeze ,and 1 pint cream whipped stiff. Roll macaroons fine; 
put y 2 in bottom of 3-pint mould. Add tartoni preparation; 
put rest of crumbs on top and freeze. Let stand 4 hours. 

Mrs. Hermon. 

Baked Apple Dumplings 

Rich biscuit dough rolled almost as thin as pie crust; 
peel and remove core of small apples and fill apples with 
sugar; wrap in dough; lay in pan well buttered, smooth side 
up, with small piece of butter on top of each; sprinkle sugar 
over them and turn in 1 cup boiling water. Bake in moderate 
oven 24 hour. They are fine plain or served with cream. 

Mrs. Barton. 

Sponge Pudding 

One-half cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), Y 2 cup sugar, 
1 pint milk; mix sugar and flour with a little milk, heat re- 
mainder of milk, stir in flour and sugar; boil until it thickens, 
add YA. cup butter; separate 5 eggs; stir hot mixture into the 
beaten yolks, beat whites very stiff, add last. Put in pan 
water, bake 30 or 40 minutes. To be eaten with sweet creamT 

-J. C. 

35 



Apple Snow 

One cup sugar, white of 1 egg, 2 apples, grated; beat Y* 
hour. Nellie M. Schultz. 

Orange Charlotte 

One-third box gelatine, 1-3 cup cold water, 1-3 cup boil- 
ing water, 1 cup sugar, juice 1 lemon, 1 cup orange juice and 
pulp, whites of 3 eggs; pour cold water on gelatine, let stand 
5 minutes, then add boiling water. When dissolved add 
lemon and orange juice and let cool. When it begins to set 
add beaten whites of eggs; beat and pour into moulds lined 
with sections of orange. With 3 yolks make a soft custard, 
using 3 tablespoons sugar, \y 2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla 
and a pinch of salt; pour this oved the charlotte when ready 
to serve. Mrs. T. H. Powell. 

Brown Betty 

One cup bread crumbs (center of dry loaf), 2 cups 
chopped tart apple, y 2 cup sugar, 1 tablespopnful butter, 1 
small teaspoonful cinnamon. Put in baking dish, alternating 
layers of apples and crumbs with butter and cinnamon on top 
layer; bake slowly 24 hour in covered dish. Uncover for last 
15 minutes. Serve warm or cold, with cream or without. 

Miss Jeanette Hammer. 

Poor Man's Pudding 

One cup brown sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 
cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in a little hot water; steam 3 hours. 

Lemon Sauce 

One cup sugar, 1-3 cup butter, 1 lemon juice and grated 
yellow rind, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons of boiling water; beat but- 
ter and sugar together until creamy, then add egg, well 
beaten, then lemon, and lastly boiling water; keep in double 
boiler until time to serve so as to keep it hot. 

Mrs. Maud Berg. 



; 



Black Pudding 

Two cups chopped light bread, y 2 cup chopped suet, y 2 
p molasses, 1 egg, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, l / 2 tea- 
oon of soda, l / 2 teaspoon powdered cloves, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, a pinch of salt and mace; steam 2 hours. Serve with 
hot sauce. Mrs. H. L. Putnam. 

36 



Ambrosia 

One rounded tablespoon of gelatine, dissolved in *4 cup 
water; stir over fire until dissolved; remove from fire and 
add y z cup cold water, whites of 4 eggs, add a little salt and 
beat until very stiff; pour cool gelatine over beaten whites 
and beat all together thoroughly; add 1 cup granulated sugar, 
1 teaspoon almond flavor, divide mixture into 3 equal parts, 
color 1 part pink and spread over bottom of moulding dish; 
sprinkle with chopped walnuts, then spread the part to be 
left white, and sprinkle with more nuts; then color the re- 
maining part green and put on top; allow to harden and 
serve in slices as brick ice cream, with cream or custard dress- 
ing. Mrs. G. W. Russell. 

Delicious Bread Pudding 

One cup of ground bread crumbs soaked in 1 pint milk, 
1 cup of ground walnuts, ^ cup of raisins, 2 tablespoons but- 
ter (melted), 2 tablespoons sugar, */ 2 teaspoon baking pow- 
der, 2 eggs, beaten separately; bake slowly in moderate oven 
20 minutes; serve hot with caramel sauce. 

Mrs. O. V. Pratt. 

Soft Custard 

Two cups milk, 3 egg yolks, ^ cup sugar, J4 taspoon salt, 
y^ teaspoon vanilla; heat milk in a double boiler; mix the 
egg yolks with sugar and salt; pour hot milk over this mix- 
ture and return to double boiler and cook until custard coats 
spoon, stirring constantly; strain and flavor. If custard 
curdles pour in cold dish and beat vigorously with Dover 
egg beaten. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Chocolate Pudding 

One pint milk, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons each of sugar and 
grated chocolate and 2 tablespoons corn starch, beaten to- 
gether, and stirred into milk just before it boils. It is im- 
proved by adding nuts. Mrs. Myrtle Hutchison. 

Dessert Crumb Torte 

One cup dates cut in two, ^ cup English walnuts cut in 
large pieces, 4 tablespoons bread crumbs, small teaspoon 
baking powder in the bread crumbs, 3 eggs beaten separately, 
Vz cup sugar; mix fruit, sugar and bread crumbs, fold in eggs, 
the whites beaten stiff, last; bake in slow oven about 20 min- 
utes. Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Schuster. 

37 



Cup Custard 

One quart scalded milk, 4 to 6 eggs, y 2 cup sugar, 54 tea- 
spoonful salt, grating of nutmeg. Mix eggs slightly, stir in 
sugar and salt, then slowly the hot milk; when sugar has dis- 
solved pour into cups. Grate nutmeg over each cup; set cups 
in pan of hot water and bake in moderate oven until a 
pointed knife inserted in custard comes out clean. 

Mrs. P. F. Hill. 



Caramel Custard 

One-quarter cup sugar, J^ teaspoon salt, 2 cups hot milk, 
% teaspoon vanilla, 2 beaten eggs. Melt sugar in smooth 
frying pan (without water), stirring constantly to keep from 
burning; add slowly to scalded milk; cook until sugar melts; 
pour slowly over the beaten eggs and flavor; pour in buttered 
dish and bake as baked custard. Goldie Perkins. 

Carrot Plum Pudding 

One pound carrots, grated, % pound suet, chopped fine, 
8 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 4 tablespoons 
sugar, y 2 pound seeded raisins, J^ pound currants, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, a pinch of 
salt; steam 3 hours. This will serve 8 persons. 

Mrs. E. B.Shaffner. 

Cottage Pudding 

Three-quarters tea cup sugar, butter size of an egg, 
creamed, 1 egg beaten, ^2 cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. Bake 
in deep pan and serve with comrnon or other sauce. 

Mrs. G. A. Atkinson. 

Custard Souffle 

Three tablespoons butter, % cup flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), 1 cup scalded milk, 4 eggs, 1 extra white, % cup 
sugar, T / 2 teaspoon vanilla; melt butter, add flour and grad- 
ually hot milk; when well thickened pour on to yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and mixed with sugar; 
cool and cut and fold in whites of eggs, beaten stiff and dry. 
Turn^into buttered pudding dish and bake from 30 to 35 min- 
utes inflow oven; take from oven and serve at once; if not 
served immediately it is sure to fall; serve with hard or 
creamy sauce. Eva M. Russell. 

38 



Cold Rice Pudding 

One-half cup rice, cooked in a pint warm water, then add 
1 pint milk and cook a few minutes, a little salt, yolks of 3 
eggs, beaten well with 5 tablespoons of sugar (add this while 
boiling); let it cook and come to a cream; flavor; beat the 
whites of 3 eggs with 6 tablespoons of sugar to a stiff froth, 
flavor; spread on pudding and brown. Serve cold. Better if 
put on ice. Iva Blossom. 

Carrot Pudding 

One cup grated raw carrots, 1 cup grated raw potatoes, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), J4 cup melted 
butter, 1 rounding teaspoonful soda, 1 rounding teaspoonful 
cinnamon, 1-3 teaspoonful cloves, 1-3 teaspoonful salt, ^4 tea- 
spoonful mace or nutmeg, 1 cup of chopped raisins or any 
fruit. Steam 3 hours, serve with Ohio sauce. 

Mrs. Lockwood. 

Ohio Sauce 

Cream ^ cup of butter, add gradually 1 cup light brown 
sugar; when creamy add 4 tablespoonfulls of stoned dates 
and 2 tablespoonfulls of nuts chopped together, % teaspoon- 
ful of lemon extract. Mrs. Lockwood. 

Date Pudding 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 cup dates, 1 cup walnut meats, 
all ground fine, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, well beaten, 1 tablespoon 
milk, a little salt, one teaspoon baking powder; mix well; set 
dish in hot water and bake 40 minutes in slow oven. Serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. H. W. Witten. 

Fruit Pudding 

One cup nuts, 1 cup dates, 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking powder; bake; 
cut as you would cake, in slices, and serve with whipped 
cream, fruit over each slice. Iva Blossom. 

Date Pudding 

One pound dates, % pound figs, cut fine, ^A pound suet, 
chopped, 1 cup brown sugar, J4 cup milk, 1 cup bread crurribs, 

2 eggs, salt to taste, mix well and steam 3 hours; serve hot 
with any preferred sauce. This is an inexpensive substitute 
for plum pudding; is more easily digested and quite as good. 

Mrs. Arthur B. Shaffner. 

39 



Date Pudding 

One cup sour milk, 2-3 cup sugar and molasses, mixed, 1 
tablespoon melted butter, 1 pound of dates, stoned and cut 
fine, 2 cups Sperry graham flour, 1 teaspoon soda and pinch 
of salt. Steam for 2 hours and then put in oven for about 15 
minutes. Serve with hard sauce or any pudding sauce. 

Mrs. E. E. Olmstead. 



Steamed Graham Pudding 

One-half cup molasses, y 2 cup sugar, 1 cup raisins, y 2 cup 
sweet milk, butter size of an egg, spice to taste, ]/2 teaspoon 
soda, 2 teaspoons baking powder, \y 2 cups Sperry graham 
flour; steam 2 hours. Mrs. Hetzel. 

Lemon Foam 

One cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, juice of a lemon and 
the white of one egg, beaten stiff, 1 large tablespoon corn 
starch wet with cold water. Mix the water, sugar and corn 
starch together; set upon stove and stir until clear, add juice 
of lemon and beat in the stiffly beaten white of egg. Do not 
be afraid to boil well and stir constantly; pour into mould. 

Sauce 

Take yolk of the egg, stir in a little sugar and Y* cup of 
milk; put over the fire and stir until thick, but do not let boil. 

Mrs. Rogers. 

Maryborough Tarts 

Four large, tart apples, grated, 2 lemons, juice and grated 
rind, 2 cups granulated sugar, 4 eggs (yolks only), 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, y 2 grated nutmeg, salt. Mix grated 
apples, juice and grated rind of lemons, sugar, nutmeg, salt 
and butter together, then add yolks of eggs, well beaten; line 
patty pans with rich pastery, fill, not too full, with mixture. 
Bake in as hot oven as for pies. Will make 3 dozen. 

Mrs. M. Berg. 

Raisin Puffs 

One-half cup sugar, 1 egg, y 2 cup sweet milk, butter size 
of an egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder, y 2 cup raisins, flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow); put in cups and steam; serve with 
cream and sugar. Mrs. J. M. Howe. 

40 



Plum Pudding 

One cup suet, cut fine, 34 cup of dark molasses, 1-3 cup of 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 3 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), steam 3 hours. 

Sauce 

One cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, \y 2 cups water, 
1 tablespoon corn starch; flavor with vanilla. A little cream 
added just before serving will improve it. 

Christine Mac Donnell. 

Spanish Cream 

Dissolve 1/2 box gelatine in 1 quart milk, occasionally stir- 
ring while bringing to the boiling point, then stir in 1 cup 
sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs; have ready the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; flavor the custard with vanilla 
and pour it at the boiling point over the whites and stir hard. 
Let stand l /2 day to mould, in the ice chest if possible. To 
be eaten plain or with whipped cream. Mrs. C. E. Casey. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding 

Soak J4 box gelatine in J4 cup cold water, beat yolks of 3 
eggs; boil 1 pint milk, add J4 cup sugar, pinch salt; pour in 
milk and cook like custard; add to soaked gelatine and strain. 
Put a layer of lady fingers that have been soaked in custard 
in bottom of dish, then layer of macaroons; also soaked in 
custard; continue until mould is full; put in cold place and 
serve with whipped cream. Mrs. F. B. Wheat. 



41 



MEMORANDA 



BREAD, MUFFINS, BISCUITS AND 

Brown Bread 

One cup corn meal, 1 cup graham flour (Sperry Graham), 
l /2 cup white flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon soda; mix together and add Y-I cup molasses, 1 cup 
milk, sour preferred, raisins; steam 2 hours; 1 pound baking 
powder cans well greased and filled about J4 full would be 
suitable. Susie Smith. 

Breakfast Rolls 

One pint bread sponge, 1 pint of milk or water, y z tea 
cup shortening, small cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), enough to mix a soft dough; knead 
hard and set in a cool place until bed time; mould into bis- 
cuits and put into pan so they will not touch and let stand 
until morning. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Paulin. 

Three-Day Biscuit 

At noon put a cake yeast in a cup of cold water; at even- 
ing stir in flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), to make a batter. Put 
in large vessel and let rise over night. In morning add 1 cup 
soft lard, 2 cups water, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt; mix 
in flour until it will not stick to the hands; let rise until night; 
pinch off biscuit size of walnut; if you like crust flatten to -/g 
inch thick. Let rise until morning and bake 20 minutes. Work 
down remaining dough and in evening pinch off more to rise 
for next morning; keep left-over dough in cold place, as it 
is good until used. Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

Dumplings 

Two cups of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup of sweet 
milk, 2 teaspopnfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt; boil 7 
minutes with lid on. The secret of light dumplings is, before 
putting them in, put in plenty of cold water ; n gravy to stop 
boiling; then place dumplings. This gives them time to raise 
and cook inside. Mrs. Cornelia Bolton. 

Steam Corn Bread 

Two cups sour milk, 2 cups yellow corn meal, 1 cup 
brown flour (Sperry Graham), 1 cup molasses, 1 level tea- 
spoon soda, and salt; steam 3 hours. Mrs. Copper. 

43 



Chicken or Meat Pie Crust 

Two cups of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 2 tablespoons of melted butter, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, 1 egg, beaten very light, 4 cup of milk; sift baking pow- 
der and salt with flour, then add beaten egg, milk and melted 
butter; blend lightly with a fork. Mrs. Franklin. 

Date Bread 

One cup graham flour (Sperry Graham), 2 cups white 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 3 level teaspoons baking powder, 
1-3 cup sugar, 2 level teaspoons salt, 1-3 pound dates, chopped 
fine, I 1 /! cups of milk, 1 egg; mix all dry ingredients to- 
gether, beat egg well, add milk and then fold in dry ingredi- 
ents; bake 45 minutes in slow oven. This is sufficient for two 
loaves. Mrs. Sayles. 

Bran Bread 

Two cups of bran (Sperry Bran Flakes), \ l / 2 cups graham 
flour (Sperry Graham), 2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in a Title hot water and stirred into the milk, 
1 large ?poon of molasses, ' cup of raisins, 1 teaspoon of 
salt; bake I 1 /- hours in slow oven. 

C. Belle Champlin. 



Brown Bread 

One cup wheat flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups 
graham (Sperry Graham), 2 cups corn meal, 1 cup molasses, 
3*/2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, salt; beat all together 
thoroughly and steam 4 hours, and bake about 15 or 20 min- 
utes to dry it a little. Mrs. G. A. Merrill. 

Johnny Cake 

One-half cup sugar, 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
1^4 cups corn meal, 1^4 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
egg, salt and last add J4 cup butter. 

Mrs. Myrtle Hutchison. 

Graham Bread 

Three cups graham flour after it is sifted (Sperry 
Graham), y 2 cup sugar, 2 cups sour milk, 1 level teaspoon 
soda, I teaspoon salt; mix and put in pan; let rise 2 hours; 
bake 50 minutes in moderate oven. -Mrs. H. C. B. 

44 



Graham Bread 

One cup sour milk, 2 cups graham flour (Sperry 
Graham), 34 cup molasses; fill the cup with sugar, 1 teaspoon 
soda, salt; good half cup or more of seeded raisins or cur- 
rants; about y-2. teaspoon baking powder; roll the raisins in 
a little white flour, steam 1^4 hours, then bake long enough 
to dry off; steam in baking powder or similar cans; put cloth 
over top of steamer before putting on cover. Mrs. Todd. 

Graham Bread 

Two cups buttermilk, 1 teaspoon soda, pinch of salt, scant 
cup sugar, 2 cups graham (Sperry Graham), 2 cups white 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow). Mrs. Hetzel. 

Graham Nut Bread 

Four cups graham flour (Sperry Graham), 2^ cups 
wheat flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup brown sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 cups sour milk, 2 teaspoons soda, 1 
cup broken walnuts. Prize winner in Chicago Tribune. 

Nut Bread 

One cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 3 cups flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup nut meats, 4 teaspoons baking 
powder, salt; let rise 20 ninutes, not less; bake in moderate 
oven. Mrs. Rogers. 

Nut Bread 

Mix 1 cupful luke-warm, either oatmeal or cream of 
wheat mush left from breakfast (I like the oatmeal best), % 
cupful of brown sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter; 
then add ^ of yeast cake dissolved in % of a cupful of luke- 
warm water and flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), to knead; cover 
and let rise over night; in the morning cut down and knead 
into it 1 cupful English walnuts, cut into pieces; shape into 
loaf and put into buttered bread pan. Let rise and bake in 
moderate oven. Mrs. Boicourt. 

Nut Bread 

One cup white flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups 
Sperry graham flour, ^2 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 
teaspoons baking powder; mix together and with enough milk 
to make a stiff batter, and bake 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. F. O. Hubbell. 

45 



Salt Raising Bread 

Scald a teacup of sweet milk, stir in corn meal until thick 
as gruel or a little thicker; at noon the day before you want 
to bake bread, put it in a can, put on the cover and stand it 
in a warm place until light; in the morning take water as hot 
as can and not scald, put in a pinch of salt, 1 of soda, and a 
little sugar, and the rising, then stir in flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), until stiff as can well stir with a spoon and set to 
rise; when light, which will be in a few minutes, make into 
dough and put in pans, and as soon as light bake quickly. 

Mrs. E. B. Shaffner. 

Rolls 

One cake compressed yeast dissolved in ^ cup lukewarm 
water; 1 pint milk scalded and cooled, 3 pints sifted flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 tablespoons of sugar, 4 tablespoons 
shortening, melted, 1 tablespoon salt; mix all ingredients 
thoroughly, adding yeast last; beat well; let rise until quite 
light, or about 2y 2 hours; roll out and cut into rolls. Let rise 
and bake. Mrs. J. W. Sedwick. 

Biscuits 

One pint flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), ^ pint sour milk, 
2 rounding tablespoons suetine, 1 rounding teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 level teaspoon salt, y?. teaspoon soda; sift the flour, 
baking powder and salt together into the mixing bowl; dis- 
solve the soda in the milk; heat the suetine in the pan you 
intend baking them in, leaving enough in the pan to turn the 
biscuit in; make a hollow in the flour and pour in the milk 
and soda and suetine; mix with a fork until stiff enough to 
put on the bread board; knead as little as possible to make it 
smooth enough to roll. Cut out, turn in suetine, and bake 
until brown; about 20 minutes usually. 

Mrs. R. C. O'Haver. 

Muffins One Dozen 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons melted 
shortening, J^ tablespoon salt, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups 
graham flour (Sperry Graham), sifted, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, slightly heaping. Mrs. R. C. Barrett. 

Baking Powder Pan Cakes 

Beat one egg well, add 1 cup cold water, 1 teaspoon 
melted butter or Crisco, 1 heaping cup flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), sifted, with 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder and 
y* teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar or honey; beat well. 

A. Y. Soule. 

46 



Delectable Rice Muffins 

One cupful of boiled rice, 1 cupful of sweet milk, 2 eggs, 
well beaten, 5 tablespoons melted butter, J4 teaspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1^ cup- 
fuls of flour (Sperry Drifed Snow), mixed into soft batter; 
stir lightly and thoroughly and drop into hot muffin rings. 

Mrs. F. J. Perry. 

Waffles 

One pint sour milk stirred over night with nearly a quart 
of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), and 4 tablespoons melted but- 
ter. In the morning add a small teaspoon soda dissolved in 
a little hot water, then 2 eggs beaten very light. 

Gertrude Kennedy. 

Pop-Overs 

One cup of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup of milk, 
y^ teaspoon salt, 2 eggs; set pop-over cups on stove to heat; 
put flour in bowl, make a well in center; drop in salt and 
then unbeaten eggs; add milk, gradually stirring and widen- 
ing circles from center; bake in buttered muffin pans or 
earthen cups for about 30 minutes. Mrs. P. L. Hill. 

Muffins 

One egg, 1 cup of milk, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 tea- 
spoons of baking powder; beat 5 minutes; bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Haney. 



MEMORANDA 




CAKES, FILLINGS AND COOKIES 

Potato Doughnuts 

Three tablespoons Cottolene, ^ cup sugar, yolks of 3 
eggs, beaten with 1 white, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 54 cup 
milk, 2Y2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 3 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, ^ teaspoon each salt and nutmeg. 

Miss Hammond. 

Cup Cakes 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, in 
which dissolve 1 even teaspoon soda, 1 cup chopped raisins, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, l T /> teaspoon cloves, a little nutmeg, 1 
egg, 2 cups flour. Mrs. G. A. Merrill. 

Cookies 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 quart flour (Sperry Drift- 
ed Snow), 2 eggs, i l / 2 cup milk, good measure, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Add 
1 cup of raisins, chopped fine, if desired. Roll very thin and 
bake in quick oven. Mrs. George E. Haney. 

Oat Meal Cookies 

One and one-half cups of sugar, $4 cups of butter, y 2 cup 
of warm milk, 1 teaspoon of soda (mixed with the warm 
water), 1 cup of oat meal, 1 cup of raisins, 2y 2 cups of flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, 3 eggs, 
slightly heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. George E. Haney. 

Fine Cookie Recipe 

Two cups brown sugar. 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 4 table- 
spoons sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda (dissolve soda in hot 
water) 1 cup raisins, 1 cup nuts, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 quart of 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow); dough must be very stiff. 

Mrs. John Bernhard. 

49 



Tea Cakes 

Cream together 1 cup sugar and y* cup butter, add 2 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, y* cup sweet milk, 

1 small teaspoon soda, 2 l / 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup 
chopped currants, 1 cup chopped walnuts; drop in pan with 
teaspoon and bake in moderate oven. 

Oat Meal Cookies 

One cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup milk, 2 cups white 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups Quaker or rolled oats, 1 
teaspoon soda, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 dozen chopped wal- 
nuts, 1 level teaspoon cinnamon, 1 level teaspoon cloves, a 
little salt; add the rolled oats the last thing. Drop on but- 
tered tins and bake well. Mrs. S. T. Allen. 

Cookies 

One cup sugar, add r /z a cup sour milk, to which has been 
added l /2 a teaspoonful soda, 1 egg, well beaten, 1-3 cup 
shortening, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, sifted with flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), to make soft dough; roll thin and 
bake in hot oven; chopped raisins, dates or nuts make a pleas- 
ing variety. Mrs. Stephenson. 

Chocolate Cookies 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), Yt 
cup melted cocoa, 1 cup nuts, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 4 eggs; drop by spoonsful in pan and bake. 

Iva Blossom. 

Raisin Cookies 

Two eggs, small cup shortening, large cup sugar, 1 cup 
rolled oats, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 cups sifted flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), Yt a cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, J< tea- 
spoon nutmeg, Yz teaspoon cinnamon; drop on greased pan 
and bake in slow oven. E. L. W. 

Oat Meal Cookies 

Two cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups rolled 
oats, 2 eggs, 1 cup chopped nut meats, 1 cup chopped raisins, 
1 teaspoon nutmeg, 10 teaspoons sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 cup sugar, $4 cup shortening, pinch of salt; roll thin and 
bake slowly. These will keep a long time. 

Mrs. Lydia McMillan. 

50 



Cookies 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 cups flour (Sperry Drift- 
ed Snow), 3 eggs, beaten light, 6 teaspoonsful sour milk, 
small teaspoonful soda, dissolved in the milk. Stir the butter 
and sugar together until light, then add eggs and flavoring, 
then the milk, then the flour. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

Mrs. Lydia McMillan. 

Ginger Snaps 

One teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, 3 tablespoons hot 
water, 4 tablespoons lard; put all these ingredients m a cup 
and fill the cup with New Orleans molasses. Add flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), enough to roll; cut with biscuit cut- 
ter and bake in quick oven. E. M. A. 

Cookies 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla or nutmeg, 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), to make white dough. 

E. M. A. 

Hermits 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
sour milk, y* teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 1 cup chopped nuts, 2 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 2 cups Quaker oats, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Drop 
on buttered pans and cook with slow fire. 

Mrs. Sayles. 

Rolled Oats Macaroons 

One well beaten egg, Vz a teaspoon melted butter, }4 
teaspoon salt, 1^4 cups rolled oats (uncooked); mix all to- 
gether and drop on buttered pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Boicourt. 

Oat Meal Cookies 

One cup white sugar, ^ cup butter and lard mixed, pinch 
of salt, 2 eggs, 1 cup oatmeal, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
3 tablespoons hot water and let cool, 3 tablespoons cream, 
sweet or sour, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup nuts. Drop with teaspoon 
on to buttered pan and bake in moderate oven. E. M. A. 

51 



Mocha Drops 

Two eggs, well beaten, add gradually 1 cup sugar and beat 
10 minutes; 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoon 
baking powder; sift together 3 times, add }4 cup boiling 
water; bake in shallow pan % hour. Cut cake in squares and 
roll in mixture made as follows: Two cups powdered sugar, 
y-2 cup melted butter; mix well and moisten with milk enough 
to spread easily over the squares, then roll in well roasted 
peanuts, ground fine. Mrs. Myrtle Hutchison. 

Nut Bars 

One egg, 1 cup medium brown sugar, 1 cup chopped Eng- 
lish walnuts, 5 level tablespoons of flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), large pinch of soda, pinch of salt. Stir all together 
and bake in moderate oven for about 25 minutes; spread 
batter in pans and cut in squares when cool. 

Gertrude Kennedy. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Two cups sugar, 3 cups oatmeal, 2 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 1 cup seeded raisins, cut in pieces, 5 table- 
spoons sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 
eggs, 2-3 cup melted shortening. Drop by tablespoonfuls in 
greased pan; bake slowly. Anna Kennedy. 

Mackinaw Cookies 

Two cups dark molasses, 2 cups brown or white sugar, 1 
cup lard, 1 cup butter, 1 tablespoon ginger; put on stove, let 
come to a boil; be sure and let get cold, then add ^ nutmeg, 
2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 tablespoons of soda, dissolved in 
1 cup of cold water, and 4 well beaten eggs; flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), enough to roll, but not too thin. Bake quick- 
ly in hot oven. Christine MacDonnell. 

Doughnuts 

One flour sieve of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), */2 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1% cups of 
sugar, 2 large or 3 small eggs, sour milk; sift flour in bowl, 
make a hole in center and put in salt, lard, soda, sugar and 
eggs, without beating; mix with hands until thoroughly 
mixed, then put in sour milk to moisten; roll and fry in 
Crisco. Fry a few first day; put dough in pan and cover with 
wet cloth and fry each day. Keep dough in cool place. 

Mrs. C. Bolton. 

52 



Nut Patties 

Beat 1 egg until light, add gradually 1 cup of powdered 
sugar and beat until very light, add 5 tablespoons of flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup of finely chopped nut meats 
and stir thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on greased tins and 
bake in a quick oven. Grace H. Paulin. 

Doughnuts 

Two level cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), sifted with 
Vz teaspoon salt, 3 le^l teaspoons baking powder, and y 2 tea- 
spoon each of nutmeg and cinnamon. Beat 2 eggs thorough, 
ly, add 1 cup sugar and beat again. Add to the eggs and 
sugar 1 cup warm mashed potato to which has been added 3 
teaspoons shortening. Next add J4 CU P milk to egg and 
potato and work into prepared flour. A little more flour must 
be used on board, but the dough will be soft. Work lightly, 
roll Y 2 inch thick, and fry in deep Cottolene. Turn as soon 
as they rise to the top, and turn several times while frying. 
About 3 dozen. Maude M. B. Scudder. 

Doughnuts 

One cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder; put eggs in pan, beat slightly, stir in sugar, 
milk, add flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), sifted with baking 
powder enough to enable the spoon to almost stand upright 
in dough. Drop from spoon into hot lard about a teaspoonful 
at a time. When cold roll in confectioner's sugar. 

Mrs. Forrest Casey. 

Devil's Food 

Two cups brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2 eggs, beaten 
separately, 1 square sweet chocolate, y 2 cup sour milk, % 
level teaspoon soda; dissolve chocolate in y 2 cup hot water, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow). 

Mrs. J. L. Hisey. 

Chocolate Filling 

One cup sugar, 34 cup grated unsweetened chocolate, 3 
tablespoons sweet milk, yolk of 1 egg; cook until thick. 

Mrs. A. M. Perkins. 

Frosting 

One cup powdered sugar, butter size of walnut, \y 2 tea- 
spoons warm water, \y 2 teaspoons cocoa; for plain frosting 
leave out cocoa --sd flavor with vanilla. Mrs. A. A. Hyde. 

53 



Fruit Cake 

One cup brown sugar, 1 egg, butter the size of an egg, 1 
cup cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, small tea- 
spoon nutmeg, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), \Yt cups 
raisins; this will make one good-sized loaf. 

Edith M. Austin. 

Iceing Uncooked 

Three cups powdered sugar, 2 slightly rounding table- 
spoons butter, cream well, then add 4 teaspoons burnt sugar 
and enough cream to make thick iceing; sprinkle with 
crushed walnut meats. Mrs. Hogeboom. 

Hard Sauce 

One and one-half cups sugar, Vz cup butter, Yi cup cream 
or milk. Formula: Let butter soften, not melt; beat with 
Dover egg beater in bowl until stiff and fluffy. 

Mrs. Copper. 

Caramel Sauce 

Two cups sugar, 2-3 cup butter; place in stew pan and 
boil until brown, add 1^2 cups hot water and thicken with \ l /2 
tablespoons corn starch, dissolved in same quantity of water. 

Mrs. O. V. Pratt. 

Common Sauce 

One-half cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), 1 piece butter; add boiling water and boil until clear 
and flavor with vanilla. Mrs. G. F. Atkinson. 

Ginger Bread 

One-half cup of sugar, ^ cup of molasses, ^2 teaspoon 
of salt, nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger, Yz teaspoon soda in cup 
of hot water, ^ cup melted lard, 1 egg, \y 2 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow). Gertrude Kennedy. 

Spice Nut Cake 

One cup brown sugar, Yz cup shortening, Yt teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 1 cup sour milk, 1 level 
teaspoon soda, 1^4 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 egg 
creamed with the sugar and butter, 1 cup nuts, Yt cup raisins; 
bake in layers and put together with boiled icing. 

Mrs. Schuster. 

54 



Cream Cakes 

One cup cream, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 
leaving out 1 white if you wish to frost cakes, 2 cups flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 teaspoonsful baking powder, 1 
tablespoonful vanilla. Beat cream stiff with Dover egg beat- 
er, beat in the salt and sugar, add 1 egg at a time, without 
beating separately; stir in flour and vanilla with spoon; bake 
in small cake tins. M. M. H. 



Coffee Cakes 

One egg, beat it, add % cup sugar, beat it; ^ cup sour 
cream, beat it; add l]4 cup sifted flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
1 teaspoon baking powder, pinch of salt, pinch of soda, and 
beat thoroughly. The virtue of this lies in beating each in- 
gredient thoroughly. Spread in pie tin, melted butter and 
sugar and cinnamon over top. Let stand about 10 minutes 
and bake. Grace H. Paulin. 



Angel Cake 

One cup of egg whites, \y$ cup of granulated sugar, 1 
cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), % teaspoon cream tartar, 
y 2 teaspoon vanilla extract; sift flour 3 times, measure, set 
aside, add cream tartar to eggs and whip until very stiff, add 
sugar and fold in, then flavor and fold it lightly through. 
Put in moderately hot oven and here you must use judgment. 

Brodtorte 

(Alm'ond Cakes) 

Six eggs, l / 2 pound powdered sugar, 2 ounces grated rye 
bread, 4 ounces grated almonds, 2 ounces citron, cut in small 
pieces, y 2 wine glass of water, l / 2 grated rind of lemon, salt, 
1 teaspoonful baking powder. Mix grated bread, sifted with 
baking powder, add nuts, spices and salt- beat yolks of eggs 
with sugar; add water lastly; add whites beaten stiff; bake in 
slow oven 1 hour. Mrs. M. Berg. 

Spice Cake 

One and one-half cups of sugar, y 2 cup butter, 1 egg, % 
teaspoon of cloves, J4 teaspoon of allspice, 1 teaspoon of cin- 
namon; cream all together, then add 1 cup sour milk, in which 
dissolve a level teaspoon of soda, 2 l / 2 cups of flour (Sperrv 
Drifted Snow); raisins and nuts can be added. Bake in 2 
layers and frost with white icing. Christine MacDonald. 

55 



Sunshine Cake 

Six eggs, 1 medium glass flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
1*4 glasses of granulated sugar, 1 scant teaspoon cream of 
tartar, 1 pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons lemon juice, 1 teaspoon 
grated lemon rind or a teaspoon lemon or orange extract. 
Sift flour with cream of tartar and salt 6 times; sift sugar and 
put it back in sieve; separate eggs beat yolks to thick cream, 
put in lemon juice and flavor; beat whites to stiff froth, beat 
sugar into this a little at a time, then add yolks to whites, 
sift in flour and fold in whites of eggs slowly. Bake from 40 
to 45 minutes. Don't grease pan. Ruth Brown. 

Potato Cake 

One cup potatoes, boiled and mashed fine, 2 cups sugar, 
1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), ^ 
cup milk, 4 tablespoons grated chocolate, 2 tablespoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and nut- 
meg, 1 cup walnuts; J^ recipe makes 3 layers and full recipe 
makes 5 layers. Mrs. E. S. Campbell. 

Old-Fashion Ginger Bread 

One-half cup brown sugar, fill cup up with molasses; 1 
scant cup spur milk, 5 tablespoons melted shortening, y 2 
tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon cloves, 
1 level teaspoon soda, 1 egg. Start with 1 teacup flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), with soda sifted in, add enough flour 
to make a very soft batter; bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Hogeboom. 

Burnt Sugar Cake 

Beat Y-2 cup of butter to a cream, gradually add 1% cups 
sugar, then the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 cups 
of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 4 teaspoonsful of burnt sugar, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, ^ cup flour; beat the 2 whites of eggs 
well, put 2 teaspoons baking powder on the beaten whites 
and fold into cake; beat for 5 minutes. To burn sugar put 1 
cup sugar in iron frying pan over fire, let burn until black, 
then add enough water to make a thick syrup. This makes 
enough syrup for several cakes. Mrs. Hogeboom. 

Chocolate Filling 

Two cups powdered sugar, free from lumps, butter size 
of an egg, 4 teaspoons cocoa, 4 tablespoons hot water, 2 tea- 
spoons vanilla. Beat to a cream. Don't cook. 

Susie Smith. 

56 



Apple Sauce Cake 

One and one-half cups apple sauce, 1}4 cups sugar, !*/ 
cups butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, Vz teaspoon cloves, 
^teaspoon allspice, \Yz teaspoons soda, 2 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 2 cups raisins. This recipe makes a large 
cake. The apple sauce must be cool before being used. 

Mrs. Rogers. 

Newport Cake 

One-quarter cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup milk, 2J4 
level teaspoons baking powder, sifted with 1 2-3 cups flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 teaspoon flavor- 
ing; cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, then milk and 
prepared flour alternately; then flavoring. Beat thoroughly 
and bake in layers. 

Buttermilk Spice Cake 

One cup sugar, 54 cup butter, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 1 rounding teaspoon soda, 1 level teaspoon 
each of nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon, 2 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), measured before sifting; sift with the flour the 
soda and spices. Mrs. H. E. Howe. 

Soft Ginger Bread 

One and one-half tablespoonsful butter, heaping; ^ cup 
of brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup of molasses, 2 cups of flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 cup of hot water, 1 tablespoonful 
of soda (put in the hot water), 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, y 2 
teaspoonful of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of allspice; melt butter 
and add sugar, eggs, molasses, flour containing the spices, 
then the hot water and soda; baking powder may be substitut- 
ed for the soda if desired. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Haney. 

Chocolate Raisin Cake 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, 1-3 cup butter, 1 cup seedless 
raisins (cooked in enough water to have 1 cup of water left 
over), 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), into which sift 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 tablespoon cocoa, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1-3 teaspoonful ground cloves, 1 teaspoon soda in 
raisin water ;add last 1 teaspoon vanilla and raisins dredged 
slightly with flour. Bake in 2 layers. Filling: One cup 
powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons cocoa; mix to right con- 
sistency with milk or cream. Mrs. Dalmazzo. 

57 " 



Cinnamon Drop Cakes 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 2 
cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 4 level teaspoons baking 
powder, 2 level teaspoons cinnamon; cream butter and sugar, 
add well beaten eggs; sift dry ingredients and add to mixture, 
alternating it with the milk. Bake in well greased gem pans. 

Mrs. E. E. Olmstead. 

German Coffee Cake 

Two eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 large tablespoons butter, 
3 large tablespoons sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt, 3 cups flour 
(Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 teaspoons baking powder; spread on 
buttered tins; over this sprinkle the following: Four table- 
spoons sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon cinnamon. Mrs. Young. 

Good Dark Cake 

Boil for 5 minutes 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup water and 
y 2 cup lard; let this cool; add 1 cup nuts, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
dates, 1 cup white sugar, 3 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 

1 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 teaspoon each cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, 1 level teaspoon soda, dissolved in a lit- 
tle hot water, a pinch of salt; no eggs. Mrs. Copper. 

Devil's Food 

Two cups brown sugar, y 2 eup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 
y 2 cup boiling water, 2 eggs, unbeaten, 3 tablespoons cocoa, 

2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 1 teaspoon vanilla, cream 
butter and sugar; add the sour milk, in which has been mixed 
the soda, then the boiling water, the unbeaten eggs, and the 
vanilla; beat well. Mix the cocoa with the sifted flour; bake 
in 2 layers, and put together with chocolate icing. 

Icing 3 tablespoons butter, 3 squares of melted bitter 
chocolate, 3 cups powdered sugar, sifted, 6 tablespoons coffee, 
vanilla; knead butter into sugar, add hot coffee and melted 
chocolate; beat well; add vanilla and cool. Always soft and 
creamy. Mrs. John P. Holland. 

Jam Cake 

One-half cup butter, creamed with 1 cup of sugar; add 
y 2 cup of jam or jelly, 2 eggs, well beaten, y 2 cup sour milk, 
1 level teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted Snow); 
bake in 2 layers and put together with boiled frosting. 

Mrs. Lockwood. 

58 



Eggless, Butterless, Milkless Cake 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup water, % cup lard, l l /t cup 
raisins, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves and 
nutmeg; put together in pan and boil 3 minutes; when cool 
stir in 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water; add 2 cups 
flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), sifted with 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake in slow oven. E. M. Austin. 

Jelly Roll 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1% cups hot water, 2 spoons bak- 
ing powder, and flavoring. Beat eggs together very thorough- 
ly, add sugar, then flour, which has been sifted with the bak- 
ing powder 5 times; add hot water and extract; bake in mod- 
erate over, turn on to damp cloth, spread with jelly and roll 
while hot. Mrs .Copper. 

Mahogany Cake 

One egg, 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoon 
of soda, 2 grated bars of chocolate, 1 cup of flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), }4 cup of butter, l / 2 cup of boiling -water, 1 cup 
of chopped nuts, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. 

Mrs. G. W. Russell. 

Luncheon Cake 

Two cups flour( Sperry Drifted Snow), ^ teaspoon salt, 
2 rounded teaspoons baking powder; mix thoroughly, then 
rub in 2 tablespoons butter; beat 1 egg light and mix with 2-3 
cup of sweet milk; moisten the flour with this and beat well. 
Spread the soft dough y 2 inch thick on a buttered baking 
pan; pare apples, cut in l / 2 inch slives and arrange on top of 
cake, with core side down. Press them lightly into the 
dough and sprinkle with about 2 tablespoons of sugar and 
sprinkle over them ground cinnamon. Bake in quick oven 
about 25 minutes. Good served with any simple sauce flav- 
ored with cinnamon. Mrs. Dalmazzo. 

Potato Flour Cake 

Four eggs, 1 cup sugar, l / 2 cup potato flour, 1 level tea- 
spoon baking powder, flavoring; beat whites and yolks sep- 
arately, a little salt in each, addj^ the sugar to whites and YZ 
to yolks; beat yolks 3 minutes; sift baking powder with flour; 
bake in 2 layers; line pans with oiled paper; bake in slow 
oven. Filling: juice of 1 orange, 2 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, powdered sugar to thicken. Mrs. Wertz. 

59 



Ribbon Cake 

Three-quarters cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 2 cups 
white sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2% cups flour, whites of 5 eggs 
or 3 whole eggs well beaten, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Make 3 layers. Fruit part: Add to remainder of above % 
cup chopped raisins or currants, J4 cup molasses, J4 cup flour, 
l / 2 teaspoon baking powder, spice to taste. Make 2 layers. 
Place light on dark alternately, with boiled frosting between. 

Mrs. Todd. 

Easy Sponge Cake 

Beat 3 eggs 1 minute, add \ l / 2 cups sugar (beat 5 min- 
utes), add 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), beat 1 minute, 
Yz cup cold water, add another cup flour, in which stir 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat 1 minute. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. C. E. Casey. 

Sponge Cake 

Three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), sifted several times, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 5 
tablespoons hot water; beat yolks in mixing bowl until very 
light shade, gradually adding the sugar, then alternate the 
flour and hot water, beating constantly. Last add the beaten 
whites of the eggs, on which has been sprinkled the baking 
powder; fold this in carefully and turn into a sponge cake 
tin to bake. Do not light gas until a few minutes before plac- 
ing cake in oven. Bake slowly for 40 minutes. 

C. Belle Champlin. 

Snow Cake 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar; beat well together; y 2 
cup milk, l / 2 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), measured after sifting, 1 rounded teaspoon baking 
powder, whites of 4 eggs beaten to soft froth. Sift baking 
powder and flour together 3 times. Beat until smooth. 

Mrs. Young. 

Sour Cream Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar and y 2 cup butter, add 1 yolk of egg, 
well beaten, 1 cup sour cream, 2 cups flour (Sperry Drifted 
Snow), and 1 level teaspoon soda, sifted together 3 times, Yt 
teaspoon salt, add beaten white of egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Makes good layer or loaf cake. Mrs. Hogeboom. 

60 



Nut and Raisin Loaf 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), Vz teaspoon salt, 4 level teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cup chopped nuts, */ 2 cup chopped raisins; mix and 
let stand 35 minutes; put in oven and bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Samuel P. Morse. 

Boiled Cake 

One cup sugar, 1 cup water, 1 cup raisins, 2 squares 
Baker's Chocolate, grated, */ 2 teaspoon cloves, ^ teaspoon 
cinnamon, */ 2 cup butter (scant), salt; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan and let them come to the boiling point slow- 
ly; allow to boil a few minutes, then remove from fire. When 
cool (not cold) sift 1 cup of flour with one level teaspoon of 
soda, stir well, then sift another cup of flour (without soda), 
stir well again and bake in a slow oven from 45 minutes to 
1 hour. This also makes an excellent pudding when served 
warm with a sauce. Mrs. E. J. Bradshaw. 

Blackberry Jam Cake 

One cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 1 2-3 cups flour (Sperry 
Drifted Snow), 4 eggs, 1 nutmeg, grated, 1 level teaspoon 
soda, 4 tablespoons sour cream, 1 cup blackberry jam, 1 tea- 
spoon alspice, 2 teaspoons cinnamon; put all together, stir 
slowly until mixed well; do not beat. 

Mrs. E. S. Campbell. 

Icing 

Three-quarters cup pulverized sugar, 1 teaspoon cocoa, 
wet with strong coffee to consistency to spread easily; add 4 
drops vanilla. _ 

Mocha Filling 

Three cups powdered sugar, butter size of 2 eggs, 6 tea- 
spoons cocoa, 6 tablespoons strong hot coffee, 3 teaspoons 
vanilla. Beat to a cream. For 2 layers. Susie Smith. 



61 



MEMORANDA 



CHEESE AND EGG DISHES 

Rice and Eggs with Cheese Sauce 

Butter a heavy baking dish and cover bottom wUh a l /t 
inch layer of boiled rice; cover with a layer of hard boiled 
eggs, sliced; sprinkle with salt and paprika and moisten 
well with cheese sauce; cover this with another layer of rice 
twice as thick as the first; add a layer of sliced eggs, salt and 
paprika; add plenty of sauce and cover with a generous layer 
of buttered crumbs; bake. To make the sauce melt 2 table- 
spoons butter \ l / 2 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), 
iy 2 cups milk; when it boils add */ 2 cup mild cheese, grated, 
and a rather high seasoning of salt and pepper. 

Eleanor Wertz. 

Rice and Cheese 

Butter baking dish and put layer of steamed rice; dot with 
butter and sprinkle with thin shavings of cheese; pepper and 
salt and repeat until desired amount is used. Pour milk to 
y 2 depth of bake dish and cover with buttered cracker 
crumbs and bake until cheese melts. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Corn Cheese 

One cup yellow corn meal to full quart boiling water, 
stirring meal gradually into water; add 1 large onion, cut 
fine, and cook for an hour or more; cut ~Vz pound cheese 
(eastern preferred), fine, and add a few minutes before taking 
up, stirring in well; salt to taste. Chopped olives are also 
an addition. Serve hot or cold. If the mush is made a little 
thinner it is fine served on toast like rarebit. 

A. Y. Soule. 

Plain Omelette 

One-half dozen eggs, beaten separately; beat whites quite 
stiff; mix with 1 tablespoonful milk for each egg; salt and 
pepper; pour into a hot buttered skillet and bake in oven un- 
til set and brown; fold over and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Tait. 

Eggs a la Martin 

Six eggs, YT. pint white sauce; put ~Vz the sauce in baking 
dish; break the eggs in; put in balance of sauce; cover with 
grated cheese; put in oven until cheese is melted. 

63 



An Omelette that Will Not Fan 

Cook an even teaspoonful of prn starch in a teaspoonful 
of butter until smooth, adding salt, pepper and a cup of milk; 
when it is thick remove from fire; beat 2 eggs, add to the 
corn starch and pour into a well buttered omelette or frying 
pan. Cook in the usual way. Lulu Dalmazzo. 

Cheese Pudding 

Cut bread J4 inch thick and cheese J4 inch thick; make 
into square sandwiches; line a pudding dish with same; 
beat 3 eggs, add 2 cups milk, salt to taste; pour over and bake 
20 minutes. Mrs. Martin. 

Baked Eggs with Pimiento Potatoes 

Two cups hot riced potatoes, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, y* 
cup rich milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 sifted canned pimientoes, 6 
eggs; beat together the potatoes, milk, butter, salt and pimi- 
entoes until blended; pile on a buttered, fireproof dish; make 
6 indentations and into each break one egg. Dust with salt 
and pepper and dot with batter; bake until the eggs are set. 

Woodchuck 

One can tomatoes, 1 pound American cheese, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons butter, salt, pepper, paprika; heat tomatoes and 
butter and season to taste with salt, pepper and paprika; 
then add cheese, cut into small pieces, and stir until thor- 
oughly melted; when smooth stir in the well beaten eggs and 
remove from fire at once. Serve on crackers or toast. 

Mrs. Will Marks. 

Cheese Fondue 

One cup scalded milk, 1 cup soft stale bread crumbs, % 
pound mild cheese, cut in small pieces, 1 tablespoon butter, 
y 2 teaspoon salt, 3 egg yolks and whites, beaten stiff; mix 
first 5 ingredients, add yolks, beaten until lemon color; cut 
and fold in whites of eggs; pour into buttered bake dishes 
and bake for 20 minutes in slow oven. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Spaghetti With Cheese 

To y* pound of spaghetti add salt to season, 1 large 
tomato, 1 onion and green pepper, cut fine; boil about 40 
minutes and add J^ pound grated cheese; cook until cheese 
is thoroughly dissolved. Mrs. O. V. Pratt. 

64 



Cheese Souffle 

Two tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour (Sperry Drift- 
ed Snow), "fa cup scalded milk, y 2 teaspoon salt, few grains 
of red pepper, ^4 cup grated cheese, 3 egg yolks and whites; 
melt butter, add flour; when well mixed add gradually scald- 
ed milk, pepper and cheese. Remove from stove and add 
yolks of eggs. Cool mixture and cut and fold in beaten 
whites; pour into buttered bake dishes and bake in slow 
oven 20 minutes. Serve immediately. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Frivol 

One and one-half cups milk, 1 heaping teaspoon butter, 
J4 pound grated cheese; stir until cheese melts; add table- 
spoon of flour (Sperry Drifted Snow), mixed with milk until 
smooth; beat an egg and whip into mixture. Serve on toast- 
ed bread or chackers. Put dash of paprika on each serving. 

Mrs. A. R. Hofer. 

Spanish Spaghetti 

One pound spaghetti, 1 tablespoon garlic, chopped fine, 
J4 pound Oregon cream cheese, J4 teacup bacon fryings, 1 
tablespoon Eagle Brand Spanish pepper, 1 pint tomatoes 
(pulp); put spaghetti on and cook for 1 hour with garlic, and 
salt to taste (water enough to cover spaghetti good); then 
strain and bake with tomatoes, bacon fat and pepper, 1 hour, 
very slowly; then add grated cheese and put back in oven to 
brown; stir some of cheese in and some on top. The slower 
you cook this the better it is. Mrs. Thos. Brown. 

Welsh Rarebit 

In a sauce pan melt 1 heaping teaspoon butter, add 1 tea 
cup cheese, cut fine, and 2 or 3 tablespoons cream or milk; 
stir this constantly until melted, then mix 1 beaten egg, pep- 
per and salt, and stir into pan; spread on slices of buttered 
toast and serve at once. Mrs. T. Biddel. 

Cheese Balls 

Take fresh cream cheese and crush with fork until 
smooth; add enough olive oil to make soft enough to form 
into balls, and paprika to taste. Roll in chopped walnuts. 
These are good served either with salad or placed between 
small crackers, which may be pressed together to make a 
sandwich. Mrs. A. R. Hofer. 

65 



MEMORANDA 




SANDWICHES 

Fruit Sandwiches 

One small head of lettuce, Y 2 cup dates, y z cup walnuts; 
chop all very fine and add a little salad dressing. 

Mrs. J. H.Paulin. 

Green Pepper Sandwich 

Equal parts of green peppers and cheese, chopped fine, 
with a little salt. Spread on thin slices bread, then toast 
rich brown. Serve hot. Or use mixture on brown bread for 
serving cold. Mrs. Lockwood. 

Celery Sandwich 

Chop together 1 cup celery, 6 stoned olives and 1 table- 
spoon English walnuts; moisten to a paste with mayon- 
naise. Mrs. Lockwood. 



Ribbon Sandwiches 

Cut 4 slices of bread Yi inch thick and butter them lib- 
erally with softened butter. Put salad dressing and lettuce 
leaf between the first. I mix canned pimiento and salad 
dressing for the next layer and cream cheese and salad dress- 
ing for the next. You then have a square of the 4 slices, all 
joined together; now slice it down in y* inch or thicker 
slices and you have a plate full of very attractive and appetiz- 
ing sandwiches. Mrs. W. H. Paulin. 

Sardine and Egg Sandwiches 

Remove skin and bones from sardines and mash to a 
paste. Add an equal quantity of yolks or hard boiled eggs, 
rubbed through a strainer. Season with salt, cayenne pepper 
and a few drops of lenion juice; moisten with olive oil or 
melted butter. Miss Geller. 

67 



Tuna Sandwiches 

One large can tuna, 1 small onion, chopped fine, 1 can 
pimientoes, chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste; mix with 
mayonnaise dressing and spread between thin slices of but- 
tered bread with a leaf of lettuce. Mrs. Ray Geller. 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

Spread bread with cream cheese and then a layer of 
chopped olives, mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 

Miss Geller. 

Date Sandwiches 

Wash, dry and stone dates; cut in halves and spread on 
buttered bread, skin side down; sprinkle with chopped nuts 
or grated cheese and press into dates with a knife. 

MissGeller. 

Egg and Olive Sandwiches 

Three hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, 1 cup ripe olives, 
chopped fine; add salt and pepper and a dash of cayenne and 
paprika; mix with mayonnaise and spread on bread with 
leaves of lettuce. Mrs. Ray Geller. 

Egg Sandwich 

Two eggs, boiled hard, 4 rolled crackers, 1 teaspoon 
Heinz Mustard, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 tablespoonful of vine- 
gar; salt and pepper to taste; mix all together; add a little 
more vinegar if it should be too dry. Nellie K. Smith. 

Olive Sandwiches 

Chop fine one large bottle of stuffed olives and mix with 
it two packages of neufchatel cheese; add highly seasoned 
mayonnaise, enough to moisten and season well; spread be- 
tween buttered sandwich bread. Cut in long, narrow strips. 

Pimiento and Cheese Sandwiches 

One-half can pimientoes, J^ pound cheese, ^ cup salad 
dressing; salt to taste; chop peppers and cheese separately, 
then mix and add dressing; spread thinly cut bread with 
the butter and the mixture. Mrs. Harold Loomis. 

Peanut Sandwiches 

Put the desired amount of fresh roasted peanuts through 
a meat chopper, moisten well with mayonnaise and spread be- 
tween buttered slices of Boston brown bread. 

68 



Sardine Sandwiches 

Remove bones from sardines and mash to a paste; add 
to an equal quantity of yolks of hard boiled eggs and a few 
chopped ripe olives. Season with salt and paprika and lerrton 
juice and moisten with mayonnaise; spread mixture between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Mrs. Will Marks. 

Sandwiches 

Five cent can of potted ham, chopped celery, cucumber 
or radish; salt and vinegar to taste; mix with boiled dressing. 
Serve on lettuce. Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Chop fine either pecan, hickory or English walnuts; mix 
with an equal bulk of neufchatel cheese; add a dash of pap- 
rika. Mrs. Tait. 

Put English walnuts through a meat chopper; drain and 
chop an equal bulk of olive-pimientoes, using a chopping 
knife and bowl; mix thoroughly with mayonnaise and spread 
between either white or cracked wheat bread. Mrs. Tait. 

Celery Sandwiches 

Chop fine 1 cup celery, J4 cup stoned olives, some Eng- 
lish walnuts; moisten with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Schuster. 

Nut and Cheese Sandwiches 

Butter thin slices of bread, spread with cream' cheese, 
well mixed with finely chopped w'alnut meats; lay on this a 
tender lettuce leaf. 

Two hard boiled eggs; while hot mash with a fork, add 
1 tablespoon of melted butter while eggs are hot; 1 mustard 
spoon of mixed mustard, less if dry; a dash of cayenne pep- 
per, y-2. cup of grated cheese; mix all to a paste; makes 
enough for 8 persons. Miss Olmstead. 

Sandwich Filling 

One can pimiento, 3 dill pickles, 10 cents worth of pecan 
meats; chop each thing separate; mix with cream salad 
dressing, and spread between slices of buttered bread. 

Mrs. Belle Neely. 

Nine olives, 1 small onion, 1 green pepper, chow-chow 
pickles, 1 cupful grated cheese; chop the above very fine and 
moisten with the mustard dressing from pickles. 

Mrs. J. W. Sedwick. 

69 



MEMORANDA 



CANDY 

Raisin Fudge 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add 2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup milk; 
heat to boiling point, add 2 squares chocolate; boil 13 min- 
utes; remove from fire, add 1 teaspoon vanilla; stir until 
creamy. Before it becomes creamy stir in 2-3 cup raisins 
and y^ cup nuts. Mrs. T. H. Powell. 

Prize Patience Candy 

One cup granulated sugar (carameled); add 1 cup hot 
milk and 2 cups sugar; boil briskly when it forms a soft ball 
as tested in a cup of cold water remove from the fire; add a 
piece of butter, walnut size, and 1 teaspoon vanilla; beakoin- 
til creamy; add chopped nuts; pour on buttered platter, cut 
in squares. Note If this is cooked in iron frying pan it 
will not burn, and need not be stirred until removed from the 
fire. Mrs. F. J.Perry. 

Divinity Fudge 

Two and one-half cups of sugar, J4 cup of Karo, % cup 
of boiling water; stir well before putting on the fire; boil 
very slowly until it will form a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water, then pour half the syrup over the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs; return the remainder of the syrup to the fire and 
boil until it will make a hair at lease 5 inches long and then 
pour into the other syrup. Do not stop beating the whites 
after pouring the syrup on them until the mixture becomes 
creamy. Add 1 cup of nuts or raisins. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Haney. 

Crystallized Orange Peel 

Take the rind of 4 oranges, remove any portion of the 
tough fiber separating the sections, but leave the white lin- 
ing of the yellow rind. With scissors cut the peel in strips 
about y$ inch wide, and not over 1J4 inches long. Cover with 
plenty of water and boil slowly for ^ hour; drain, cover with 
fresh water and boil slowly for another ^ hour; then pour off 
all the water, add a large cup of granulated sugar, y* cup of 
cold water, and boil until the syrup has been absorbed. Scat- 
ter on brown paper to cool and dry a little, then roll in fine 
granulated sugar. When thoroughly cold it will separate 
nicely by rolling well in the sugar. Lulu Dalmazzo. 

71 



Molasses Candy 

Cook 2 cupfuls of molasses in a buttered iron kettle un- 
til it forms in a hard ball in cold water. This may be pulled 
just before it hardens. A teaspoon of vinegar also may be 
added. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Nut Candy 

One cup Karo syrup, 2 cups brown sugar, butter size 
of an egg; cook slowly until it forms a soft ball in water, 
then flavor and beat until creamy; then add 1 cup chopped 
nuts and pour in buttered pan. Mrs. F. O. Hubbell. 

Chocolate Fondant 

Two and one-quarter pounds sugar, \Yz cups cold water, 
54 cup grated chocolate, J4 teaspoon cream of tartar; put 
water and chocolate in pan and heat to boiling point, then 
add sugar and cream of tartar; cook to soft ball stage and 
stir until it thickens. Take out of pan and knead on mixing 
board. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Chocolate Fudge 

Two cups of powdered sugar, ^ cup of cream, ^ cup of 
ground chocolate; mix thoroughly; stir constantly while 
boiling; test by dropping a little in cold water; it should form 
a ball which can be handled in the fingers without sticking; 
add a lump of butter size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla just before taking from the fire; beat until soft and 
creamy, and then add 1 cup of chopped nuts. Pour on but- 
tered platter. Mrs. George E. Haney. 

Butter Taffy 

Two cups brown sugar, 6 tablespoons water, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 54 cup chopped nuts; cook sugar and water to- 
gether, stirring until sugar is dissolved; let this syrup come 
to the boiling point, then add butter and boil to a soft ball 
state (about 10 minutes); add nuts and stir until it thickens 
and pour quickly into buttered pans. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Penoche 

Three cups white sugar, \y 2 cups milk, 1 cup walnuts, 
chopped, YI cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 10 drops vanilla; 
brown 1 cup of sugar until no lumlps remain; add milk after 
being boiled and 2 cups sugar. When this boils add butter 
and salt; stir constantly and cook until it hardens in cold 
water; then take from fire and add nuts and vanilla. Beat 
until it begins to harden, then pour in buttered pan to cool. 

Mrs. A. M. Perkins. 

72 



Turkish Delight 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, % cup cold 
water; bring to a boil; soak 1 box Knox gelatine in % cup 
cold water, add this to boiling mixture of sugar and water 
and boil 15 minutes; grate rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange with 
juice; put this into the mixture of gelatine, sugar and water 
and boil again for 5 minutes longer; take off stove and stir 
into a cold wet pan and set away to cool over night; cut in 
squares and roll in powdered sugar. H. E. Howe. 

Salt Water Taffy 

Two pounds cane sugar, J^ pound butter, }4 even table- 
spoon salt, 2 pounds white corn syrup, 1 ounce glycerine, 2 
teaspoons vanilla; put enough water in ingredients to keep 
it from burning; cook until breaks crisply in cold water. Pull. 

Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

Fruit Cheese 

One pound dried figs, 1 pound dates, 1 pound seeded 
raisins, 1 pound walnut meats; put through food chopper and 
mix thoroughly; put in granite lined pan with waxed paper, 
using weight to press; slice thin to serve. 

Mrs. Emma P. Benton. 

Choice Caramels 

Granulated sugar, 2 cups; cream, 1 cup; Karo Syrup, 1^4 
cups; butter, 1 cup; cream, 1 cup; vanilla, 1 teaspoon; nut 
meats, 1 cup; cook the first 4 ingredients to boiling vigorous- 
ly; gradually stir in 2 cups cream, but do not let boiling stop. 
Boil to the crack stage and pour into buttered pans. 

Mrs. Warren T. Smith. 

Stuffed Dates 

Stone nice, firm dates; stuff them with neufchatel cheese. 

Sandwiches 

Pecan nuts and cream cheese; mix thoroughly and spread 
between bread slightly buttered. 

Mrs. Wilmer E. Hogboom. 



73 



MEMORANDA 



PICKLES, PRESERVES AND JELLY 

Mustard Pickles 

Two quarts of small cucumbers, 2 quarts of small white 
onions, 2 quarts of small green tomatoes, 2 heads of cauli- 
flower, 4 green peppers; place in separate dishes, sprinkle 
salt over them and cover with boiling water; let stand 24 
hours; remove from the brine; take 1 gallon of vinegar, put 
in onions, let come to a boil, then add cucumbers; let come 
to a boil, then add tomatoes; let come to a boil, then add 
the cauliflower, which has been partly cooked; let come to 
a boil. Have ready 1 quart of cold vinegar, 2^ cups of sugar, 
1 cup of flour, 1 cup of small ground yellow mustard( Cole- 
man's best); mix all this to a paste, add it gently to the 
pickles, let boil 1 minute, stirring constantly, or it will brown; 
add the chopped peppers, remove from fire; add turmeric 
until you get the shade you prefer; put in jars and seal. 

Mrs. F. W.Fahs. 

Gingered Pears 

Eight pounds pears, peeled and cut in small squares, 4 
pounds sugar, 4 pounds lemons, J4 pound preserved ginger; 
put sugar on pears and let stand 2 hours; cook 1 hour slow- 
ly; add ginger and lemons (cut fine), and cook another Vz 
hour; cover with parafine. Mrs. T. H. Powell. 

Chow-Chow 

One peck green tomatoes, small size; Y* peck small 
onions, ^ peck green and mango peppers, 2 heads cabbage, 
4 tablespoons white mustard seed, 1 tablespoon ground 
cloves, 2 tablespoons celery seed, 1 tablespoon alspice, 1 
small box yellow mustard, 1 pound brown sugar, 2 table- 
spoons turmeric; slice tomatoes, salt, pour barely water over 
and let stand; chop cabbage, tomatoes, onions and peppers; 
have 1 gallon vinegar hot, add cabbage, onion, tomatoes; let 
cook a few minutes, then add the balance of ingredients and 
salt and pepper to taste (red pepper is best); add turmeric 
last of all for coloring. Seal in glass jars. Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 

75 



Cold Chopped Pickles 

Four quarts chopped green tomatoes, 1 quart chopped 
green onions, 1 cup chopped green peppers; add 1 chopped 
red pepper, 1 cup salt, 24 cup white mustard seed (salt draws 
out green juice); put onions and tomatoes to stand over 
night with salt over them; drain a long time in the morning. 
Add mustard seed and cover with sharp vinegar; place horse- 
radish leaves on top and cover. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Olive Cucumber Pickles 

Two dozen cucumbers (size for slicing), 8 onions a little 
larger than walnuts; slice cucumbers and onions, sprinkle 
with 1 scant cup of salt; let stand about 3 hours, then drain 
1 hour. 

Dressing 

One quart vinegar, 1 cup best olive oil, }4 cup mustard 
seed, 1 large teaspoonful celery seed; mix all together and 
put in jars; let stand over night; if jars are not full add more 
vinegar. Lydia McMillan. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles 

Three pints ripe tomatoes, pealed and chopped, 1 cup 
chopped celery, 4 tablespoons red pepper, 4 tablespoons 
chopped onions, 4 tablespoons salt, 6 tablespoons sugar, 6 
tablespoons mustard seed, ^ teaspoon cloves, y* teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 2 cups vinegar; mix in- 
gredients in order given; put in stone jar and cover. This un- 
cooked mixture must stand a week before using, but will keep 

1 year. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Relish 

One peck ripe tomatoes, 4 sweet red peppers, 2 cups 
chopped onions, 8 stalks celery, 1 cup salt, 3 cups sugar, 1 
tablespoon black pepper, 2 teaspoons cloves, 1 quart vinegar; 
let stand 24 hours before bottling. Mrs. E. S. Campbell. 

Chili Sauce 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions, 10 chili pep- 
pers, 4 coffee cups vinegar, 8 tablespoons brown sugar, 2 
tablespoons salt, 2 teaspoons ginger, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

2 teaspoons alspice, 2 teaspoons cloves, 1 teaspoon mustard. 
Boil for 2 hours or more. Mrs. Hogeboom. 

76 



Sweet Cucumber Pickles 

Four pounds large cucumbers, cut in thick slices; make 
a brine of 1 cup salt to 2 quarts water; soak cucumbers in it 
3 days, then put in clear water for 24 hours; boil in alum 
water (1 teaspoon alum to 3 quarts water), ^ hour; boil in 
ginger tea ^2 hour (1 teaspoon ginger to 1 quart water); take 
1 pint vinegar, 1 pint water, 3 pounds sugar, 1 tablespoon 
cinnamon, 1 tablespoon cloves; put spices in bag and boil 
syrup y z hour; add cucumbers and boil until clear. Seal in 
jars. 

Green Tomato Pickle 

One peck green tomatoes, 12 large onions, 2 pounds 
brown sugar, 2 quarts cider vinegar, 3 teaspoons each of 
ground alspice, cloves and ginger; 1 tablespoon each of whole 
alspice and black pepper; J4 pound ground mustard, J4 tea- 
spoon red pepper; slice tomatoes and onions thin, sprinkle 
each layer with salt and let stand over night, or 12 hours; 
then wash and drain well; add spices (which should be in 
small cheesecloth bags), and sugar to vinegar; bring to a 
good boil; add tomatoes and onions and cook gently until 
tender. Mrs. Wilmer E. Hogeboom. 

Dill Pickles 

Soak pickles 1 day in cold water; put pickles and dill in 
the jars cold; 6 quarts vinegar, 1 quart water, 1 pint salt; put 
on stove, let boil; when boiling pour over pickles and seal. 

Mrs. John Bernhard. 

Preserved Figs 

Make a syrup of 3 cups of sugar to 1 cup of lemon juice 
or vinegar; put in syrup as many peeled figs as the syrup will 
cover; cook thoroughly, but take out figs while still whole 
and put in jars; add more sugar to syrup and boil until very 
thick and pour over figs. Mrs. Ford. 

Apple Mint Jelly 

Four pounds apples (washed and cut up), 1 cup mint 
leaves (washed and finely cut); add mint to apples; partially 
cover with water, cook until tender and strain; fa cup of 
sugar to 2 cup juice; cook until it jells, then add 4 teaspoons 
lemon juice; color delicate green just before it sets. 

Mrs. Herman. 

77 



Jellied Cranberries 

One pint cranberries, 2 cups sugar, 1 pint water; wash, 
put on fire with water in covered sauce pan; let simmer un- 
til cranberries burst; remove cover, add sugar; boil 20 min- 
utes without cover. Never stir. Mrs. F. J. Perry. 

Apple Pineapple Jelly 

Five pounds apples, diced; cover with water and cook un- 
til tender; strain through jelly bag; ty cup sugar to 1 cup of 
juice; shred 1 pineapple, cook with juice until mixture jells. 

Mrs. Herman. 



Euchre Cherries 

Soak pitted cherries in vinegar over night; remove from 
vinegar the next morning; measure 1 cup of fruit to one cup 
of sugar and let stand 2 days, then can. Do not heat or add 
anything, but simply can and seal. This is a most palatable 
relish to serve with hot or cold roast meats. Mrs. Stahl. 

Orange Marmalade 

Six oranges, 2 lemons, 3 quarts water, 3 quarts sugar; 
squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemons; run the rinds 
of the oranges through the meat chopper; add water and let 
stand over night; in the morning cook for an hour; add sugar 
and boil for another hour, when it will be thick enough to 
put in glasses. Mrs. Edith Baxter. 

Plum Jam 

Five pounds blue or Satsuma plums, 5 oranges, 1 pound 
walnuts, 1 package raisins, 3 pounds sugar; wash oranges, 
quarter and take out seeds, then cut fine all the pulp; do not 
use the skin; cut the raisins rather small; mix oranges and 
raisins, and the plunts pared, with the sugar, and let stand 
over night, then cook slowly until quite thick; add walnuts, 
ground or cut fine, cook a little longer, or until it jells. 

Mrs.Todd. 

Mixed Preserves 

Two pineapples, 3 boxes strawberries, 2 oranges, 1 
lemon, 8 cups sugar; prepare oranges, lemons and pineapple 
and run through meat grinder; crush strawberries; put fruit 
and sugar on stove; boil 25 minutes. 

Mrs. John Bernhard. 

78 



Roselle Jelly 

Four pounds roselle, 54 cup sugar to 1 cup juice, juice 
of 1 lemon; clean and wash roselles, water to cover, cook 
and strain, add lemon and sugar and boil until it jells. 

Mrs. Herman. 

Preserved Pineapples 

Six quarts apples, \y 2 quarts sugar, 2 quarts water; put 
sugar and water into preserving kettle, stir over fire until dis- 
solved; wash fruit; when syrup boils skim it and put fruit in 
and cook gently until tender. It will take from 20 to 50 min- 
utes, according to kind of apples. Mrs. P. F. Hill. 

Mint Jelly 

One-quarter package gelatine, y cup cold water, 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 1 cup vinegar, ^ teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon 
paprika, 24 cup mint leaves; soak gelatine in ^ cup water; 
boil vinegar and sugar 5 minutes; add other ingredients and 
stir. Use green coloring to make desired color. 

Mrs. F. W. Fahs. 



79 



MEMORANDA 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Fruit Cocktail 

Dice pineapple, orange, grapefruit and bananas; fill cock- 
tail glasses, sweeten to taste, pour over this enough grape 
juice to flavor. Peel and seed enough grapes to allow three 
to each glass. Place grapes on top. Chill and serve. 

Mrs. Perry. 

Coffee for 40 People 

1 Ib. coffee, 2 eggs, 10 qts. of water; stir eggs into coffee, 
add cold water until thoroughly moistened, cover with boil- 
ing water, boil 5 to 10 minutes until clear; settle with cold 
water and let stand over a low flame. Mrs. S. T. Allen. 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream 

y* cup sugar, y?. cup water, 4 ozs. Baker's chocolate, Yz 
cup cream or milk, % teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boil sugar and water 5 minutes. Melt chocolate over 
hot water, then add the syrup to the chocolate, add vanilla 
and let stand in double boiler until ready to serve, then stir 
in milk or cream. H. E. Howe. 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Slice large strawberries and cover them with orange 
juice. Serve in ice-cream glasses, or in orange cups, with 
powdered sugar and shaved ice on top. Mrs. Sylvester. 

Lemon Ice 

1 quart milk, 1 pint sugar, juice of 3 lemons. When 
lemon juice is put in milk it may curdle, but it will all smooth 
out in the freezing. 

Mrs. Samuel P. Morse, 5337 Lemon Grove. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

1 can grated pineapple, 1 quart sugar cooked to a syrup; 
pour over the pineapple. Make a strong lemonade, enough 
to make 3 quarts altogether; whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff 
and put in when the sherbet begins to freeze. 

Mrs. Herman. 

81 



Strawberry Ice Cream 

Sprinkle 2 cups of sugar over 2 quarts of strawberries. 
Mash and let stand until sugar is dissolved. Turn berries 
into large square of cheesecloth and squeeze out all the juice 
and pulp possible. Empty remaining pulp and seeds into a 
pan. Mix well with about one pint of milk and squeeze 
again until perfectly dry. Scald and cool from 1 to 2 pints 
of cream, as you happen to have, and add to the prepared 
juice. Add sugar to make very sweet. Freeze in the usual 
way. Mrs. J. L. Hisey. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into J^-inch slices, remove crusts and 
cut bread into J^-inch cubes. Brown in a hot oven and serve 
with soup. Also put thin layers of cheese on cubes before 
baking them. Miss Goldie Perkins. 



82 



MEMORANDA 



MEMORANDA 



THOSE WE PATRONIZE 



CHARLES F. REICHE 

ATTORNEY AT LAW 

343 Title Insurance Building 

F3563 Broadway 690 

Main 627 A3712 

FRANK A. JEFFERS 

ATTORNEY 

708-12 Hibernian Building 

Home A3636 Broadway 8247 

F. RAY RISDON 

ATTORNEY AT LAW 
209 North Broadway Res. 972 North Wilton PI. 

Home F5898 Main 9233 

STAHL & SAYLES 

ATTORNEYS AT LAW 

534-3 5 - 36 Chamber of Commerce Building 

C. W. Stahl C. H. Sayles 

Phone Hollywood 2420 

R. C. O'HAVER 

BUILDER OF BUNGALOWS 

^ 201 North Mariposa St. 

Main 4535 25 Years in the 

Home F7160 Building Business 

HETZEL-WINGET COMPANY 

CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS 

604 Grant Building 
VAL. HETZEL Res. Wilshire 1929 



M. A. CASEY 

REAL ESTATE BUILDING, LOANS 

LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Corner Oakwood and Western 
Phones 56298568382 Res. 4222 West Second St. 

ALL KINDS OF INSURANCE 
Written by 

A. R. HOFER 

Home Phone 560211 

Samuel D. Wallace Ralph Insley 

Wilshire 2258, 59147 568192 

WALLACE & INSLEY 

WALL PAPER, PAINTING, DECORATING 

AND PAPER HANGING 

113 East Market Street 

FRED W. FAHS 

Special Agent 
AETNA INSURANCE 

Phone 56750 

SHERMAN ALLEN 
General Research and Engineering Company 

(Incorporated) 

CONSULTING, MECHANICAL AND 
MINING ENGINEERS 

When You Think INSURANCE 
Call; 

RAYMOND Z. FAHS, Aetna-izer 

414 Merchants National Bank Building 
Home 10247 Main 305 



FREDERIC J. PERRY 

Special Agent and Adjuster 
ROYAL and QUEEN INSURANCE COMPANIES 

Total Assets Over $122,500,000.00 
1032 to 1036 Merchants National Bank Building 

All Work Guaranteed Complicated Watch Repairing 
M. P. GARDNER 

JEWELER 

4409 WEST SECOND STREET 

Western and Manhattan Place 
Jewelry Made to Order Old Gold and Silver Bought 

SUNSET HOME 

Wilshire 560506 

5899 560434 

HOFFMAN GROCERY CO. 
Buy and Sell for Cash 
Therefore Sell for Less 

FOUR DELIVERIES DAILY 

Two Stores 
203-5 Western Ave. 6608 Hollywood Blvd. 

Phone Hollywood 1143 Home 56393 or 568405 

THE WILSHIRE GROCERY 

MALLMANN BROS. 

FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES 

FRESH MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

135 South Western Avenue 

Home 558019 Sunset Hollywood 32 

LEININGER & MILLER 

GROCERIES, PROVISIONS, FLOUR 
FEED AND FUEL, FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 
Meat Market in Connection 558 Western Ave. 



Ed. S. Campbell W. C. Ward 

CAMPBELL & WARD 
Hardware and Plumbing 

Builders' Supplies, Tools, Woodenware 

Stoves, Tinware, Paints, Oils, Glass, Etc, 

Special Attention Given to Plumbing, Electrical 

Bicycle and General Repair Work 

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED 

Home 51745 2718 WEST SEVENTH ST. 

Sunset Wilshire 1332 Near Hoover St. 

THE "EVER-READY" DRUG CO. 

PRESCRIPTION EXPERTS 

Wyeth's Vanilla Extract Compound, 4-oz. bottle 25c 
Free Quick Motor Delivery Western Ave. at Second 

WESTLAKE PHARMACY No. 2 

147 South Western Avenue, 
EXCLUSIVE AGENTS for EASTMAN KODAKS 

Main 5138 Home 52141 or A6125 

W. W. GROOM 

Ninth Street Pharmacy 

Corner Ninth and Figueroa Streets 

Geo. J. Zie^ler Home 560143 

ZIEGLER'S GARAGE 

STORAGE AND EXPERT REPAIRING 
611 Western Avenue North 



Home 56766 GEO. W. SCHUSTER 

Wilshire 727 Proprietor 

Western Avenue Plumbing and Repair Co. 

JOB PLUMBING A SPECIALTY 

BICYCLES AND REPAIRING 

GLAZING SHEET METAL WORK 

180 South Western Avenue 

Wilshire 5553 Home 56231 

HERRIN & WARREN 

BUILDERS' HARDWARE 
House Furnishing Goods, Paints, Oils, Crockery, Etc. 

267 SOUTH WESTERN AVENUE 

Hollywood 1437 Home 56127 

J. Q. SPOONER, Manager 

SPOONER HARDWARE CO. 

BUILDERS' HARDWARE 
Tools, Cutlery, Stoves, Gas Ranges, Paints and Oils, Bath 

Room Supplies 

TIN, ALUMINUM AND GRANITE WARE 
Corner Second Street and Western Avenue 

Phone 560177 Geo. Funk, Prop. 

WILSHIRE NURSERY 

ROSE BUSHES AND FERNS A SPECIALTY 

FERTILIZER FOR SALE 

131 South Western Avenue 

The Oldest and Largest Savings Bank in the 
Southwest 



SAVINGS COMMERCIAL TRUST 

Fifth and Spring Sts. First arid Spring Sts. 



Main 8836 Home A4824 

PANAMA MOTOR OIL 

A SUPERIOR PENNSYLVANIA PRODUCT 
2624 Santa Fe Avenue A. Y. Soule 





How About a Nice Big Juicy Red Apple?? 

When you want the best ask your grocer for 

HOOD RIVER OREGON BLUE 

AND 

RED DIAMOND BRAND 

They have flavor, quality and dependable pack. 

Buy them by the box and eliminate the 

HIGH COST OF LIVING 



Compliments of 



Pacific Baking Co. 

When ordering Bread or Cake from your grocer, 
be sure to specify the following: 



BREADS 

Holsum Holsum Jr. 

Whole Wheat Vienna 

Kleen Maid French 

Holsum Raisin Clean Crust 
Health Bread Finger Rolls 

Holsum Bran Bread?rench Rolls 



Holland Toast 

German Toast 

Sweibach 

Empress 

Cracked Wheat 

Graham 

Rye 



Parker House Rolls 
Holsum Biscuit 
Napkin Rolls 
German Rolls 
Buns 
Pan Rolls 



CAKES 

Silver Slice 
Spanish 
Devil's Joy 
Sunset GOLD 
Maple Nut 
Holsum Fruit 
California Nuget 



CRITICAL COOKS USE 

BEN-HUR QUALITY PRODUCTS 




BECAUSE OF THEIR 
PURITY FLAVOR STRENGTH 



When in Need of Millinery call at 

"THE BAND BOX" 

We Aim to Please in Style and Prices 
MRS. L. A. JORDAN 

4410 West Second Street 

"Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness" 

It Is Easy to Be Clean if You Patronize 

THE CROWN LAUNDRY & CLEANING CO. 

Lowest Prices Highest Grade Work 

Phones: South 945, Home 23068 

Home 560175 Wilshire 6315 

HOBART GROCERY 
LITTLE FORD MARKET 

4167-4169 West Second Street 

\ BARBER SHOP 

THREE CHAIRS 
4407 West Second St. New't Hamilton, Prop. 



REAL ESTATE EXCHANGED 
CALIFORNIA, EASTERN AND NORTHERN 

JOHN P. HOLLAND COMPANY 

342-43 Title Insurance Building 
Home F3563 Los Angeles Broadway 690 

J. L. LOYE, Prop. 

WILSHIRE BARBER SHOP 

FIRST-CLASS WORK 
Special Attention to Children 

4408 West Second Street 
Between Western Ave. and Manhattan Place 

LAUNDRY AGENCY 

Wilshire 95 Home 56271 

A. B. McNEELY 

GROCER - BUTCHER - BAKER 

Table Luxuries Fancy Groceries 

Fruits and Vegetables 

194-196 WESTERN AVENUE 
Phone 56788 Prompt Delivery 

WILSHIRE DRY GOODS CO. 

Corner Second St. and Western Ave. 
DRY GOODS AND NOTIONS 

Home Phones 56567 and 56198 

HONEY BEES BEESWAX 
Shaffner Bros. 

4232-4250 West First Street 



MEMORANDA 



INDEX 

Soup 5 

Fish and Meats 9 

Vegetables 19 

Salads and Salad Dressing's 25 

Desserts 33 

Bread, Muffins, Biscuits and Griddle Cakes 43 

Cakes, Fillings and Cookies 49 

Cheese and Egg Dishes 63 

Sandwiches 67 

Candy 71 

Pickles, Preserves and Jellies 75 

Miscellaneous 81 

Those We Patronize 85 



95 



Press of 

TWIN PRINTERS 
(Wood & Wood) 

209 N. Broadway 



