• 

OF 

COOKINt 

( 

( 


■/ 




^ 


1 


\ 


MB 


« 




SF 


L 




CAROLINE 
FRENCH 
BENTON 


■ 


■^ 




itl 


1 


<^ 


M^l 


Q' 




a 


■ 






m 


■ 





THE FUN OF COOKING 







^^. o - 



/9 



/5 




^k 




'■J 


- 




r 


-*<e:" 






■HF ' 


■y||^}mjHi 














'Such a Perfectly Lovely Picnic! 



THE FUX OF COOKING 

A STORY FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 



BY 
CAROLIXE FRENCH BENTON 

Author of "A Little Cook Book for a Little 

Girl," "Margaret's Saturday 

Mornings," etc. 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 
BY SARAH K. SMITH 




NEW Y^ORK 

THE CENTURY^ CO. 

1915 



Copyright, 1914, 1915, by 
The Century Co. 



Published^ September^ 1915 



To 
DEAR LITTLE KATHARINE THE FIFTH 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGH 

I THE DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS 13 

II SUPPER AT THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS ... 27 

III JACK'S SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 41 

IV THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 57 

V SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 72 

VI MILDRED'S SCHOOL PARTY 91 

VII STRAWBERRY TIME 106 

VIII IN CAMP 120 

IX IN CAMP, continued 137 

X JAMS AND JELLY 151 

XI A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 168 

XII WHEN MOTHER BL-IIR WAS SICK 180 

XIII A DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIRL PARTY 192 

XIV WHEN NORAH WAS AWAY 204 

XV THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 216 

XVI CANDY FOR THE FAIR 228 

XVII EXAMINATION DAY 244 

INDEX 253 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

"Such a lovely picnic" Frontispiece 

PAGE 

Jack fried the "Cheese Dreams" 38 

Brownie and Mildred making "Chocolate Crackers" . 47 

Making "Orange Baskets" 65 

Arranging a small round tray in front of her mother's 

place 76 

She looked carefully in the oven through a tiny crack . 85 

The refreshments were perfectly delicious, everybody said 99 

"Here comes Jack with the berries, just in time" . . .114 

The first supper in camp 123 

Jack gets breakfast 134 

The next day was perfect for fishing 139 

Roasting corn over a bed of coals 145 

"But, Norah, if you can't begin till you know how" . .156 

"I am so proud I want everybody to see my jam" . .165 

"This candy ought to be at least a dollar a pound" . 231 

Selling candy at the Christmas fair 241 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



THE FUN OF COOKING 

CHAPTEE I 

THE DAY BEFOKE CHRISTMAS 

THE Blairs were a particularly nice family. 
That is what the neighbors always said of 
them, and, to tell the trnth, the Blairs believed 
it. That is, the father and mother thought the 
children were particularly nice, and the children 
thought their father and mother and each other 
particularly nice; and so, of course, they all 
must have been very nice indeed. 

Saturdays and Sundays and vacation days 
were all holidays to them, and they did such in- 
teresting things, and laughed so much as they 
did them, that everybody said, *^What good 
times those Blairs do have!" 

Jack and Mildred Blair were named after 
their father and mother, and Brownie, whose 
real name was Katharine, was named for her 

13 



14 THE FUN OF COOKING 

grandmother; so to avoid getting everybody 
mixed, the children were called the Junior 
Blairs by everybody. 

Now it happened that there were ever so 
many nncles and aunts and cousins who were 
Blairs, too, but most of them lived a long way 
off, and they were very seldom able to get to- 
gether for a family party; but this winter, ten 
of them were coming to spend Christmas with 
the real Blairs, and, as five of them were be- 
tween fourteen and twelve, the ages of Mildred 
and Jack, and some more about nine, like 
Brownie, they were all planning to have the 
very nicest sort of a time, and everybody was as 
excited as could be. 

Christmas was only two days away, when, 
suddenly, it began to snow. And how it 
snowed! The flakes came down steadily hour 
after hour, and soon the sidewalks were cov- 
ered, and the steps were buried, and the piles of 
snow almost covered the gate. Everybody said 
that all the trains were delayed ; and it was not 
long before the little Blairs began to whisper, 
^* Whatever shall we do if they can't get here in 
time for Christmas?'' Mother Blair guessed 
what the trouble was, and said cheerfully that, 
of course, the snow would stop falling before 



THE DAY BEFOEE CHEISTMAS 15 

long, and the trains would be on time in the 
morning. 

''And a beautiful white Christmas is the love- 
liest thing in the world,'- she added. But the 
children looked out of the window and were 
afraid, deep down in their hearts, that some- 
thing dreadful might happen. 

"If we only had something nice to do right 
now," groaned Jack, "so we could forget the 
snow. But we can't trim the tree till eveiybody 
comes to help, and the presents are all tied up, 
and there is n't anything Christmasy to do that 
I can think of. ' ' 

''Wliy not cook?'' suggested Mother Blair, 
*' There are lots of things to make — Christmas 
things, you know." 

Mildred began to brighten up. ''If we could 
cook things all alone, I 'd like that." she said. 

"Boys don't cook," Jack said scornfully, still 
looking out of the window. 

"Boys make pop-com. though," laughed his 
mother. "And then suppose you make that up 
into nice balls, and have them all ready when 
the cousins come. And, Mildred, I think Xorah 
would give you and Brownie one comer of the 
kitchen, and let you cook all by yourselves." 

So Jack took the coim-popper and went down 



16 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



to tlie furnace, and when lie opened the door, he 
found a great bed of red coals waiting for him ; 
and Mildred and Brownie put on their big ging- 
ham aprons and went out into the kitchen. 




The Christmas cakes 

Underneath the large table was a smaller one ; 
this Mother Blair pulled out and pushed across 
the room to an empty place. Then she wrote 
out very plainly a little receipt, and under 
this she explained exactly how to put things 
together; this she pinned on the wall over the 
table. *^ There!" she said. *^Now you can go 
right to work." This was what was on the 
paper : 

CHRISTMAS CAKES 

y^ cup of butter. 

% cup of sugar. 

% cup of milk. 

1 egg. 

1 cup of flour. 



THE DAY BEFORE CHEIST:^IAS 17 

1 teaspoonful of baking-p'owder. 

^2 teaspooniul of vanilla, 
Pnt tJie butter and sugar in a bowl, and rub them to- 
gether till smooth and creamy. Beat the egg without 
separating it, and put that in next; beat all together, then 
add the milk, a little at a time. Put a rounded spoonful of 
baking-powder in the flour and stir it well, and add that 
slowly, m ixing as you do it: and, last, put in the vanilla. 
Grease some little scalloped tins, and fill them half full; 
bake till brown. 

Mildred nibbed the butter and sugar wliile 
Brownie beat the egg: they took turns putting 
in the other things, and, last, Xorah set the tins 
in the oven for them. Then the two girls iTished 
into the sitting-room and said, "That 's all 
done. Mother Blair I Now something else to 
cook, please I'' 

"But don't forget to watch your cakes/* said 
Mother Blair, as ?he handed them a second 
receipt. ' ' Open the oven door eveiy little while 
just enough to peek in at them: if you forget 
them, they will surely bum.'' 

The second receipt was for 

OATMEAL ^L\C.lPiOOXS 

3 cups of rolled oats. 
2i'2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
^2 teaspoonful of salt. 
3 level tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 



18 THE FUN OF COOKING 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Put the butter and sugar in a bowl and cream tbem ; beat 
the yolks of the eggs, put them in, and beat again ; mix the 
oatmeal with the baking-powder and salt, and add this next, 
a little at a time ; then put in the vanilla, and, last, the stiff 
whites of the eggs. Have ready a shallow pan, greased, 
and drop the batter on this in tiny bits, no larger than the 
end of your thumb, and two inches apart. Bake in an 
».4-0^ oven that is not very hot. When they are brown on the 
edges, they are done; remove them from the pan while they 
are still warm. 

While Mildred was mixing these, Brownie 
~took a last peep into the oven, and found the 
cakes were baked. Norah helped her take them 
out, and she herself took them from the pans and 
put them on a platter to cool. Then it was not 
long before the first panful of macaroons was 
done, too, and these came out all crisp and de- 
licious. 

Just as they were finishing them, their mother 
came out into the kitchen. * * Oh, how lovely ! ' ' 
she exclaimed. **I never, never saw anything 
so good as those macaroons. Perfectly deli- 
cious!" 

*'But see the scalloped cakes, Mother,'^ said 
Brownie. * ^ Are n 't they lovely, too ? ' ' 

** Lovely? Of course they are. And I 've 
such a bright idea about those cakes, too ! * ' 



THE DAY BEFORE CHEISTMAS 19 

**0h, what?'' cried both the girls together, be- 
cause Mother Blair's bright ideas were always 
partictrlarly nice, just like herself. 

^^I 've been looking over the boxes of Christ- 
mas candy, and I find we have lots of candied 
cheriies. And, Xorah, you had some of the cit- 
ron left from the plum-pudding, had n't you?" 

Xorah said she had a large piece put away. 

^^Well, then, suppose we cut the citron into 
thin slices, and cut those up into little bits of 
green leaves, and cut some of the cherries into 
tiny bits to look like berries ; then we will ice the 
little cakes and around each one, right on top, 
we will make a green holly wreath with holly 
berries in it. Won't those be pretty?" 

**0h, Mother, let me, let me I" Brownie 
begged. 

^^Very well, you make the leaves and berries 
while Mildred ices the cakes," said Mother 
Blair. 

So while Mildred mixed the icing. Brownie 
took some small scissors and cut up the citron 
and the cherries. At first her scissors bothered 
her by getting sticky, but Xorah showed her 
how to dip them in water often and wipe them 
dry, and after she tried that way. she had no 
trouble. 



20 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mildred ^s rule for icing was tHs: 

ICING 

The white of one egg. 
1 teaspoonful of cold water. 
1 cup of powdered sugar. 
% teaspoonful of flavoring. 
Put the white of the egg in a bowl, add the water, and 
beat till light; stir in the sifted sugar and the flavoring, 
and spread on the cakes while they are still a little warm; 
smooth over with the blade of a knife. 

After the cakes were iced, tlie leaves were laid 
in a wreath around the edges, with the tiny red 
berries among them ; and they were the prettiest 
things for Christmas anybody ever saw. 

When, at last, they were put away, Norah told 
them she had some bits of pie-crust left over 
from her mince-pies that they could have, if 
they wanted it. Brownie dashed into the hall, 
shouting, ^* Mother, Mother! Wliat can we 
make with pie-crust? Norah says we can have 
some. ' ' 

^^ Tartlets," called Mother Blair from up- 
stairs. And when Brownie ran up for it she 
gave her this receipt : 

TARTLETS 

Flour the pastry board; roll out some piecrust very thin, 
and press it into little scalloped tins; prick holes in the 



THE DAY BEFOEE CHRISTMAS 21 

bottom to let the air in. Cut off the edges smoothly, and 
bake till light brown. Just before you need them fill the 
shells with jelly. 

The very moment when the tarts disappeared 
in the pantry, Jack came up with his pans of 
pop-corn. 

''Real cooking is just for girls," he said, with 
his mouth full of a stolen macaroon. ''It 's all 
right for boys to make pop-corn balls, though. 
Only how do you do it!" His mother told him 
to wash his hands well, and then gave him this 
rule: 

POP-CORN BALLS 

1 cup of molasses. 
% cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. 
% teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter. 

Boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Pour a little 

over a pan of com, and take up in your hands all that 

sticks together, and roll it into a ball. Keep the candy hot 

on the back of the stove, and pour on more till it is all done. 

This made a great dishful of lovely balls, and 
they set them away in a cold place; and then 
Norah told them they must run out of the 
kitchen, because she wanted to get luncheon 
ready. 

After lunch. Jack had to go and shovel out 
paths again, because those he had made had all 



22 THE FUN OF COOKING 

disappeared. Mildred and Brownie dressed a 
tiny doll for a cousin they were afraid might 
not have quite as many as she would want, and 
when that was done, they said they wanted to 
cook some more. 

Their mother told them she had one very, 
very nice receipt meant especially for holidays, 
which, strangely enough, had Brownie's name. 
** Because you are so very, very nice yourself,'' 
she said with a hug, ^^ perhaps you can make 
these all by yourself, too. ' ' 

BROWNIES 

3 squares of chocolate. 
2 eggs, beaten together. 
% cup of flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 
^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of chopped English walnuts. 
Cream the butter and sugar together, and add the eggs, 
well beaten without separating; then add the flour. Melt 
the chocolate by cutting it up into small bits and putting 
it in a little dish over the steam of the tea-kettle. Put this 
in next, and, last, the nuts. Lay a greased paper on the 
bottom of a shallow pan, and pour the cake in, in a thin 
layer. Bake twenty-five minutes; mark off into squares 
while warm, and cut before removing from the pan. These 
should be as thick as cookies when done. 

^' Don't you want me to help you make them, 
Brownie f" Mildred asked, as she read the re- 



THE DAY BEFORE CHEISTMAS 23 

ceipt over. "You see, I could beat the eggs for 
you, and you know how hard it is for you not 
to tip the bowl over when you beat them I" 

*'Well," Brownie said slowly. "I might let 
you do just that one thing, Mildred, but Mother 
said I was to make these cakes all alone." 

''But let me help just a tiny little bit," Mil- 
dred coaxed: ''they do sound so interesting!" 

So in the end the two made the cakes together, 
all delicious, and just the thing for company. 

TVhile they were still fresh from the oven, in 
came a pretty grown-up neighbor, whom all the 
Blairs, big an^I little, loved veiy much, because 
she always was ready for a good time with them. 

*'Fee-fy-fo-fum!" she exclaimed, wrinkling 
up her little nose. "I smell something good to 
eat!" 

"Oh, dear Miss Betty," Brownie cried, ''it is 
Christmas cooking! Come and see it." 

So Miss Betty saw all the lovely little holly 
cakes, and the tartlets, and the macaroons, and 
the Brownies, and ate little crumbs off wherever 
she could find one. Then she said, "I want to 
cook too ! May I, Xorah ? " ' 

"Sure you may," said Xorah, who thought 
Miss Betty was the nicest young lady in the 
world. 



24 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



Then Miss Betty wrote out this receipt, and 
pinned it up, and everybody helped her make 



GINGERBREAD MEN 

2 cup's of molasses. 

1 cup of equal parts of butter and lard, mixed. 
1 level tablespoonful of ginger. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Flour to mix very stiff. 
Melt the butter, add the molasses and ginger, then the 
soda, dissolved in a teaspoonful of boiling water; stir in 
flour till the dough is so stiff you cannot stir it with a 
spoon; take it out on the floured board, and roll a little at 
a time, and with a knife cut out a man; press currants in 
for eyes and for buttons on his coat. Bake in a floured 
pan. 

'^ These are going to 

be Santa Clauses,'' said 

Miss Betty. **Jack, if 

you will cut me some tiny 

cedar twigs, we will stick 

them in the right hands 

— one in each. ' ' So Jack 

whittled down the ends 

of some little twigs till 

they were very sharp, 

and while the men were 

warm and soft, they put a twig in the right hand 

of each, and they were as funny as could be. 

**Now, Jack, I Ve something lovely for you 




Gingerbread man 



THE DAT BEFORE CHRISTMAS 25 

to make!'' said Miss Betty. ^*I came over on 
purpose to tell you about if 

**Boys don't cook!" said Jack, loftily. 

^^Boys would be perfectly wild to make 
these," laughed Miss Betty, *4f only they knew 
how; but of course if you don't care to — " 

**What are they?" 

''Christmas elves, and the cunningest things 
you ever saw. ' ' She opened a box and showed 
them a dear, droll little figure, brown and fat. 
It made the children laugh to look at him. 

*'We will make one for each person at the 
Christmas dinner, and stand them at the plates 
with cards in the hands, to show where every- 
body is to sit. Now, Jack, do you want to try 1 ' ' 

Jack instantly was hard at work. 

CHRISTMAS ELVES 

Take a square of thin wood and drive two long, slender 
nails through it; these are the legs of the elf. Turn it up- 
side down and push two large raisins on each nail, and then 
a fig on both — these are the legs and the body. Take a 
wire about four inches long, and put two raisins on each 
end, twisting up the ends to hold them. Lay this across 
the fig body and press it down to hold it firm. Put a 
marshmallow on a wooden toothpick, and put that on top 
for a head, and half of a fig for a cap. Draw eyes, nose, 
and mouth on the face with pen and ink, and, if you 
choose, brush a little melted chocolate on the sides of his 
head, for hair. Put a sprig of Christmas green in his cap. 



26 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



Just as the elves were put in a row on the 
table. Miss Betty exclaimed, ^* Children, it 's 
stopped snowing! It wiU be all clear to-mor- 




The Christmas elves 

row, and everybody will get here in time, after 
all!'' 

They rushed to the window to look, for sure 
enough, the storm was over, and everybody was 
going to have A Merry Christinas! 



CHAPTEE n 

SUPPER AT THE HOUSE IX THE WOODS 

WHEX tne Junior Blairs came down to 
breakfast on New Year's morning, there 
were three good-sized red-covered books lying 
on the table, one by each plate, and on the cover 
of each, in gold letters, was the name of Mildred, 
or Jack, or Brownie. But when they opened 
them there was nothing inside — only just white 
paper leaves. 

' ' What are they f or T ' asked Mildred, puzzled. 
**For school, for examples and compositions?'' 

'•Not a bit of it I"' laughed her mother. 
*'They are cook-books, or they will be when you 
have filled them full of receipts. When you 
made such delicious things for Christmas, I or- 
dered these for you, so you could write down 
each rale that you used then, and add others as 
you learned other things. You see, there are 
little letters all down the edges of the book, and 
when you want to find gingerbread, for instance, 
all you have to do is to turn to G- : and when you 
want — '* 

27 



28 THE FUN OF COOKING 

^'Cake,'' interruiDtecl Brownie, ''you turn to 

Everybody laughed then, but in a minute Jack 
said soberly: ''If you don't mind, Mother, I 
think I '11 use mine for school. You see, boys 
don't cook." 

"It seems to me I Ve heard that before," 
said Father Blair, nodding at him. "But you 
just tuck that book away in your bureau drawer 
and keep it, because I 've an idea you may want 
it yet for a cook-book." 

Jack shook his head energetically, but as 
Norah just then brought in a fresh plate of pop- 
overs, he was too busy to say anything more. 

That afternoon, the girls began their books by 
copying very neatly the receipts they had al- 
ready used: Brownies, Christmas Cakes, Icing, 
Christmas Elves, Gingerbread Men, Oatmeal 
Macaroons, Pop-corn Balls, and Tartlets all 
went in, each under its own initial. Then they 
said they wanted some more receipts right 
away, because these looked so lonely. 

"Very well," said their mother; "but first 
we will have a talk, because I have a bright 
idea." 

Now it happened that one of the particularly 
nice things about the Blair family was that they 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 29 

owned a little bit of a house not many miles 
from town, right in the midst of a pine grove. 
A farmer lived quite close by, but the trees hid 
his house from sight; and the trolley-cars ran 
just around the comer, but they could not be 
seen either; so when the family went there for a 
day or two, or a week or two, it was just as 
though they were a long, long distance from 
everybody in the world. They called this little 
place the House in the Woods, and Brownie 
Blair often pretended it was the one in the fairy 
book, and that Goldilocks might come in at any 
moment to eat a bowl of porridge with the three 
Blairs, instead of the three bears. 

^^ You see,'' Mother Blair went on, ^^the snow 
is still so fresh and lovely, and the sleighing so 
good, and the full moon is still coming up so 
very early, that I thought — " 

^^Oh, I know!'' Jack shouted. ^^A sleighing 
party ! ' ' 

^'Yes," said his mother; *^to the House in the 
Woods for supper. Won't that be fun! And 
you can cook the supper. Only, if you invite 
seven boys and girls to go with you, we must 
have plenty of things for them to eat; and of 
course you will want to cook them all your- 
selves." 



30 THE FUN OF COOKING 

^^Of course,'' Mildred said decidedly. 
^^What shall we have for the supper?" 

^ ^ Oh, have cheese dreams ! ' ' Jack begged. 
**The fellows think they 're great. I '11 make 
'em myself, if you will. I learned how at the 
Dwights when I was there last week." 

^'You did!" teased his mother. *^But I 
thought boys didn't cook?" Jack's face grew 
decidedly red. 

*'0f course boys cook with a chafing-dish," he 
explained; ^'so do men, too. In college, lots of 
them make Welsh-rabbit and oysters and things 
like that for spreads, you know. And you can 
make the same things in a frying-pan on the 
stove just as well. So I '11 make the dreams up 
before we go, and cook 'em when we get there. ' ' 

**Very well," said his mother; **but I bar- 
gain with you that you are to put the receipt in 
your own cook-book. ' ' And Jack had to prom- 
ise. 

Then Milded and her mother planned the rest 
of the supper. They were to have oyster stew, 
because that was what everybody wanted at a 
sleighing party; and then the cheese dreams, 
and potatoes, and cocoa ; and Mother Blair said 
they would have a dish of scrambled eggs for 
anybody who did not like cheese. And, last of 



SUPPER IX THE WOODS 31 

all, tliey would have little hot brown biscuits and 
honey; Farmer Dunn always had beautiful 
honey. 

''Now, let us plan things out," said Mildred. 
** You and Brownie and I, Mother, can go out to 
the House in the Woods by trolley, and get the 
fires going and the table all ready: and Father 
and Jack can drive out with the others just at 
supper-time, and then we can all go back to- 
gether afterward." This seemed the very best 
way of managing; so early one Saturday after- 
noon they reached the little house, and while 
Mildred and her mother went in and opened the 
windows and looked all around to see if every- 
thing was as they left it, Brownie ran off for 
Farmer Dunn, who soon brought wood and 
made up rousing fires in the rooms. By the 
time the baskets were unpacked on the kitchen 
table, he was ready to go back to his house and 
get milk and cream and eggs and butter and 
honey. As the Blairs always left the house 
ready to open at a moment's notice, they had 
sugar and flour and salt and things like that in 
the pantry. 

Mildred and Brownie laid the table, putting 
on plates and cups and glasses, and they rubbed 
the forks and spoons and made them as bright 



32 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

as the sunshine. When it was all done, they 
got a beautiful great bunch of feathery pine 
branches for a centerpiece, and then it looked 
exactly as though the table knew there was go- 
ing to be a party. 

'*It is nearly five o'clock," their mother called 
to them as they finished. **It is time we began 
to get supper. Brownie, here is a receipt for 
you ; do you think you can manage it all alone ! ' ' 

''Of course,'' said Brownie, with great dig- 
nity. ' ' Only you might just tell me how, first. ' ' 

Mother Blair laughed, and read the receipt 
over to her, and told her what to do. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Take six large potatoes, wash and scrub them well, and 
bak« them for about forty minutes in a hot oven, or till 
they are done. Take one potato at a time, hold it in a 
towel, and cut it in two, lengthwise. Scoop out the inside 
with a spoon into a hot bowl. When all six are ready, add 
1/2 teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of butter, beating 
and mashing well till they are light; then fill the potato 
shells, heaping them full; arrange in a shallow pan, and 
set it in the oven; bake about ten minutes, or till they are 
brown. 

As soon as Brownie was busy with the pota- 
toes, Mildred said she would make the cocoa, be- 
cause that could stand and wait while other 
things cooked. Her mother told her to get the 



SUPPER IX THE WOODS 33 

double boiler, put some hot water in the outside, 
and set it on the stove. Then she gave her this 
receipt: 

COCOA 

6 teaspoonfuls of cocoa. 
iy2 cups of boiling water. 
IV2 cups of boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul of powdered sugar. 
1 small pinch of salt. 
Always measure spoonfuls just a little rounded. Put the 
powdered cocoa into the double boiler and pour on it the 
boiling water, a little at first, stirring it until it melts; add 
the boiling milk, and cook two minutes, stirrmg all the 
time ; add the sugar, stir a moment longer ; add the salt and 
take from the fire. If not to be used at once, stand the 
double boiler on the back of the stove till wanted. 

'^But, Mother, vre will need a great many 
more cups of cocoa than this," Mildred ex- 
claimed, as she read the rule over. "Those 
boys will drink at least two apiece, and the girls 
may, too ; they will all be just staiwing ! ' ' 

' ' Of course, ' ' said Mother Blair. ' ' But what 
do you go to school for, if not to learn multipli- 
cation? How many times over must you make 
the rule?" 

Mildred thought two whole minutes, and then 
said she thought about five times would do ; so 
she very carefully measured everything five 



34 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

times over. ^'I never thought arithmetic was 
any good before,'^ she said soberly. ^^But now 
I see it is to cook by. ' ' 

*'Yes, I find it useful myself/' her mother 
said, with a smile. *^Now, Mildred, we might 
make the biscuits, I think ; those will not be hurt 
by standing any more than the cocoa will. But 
this rule I think you will have to multiply by 
three.'' 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 

1 pint of sifted flour. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
^ cup of milk. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Put the salt and baking-powder in the flour and rub the 
butter into these with a spoon; little by little add the milk, 
mixing all the time ; lift the dough out on the floured board, 
dust it over mth flour, and flour the rolling-pin; roll out 
lightly, just once, till it is an inch thick. Flour your 
hands and make it into little balls as quickly as you can; 
put a very little flour on the bottom of a shallow pan, and 
put the biscuits in it, close together. Bake in a hot oven 
about twenty minutes, or till they are brown. 

These were great fun to make, and when the 
very last panful was done, Mildred tucked all 
the little brown biscuits up in a big fresh towel, 
and put them in a pan in the warming oven to 
keep hot till they were needed. At that very 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 35 

minute, they heard sleigh-bells, and everybody 
rushed to throw open the door and let the party 
in. Such shouting and laughing and talking 
you never heard in all your life ! All the boys 
and girls had been out to the House in the 
Woods often before, and they were so glad to 
come again, they hardly knew what to do. 

While they were taking off their wraps. Jack 
slipped out into the kitchen and demanded the 
frying-pan. ' ' See, ' ' he said proudly, opening a 
box, ^'here are the cheese dreams, all ready to 
cook! Aren't they fine f 

'^Lovely!'' exclaimed his mother, and then 
added, with a merry twinkle in her eyes, ^^you '11 
be a great cook yet. Jack!" 

This was the receipt Jack had used to make 
them: 

CHEESE DREAMS 
(Six large sandwiches) 

12 slices of bread, cut half an inch thick. 
12 thin slices of cheese. 
1 pinch of soda, cayenne pepper, and salt for each slice. 
Put together like sandwiches, and then cut into rounds. 
Heat a frying-pan very hot, melt a teaspoonful of butter 
in it, and lay in two or three sandwiches; when one side is 
brown, turn it over and cook the other; take from the pan 
and lay in the oven in a pan on a paper till all are ready. 

Of course Jack had made more than six sand- 



36 THE FUN OF COOKING 

wiches, for he knew everybody would want two 
apiece; so he had a great boxful, and it took 
him quite a little time to fry them all ; but it was 
just as well, for Mildred and her mother had to 
make the oyster stew, which was to be eaten 
first. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 pint of oysters. 
% pint of water. 
1 quart of rich milk. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
Drain the juice off the oysters and examine each 
to remove any pieces of shell that may still adhere to 
it; add the water to the oyster juice, and boil one 
minute; skim this well. Heat the milk and add to this, 
and when it steams, drop in the oysters and simmer just 
one minute, or till the edges of the oysters begin to curl; 
add the salt and take up at once; if you choose, add a cup 
of sifted cracker crumbs. 

**What is * simmer T' asked Mildred, as she 
read the rule over. 

' ^ Just letting it boil a tiny little bit, ' ' said her 
mother, * * around the edges of the saucepan, but 
not all over. And here is the receipt for 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

1 egg- for each person. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk to each egg. 
2 shakes of salt. 

1 shake of pepp'er. 




Jack Fried the "Cheese Dreams' 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 39 

Break the eggs in a bowl, beat them twelve times, then 
add the milk, salt, and pepper; heat a pan, put in a piece 
of butter the size of a hickory-nut, and when it is melted, 
pour in the eggs; stir them as they cook, and scrape them 
off the bottom of the pan; when they are all thick and 
creamy, they are done. 

*^I have taken the inile for the stew three 
times over for twelve people, and I don't think 
it will be a bit too much; but as almost eveiy 
one will want the cheese dreams, suppose we 
scramble only five eggs. 

''You 'd better do that right away, for supper 
is almost ready. Brownie's potatoes are just 
done, and she can be filling the glasses with 
water, and putting on the butter and bread, and 
these two big dishes of honey to eat with the 
biscuits for the last course." 

While Mildred was cooking the eggs, Mother 
Blair put the oysters on the table, with the hot 
soup-plates and a generous supply of crisp 
oyster-crackers; the cheese dreams were done 
and in the oven, and Mildred covered the eggs 
and set the dish in the warming oven, and put 
the cocoa on the table in a chocolate pot. Then 
everybody sat down and began to eat. 

After the oyster stew was all gone, they had 
the hot cheese dreams and scrambled eggs and 
the stuffed potatoes and cocoa all at once ; and 



40 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

when those too had vanished, there were the lit- 
tle biscuits and the beautiful golden clover- 
honey in the comb, and perhaps that was the 
very best of all. 

^* Never, never, did I eat anything so good as 
this supper!'* Father Blair said solemnly, as he 
ate his fourth biscuit. ^^That oyster stew — 
those potatoes — ^the cheese dreams — " 

''What a greedy father !'* said Mildred. 
''And you never said a word about the cocoa — " 

"Nor about the scrambled eggs — " said 
Brownie, eagerly. 

"But I ate them all,'' said her father. "I 
ate everything I was given, and I should like to 
eat them all again! Next time we come, have 
twice as much of everything, won't you?" 

But everybody else said that they couldn't 
have eaten one single crumb more. And they 
knew perfectly well that Father Blair couldn't, 
either. 

Then everybody helped wash the dishes and 
put things away, and Farmer Dunn came over 
to put out the fires and shut the doors ; and pres- 
ently it was all dark in the House in the Woods, 
and so still that, far, far off, you could hear the 
sound of the singing of the boys and girls as 
they rode home across the snow. 



CHAPTER m 

jack's school-luxcheoxs 

MOTHEE,'' said Jack, one evening, "I 'd 
like to take my lunch to school for the 
next few weeks; all the fellows are going to, so 
we can have more time for class elections and so 
on. Do you suppose Xorah could put up one 
for me every morning?" 

" AYhy not let Mildred put it up ] Her school 
is so near that she does not have to start till 
long after you do; and then, Jack, you could 
easily pay her for her trouble by helping her 
with her Latin: you know she is bothered with 
that just now. ' ' 

Mildred was overjoyed at the suggestion of 
the bargain. "Oh, Jack! I '11 do you up the 
most beautiful luncheons in the world if you will 
only help me with that horrid Caesar. I 'm 
just as stupid as I can be about it. What do 
you like best to eat in all the world?" 

Jack said he wasn't very particular as long 
as he had plenty of pie and cake and iDickles and 

41 



42 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

pudding and ice-cream; Mildred laughed, and 
said she guessed she could manage to think up 
a few other things beside. 

So the very next morning she put up the 
first luncheon. But, alas, Norah had no cold 
meat to slice — only bits of beefsteak left from 
dinner ; and not a single piece of cake. All she 
could find for lunch was some plain bread and 
butter, which she cut rather thick, a hard-boiled 
eggy and an apple. ^ ^ Pretty poor, ' ' she sighed, 
as she saw him trudge off with the box under 
his arm. 

That afternoon, when she came home from 
school, she went to Mother Blair for help. ^'I 
must give him nice luncheons," she explained. 
*^Now what can I have for to-morrow? I can't 
think of anything at all, except bread and cake, 
and stupid things like those." 

"Oh, there are lots and lots of things," said 
her mother. "Putting up lunches is just fun! 
I only wish you would do up some for me, too ! 
And first, dear, you had better see that there is 
plenty of bread, because it takes a good deal for 
sandwiches, and it must not be too fresh to slice 
nicely, nor too stale; day-old bread is best. 
And if you can find some brown bread as well as 
white, that will be ever so nice. You will want 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 43 

cake, too, and fruit; you might ask Norah what 
she has on hand." 

In a moment, Mildred came back with the 
news that, as there was to be fish for dinner, 
there would be no left-over meat at all in the 
morning; the bits of steak were still there. 
'^But imagine beefsteak sandwiches!" said she, 
scornfully. And though there was no cake now, 
Norah was going to make some. 

*^I think we had better learn first how to make 
all kinds of sandwiches, because that will help 
you more than anything else in putting up 
lunches," her mother said, getting out her cook- 
book. ''You will need some paraffin paper for 
them, too, and paper napkins ; suppose you look 
on the top shelf of the kitchen closet and see if 
we had any left over from summer picnics." 

By the time Mildred had found these, as well 
as a box to pack the lunch in, these receipts were 
all ready for her to copy in her own book : 

SANDWICHES 

Use bread that is at least a day old. Spread the butter 
smoothly on the loaf; if it is too cold to spread well, warm 
it a little; slice thin, with a sharp knife; spread one slice 
with the filling, lay on another, press together, and trim 
off the hea^-y part of the crust; cut in two pieces, or, if 
the slices are veiy large, in three. Put two or three sand- 



44 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

wiches of the same kind together, and wrap m paraffim 
paper. 

MEAT SANDWICHES 

Take any cold meat, cut off the gristle and fat, and put 
it through the meat chopper. Add a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of dry mustard, a shake of pepper, and, last, a teaspoonful 
of melted butter; press into a cup, and put away to grow 
firm. 

^^Now you see the nice thing about this rule 
is, that any sort of cold meat will do to use, and 
if you have bits of two or more kinds, you can 
use them together. There are those beefsteak 
ends ; all you have to do is to follow your rule, 
and they will make as good sandwiches as any- 
thing else. ' ^ 

^'But, Mother, if you had nice roast-beef 
slices, you would not chop those up, would 
your' 

^*No, indeed! I would make sandwiches of 
plain bread and butter and put the slices of 
meat in by themselves. But chopped meat 
makes better sandwiches than slices of meat be- 
tween bread. ' ' 

^^But what do you make sandwiches out of if 
you don't use meat? I think plain bread and 
butter is horrid for lunches." 

^*0h, there are plenty of other things to use; 
see, here are your next rules : 



JACK^S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 45 

EGG SANDWICHES 

1 hard-boiled egg, chop*ped fine. 
1 teaspoonful of oil. 
3 drops of vinegar. 
1 pinch of salt. 
1 shake of pepper. 
Mix well and spread on buttered bread. 

*'And then sometimes you can have 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread thin buttered brown bread with cream cheese; 
sprinkle with a very little salt and pepper. Sometimes 
add chopped nuts for a change. 

**0r, here are these: 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Spread some very thin white bread; lay on a leaf of 
lettuce; sprmkle with a very little oil, vinegar, salt, and 
pepper, as in the egg sandwiches. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Drain off all the oil from a little tin of sardines; skin 
each fish, take out the bones, and mash smoothly, adding 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice; spread on white buttered 
bread. 

^*And then, when you have no cake or cookies 
for lunch, you can have two or three sandwiches 
with meat and two more like these: 

SWEET SANDWICHES 

Spread buttered bread with a very little jam or jelly; 
or with chopped dates or figs; or with scraped maple 



46 THE FUN OF COOKING 

sugar; or with chopped raisins and nuts; or with a thick 
layer of brown sugar. 

^ ^ Those are just as good as cake, and better, I 
think," said Mother Blair, as Mildred finished 
copying them all down. *^And now, what 
conies next in a lunch, after sandwiches T' 

*^Cake," said Mildred, promptly. 

**Yes, sometimes, but not always. What else 
can you think of that would be niceT' 

Mildred said she thought gingerbread might 
be good, or perhaps doughnuts; but she could 
not think of anything else. 

^^Oh, I can think of ever so many things," 
said her mother. ^'But we will put down the 
gingerbread first ; and, by the way, what do you 
think Betty calls it 1 This : 

^'PERFECTLY LOVELY" GINGERBREAD 

1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of shortening (butter and lard mixed). 
3 cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, ginger, and soda. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of milk. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, well beaten 
without separating, then the molasses mixed with the 
spices and soda, then the flour, then the milk. Stir and 
beat well. Put in a shallow tin and bake slowly." 




Brownie and Mildred Making "Chocolate Crackers' 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 49 

'^Things don't sound as good as they taste, 
do theyT' said Mildred, as she read the receipt 
over. ' ^ I just love gingerbread, but butter and 
lard and soda don't sound appetizing." 

^'Well, then, try this," laughed Mother Blair; 
' ^ every bit of this sounds good : 

PEANUT WAFERS 

1 eup of sugar. 
1/2 cup of milk. 

% teaspoonful of soda. 
1/2 cup of butter. 

2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of chopped peanuts. 
Cream the butter and sugar; put the soda in the milk, 
stir thoroughly, and put in next; then the flour. Beat well. 
Grease a shallow pan and spread the mixture evenly over 
the bottom, and scatter the nuts on top. Bake till light 
brown, and cut in squares while warm." 

*'0h, those do sound good!" Mildred ex- 
claimed, as she wrote the last words down. 

*'What sounds good?" asked Miss Betty's 
voice, as her pretty head popped in the door. 
So they told her all about the luncheons, and she 
said she knew some good things, too, and the 
first one was 

CHOCOLATE CRACKERS 

2 squares of chocolate. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 



50 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



Butter, the size of the tip of your thumb. 

3 drops of vanilla. 
Cut the chocolate up into bits and put it in a saucer over 
the tea-kettle; when it melts, add the sugar and butter and 
vanilla; stir, and drop in some small crackers, only one at 
a time, and lay them on a greased paper to dry. 

^^Oh, Mother, I Ve just got to stop writing 




"I've got to make some this very minute." 

and make some of those this very minute !'' Mil- 
dred exclaimed. Miss Betty said she had lots 
of things she wanted to talk over with Mother 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUXCHEOXS 51 

Blair while Mildred was busy. Brownie came 
running in just then, and the two girls worked 
so fast they had a whole jDlateful of crackers 
done in no time: and after everybody had had 
one apiece to eat, Mildred said: ^'Xoiv, I will 
leam to make some more things." 

^'Let me see," said her mother, slowly. 
*' Sandwiches and cake — what else can you think 
of for luncheons, Betty • " 

''Deviled eggs," said Miss Betty, as quick as 
a flash. • ' Please let me tell how I 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil three egg's for ten minutes: peel them, cut them in 
halves, and put the yolks in a bowl ; add 



:-i 



teaspoonful of salt. 



14 teaspoonful of diy mustard. 
1 pinch of pepper. 
1 teaspoonful of oil. 
^2 teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Mix well, fill the whites, press smooth with a knife, and 
put two halves together.-' 

''But three eggs are too many for Jack," 
complained Brownie. "He won't need three; 
can 't I have one for my lunch here ? ' ' 

Miss Betty laughed, and said it would be easy 
for Mildred to make enough for everybody in- 
stead of making three, as the rule said. 

"If I just made one, I suppose I 'd take 



52 THE FUN OF COOKING 

pinches instead of teaspoonfuls,'' said Mildred, 
thoughtfully. ^'I mean, I 'd take just a little of 
everything, enough to make the egg taste 
good!" 

*' Exactly!" said Miss Betty; ''that is just 
the way a real grown-up cook does. And, Mil- 
dred, when I had to take my lunch to school, I 
used to have the best thing — salad. I had it 
when there were no real sandwiches, only bread 
and butter; it was put in a little round china jar 
with a tin top that screwed on, so it never 
spilled. But perhaps Jack does n't like salad.'' 

''He just loves it," said Brownie; "he loves 
every single thing to eat that there is!" 

"Then he will surely 'just love' these things! 
Write them down, Mildred. ' ' 

CHICKEN SALAD 

y2 cup of cold chicken, cut in small bits. 

1/2 a hard boiled egg, cut up. 

Or use celeiy in place of the egg, or use both. 

FRENCH DRESSING 
2 teaspoonfuls of oil. 
^ teaspoonful vinegar. 

1 pinch of salt. 

2 shakes of pepper (paprika is best). 
Beat the dressing well and mix with the 

chicken and egg. 
Make more dressing if the salad is too dry. 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUXCHEOXS 53 

LUNXHEON FRUIT SALAD 

Cut a seedless orange in halves ; rake o\ii the pulp with 
a spoon; use alone, or mix with bits of banana or other 
fruit : or use chopped celery tc^ether. Add 

the dressLQg. 

*• There!" said Miss Betty, trinmpihantly. as 
Mildred read the receipts aloud wh-n -_- lial 
copied them. "If Jack doesn't like those, he 
isn't the boy I take h:-:i\ ::r. A ' - ^Til- 

dred, when yon have no ::al:..i ::. ^..„. y.u ean 
sometimes put in a nice stalk of celeiy: and 
when you have had the same fruit over and 
over, you can just give him a fruit salad. 
I do believe I *11 start on a long :"ourn-y 
and take a whole week's supply oi IuujL-s 
along. All these receipts make me feel just like 
it'/' 

^'Oh, do let me go too," begged Mi: 'i- h 

''So you shaU." laughed Miss B^::v. ••But 
before we start, I must tell you one thin^ ni-jr- : 
if you want an ab-so-lute-ly perfect lunch, you 
must always have a surprise for the very last 
thing of all." 

"How do you make one?" asked Brownie, 
curiously. 

'•Oh. you don't make them at all. or at least 
not usually; a surprise is something which has 



54 THE FUN OF COOKING 

to be eaten last of all, after all the sandwiches 
and other things are gone, for a sort of dessert; 
sometimes I had a piece of maple-sugar, or a bit 
of sweet chocolate, or a couple of marshmallows ; 
sometimes it was a fig or two, or a few dates. 
But it was always hidden down in the very bot- 
tom of the box, and everything had to be fin- 
ished up before I opened the little paper it was 
in. Honestly, I don't think boys need surprises 
at all, because they will eat everything up any 
way, but often girls will skip a sandwich or two, 
unless they know about the surprise. * ' 

^* When I take my lunch, I shall have one every 
time,'' said Brownie. 

''So shall I,'' laughed Mother Blair. 

**I shall certainly give Jack one every day, 
because of Caesar," said Mildred. 

The next morning bright and early, Mildred 
hurried to get Jack's luncheon all ready be- 
fore breakfast, and her mother said she would 
help her, just for once. First they made three 
beautiful thin sandwiches out of bread and but- 
ter spread with the nice beefsteak filling, and 
wrapped these up by themselves and put them 
in one comer of the box; then in the opposite 
comer went the surprise, this time four little 
chocolate crackers, all wrapped up carefully ; on 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUXCHEOXS 55 

top of them, to hide them, went three more 
sandwiches, made of brown bread and butter 
and cheese; then the deviled egg filled the 
corner on top of the other pile, and one of 
Norah's cakes was put opposite. 

''Xow for the fruit," said Mother Blair. 
*^What is there r' 

jMildred said there was an orange, but it 
would not go in the box. 

^'Oh, YOU don't give anybody an orange whole 
for luncheon ! Peel it first, then break it care- 
fully in halves, wrap each half up in paper by 
itself, and you will see how well it fits in and 
how easy it will be to eat when you have no fruit- 
knife or orange-spoon to use with it. Xow that 
is all, and it -s what I call a perfectly delicious 
luncheon, don't you ? ' ' 

''Perfectly!'' said Mildred, rapturously, as 
she tied up the box. ''I guess the other boys 
will wish they had lunches just exactly like it; 
and I think it 's very interesting to do them up, 
too.'' 

That afternoon, when Jack came home from 
school, he shouted up the stairs : 

"Say, Mildred, what will yon take to do up 
lunches for the crowd? They told me to ask 
you. They said they had never seen anything 



56 THE FUN OF COOKING 

so good. Where is that Caesar! I '11 do about 
ten pages for you if you want me to/' 

When the lesson was over, Mildred hugged 
Jack gratefully. '*I can do it alone in no time 
now, because you 're such a good teacher, ' ' she 
said, as Jack squirmed away. **And, when 
summer comes, just think of all the picnic 
lunches I can do up for everybody !" 

*^We won't wait till summer for a picnic," 
said Mother Blair. ^'I 've got such a bright 
idea!" 



CHAPTER IV 

THE BIRTHDAY PIC^'IC 

JUST as Mother Blair declared that she had 
'^sucli a bright idea !" a caller c^me in, and 
it was dinner-time before Mildred had a chance 
to ask her what it was. And then her mother 
put her finger on her lip and shook her head ; so 
Mildred knew, of conrse, that it was a secret, 
and waited till later on to hear what it was. 

'^Xow I will tell you all about it," Mother 
Blair said, after she had read Brownie a fairy 
story and tucked her up for the night. ''Jack, 
you can hear, too, and Father, if he wants to." 
So they all drew up around the fire to listen. 

''You remember how much Brownie loved the 
picnics we had last summer, ' ' she began. ' ' She 
used to say that she would rather eat plain 
bread and butter out of doors than ice-cream in 
the dining-room ; and whenever we took our sup- 
per and went off for the afternoon, she was so 
happy!" 

"So she was," said Father Blair. "Brownie 



58 THE FUN OF COOKING 

is lier father's own daughter; I love picnics 
too.'' 

*'But, Mother, we can't have a picnic at this 
time of year ! ' ' exclaimed Mildred. ' ' Just listen 
to the rain and snow coming down together this 
minute ; and the slush on the sidewalk is so deep 
you have to wade to school. ' ' 

^'But this is just where my bright idea comes 
in ! You see, next week will be Brownie 's birth- 
day, and every year since she was two, she has 
had some sort of a party; now this year, for a 
real change, I think it would be fun to have a 
picnic for her, a lovely in-door picnic, for ten 
boys and girls ; and we '11 have it up in the 
attic!" 

''Isn't that just like Mother!" Jack ex- 
claimed, laughing. ''Who else in the world 
would ever have thought of such a thing ! ' ' 

' ' But think what fun it will be ! " Mother Blair 
went on, her cheeks growing pink as she ex- 
plained all about it. "The attic is nice and 
large, and empty except for the trunks and old 
furniture which are tucked away around the 
eaves. The children will all come in their every- 
day clothes, and wear their coats and hats, so 
they won't take cold up there. And we can 
spread down in the middle of the open space the 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 59 

two old green parlor carpets, for grass ; they are 
all worn out, but nobody will notice that. And 
then. Jack, you can ca.Try up the two palms and 
the rubber plant, and put them on the edge of 
the 'grass,' and Farmer Brown can bring us in 
some little cedar- and spruce-trees from the 
woods the next time he drives to town, and we 
will plant them in sand in big earthen flower- 
pots, and stand those around, too. Can't you 
see how lovely it will be? Just like a little 
grassy grove!" 

Everybody laughed, but everybody thought it 
was going to be great fun to make a picnic-place 
in the attic. 

''And we wiU tie a hammock to the rafters," 
said Father Blair; "and there is the old ping- 
pong set to play with, and the ring-toss : and the 
boys can play ball, if they choose ; there 's noth- 
ing they can hurt. ' ' 

And so it was all arranged; and Brownie was 
told she was going to have a beautiful surprise 
for her birthday, and she must not ask a single 
question about it. Mother Blair asked ten boys 
and girls to come at twelve on Saturday and 
spend the rest of the day, and, after the notes 
were sent, she and Mildred began to plan the 
luncheon. 



60 THE FUN OF COOKING 

''Of course all the things must be packed in 
baskets/' said Mildred, ''exactly like a regular 
picnic. ' ' 

' ' Of course ! ' ' said her mother. ' ' And in one 
basket we will put a lunch cloth to lay on the 
'grass,' and wooden plates, and paper napkins, 
and glasses, and forks. And they can spread 
the cloth and arrange everything themselves. ' ' 

"And what will they have to eat? They are 
sure to be dreadfully hungry." 

"Well, there must be one substantial dish to 
begin with. We might have cold sliced ham, of 
course, but I think perhaps they would like some- 
thing else better. Suppose we have veal loaf 1 ' ' 

"Just the very thing," said Mildred. "May 
I make it?" 

"Of course you may, and everything else 
as well, if you want to. If you will get your 
book, you can write down the receipts this min- 
ute. Here is the first: 

VEAL LOAF 

2 pounds of veal, chopped fine. 
^ pound of salt pork, chopped with it. 
1/2 cup of bread crumbs, soaked in milk. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped onion. 
y2 teaspoonful each of pepper and paprika. 

1 level teaspoonful of salt. 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 61 

Have the meats chopped together at the market ; put the 
crumbs in a bowl and cover them with milk, and let them 
stand for fifteen minutes; then squeeze them dry and add 
to the meat. Beat the egg without separating it, and mix 
that in next, and then the seasoning. Stir all together, 
and put in a bread tin and bake one hour. Have on the 
stove a cup half full of hot water mixed with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and every fifteen minutes open the 
oven door and pour a quarter of this over the meat. When 
done, put in a cold place over night. Slice thin, and put 
parsley around it. 

*'You see, this is very easy to make, and it is 
always good for luncheon for ourselves, and for 
Sunday night supper as well. You can make it 
Friday afternoon, and then, hy the time for the 
picnic, it will be ready to slice. ' ' 

^^And what are they to eat with it?" 

^^I think it would be nice to have some sand- 
wiches — hot ones.'' 

**Hot sandwiches. Mother Blair! I never 
heard of them. How do you make themf 

^^I invented them myself,'' laughed her 
mother. ^ ^ I really did, this very morning, when 
I was thinking about the picnic. Here is the 
rule. ' ' 



TOASTED SARDINE SANDWICHES 

1 tin sardines. 
8 slices of toast. 



62 THE FUN OF COOKING 

% a lemon. 

Large iDiucli of salt, and as much dry mustard. 
Open a can of sardines, drain off the oil, and spread 
them on brown paper. Scrape off the skin carefully, and 
open each one on the side and take out the back bone. 
Sprinkle over them all the salt and mustard, and squeeze 
the lemon on. Then make the toast, large brown slices, and 
butter them a little; lay two together, trim off the crust, 
and cut them in strips. Open the strips, and between each 
two put one sardine and press together. Put them in the 
oven between two hot plates till needed. 

^'Oh, those do sound so good! Can't I make 
some for lunch to-day, Mother?'' Mildred 
begged. 

' ^ But they belong to the surprise ! Let 's wait 
till after the picnic, and then you may make lots 
of them." 

^^Well!" sighed Mildred, ^^then let me have 
another receipt right away, so I '11 forget them. 
I do want to make them so much." 

*'Here is another receipt you will like just as 
well ; part of it is for the picnic, and part of it is 
for a little bit of a party for you and Miss Betty 
and me, while the picnic is going on upstairs." 

**A party for us? Wliat kind of a party?" 

*^ Lovely grown-up afternoon tea!" laughed 
her mother. *'You can invite Miss Betty your- 
self won't that be nice?" 

i i Perfectly lovely ! Do tell faster ! ' ' 



THE BIETHDAY PICNIC 63 

^^Well, first you make for the picnic some 
sweet sandwiches like those we planned for the 
school lunches ; these are simply, to begin with : 

ORANGE :\L1RMALADE SANDWICHES 

Spread thin white bread and butter with orange mar- 
malade; trim off the crusts and cut into even shapes; a 
romid cooky cutter makes pretty sandwiches." 

^^I Ve made those for Jack, lots of times," 
said Mildred, as she wrote this down, "only I 
didn't cut them in round shapes, because boys 
don't care about that." 

*^No," said her mother, smiling, "boys don't, 
but girls do ! So make part of these in rounds, 
and put them away, and send the square ones 
up-stairs. And when it 's time for our party, 
just toast ours quickly, and you will find them 
the most delicious things you ever ate, especially 
with tea ; that 's what we three will have. ' ' 

"Those will be Miss Betty's surprise!" 
laughed Mildred, as she wrote down the word 
toasted after the title of the sandwiches. * ' Now 
what next?" 

"Suppose you try some very easy cookies; 
those are just the thing for a picnic; you can 
make them Saturday morning, and then they 
will be fresh. Here is the rule : 



64 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

SPICY COOKIES 

Sprinkle the baking board with flour and rub it smoothly 
over; do the same to the rolling-pin, and scatter a little 
flour evenly also over the bottom of some shallow tins. 
Have a panful of sifted flour ready on the table, as you 
may need to do this several times. 
% cup of sugar. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
6 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
1 egg. 
iy2 cups of flour. 
% teaspoonful of soda. 
y^ teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of hot water. 
y^ teaspoonful of cloves. 
y^ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar, and rub together. Beat 
the egg without separating, and put in next. Mix the soda 
and hot water, put the milk with this; put the salt in the 
flour; add part of the flour to the sugar and other things, 
and then part of the milk, and so on ; then put in the spices 
and stir all together. Put the dough on the board, roll it 
out thin, and with a cutter mark it all over; then lift out 
the pieces with a cake turner, very carefully, and arrange 
them in your pans, but do not let them touch. Bake fifteen 
minutes ; take them out of the pans while warm, and spread 
out on a platter to cool." 

^^Dear me, that sounds pretty hard!" said 
Mildred, as she finished. 

^^ Cookies are not quite as easy to make as 
some other things, but they are so good, so nice 




'Ma.kinrr '-Qranofe Baskets" 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 67 

for luncheon and suppers and other times, that 
I think you will be glad to know how to make 
them. And Father is so fond of cookies I ' ' 

^ ' So he is. Well, Mother, I '11 try them. And 
now what comes next ? ' ' 

*^Some cunning, easy little cakes, so easy that 
next time Brownie can make them herself. 
They are called 

:^IARGUERITES 

20 round, thin crackers. 
20 marshmallows. 
2 tablespoonfuls of chopped nuts. 
2 teaspoonfuls of butter. 
Butter the crackers on one side, just a little; put a 
marshmallow on each, a tiny bit of butter on it, and a 
sprinkle of chopped nuts of any kind. Put them in a shal- 
low pan, and bake till they are soft and brown; eat while 
fresh and warm."' 

*'0h, lovely! Mother, I must have some of 
the girls in and have those for myself I ' ' 

*'So you shall, any day you want to. Xow 
don't you think that is almost enough for the 
picnic ? ' ' 

*^I think we ought to have something to finish 
off with — to eat with the cookies and marguer- 
ites; don't you think so?" 

^'Yes, I do; something in the way of fruit. 



68 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

Suppose we give them this — it is much nicer 
than plain oranges or bananas; write it down, 
dear. 

ORANGE BASKETS 

6 large oranges. 

2 bananas. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Cut the oranges in halves; take out the pulp with a 
spoon, and put it in a bowl. Scrape out the inside, leaving 
nice, clean shells, and then scallop or point the edges with 
the scissors. Peel the bananas, cut them in long, narrow 
strips, and these into small bits, and mix lightly with the 
orange, and add the sugar; heap in the baskets and set 
away to grow cold. 

^^If we happened to have any pineapple or 
white grapes in the house, I should put some of 
those in too ; but these will be delicious just as 
they are. Now anything more 1 ' ' 

*^ Something to drink with the lunch. I think 
pink lemonade would be nice." 

''Perfectly lovely!'' laughed Mother Blair. 
*'We will get a can of raspberries out of the 
fruit closet, and make something for them that 
will be ever so good. This is the rule: 

PICNIC LEMONADE 

8 lemons. 

12 glasses of water. 
3 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of raspbeiTy juice. 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 69 

Roll the lemons till they are soft; cut them and squeeze 
the juice out. Put the sugar in a little pan with a glass 
of water, and boil it two minutes; add this to the lemon 
and raspberry juice, and strain it; add the rest of the 
water; serve with broken ice in a glass pitcher. 

*^Be sure and boil the sugar and water to- 
gether, Mildred, whenever you make any kind of 
drink like lemonade ; it is so much better than if 
you put in plain sugar. When it is all done, if it 
is not quite sweet enough, you can add a little 
powdered sugar without hurting it.'' 

*^ Mother, we forgot the surprise! You re- 
member, ^ every luncheon must have a surprise,' 
you said ; see, here it is in the book. ' ' 

**Dear me, so I did! What shall it be, Mil- 
dred? I can't seem to think of another thing 
for that picnic." 

*^ Neither can I." 

^^ Stuffed dates!" exclaimed Mother Blair, 
presently. *'I knew there must be something, 
and those will be exactly right." 

STUFFED DATES 

Wash the dates and wipe them dry. Open one side and 
take out the stone; in its place press in half a pecan or 
other nut; close the edges, and roll each date in powdered 
sugar. 

^^I do hope there will be some of those over 



70 THE FUN OF COOKING 

for us/' said Mildred, as she put her book away. 
^^ Those children are going to have a wonderful 
lunch!'' 

Brownie could not imagine what her birthday 
surprise was to be. She could not help guess- 
ing, but she never once was ^^warm." When 
Saturday came, and the boys and girls arrived 
in their every-day clothes and even kept on their 
wraps in the parlor, she did not know what to 
think ; and there was actually no lunch for them 
in the dining-room! She began to look very 
sober. 

But when everybody had come, Mother Blair 
said : ^ ^ Won 't you go up-stairs ? ' ' and Mildred 
and Jack ushered them up to the attic. 

It was such a lovely surprise ! The big green 
carpets were spread down on the bare floor, and 
all around were set little green trees in pots. 
The canary was hung up out of sight, and he 
was singing as hard as he could. It was not a 
bit too cold, for the door had been kept open all 
day and the sun was shining in at the window. 

And just then appeared Mother Blair, and 
Norah, and Jack, and Mildred, all carrying 
baskets, which they put down on the floor. 
Then the picnic began ! 

There was first the cloth to spread down on 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 



71 



the grass, and paper plates and napkins to be 
passed around. The veal loaf was found, a plat- 
ter of it tied up in a large napkin, and hot sand- 
wiches between hot plates, tied up in another 
napkin, and marmalade sandwiches folded in 
paraffin paper by them- 
selves. Last of all 
were the orange bas- 
kets, each one twisted 
up in a paper napkin 
with a funny little frill 
on top made of the ends 
of the napkin; and the 
dates were in little 
square paper boxes, one 
box for each child. 

As they began to eat, 
Jack came up with a big, big pitcher of beauti- 
ful pink lemonade, and little glasses to drink it 
out of. Oh, such a picnic as it was ! Such a 
perfectly lovely picnic I Out-of-door picnics 
were nothing to it. And when they had eaten 
up every crumb and drank up every drop, they 
played games until the attic grew dark; and 
then they all went home, and the birthday was 
over. 




■Jack and the lemonade 



CHAPTEE V 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 

ONE Sunday afternoon just as the clock 
struck three, the Blairs' telephone rang; 
and after she had answered it, Mother Blair 
called Mildred, who sat reading by the window. 

^^My dear,'' she said, ^*do you remember 
hearing Father speak of his old friends the 
Wentworths, whom he used to know so well 
years ago 1 Well, they have come east, and are 
in town for a day or two, and they want to come 
out and see us this very afternoon. Now I 
should love to ask them to stay to supper, but if 
I do, I shall have to stay with them and visit and 
can't help you at all ; and Norah is out. Do you 
suppose you three children could get the supper 
and serve it all by yourselves 1 ' ' 

*'Why, of course. Mother Blair," said Mil- 
dred, reproachfully. * ' Of course we can ! You 
don't know how many things your children can 
do when they try! Now what shall we have? 

72 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 73 

It ought to be something very good, because 
they have never been here before. ' ' 

*^ We were going to have canned salmon," said 
her mother, thoughtfully; '^we might scallop 
that, and have potatoes with it, and perhaps 
muffins or biscuits.'' 

*^0h, have muffins. Mother! I have seen 
Norah make them lots of times, and I 'm sure I 
could, too, if you give me the receipt. ' ' 

**Well, you may try," said her mother, ''but 
I think you had better have some toast ready, 
too, in case they do not come out right. And 
what else can we have ? Preserves, I suppose ; 
but, Mildred, all the nice preserves are gone, be- 
cause it is so late in the spring. But we might 
have little baked custards. ' ' 

''Yes, in the cunning little brown baking 
dishes ; those will be lovely ! And I '11 make 
some little cakes to eat with them; Norah said 
there were just cookies for supper." 

"But do you really think you can do all that! 
Don't you think the cookies will do!" 

"No, indeed," said Mildred, "not for extra 
nice company! But little cakes are no trouble 
to make. And is n 't it fun to have company 
come when you don't expect it! It 's so much 
nicer than to specially invite them!" 



74 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mother Blair laughed. ^*I hope you will al- 
ways think so," she said. And Mildred ran 
away to call Brownie to get her apron and come 
to the kitchen. 

^*We will lay the table first, even though it is 
so early," said their mother. *^ Brownie, bring 
me the pile of the best doilies in the sideboard 
drawer. ' ' 

* * The Wheelers always use a regular big cloth 
for supper," Brownie said, as she came over 
with them to the table. 

^^Many people do, but I think the table looks 
prettier at breakfast and luncheon and supper 
with the doilies. And then, too, if anybody hap- 
pens to spill anything — " 

^^ Jack spilled gravy yesterday, awfully," said 
Brownie, soberly. 

'^Well, you see Norah had to wash only one 
little doily because of that; if we had had 
on a table-cloth, all of it would have had to go 
into the wash. But if we had no doilies, I 
should use a lunch cloth that would just cover 
the top of the table, and that would be pretty, 
too. Put one doily for each person, Brownie, 
and a large one in the middle for the fern dish, 
and little ones for the tumblers. Now for the 
silver." 





\ 





V 



Arranging a Small Round Tray in Front of her Mother's Place 



SUNDAY XIGHT SUPPER 77 

Mildred came with knives, forks, and spoons. 

^^Xo knives, because there is no meat," said 
her mother; *'but if we were going to nse them, 
which side would you put them on?" 

'^Left," said Brownie, guessing. 

*^Xot unless you were left-handed," smiled 
her mother. * ^ The rule is : put on the right side 
what you will use with the right hand, and on 
the left what you will use with the left hand. 
That is, if there are no knives, all the silver goes 
on the right, and the fork or spoon you are to 
use first goes the farthest away from the plate, 
the next one next to that, and so on : if you re- 
member that, you will never be puzzled as to 
which fork to use. Xow the teaspoons — put 
those on the right, too ; and the dessert si>oon or 
fork may go at the top, across the plate if yon 
like, though I prefer it on the dessert plate 
itself. Put the napkin at the left, always ; and 
the tumbler goes at the top to the right, and the 
bread-and-butter plate and knife at the top too, 
toward the left. There I Doesn't that look 
pretty ? ' ' 

Mildred had been getting out the best cups 
and saucers and arranging a small round tray 
in front of her mother's i^lace with cream and 
sugar and the tray bowl, and a place left for 



78 THE FUN OF COOKING 

tlie tea-pot; the cups she put at the right, ar- 
ranging them in twos — two cups on two saucers. 

*' Mildred, after you pass the salmon, you 
may put the dish right in front of Father; 
and the potatoes may go on the table too, as 
Norah isn't here, though I like best to have 
them passed from the sideboard. The muffins 
may stand at the side of the table, half-way 
down. Now let us carry out all the dishes and 
begin to cook." 

So Mildred took a pile of plates to heat, and 
Brownie carried a dish for the potatoes, and 
Mother Blair brought the little custard cups; 
they arranged these on the kitchen table where 
they would not be in the way, and then Mother 
Blair told Mildred to see that the fire was all 
right. ^'Always remember to look at that 
first,'' she said. ^'It needs shaking down a 
little, and to have more coal on ; and pull out the 
dampers so the oven will heat." 

Mildred hunted for the dampers, but could 
not find any. **I don't believe there are any on 
this stove," she said, just as Jack came in to see 
what was going on. 

*^No dampers! Isn't that just like a girl!" 
he exclaimed. *^See, here they are, tucked un- 
der the edge of the stove. You pull them out — 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 79 

so — and then you shut the draft at the top, op- 
posite the coal, and open the one at the bottom, 
so the air will blow right up through the fire and 
make it go like everything. And you have to 
turn the dampers in the pipe, too, to let the heat 
go up the chimney. ' ' 

''Good!" said his mother. ''I didn't know 
you knew so much about stoves. Now suppose 
you shake the fire down and put the coal on — 
that 's a man's work." 

*'A11 right," said Jack; ''I don't mind things 
like that; but boys don't cook, you know." 

His mother put both hands over her ears. 
''Jack, if I hear you say that once more, I shall 
believe you are turning into a parrot ! And you 
are all wrong, too, and some day I am going to 
give you some special lessons myself. But to- 
day you may just tend the fire and bring us 
things from the refrigerator as we need them, to 
save time. Now, Mildred, we will begin with 
the custards, because they must be nice and cold. 
Brownie, you bring the spoons and bowls and 
such things, and, Jack, you get the milk and 
eggs." 

BAKED CUSTARDS 

1 quart of milk. 
Yolks of four eggs. 



80 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

4 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
% teaspoonful of vanilla. 
1 pinch of salt. 

% teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
Put the sugar in the milk; beat the eggs light, and add 
those, with salt and vanilla. Pour into the cups, sprinkle 
with nutmeg, and arrange the cups in a shallow pan. Bake 
half an hour, or till, when you put the blade of a knife in 
one, it comes out clean. 

It took just a few moments to make these, and 
then came the next rule : 

CURRANT CAKES 

V2 cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 

1 egg. 

2 cups of flour. 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
% cup of cuiTants. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Wash the currants and rub them dry in a towel. Put 
the flour in a bowl; take out a large tablespoonful and 
mix with the currants, and then mix the baking-powder 
with the rest of it. Rub the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar, then the milk, then the egg, beaten without sepa- 
rating, then the flour mixed with the baking-powder, then 
the flavoring, and, last, the currants. Grease some small 
tins, fill them half full, and bake in an oven not too hot. 

**You must always mix some flour with 
raisins or currants to keep them from sinking 
to the bottom of the cake ; but do not add any to 



SUNDAY XIGHT SUPPEE 



81 



the rule — just take a little out from what you 
are going to use in the cake. Now, Jack, please 
get me two cans of salmon from the pantiy and 
open them; and we will need butter and milk 
from the refris'erator, too. It 's fine to have a 




'handy man' around to help us cook I Now. Mil- 
dred, double this rule, because there will be so 
many at supper." 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

1 good-sized can of salmon, or one pint of any 

cooked fish. 
1 cup of white sauce. 
1 cup of cracker crumbs. 



82 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of fish, then one of 
crumbs; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, and dot the 
crumbs with butter; then put on a layer of white sauce. 
Repeat till the dish is full, with the crumbs on top; dot 
with butter and brown well in the oven; it will take about 
twenty minutes. 

Brownie rolled the crackers for this, while 
Mildred made the white sauce by the rule she 
said was so easy it was exactly like learning a 
b c. 

''That is so queer/' laughed her mother, ''be- 
cause cooks call it just that — the a b c of cook- 
ing ! It is the rule you use more often than any 
other. 

WHITE SAUCE 

1 rounded tablespoonful of butter. 
1 rounded tablespoonful of flour. 

1 cup of milk. 

% teaspoonful of salt. 

2 shakes of pepper. 

Melt the butter; when it bubbles, put in the flour, stir- 
ring it well; when this is smooth, slowly add the milk, salt, 
and pepper; stir and cook till very smooth; you can make 
it like thin cream by cooking only one minute, or like thick 
cream by cooking it two minutes. 

"Sometimes you want it thicker than others,'' 
said her mother, "so I just put that in to ex- 
plain. To-day make it like thin cream. Now, 
Mildred, you can put it all together while Jack 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 83 

brings in the cold boiled potatoes and Brownie 
cuts them up. ' ' 

crea:\ied potatoes 

Cut eight large boiled potatoes into bits the size of the 
end of your thumb. Put them in a saucepan and cover 
them with milk; stand them on the back of the stove where 
they will cook slowly; watch them so they will not bum. 
In another saucepan make white sauce as before. TVhen 
the potatoes have drunk up all the milk and are rather dr^-, 
drop them in the sauce; do not stir them; sprinkle with 
pepper. 

**Now for the muffins, for it is after five 
^clock. Brownie, you find the muffin pans and 
make them very hot. Do you know how to 
grease them?" 

Yes, indeed!" said Brownie, proudly. 

This is the way." She got a clean bit of 
paper, warmed the pans, and dropped a bit of 
butter in each, and then with the paper rubbed 
it all around. 

MUFFINS 

2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 rounded tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
^2 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 






84 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Beat the egg yolks first; then add the milk; melt the 
butter and put that in, then the flour, well mixed with the 
baking-powder, then the salt and sugar. Last, add the stiff 
whites of the eggs. Fill the pans half full. 

* ' Some things, like cake, cannot bear to have 
the oven door opened while they are baking,'^ 
said Mother Blair; *^but salmon does not mind 
if you open quickly ; so, Mildred, put these in as 
fast as you can; they will take about twenty 
minutes to bake. I do believe that is all we 
have to make except the tea, and that takes 
only a moment when everything else is ready. 
I will give you the receipt for it now, and after 
everybody is here and you have said *How do 
you dor to them, you can slip out and make 
this, and while it stands you can put the other 
things on the table. But perhaps you had bet- 
ter make some coffee too; the men may like if 

TEA 

Fill the kettle with fresh, cold water and let it boil up 
hard. Scald out an earthen tea-kettle, and put in two 
rounded teaspoonfuls of tea for six people, or more, if you 
want it quite strong. Pour on six cups of boiling water 
and let the pot stand where it is warm for just two minutes. 
Scald out the pot you are going to send to the table, and 
strain the tea into that. Have a jug of hot water ready 
to send in with it. 







-^^' ^.JI^Ss. 



\iaiv 



She looked Carefully in the Oven Throii-h a Tinv C 



rack 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 87 

COFFEE 

1 rounded tablespoonful of ground coffee for 

each person; and 
1 extra tablespoonful. 
Yo cup of cold water. 
1 egg shell, washed and broken, with a little 
bit of the white. 
Mix these in a bowl. Then put in a very clean pot and 
add 

1 cup of boiling water for each person and 
1 cup more. 
Let it boil up hard just once; stir it, pour in 

1 tablespoonful of cold water; let it stand 
three minutes, strain and put in a hot pot. 

Just before the door-bell rang, Mildred went 
to the refrigerator to look at her custards and 
found them nice and cold. Then she looked 
carefully in the oven through a tiny crack, and 
found the muffins were done and the salmon 
beautifully brown; so she took up the potatoes. 
and put them in the covered dish on the back of 
the stove where they would keep hot, and asked 
Brownie to lay the hot plates around the table, 
one for each person. Then she went into the 
parlor and said "How do you do?'' to the 
guests, and after a moment slipped out again, 
and put everything on the sideboard, made the 
tea, filled the glasses, and put butter on the 



88 



THE FUN OF COOKINa 



bread-and-butter plates. Then Brownie asked 

everybody to come to supper. 
When they had all sat down, Mildred passed 

the dish of salmon, offering it on the left side, 

of course, just 
as Norah always 
did; then she put 
the dish down be- 
fore her father 
and passed the 
potatoes and muf- 
fins in the same 
way, while Mother 
Blair poured the 
tea and handed 
it around without 
rising from her 
seat. And then 
everybody began 
to eat, and say, 
* ^ Oh, how good 
and ^^Did you ever taste 
and ^^Did you really, really 




Jack served the custards 



?'' 



this salmon is 

such muffins?" 

make all these good things yourselves, children? 

We don't see how you ever did it!" And they 

ate at two helpings of everything, and Father 

Blair ate three. And when it was time to take 



SVSBJ^ XIGHT SUPPER 89 

the dishes off, there was not a speck of salmon 
left, nor a spoonful of potato, nor even a single 
muffin. 

Then Brownie quietly took the cnimbs off as 
she had seen Xorah do, bmshing them onto a 
plate with a folded napkin: and as she was 
doing this, Jack slipped out to the refrigerator 
and got the custards, all as cold as ice and brown 
on top, looking as pretty as could be in their 
cunning cups; each cup was set on a dessert 
plate and a spoon laid by its side, and the fresh 
cakes were passed with them. 

Soon after supper the company went home, 
and then Mildred said: '^I feel exactly like a 
toy balloon— so light inside I Wasn't that a 
good supper? And did n't they like the things 
we had? And isn't it fun to have company! 
When I am grown up and have a house of my 
o^-n, I shall have company every day in the 
week." 

"I shall make a point of coming every other 
day at least," said Father Blair. '^I 'm so 
proud of my family to-night I Those Went- 
worths may be sta^-ing at the very best hotel in 
town, but I know they don't have such suppers 
there." 

''Don't you wish you could cook, Jack?" in- 



90 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

quired liis motlier, with a twinkle in her eye. 
And then everybody laughed, and said : ' ' Dear 
me, what good times we Blairs do have to- 
gether ! ' ' 



CHAPTER VI 
mildeed's school pakty 

ONE day early in June, Mildred ran up to 
her mother ^s room as soon as she came 
home from school. She tossed her hat on the 
bed, and dropped hei" books in an arm-chair. 
"Oh, Mother!'' she exclaimed, out of breath, 
^ ^ do you suppose I could have twenty girls here 
some afternoon for a little bit of a party? I do 
so want to ask them right away, before exams 
begin. They are my twenty most particular 
friends, and some of them are going away just 
as school closes, so, you see, I have to hurry.'' 

' ' Of course you may have them, ' ' said Mother 
Blair. "But only tiuenty particular friends, 
Mildred ? What about the rest of the class ? ' ' 

Mildred laughed. "Well, I mean these are 
the girls I happen to know best of all, and I want 
to have a kind of farewell before summer really 
comes. What sort of a party shall we have. 
Mother? I mean, what shall we have to eat!" 

"I should think strawberry ice-cream would 

91 



92 THE FUN OF COOKING 

be just the thing, with some cake to go with 
it, and something cold to drink; is that about 
what you had thought off 

* ^ Just exactly, Mother. But do you think we 
can make enough ice-cream here at home for 
twenty people? Wouldn't it be better to buy 

itr' 

^'Oh, I am sure we can easily make it, and 
home-made ice-cream is so good — better, I think, 
than we could buy. We can borrow Miss 
Betty's freezer, which holds two quarts, and as 
ours holds three, that will be plenty. We count 
that a quart will serve about seven, — more cook- 
ing arithmetic, Mildred! If one quart will be 
enough for seven people, how many quarts will 
be needed for twenty?" 

'*The answer is that five quarts will be just 
about right, ' ' laughed Mildred. * ' Perhaps some 
of them will want two helpings. But, Mother, 
if we have the party on Saturday, Norah will be 
very busy, and who will make the cream?" 

* ^ We will all make it together, and Jack may 
pack the freezers and turn them for us. And 
Norah may make the cake for you on Friday, so 
that will be out of the way. ' ' 

So, early on Saturday morning, Mildred and 
Brownie began to hull strawberries for the 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PAETY 93 

party and put them away in bowls on the ice. 
Then they made the table all ready on the 
porch, putting a pretty little cloth on it, and 
arranging plates and napkins ; glasses, for what 
Brownie called the ''nice-cold drinks,'' were set 
out too, and little dishes of the candy which 
Father Blair had brought home and called his 
contribution to the party: and in the middle of 
the table they put a bowl of lovely red roses. 

After an early luncheon, everybody went at 
once to the kitchen. The berries were put on 
the large table, and the cream and milk brought 
from the refrigerator. The two freezers stood 
ready in the laundry with a big pail for the 
broken ice, a heavy bag, a wooden mallet, and 
a large bag of coarse salt. 

''Come, Jack," his mother said, as he stood 
picking out the biggest berries from the bowl 
and eating them, "here 's some more man's 
work for you! AVe want you to break the ice 
and pack these freezers for us." 

"What do I get for it?" Jack asked, pretend- 
ing to grumble. "If the girls are going to eat 
up all the ice-cream, I g-uess I won't bother 
freezing it." 

"Xo, indeed, they are not going to eat it all 
up," said Mother Blair. ''I am counting on 



94 THE FUN OF COOKING 

having ever so much left over for dinner to- 
night; and you shall have two helpings." 

^ ^ Make it three and I ^11 think ahout it, ' ' said 
Jack, choosing the very biggest berry of all. 

^' Three then," said Mildred, disgustedly, tak- 
ing the bowl away. ^^Boys do eat so much!" 

^'This cream is going to be so good that you 
will want three yourself," laughed Mother 
Blair. ^^Now, Jack, this rule is for you. Some 
cooks think that all you have to do in packing 
a freezer is to put in layers of broken ice and 
salt, and then turn the handle; but there is a 
right way to do it, and if you follow this, you 
will find the cream will freeze ever so much 
more quickly than if you are careless in pack- 
ing. ' ' 

PACKING A FREEZER 

2 large bowlfuls of broken ice. 

1 bowlful of coarse salt. 
Put the ice in a strong bag and pound with a mallet till 
it is evenly broken into bits the size of an egg. Put the 
ice in a pail till you have a quantity broken, and then meas- 
ure; add the salt quickly to the ice and stir it well; then 
put the empty ice cream tin in the freezer with the cover 
on, and fasten on the top and handle. Pack the ice all 
around the tin tightly till it is even with the top. Then 
stand it away, covered with a piece of carpet or blanket,* 
in a dark, cool place, for half an hour. There should be 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PARTY 95 

a thick coating of frost all over the mside when the cream 
is put in. 

While Jack was working in the laundry, Mil- 
dred and Brownie were reading the receipt their 
mother gave them, and getting out the spoons 
and sugar and other things they would need. 

^^Are the berries washed T' asked Mother 
Blair. ^^Yes, I see they are; now, Brownie, 
you may put half of them at a time into this 
big bowl, and crush them with the wooden po- 
tato-masher till they are all juicy. And, Mil- 
dred, here is the rule for making one quart of 
plain white ice-cream; all you have to do is to 
add any kind of fruit or flavoring to this, and 
you can change it into whatever you want. ' ' 

**Just like a fairy's receipt!'' said Brownie. 

'^Exactly!" said their mother. ^^Now, Mil- 
dred, multiply this rule by five." 

PLAIN ICE-CREAM 

3 cups of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of cream. 

Flavoring. 
Put the cream, milk and sugar in a saucepan on the fire, 
and stir till the sugar is melted and the milk steams, but 
does not boil. Take it off and beat with the egg beater till 
it is cold; add the flavoring and freeze. 



96 THE FUN OF COOKING 

FRUIT ICE-CREAM 

1 quart of fruit, or enough to make a 

cupful of juice. 
1 small cup of sugar. 
Mash the fruit, rub it through a sieve, add the sugar, 
and stir into the cream just before putting it into the 
freezer. 

''You see what an easy rule this is. You 
can use fresh raspberries or pineapple or 
peaches in summer-time, and in winter you can 
use canned fruit. If the fruit is sour, of course 
you must take a little more sugar than if it is 
very sweet. And when juice is very sour in- 
deed, like currant or cherry juice, do not use it 
for ice-cream. And when you want to make 
chocolate ice-cream you put in — '' 

''Do let me write that down. Mother, please, 
because I perfectly love chocolate ice-cream," 
interrupted Mildred. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM 

Make the plain ice cream as before; while still on the 
stove add 

3 squares of unsweetened chocolate, 

grated. 
^ cup of sugar. 
2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
Put the vanilla in last, just before freezing. 



MILDEED^S SCHOOL PARTY 97 

It took only a little while to mix the cream 
and cool it, and then Brownie had the berries all 
ready to go in; so Mildred called to Jack to 
know if the two freezers were ready. Jack was 
reading *' Treasure Island'' in a corner of the 
laundr}^, and it took three calls to rouse him. 

*'The freezers!" he asked; ''the freezers — 
oh, yes, they are all ready. At least I suppose 
they are, they 've been standing so long. I 've 
been having a great time with old Silver in the 
stockade ! ' ' 

**Well,'' said Mildred, doubtfully, ''if you Ve 
been off on one of your treasure trips, I don't 
know whether the freezers will be ready or 
not." 

But when they looked inside, there was the 
thick frost all over the tin. "Perfect!" said 
Mother Blair. "Now you will see how quickly 
the cream will freeze. It makes all the differ- 
ence in the world whether or not it is ice-cold 
inside." Then they poured in the cream and 
shut the freezer tightly, and Jack began to turn 
the handles, first of one and then of the other, 
with "Treasure Island" open before him on an 
upturned pail, though he very soon found that 
the freezers needed all his attention. He was 
devoting himself to his task with grim deter- 



98 THE FUN OF COOKING 

mination when Mildred peeped in at tlie door 
and stood watching him for a moment before 
she asked, mischievously, **And what is old Sil- 
ver doing now, Jackl I believe you 're really 
going to deserve those three plates of ice-cream, 
after all.'' 

* ^ Come, Mildred ! ' ' called her mother, ' ' we will 
make something perfectly delicious to drink," 
and she handed a fresh receipt to the girls. 

GRAPE- JUICE LEMONADE 

4 lemons. 

1 quart of water. 

2 large cups of sugar. 
1 quart of gTape- juice. 
1 orange. 

Put the water and sugar on the fire and boil them two 
minutes. Roll the lemons and squeeze the juice; when the 
water is cool, add this, and stand it away till you need it. 
Then add the gi-ape- juice, and put it in a large bowl with 
a good-sized piece of ice; slice the orange very thin and 
cut into small pieces and add last. Serve in glass cups. 

' ' That is so easy anybody could make it, ' ' said 
Brownie. ^*I guess I 'U make some for us all on 
the next hot night. ' ' 

^^Oh, goody!" said Mildred. ^^ Think how 
lovely it would taste out on the porch just be- 
fore bedtime ! ' ' 




The Refreshments were Perfectly Delicious, Everybody Said 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PARTY 101 

^* Specially if there was a moon," said 
Brownie. 

^'Yes, indeed! especially if ttere was a moon! 
You won't forget, will you?" 

Brownie promised faithfully she would not. 

By the time this was done and ready to put 
away in the refrigerator to get very cold. Jack 
was shouting for somebody to come and see if 
the cream was frozen. **It turns awfully 
hard," he complained, rubbing his arms. 

His mother wiped off the edges of the tin very 
carefully so no salt could get in, and then lifted 
the cover, and, sure enough, the cream was firm 
and smooth, and a beautiful pink color. Mil- 
dred watched her carefully and took the second 
freezer, doing exactly what her mother did to 
the first one. They slowly pulled out the dash- 
ers, scraping them off as they did so, and then 
packed the cream down hard; the covers were 
put on again, each with a cork where the dasher- 
top had been. Meanwhile Jack had been told 
to break more ice and mix it exactly as he had 
before. When this was ready, the plug at the 
side of each freezer was pulled out and the water 
drained off, and then the cans of cream were 
buried in the fresh ice so that neither of them 
could be seen, a piece of carpet was laid over 



102 THE FUN OF COOKING 

eacli, and it was put back in its dark comer. 

i ' There ! ' ' said their mother, when it was all 
finished. ^'Ice-cream has to stand at least two 
hours after it is packed before it is quite good 
enough to eat. Thank you, Jack! You are 
really learning lots about cooking, aren't you? 
And now we will cut the cake and put it on 
plates in the refrigerator to keep fresh, and 
then we will all go and dress for the party, be- 
cause it is three o'clock." 

The refreshments were perfectly delicious, 
everybody said, and the girls said the pink ice- 
cream, and the sponge-cake, and the grape-juice 
lemonade were 'Hhe best ever." When every- 
body had gone, Mildred took a big plateful of 
ice-cream over to Miss Betty. 

*^0h, how good that is!" she said as she ate 
it. *'How beautifully good! So good to look 
at, I mean, as well as to taste. Would you like 
to have some more strawberry ice-cream re- 
ceipts to go with it?" Mildred said she would 
love to, so Miss Betty began to write : 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

1 quart of water. 
2^2 cups of sugar. 

2 quarts of berries. 
Juice of 1 lemon. 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PAETT 10 



Crush the berries and press through a sieve; there should 
be two cups of juice; if not, add a few more berries. Boil 
the water and sugar one minute, cool, add the berry juice 
and that of the lemon, cool and freeze; ser\'e in glass cups. 

'*You can see, Mildred," went on Miss Betty, 
as she finished this, ''that a pretty way to serve 
this is to put each cup on a small plate and lay 
a few fresh strawberry leaves by it. ' ' 

'* Sweet!'' said Mildred, and Miss Betty be- 
gan the second receipt. 

ICE-CREAM AND STRAWBERRIES 

1 quart of plain ice cream. 
1 quart of large strawberries. 
^/2 cup of powdered sugar. 
Cut the berries in slices and lay them on a dish, and 
sprinkle the sugar over them. Take some taU glasses, put 
in a layer of ice cream, then a layer of berries: let the 
cream be on top, and put two or three whole berries on top 
of all. Or, if you can get little wild strawberries, use those 
whole both in the layers and on top. 

'^ Those are both just perfect,'^ sighed Mil- 
dred. ''Xow haven't you one more receipt, 
dear Miss Betty? Three is a lucky number, you 
know." 

Miss Betty thought a moment. ''TTell, here 
is something I think is just delicious, and it 's 
so easy that Brownie could make it alone — or 
even Jack I There is no turnin2" of the freezer 



104 THE FUN OF COOKING 

at all, only the ice to be broken. But it must 
be made in good season, for it lias to stand 
awhile, as you will see. And when you turn it 
out you can put a row of lovely big straw- 
berries all around it and sprinkle them with 



PARFAIT 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 pint of cream. 

1 cup of water. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Put the sugar and water on the stove and boil gently 
three minutes without stirring. Lift a little of the syrup 
on the spoon and see if a tiny tliread drops from the edge; 
if it does, it is done; if not, cook a moment longer. Then 
let this stand on the edge of the stove while you beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiff and slowly pour the syrup 
hito them, beating all the time. While you are doing this, 
have somebody else beat the cream stiff; when the eggs 
and syrup are beaten cold, fold the cream into them, add 
the flavoring, and put in a mold with a tight cover. Put 
this in a pail, cover deeply with ice and salt as before, and 
let it stand five hours. 

^* You see how easy that is," said Miss Betty. 
''That 's all the receipts to-day. But, Mildred, 
if you and Jack, and Brownie will all come to 
luncheon next Saturday, I '11 have something 
else made out of strawberries for you. ' ' 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PAETY 105 

^^Oh, Miss Betty!'' cried Mildred, raptur- 
ously, ''we '11 come — indeed we will!" 

''Very well; and tell Jack lie can have three 
helpings of eveiything ! " 



E 



CHAPTER VII 

STEAWBEEKY TIME 

ARLY in the morning of the next Saturday- 
came a note from Miss Betty, which said : 



Dear Mildred and Dear Brownie: 

Just to think that I forgot to tell you I wanted you both 
to help me cook the luncheon for our party! Do come 
over at about eleven, and bring your aprons. And please 
tell Jack that if he wants to come and help too, I '11 find 
him something perfectly proper for a boy to do. 

Your Loving Betty. 

^ * Oh, goody ! ' * exclaimed Brownie, as she read 
the note over Mildred's shoulder. **The very 
best fun of parties is getting ready for them, 
and I know Miss Betty will have something nice 
for us to do." 

^^What do you suppose Miss Betty wants me 
to do!" asked Jack, curiously. ^^I just believe 
it 's a joke, and she really means to get me to 
make cake, or some other kind of girPs cook- 
ing. I don't believe I '11 go till lunch-time." 

106 



STRAWBEREY TIME 107 

''Oh, it 's an invitation!" said Brownie, much 
shocked. ''You have to go! x\nd it's Miss 
Betty, too!" 

Jack laughed. "Well, all right," he said. 
"Miss Betty is such fun that perhaps I won't 
mind. ' ' 

"Take your clean apron, Jack," said Mildred, 

tea singly. 

"Pshaw!" sniffed Jack, with a lordly air. 

Miss Betty's house was just across the lawn; 
when they reached it, she met them at the door 
and told the girls to go right in and get their 
aprons on. "Now, Jack," she said, dimpling, 
"I 'm afraid I 've brought you over under false 
pretenses, for I really don't want you to cook at 
all. I only hope you won't be too disappointed ! 
But the weeding man who takes care of the gar- 
den has not come to-day, and I want some straw- 
berries. Would you mind picking some for 
mer' 

Jack's sober face lighted. "Why, I 'd love to 
do it! That 's what I call a man's work, Miss 
Betty. How many do you want?" 

"Well, I want two kinds; first about a quart 
of ordinary ones, and the rest the very biggest 
in the garden; here are two baskets for them, 
and you may pick in one as you go along, and in 



108 THE FUN OF COOKING 

the other lay the big berries on the freshest, 
prettiest strawberry leaves you can find. I 
want eight berries apiece for us — let me see — 
eight times four — '' but Jack was off before she 
finished. 

^^Now, girls,'' Miss Betty said, as she tied on 
her own apron, ^^we will go right out to the 
kitchen and begin. But first. Brownie, can you 
lay the table for us T ' 

* ' Cer-tain-ly I can," said Brownie, proudly. 
**You can just tell me what you are going to 
have to eat, and show me where you keep things, 
and I can do it all alone. ' ' 

So Miss Betty gave her a pretty square lunch - 
cloth to put cornerwise on the round table, and 
showed her where she kept the napkins and sil- 
ver and china. ^^ We are going to have creamed 
chicken, and iced cocoa, and salad, and straw- 
berry shortcakes,'' she said. 

**Hot plates for the chicken," murmured 
Brownie, counting out four, ^^and cold plates for 
salad; tall glasses for cocoa; hot or cold plates 
for shortcake. Miss Betty?" 

** Just warm, I think. I '11 help you carry all 
these out to the kitchen so they will be ready 
when we want them. And are you sure you do 
not want me to help you put on the silver?" 



STRAWBEERY TDIE 109 

But Brownie shook her head, and went on talk- 
ing to herself as she arranged the forks : 

** Never use knives except to cut up meat with ; 
so forks for creamed chicken, and forks for 
salad, both on the right, because everybody is 
right-handed; and the chicken fork farthest 
away, because that comes first, and the salad 
fork next the plate, because that comes after. 
Shall I put on a fork or a spoon for the short- 
cake!" 

'^TVe shall need both, but I think we will lay 
those right on the plates when we put them on 
the table. Here are the finger-bowls ; we will 
put them on these small, pretty plates with a lit- 
tle doily under each bowl; and to-day we will 
stand them at the top of the place, not directly in 
front." 

•'Mother always puts the fruit plate and 
finger-bowl right down in the middle of the 
front," said Brownie, doubtfully; '"not at the 
top." 

' • That is the way when you are going to eat 
an orange or peach on the plate: but you will 
see by and by why it is different to-day. Xow 
I know Mildred wants me in the kitchen, so 
I '11 leave you to finish the table all by your- 
self." 



110 THE FUN OF COOKING 

As soon as Miss Betty appeared, Mildred 
asked, *^Now what first!" and pushed up her 
sleeves. 

^^ First we must start the salad. I really 
ought to have done that long ago, but I waited 
for you. It is much better when it stands. ' ^ 

She brought in three large tomatoes and 
washed them and cut out the stems. Then she 
put them into a saucepan and poured boiling 
water over them, and, after they had watched a 
moment, they saw the skin all around the edge 
of the stem-hole begin to curl up; then they 
poured off the water, and Miss Betty put a fork 
into one and with a small sharp knife quickly 
pulled off all the skin ; then she gave the fork to 
Mildred, and let her finish the others and put 
them away on the ice while she washed the let- 
tuce and rolled it up in a towel and put that on 
ice, too, to make it get crisp. Then she read her 
this rule : 

PLAIN TO]\IATO SALAD 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, and put them on ioe for an 
hour. Wash the lettuce after separating, roll in a towel, 
and put on ice also. When it is time to use the salad, 
slice the tomatoes and arrange with the lettuce on plates or 
in a bowl. Make the usual French dressing, and put it in 
a cream bottle; just before using, shake this very hard and 
pour over at once. 



STRAWBERRY TIME 111 

^'You know how to make French dressing, 
don't you, Mildred r' 

*'0h, yes, indeed! I learned that long ago, 
when I was putting up luncheons for Jack. But 
I never put it in a bottle — I just mixed it in a 
bowl/' 

*^My dear, I Ve only just learned to put it in 
a bottle! You will be surprised to find how 
much better it is for a hard shaking, such as you 
cannot give it in a bowl. It is thick, and so well 
mixed that it is twice as good. I found that out 
myself the other day. 

'*And here is a special receipt for you, 
Brownie," continued Miss Betty, as Brownie 
came into the kitchen; ^^such a cunning little 
one!" 

YELLOW TOMATO SALAD (BROWNIE'S) 

Scald and peel little yellow tomatoes; chill, and lay on let- 
tuce leaves; add French dressing just before serving. Or 
mix the yellow tomatoes with little bits of red ones. 

''Oh, that must be lovely!" said Brownie. 
' 'I 'm going to copy that in my book, and put my 
name after it, as my very own salad!" 

''Now what next?" asked Mildred, as she set 
away the French dressing in the cream bottle. 

"Delicious little strawberry shortcakes; do 
you remember your rule for biscuits ! ' ' 



112 THE FUN OF COOKING 

^'Indeed I do! I Ve made those so often I 
never even look in my cook-book. ' ' 

*^Well, then, you may make a panful of those; 
only remember to roll the dough out very thin — 
not thicker than half an inch ; and do not let the 
biscuits touch each other in the pan. Now, 
Brownie, here is a platter of cold roast chicken, 
left from dinner last night, for you to pick off 
the bones and cut up in little, even pieces about 
the size of the end of your thumb. Use the 
white meat first, because that looks best 
creamed, and if there is not enough, then use 
some of the dark. Here is the rule : 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

1 large cup of thick white sauce. 

2 cups of cold chicken in small pieces. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 

^ teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 shake of pepper. 
Make the usual white sauce, but use two tablespoonfuls 
of flour to one of butter, so it will be thick (see your rule). 
When it is done, add the seasoning and then the chicken; 
keep very hot, but do not let it boil again. 

''You can serve this on squares of buttered 
toast, or just as it is in little dishes, or on one 
round platter. ' ' 

Mildred's biscuits were all ready to go into 




'Here Comes Jack with the Berries, just m Time!' 



STRAWBEHRY TIME 115 

the oven by this time, and Miss Betty said they 
were lovely, but told her to put a bit of butter 
on top of each one, so they would be brown. 
*'Xow copy off your rule," she added. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKES 

Make the usual rule for biscuits, but divide it, unless you 

wish a good many. Butter the top of each biscuit; when 
baked, gently separate them into two layers. Put a little 
butter on each half. Crush some ripe strawberries and 
sweeten them; arrange the lower halves of the biscuits on 
a dish, or put one on each plate; cover with the berries, 
put on the tops, sift sugar over them, and add two or three 
berries to each. Pass cream with them. 

*'If some day you want to make one large 
shortcake, Mildred, all you have to do is to make 
one very large biscuit, and split it open just as 
you have done these small ones." 

** Shall we make the cocoa now?" Mildred 
asked, as she finished writing her receipt. 

^'My dear, that had to be very, very cold for 
luncheon, so Ellen made it right after breakfast, 
and put it on ice: but it does n't matter, because 
you know how to make that. However, as we 
can't put any ice in it — that makes it horrid 
and watery — you may put a piece of ice in each 
of these tall glasses to chill them, and that will 
help make the cocoa cold ; we will take it out at 



116 THE FUN OF COOKING 

the last moment and put the cocoa in. Here 
comes Jack with the berries, just in time !" 

Jack had two baskets of them, one of the big- 
gest, loveliest ones, all laid on pretty strawberry 
leaves. Those Miss Betty washed and dried 
and put on the ice at once, with the leaves ; the 
smaller ones she gave to Brownie to hull after 
washing. Then she read this receipt aloud : 

STRAWBERRIES FOR A FIRST COURSE 

Wash, dry, and chill the berries, but do not hull them. 
Put a little paper doily on a small, pretty plate and ar- 
range the berries on the leaves aromid the edge in a circle, 
the points toward the center; in the middle put a little heap 
of sifted, powdered sugar. To eat them, take them by the 
hulls and dip in the sugar. 

^ ' There !'^ she said, as she and Mildred fin- 
ished arranging them, '^ don't they look pretty? 
I think for breakfast or luncheon they are de- 
licious this way. Now you see. Brownie, why 
the finger-bowls had to go at the top of the plate ; 
these small plates go right before you on the 
table, and when Ellen takes them off, she can 
take off the others, too. Aren't the biscuits 
done yet, Mildred?" 

Mildred ran to look — she had forgotten all 
about them, but luckily they were exactly right, 
a beautiful brown. So she took them out of the 



STRAWBEREY TIME 117 

pan and carefully opened them at the side, using 
a knife at first, and then tearing them gently 
apart so they would not be heavy. When 
Brownie finished the berries, Mildred crushed 
them a little and sweetened them, but did not put 
them on the biscuits ; Miss Betty said that must 
be done only just before serving, or the crust 
would be soaked with the juice. So she helped 
fill the glasses with water, and put on the bread 
and butter and cocoa, while Miss Betty and 
Brownie arranged the salad on plates and put 
the hot chicken in little dishes, each with a bit of 
parsley on top. Then they all sat down and ate 
up the luncheon, and nobody could say which 
was the best thing, the beautiful berries, or the 
lovely hot chicken, or the ice-cold cocoa, or the 
salad, or the shortcakes — it was aU so good. 

T\Tien they had finished, Mildred said there 
was only one fault to find with the lunch — that 
they had strawberries only twice. 

'^That 's exactly the way I feel!" nodded 
Miss Betty. ^^In strawberry time, I want to 
have them in the place of meat and potatoes 
and bread, and eveiything else, and at least at 
all three meals a day, and between times, too ! 
Xow would you like some more strawberry re- 
ceipts for your cook-book?" 



118 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

''Yes, indeed !" said Mildred, running to get a 
pencil. Then Miss Betty gave her these : 

STRAWBERRY CAKE 

1 small cup of sugar. 
% cup of butter. 
1 cup of cold water. 

1 egg. 

2 cups of flour. 

3 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Put the baking-powder in the flour and mix well. Rub 
the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the egg without 
separating, and add this; add a little water, then a little 
of the flour, and so on till all is in. Bake in two shallow 
tins. "When done, and just before serving, put a layer of 
crushed, sweetened berries between the two layers and cover 
the top with whipped cream dotted with whole berries. Or 
cover with powdered sugar and whole berries and pass 
plain cream. 

''This rule makes perfectly delicious rasp- 
berry or peach shortcake, too. Try it as soon 
as raspberries come, Mildred, for you will love 
it. Now just one more rule, and this is espe- 
cially for Brownie. ' ' 

STRAWBERRY RUSSE 

Get a dozen ladyfingers, split them in halves, and cut 
each one in two. Arrange these around the edge of small 
glasses ; fill the centers with berries cut in halves and sweet- 
ened, and cover with whipped cream; put one berry on 
top of each. 



STRAWBERRY TIME 119 

*^0h, Miss Betty give me one more, please!" 
begged Brownie. '^I love special ones, just for 
me. ' ' 

<< Yery well; here is one of the cunningest ones 
you ever saw.'' 

BOX SHORTCAKES 

Get from the baker's some small, oblong sponge-cakes; 
with a sharp knife mark all around the top edge, and then 
take out the middle part, leaving small, empty boxes. Fill 
these heaping full of sliced berries, or, if you can get them, 
small field berries, and cover the tops with powdered sugar ; 
pass a pitcher of cream. 

^'Of course you can make little cakes at home 
for these instead of buying them at the baker's, 
but really, for this particular receipt, the bought 
ones are better. Hark I Isn't that your 
mother calling?" 

It was, so they called Jack, who was reading 
^'Kim" in the Hbrary, and all went home. 



CHAPTEE VIII 

IN CAMP 

I'VE a nice long vacation ahead of me,'' 
announced Father Blair at breakfast one 
hot summer morning, ^'and I 've set my heart 
on going to Maine on a camping trip. I don't 
want any guide to take care of me, yet I do need 
some one who will help me cook. I had thought 
of asking you to go, Jack, but as ^boys don't 
cook' — of course — " 

**0h, but they do camp cooking!" Jack ex- 
claimed enthusiastically; ^*all sorts of things — 
bacon, and fried eggs, and corn-bread — " 

^^But, you see, you can't make any of those, 
and my digestion being delicate, I don't feel that 
I can be experimented upon," said his father, 
with a twinkle in his eye. * * Now if only you had 
taken lessons all these months as the girls have, 
I might consider taking you. ' ' 

^ ' I '11 learn right off, honestly I will ! I '11 be- 
gin this very day. And I can make cheese 
dreams, and — and boil eggs, now." 

120 



IX CAMP 121 

'^How long do you boil them, Jack?'' 

''Till thev 're done I'' said Jack, trium- 
phantly. 

Father Blair went off laughing, and said he 
was afraid he wouldn't be able to stand his 
son's cooking. 

Jack spent a nervous day. Would his father 
really take him to Maine, to the camp in the 
woods he had always heard about, where his 
father and his men friends went nearly every 
year? Or would he be left at home merely be- 
cause he did not know how to cook? At last he 
consulted his mother. 

"I think Father will surely take you." she 
said comfortingly: "and he is just pretending 
about the cooking: he can do all kinds of camp 
cookeiy beautifully, and up there he will teach 
you himself how to make things." 

So, sure enough, in just a week, Jack and his 
father were off for the woods of Maine, to a 
lake where the fishing was wonderful. They 
had a little log-cabin to sleep in. with a lean-to 
for their stores and cooking things, and there 
was a circle of stones, all blackened from other 
fires, where they could cook out oi doors. The 
trees ran right down to the water's edge, and it 
was so still, and cool, and lovelv that, if thev 



122 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

had not been so hungry they could have sat and 
looked out at the lake for hours. As it was, as 
soon as they were settled and the guide had 
paddled off, they decided to have supper at 
once. 

The first thing was to make a fire, and Jack 
brought an armful of twigs and began to lay 
them in the stone fireplace. 

*^No, that ^s not the way,'' said his father. 
*^ There are several kinds of camp-fires, and the 
one we want to-night is the quick one. You 
must get two green sticks, about three feet long, 
with crotches at the top, and stick them well into 
the ground so they will cross at the top; then 
you can fill the kettle with water and hang it up, 
two feet from the fire, and under it you arrange 
loosely some very dry small twigs: have some 
larger ones at hand to put on as they burn up ; 
that makes a hot, quick fire ; some campers call 
it a * wigwam' fire, because they build it up in 
that pointed shape. To-night, however, the first 
thing to do is to start the coffee ; this is the way 
to make it : 

CAMP COFFEE 

1 pint of cold water. 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls of ground 
coffee. 




The First Supper in Camp 



IX CAMP 125 

As soon as the water bubbles, and before it really boils, 
take the kettle off and let it stand for ten minutes where 
it is hot. Pour a tablespoonful of cold water down the 
spout to settle it." 

"While the coffee was making, they cut a large 
slice of ham from the whole one they had 
brought with them, and after the frying-pan was 
heated on the coals, they put this in it to cook. 
Then Jack got out four eggs to have them ready, 
while Father Blair gave him this simple rule : 

HAM AND EGGS 

Cut off the rind; when the pan is hot, put the meat in; 
turn often; season with pepper. Take up, put on a hot 
dish, and cover; break the eggs into the hot fat, and when 
they are set, turn each one carefully over and brown it. 

^^You cook bacon exactly in this way, too; 
only you must be careful not to cook it too long; 
you take it up when it is still transparent and 
before it turns to dry chips. Now, if you will 
get out the cups and sugar and condensed 
milk, and the bread and butter, supper will be 
ready.'' 

They slept that night rolled up in their 
blankets in the bunks built on the cabin walls, 
and woke very early to hear the birds singing at 
the top of their httle lungs. TThen they had 
had a dip in the lake and the fire was burning 



126 THE FUN OF COOKING 

brigMly and the kettle was on, Jack said lie 
wanted more ham and eggs for breakfast. 

**Not a bit of it!'' said his father. ^*We are 
too far from civilization to have eggs every 
day ; remember, the guide will not be back for a 
week with any more, and we must be saving of 
these. This morning we will have bacon — lots 
of it — and corn-cakes; by dinner-time, if we 
have any sort of luck, we shall have some fish to 
fry.'' 

As they had two frying-pans, Jack used the 
smaller one on one side of the fire for the bacon, 
while his father, after mixing the cakes, baked 
them in the larger one. As the strips of bacon 
grew a little brown and curly. Jack took them 
up one by one and kept them hot till the cakes 
and coffee were ready too. 

' ' Pour out all the bacon fat from the pan and 
save it," said his father, as Jack finished the 
last piece. *^It 's the best thing in the world to 
cook with in camp, for it flavors everything just 
as you want it. We '11 need all we can get of it. 
And here 's your receipt for the cakes. ' ' 

CORN-CAKES 

% pint of corn-meal. 
^ pint of flour. 
1 rounded teaspoonful of baking-powder. 



IN CAMP 127 

1 rounded teasp'oonfiil of sugar. 
y2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix all together, and then gently add cold water and stir 
till you have a thick batter. Have ready a hot frying-pan, 
well greased, and put the batter in in spoonfuls; they will 

run together as they bake, but you can cut them apart; 
turn them over and brown on the under side. 

After breakfast tliey heated some water and 
washed up all the dishes, made their beds, and 
picked everything up around the cabin. Jack 
hated to waste time doing this, he was in such a 
hurry to go fishing, but his father would not 
leave till it was all done. 'X'ampers often let 
things go," he said, ''and soon the whole place 
is full of empty tin cans, and half-buraed sticks, 
and all sorts of rubbish, and it 's a horrid place 
to live in. You '11 find it pays to keep every- 
thing about a camp in decent shape. But now 
we will get off.'' 

The lake was full of bass, and long before 
noon they had several fine ones, enough for two 
meals. "Some day soon we will go into the 
deep woods and fish for trout," said Father 
Blair. ''This is too easy; trout-fishing is the 
real sport for us." 

Then Jack had his first lesson in scaling and 
cleaning a fish, and found it no joke; however, 



128 THE FUN OF COOKINO 

after a time it went more easily, and then his 
father left him, to make a new kind of fire. 

*'This is what I call a lasting fire,*' he said. 
**The quick kind we made first goes out too soon 
to leave a bed of coals which we need to bake 
with. This is the way I do : I make a little pile 
of twigs just as before, but close up to a rock; 
then I stand several large sticks up in front and 
lean them back so they rest on the rock — so; 
then, as they burn, they fall down into the twig- 
fire and make coals. By adding wood from time 
to time I could keep this for hours. Now for 
my oven!" 

He dug a hole about eight inches deep and a 
foot long right under the edge of the fire, and 
was soon able to fill it with hot coals. *^When 
that is hot, say in ten minutes, I shall take the 
coals out and put my potatoes in. ' ' 

BAKED POTATOES 
Wash potatoes of even size; put them in the oven under 
the fire, cover with ashes, and put coals on top; new pota- 
toes will cook in half an hour, old ones in forty minutes. 

^'Now how is your fish getting on? Luckily 
you don't have to scale all our fish; some you 
can skin, and some, like trout, you simply clean 
and cook just as they are. This is the way you 
do a good-sized fish: 



IX CAMP 129 

BROILED FISH 

Scale or skin, clean, and wipe dry. Spread open the 
broiler and rub the wires with bacon rind or pork; cat the 
head off and split the fish open down the back, and lay it 
in; hold the broiler over the coals and turn it often; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper." 

It was only a moment before the fish began to 
sizzle delicioiisly, and by the time it ^vas done, 
the potatoes were done too. and white as snow 
after their black coats had been taken off. To- 
gether they made a wonderful meal, and there 
was enough fish left for supper. 

^AEALED-OVER FISH 

1 pint of fish. 

1 pint of hot mashed potato. 

1 beaten egg. 

Salt and pepper. 
Use any kind of cooked fish, removing the skin and bones. 
Mix the ingredients, make into little cakes, and iry bro^^vn 
in a little hot fat. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Choose those which are the same size, so they will all be 
done at once. Peel them, dropping each one in cold water 
till all are done, and then put them in a pot of boiling, 
salted water, and cook gently half an hour. When soft, 
pour off the water, stand the pot, uncovered, close to the 
fire, and let them get dry. Eat them with salt and butter 
as they are, or mash them in the kettle, adding the same 
seasoning. 



130 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

Jack cooked these, and mixed the cakes and 
got them all ready to brown. *^What else are 
we going to have, Father Blair T' he asked anx- 
iously. **I don't think these will be half 
enough. ' ' 

*^I think I feel just like pancakes," said his 
father, throwing down the book he had been 
reading. ^*I hope there 's plenty of that pre- 
pared flour, Jack. I think I shall want about 
six cakes; how many will you needT' 

Jack said he thought he could manage with 
eight, if they were pretty good-sized. 

PANCAKES 

Take two cups of prepared flour and mix with water (or 
use half water and half condensed milk) until it makes a 
batter like thick cream. Have ready a hot, greased frying- 
pan; pour in the batter from a small pitcher. 

** Sometimes I have these instead of bread to 
eat with meat, and then we have gravy on them. 
Then sometimes we have maple-syrup, and call 
them dessert." 

** Syrup for me!" said Jack, struggling to 
turn his fish-cakes without breaking them. 
'^But I did n't know you were so much of a cook, 
Father." 

** Jack, while we are eating, I '11 tell you a true 
story, one of the dark secrets of my eventful 



IX CAMP 131 

life; that will explain to you why I believe a 
man should know how to cook." 

So when the pancakes were finished and Jack 
had time to listen, his father told him the stoiy 
of how, when they were first married, the Blairs 
had taken a trip across the prairie, and had 
camped a long way from a town: how Mother 
Blair had been taken ill and could not do the 
cooking, and poor Father Blair had to do every- 
thing for her and himself too, and did not know 
how to cook an egg, or make a cup of tea, or a 
bit of toast; and what a time it was I "I tell 
you, Jack, after that was over. I went to work 
and learned how to do a few things ; and now, as 
you say," he added complacently, ''I 'm Cjuite a 
cook. And the sooner you learn to cook, the 
better, for some day you '11 need to know how: 
all men do.'' 

' • S 'pose so, ' ' Jack murmured thoughtfully. 

The next day was perfect for trout-fishing, so 
they started early with some lunch, and went 
back into the deep woods where there was a 
brown stream all full of little rocks and hollows, 
and there Jack took his first lesson in fly-fishing, 
and at night he was the proudest of boys when 
they looked at their basket of speckled beauties, 
four of which he had cau£"ht. It was srreat 



132 THE FUN OF COOKING 

fun to cook tliem too, when they got back to 
camp. 

SMALL FISH, BROILED 

Clean the fish; put them on a green stick, passing it 
through their gills; put a slice of bacon or salt pork be- 
tween each two fish ; have a hot bed of coals, and hold them 
over this till done, turning often. 

Several of the larger ones they strung on a 
string and put away in a dark, cool place among 
the rocks, and kept them till the next day, when 
they cooked them in a different way, and had 

PANNED FISH 

Clean the fish; cut off the heads and break the spines, to 
keep them from cui'lmg as they cook. Put three slices of 
bacon or pork into a frying-pan, and, when this is done, 
take it out and put in the fish; cook quickly and turn often. 

One day a rain-storm came on, so they could 
not go fishing, but had to stay in and play games 
and read and write letters. At noon, they went 
to a sheltered corner of the rocks and made a 
quick fire, where the rain could not reach it, and 
cooked their dinner ; they had 

CORNED-BEEF HASH 

1 can of corned beef. 

1 onion. 

2 large cups of cold boiled potato. 
Pepper and dry mustard. 





Jack Gets Breakfast 



IN CAMP 135 

Cook the onion, after slicing it fine, in a little fat. Chop 
the potatoes and beef and add these, with the seasoning; 
when the under side is brown, turn it like an omelet. 

For supper they had to go to their stores 
again; this time they had 

STEAMED SALMON 

Turn the salmon into a dish; take out the bones and fat, 
and pour away the juice; season with salt and pepper; put 
in a covered can and stand in a kettle of boiling water till 
very hot. 

^^We '11 have fried potatoes with the salmon, 
Jack. Can you make those all alone!" 

^'Yes, indeed!" said Jack, who by this time 
could do a great many things. 

FRIED POTATOES 

Slice cooked or raw potatoes; heat a frying-pan, put in 
enough fat to cover the bottom when melted, and cook the 
potatoes till brown ; scrape them up from the bottom often, 
so they will not burn. 

The potatoes and salmon made a very good 
supper, but Jack was not sorry to hear that, 
when the "guide made his weekly visit the next 
day, he would bring eggs and milk and vege- 
tables. 

*^And I 'm going to send for a little light 
sheet-iron stove made especially for campers," 



136 THE FUN OF COOKING 

said Mr. Blair. ^^Then we '11 have real corn- 
bread, and baked fish, and biscuits. Don't you 
want to learn to make biscuits like Mildred's, 
Jack?" 

Jack grew red all through his tan as he looked 
at his father's teasing face. 

^^Well," he said doubtfully, **I suppose bis- 
cuits are all right, and I '11 leaiTi to make them 
if you say so. But, Father, you won't want me 
ever to make cake or desserts, will you f I draw 
the line there ! ' ' 

' ^ We '11 see ! " laughed his father. * ' Perhaps 
you 'U change your mind about that, some day." 



CHAPTER IX 

IN CAMP (continued) 

THERE was a wait of a week before the 
camp stove could arrive, and during that 
time, Jack took lessons in all sorts of cooking, 
and learned to make a number of good things ; 
and this was fortunate, for one day two friends 
of his father surprised them ; they were on their 
way to a camp farther in the woods, and wanted 
to stay a night and a day with the Blairs before 
going on. This meant that there were four 
people to cook for instead of two, and it needed 
all the experience Jack had to do his share of 
the work. 

The visitors did not come until supper was 
done, and everything was eaten up ; not even a 
bit of fish was left over. So the Blairs had to 
go to their stores and find something they could 
get ready quickly, and something very hearty as 
well. 

^' These fellows are as hungry as hunters," 

137 



138 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mr. Blair said, while the men were washing up 
in the lake and getting ready for supper. 
^ ^ Here 's some tinned meat ; let 's have that, 
with potatoes in it. ' ' 

^'But potatoes take so long to cook — " 
*'Not the way I 'm going to cook them; only 
ten minutes. You can peel four and slice them 
very thin, and put them in cold water, and then 
peel and slice an onion while I open the meat 
and boil the kettle for coffee. Then I '11 show 
you how to make a 

TEN-MINUTE STEW 

4 potatoes, sliced very thin. 

1 onion, sliced thin. 

1 can of tinned meat (not corned beef). 

Salt and pepper. 

1 rounded tablespoonful of flour. 

1 large cup of cold water. 
Put the potatoes on to cook in a saucepan of boiling 
salted water. Then put the onion in a hot fiying-pan with 
a tablespoonful of pork or bacon fat, and fry brown. Put 
the flour in the cold water and stir till it is smooth, and 
mix this with the onion and stir it up; when the potatoes 
are done, drain them and add next, and then put in the 
sliced meat and heat; do not boil." 

By the time this was done, the coffee was 
ready too, and the nice hot stew was served with 
large cups of the coffee and plenty of bread and 
butter. With a second cup of coffee and 




The Next Day was Perfect for Fishing 



IX CAMP 141 

crackers and cheese, their guests had made an 
excellent supper. 

The next morning, Jack got up extra early, 
because he knew everybody would be anxious to 
go fishing. So he soon had the kettle boiling 
and the breakfast started, and cooked it all by 
himself while the men dressed. The principal 
dish was 

FRIED SALT PORK 

Slice thin and put in a frying-pan with enough warm 
water to cover; stir it around till the water begins to sim- 
mer, and turn this all off and drain the pork. Then fry 
till crisp. Put this in a hot dish near the fire while you 
make the gravy. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

2 cups of boiling water. 
A little pepper. 

Put the flour in the grease in the frying-pan, and nh 
till smooth and brown; add the water slowly, stirring all 
the time, and then the pepper; when smooth and a little 
thick, pour over the fried porL 

With this he had pancakes, plenty of them, 
which were delicious with the pork gravy, and 
on these, with plenty of coffee, the men said they 
could get along very comfortably till dinner- 
time. 

For dinner they had some of the fish they 
caught, broiled, with boiled potatoes : and, for 



142 THE FUN OF COOKING 

dessert, corn-cakes and maple-symp. For sup- 
per Jack took the fish left from dinner and made 

FISH-BALLS 

1 pint of cooked fish, picked up small. 

1 quart of hot mashed p'otato. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

A little pepper. 
Beat all together till very light, and make into balls the 
size of an egg. Have ready a pail of very hot fat, and 
drop in two balls at a time and cook till light brown; take 
them out, keep hot, and put in two more, and so on. 

After this, he had something which had taken 
a long time to make, but he did not mind it. 

FRIED CORN-MEAL MUSH 

1 rounded tablespoonful of salt. 

1 quart of yellow corn-meal. 

4 quarts of water. 
Bring the water to a hard boil in a kettle over the fire; 
mix the meal with enough cold water to make a thick batter 
(this is to avoid lumps). Drop spoonfuls of the meal into 
the water gradually, so it does not stop boiling; when all 
is in, stir steadily for ten minutes. Then put a cover on 
the pot and hang it high over the fire so it will cook slowly 
for one hour; stir occasionally so it w^ll not bum; then 
pack tightly in a pan and let it get perfectly cold and firm. 
(The best plan is to let it stand all night if you can.) 
When you wish to use it, slice it, and fry in very hot grease 
in the frying-pan till brown. 

The next day the men left, after saying they 



IX CAMP 143 

had had a fine visit and had never had such 
good things to eat in camp. Then Jack and his 
father had a quiet time till the guide appeared 
once more, his boat full of stores and his pockets 
crammed Tvith newspapers and letters; and in 
the end of his boat he had a small sheet-iron 
stove. That they quickly set up under the edge 
of the lean-to where, if it rained, it would not 
get wet and rusty. 

^*And now, Jack," said his father, rubbing his 
hands, "you shall taste my baked beans. I may 
say without boasting that they will be the very 
best you ever ate in your life. Women may be 
able to cook ordinary food, but it takes a man to 
cook beans — and I 'm the man ! ' ' 

Jack laughed, and said he wanted to learn how 
so he could beat his father making them, and he 
watched carefully everything that was done. 

BAKED BEANS 

Pick over a pint of beans and throw away all that are 
shriveled and' poor. TVash the rest and put them in cold 
water to cover them, and let them stand all night. The 
next day, put the beans in fresh water and gently cook them 
half an hour, skimming them occasionally. 

In another kettle, put a piece of salt pork as large as a 
man's fist; cover it with water and let it cook till the beans 
are done. Then drain the water off both, and cut the pork 
in two pieces; slice each piece part way down, leaving the 



144 THE FUN OF COOKING 

lower portion solid. Put one piece in the bottom of an 
earthen dish, and pile the beans around and over it, and 
put the other piece on top. Mix 

1/2 teaspoonful of salt. 

y^ teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. 

% teaspoonful of dry mustard. 
Pour this all over the beans and cover the pan; put in 
the oven, and bake at least two hours; uncover and brown 
during the last twenty minutes. If the beans get very dry, 
pour on half a cup of boiling water when they are half 
done. 

''Aha!" said Father Blair, as he put the pan 
in the oven when they were ready to bake. 
' ' Those will be simply fine. Now we could have 
made them by putting them in a kettle over the 
fire and baking them so, or we could have buried 
the kettle in a hole in the ashes; but they are 
really better done in an oven if one happens to 
have one. And, anyway, I needed a stove to 
bake biscuit in, so that 's why I got one. I think 
we will make some for supper, too, and put them 
in when the beans come out. The name of the 
one big biscuit I 'm going to make to-night is 

CAMPER'S BREAD 

1^/2 pints of flour. 

1^ rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 



IN CAMP 147 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls of any kind of 

fat (lard is best). 
1/2 pint of cold water. 
Put the baking-powder and salt in the flour; mix well 
and then rub in the lard till there are no lumps left and it 
does not stick to the pan; add the water, a little at a time, 
and stir with the spoon till smooth. Grease a pan and put 
the dough in in rather a thin layer; smooth the top and 
bake, till, when you put in a sliver of wood, it comes out 
clean. Eat while warm; do not cut, but break into 
pieces. 

*'Now I could have cooked this just as I could 
have cooked the beans, without the oven. I 
could have put it in the frying-pan in a bed of 
hot ashes and covered it and put ashes on top 
and let it cook till done ; but it 's better to cook 
it this way if you can, because it 's lighter and 
browner. When you want regular biscuits, all 
you do is to make the dough into little balls, 
and be sure you put flour on your hands before 
you try it, Jack, or you '11 get into an awful 
mess. And then you put them in the pan and 
just bake them till they are done." 

^^I like the big loaf,'' said Jack. **It 's more 
like real camp cooking; biscuits are for a 
house." 

^^And now we are going to have something 
extra good to-day — green corn on the cob. I 



148 THE FUN OF COOKING 

tell you that 's a luxury for campers ! How will 
you have it, boiled or roasted!'' 

*'Both," said Jack, who liked corn immensely. 

**Very well, but one way at a time, young 
man ! We will have it boiled this noon, and we 
will roast it over the coals to-night." 

BOILED CORN 

Have a deep kettle full of water boiling hard; take oE 
the husks and silk, and boil the ears hard for twenty min- 
utes; serve with butter and salt. 

^ ^ Some campers boil the corn in the husk and 
think it is better that way, but I find I always 
burn my fingers taking off the leaves and silk, so 
I believe in peeling it as we do at home,'' said 
Jack's father, as he put the ears in the kettle 
slowly, so as not to stop the boiling of the water. 
^ ' Now for supper, this is the way to fix it : 

ROAST CORN 

Take off the husks and silk. Put a stick in the end of 
the ear, and toast it brown over a bed of coals; have ready 
butter and salt to put on each." 

The baked beans proved all their cook prom- 
ised they should be, and almost the best thing 
about them was that they were just as good cold 
as hot, and so saved cooking things sometimes 
when they were in a hurry. 



IN CAMP 149 

One day, they cauglit a perfectly huge fish, too 
large to broil well, and then their little stove 
proved a treasure, for the oven would just hold 
a baking pan; they cooked it in this way: 

BAKED FISH 

Clean and scale the fish, but do not take off the head or 
tail. Slice an onion fine, and fry brown in two tablespoon- 
f uls of fat ; add to this a cup of fine, diy bread crumbs and 
a little salt and pep'jDer, and stir till brown. Wipe dry the 
inside of the fish, and put this stuffing in; wind a string 
around the outside to hold it firmly in place. Put in a pan 
with four slices of salt pork or bacon, and lay three or four 
more on the top of the fish; shake a little flour, salt, and 
pejDper over all. Bake in a hot oven till the skin begins 
to break open a little; every fifteen minutes open the oven 
door and baste the fish; that is, pour a spoonful of juice 
from the pan over the fish; if there is not enough, pour 
a small cup of boiling water into the pan. 

"With this they had 

BOILED ONIONS 

Peel onions of about the same size, and drop them m a 
kettle of boiling, salted water; when they have cooked half 
an hour, throw this water away and put them in fresh boil- 
ing water. This will prevent their being too strong. Cook 
for one hour altogether. Put melted butter, pepper, and 
salt over them. 

Before they could possibly think it was time to 
go home, their vacation was over. 

For dinner, the last night, Father Blair made 
something very good indeed : 



150 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

CAMP PUDDING 

% pound of dried prunes. 

8 slices of bread, cut thin and buttered. 
y^ cup of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Wash the prunes and cover them with cold water, and 
let them stand all night. In the morning, put them on the 
fire in this water, and cook slowly till they are vei-y soft; 
then take out the stones. Line a dish w^ith the bread, cut 
in pieces, with a layer on the bottom; put on a spoonful 
of prunes and juice, then a layer of bread, and so on till 
the dish is full, with bread on top ; sprinkle with sugar and 
bits of butter and bake brown. 

^'My, but we 've had a good time !" said Jack, 
thougiitfnily rubbing the end of his sunburned 
nose as he watched the shores of the lake fade 
away the next day. ^'I never supposed it was 
such fun to camp. And I Ve become quite a 
cook; now have n't I, Father Blair?" 

**I should say you had. Too bad your mother 
and the girls can't know about it. But they will 
never know!" and his father smiled mischie- 
vously. 

'^Well, perhaps some day I '11 cook something 
for them," said Jack, sheepishly. ''I don't 
mind knowing how to cook as much as I thought 
I should, now that I know men cook. I guess 
I '11 surprise them some day, Father ! ' ' 



CHAPTER X 

JAMS AND JELLY 

NORAH was preserving peaclies. The frag- 
rant odor filled the house one day, and 
Mildred sniffed it delightedly. *^Dear me! I 
wish I could make preserves," she sighed. 
**Norah's always look so lovely in their jars, and 
they taste so good, too. I wonder if she would 
let me help her 1 ' ' 

But no, Norah would not. Peaches, she ex- 
plained, must be done up very carefully, and no- 
body could do them up unless they knew just 
how. 

^*But, Norah, if you can't begin till you know 
how, how does anybody ever learn 1 And I want 
to do them so much! Just see how beautiful 
yours are, ' ' and Mildred looked longingly at the 
row of jars on the kitchen table full of yellow 
peaches in a syrup like golden sunshine. *^0h, 
Norah ! ' ' she murmured pathetically. 

But Norah was firm. Miss Mildred could n't 
do up peaches ; she was too young; and, anyway, 
she could n't be bothered teaching her. So Mil- 

151 



152 THE FUN OF COOKING 

dred sighed and gave it up. But when she told 
her mother about it, Mother Blair laughed. 

*^You want to begin at the top,'' she said. 
* ^ Norah is quite right in saying that peaches are 
not easy to put up — that is, not the very best, 
most beautiful peaches, and nobody wants any 
other kind. But why not make something else 
to begin with, jams and jellies and other good 
things? And by the time you know all about 
those, you will find that peaches will be perfectly 
easy for you." 

Mildred brightened up. *^Now that 's what I 
call a good idea, one of your very best. Mother 
Blair. Can't I make something right away to- 
day?" 

^ ' Just as soon as Norah is all through with her 
preserving, if she does n't mind, you may. And 
perhaps she has something all ready for you to 
begin on. Kun and ask her if you may have the 
parts of the peaches she did not want to use." 

That puzzled Mildred, and as she hurried to 
the kitchen she thought about it. 

^' Norah, Mother says you are not going to use 
all the parts of the peaches, and perhaps I may 
have what you don't want. But what are they? 
Because if they are just the skins and stones, I 
don't want them either." 



JAMS AND JELLY 153 

Xorah was just fastening on the last top on 
her jars of preserves, and she looked very good- 
natured. 

"Sure, I 've got lots left!^' she said, and 
showed Mildred a large covered bowl filled with 
bits of peach pulp. 

"I won't put any bruised peaches in i3re- 
serves,'^ she explained, "so I just cut up i^eaches 
with soft spots and put 'em in here ; and when 
I 'm done, I make a shortcake out of 'em. If 
I 've got enough, sometimes I make 'em into — '" 

"Jam I" interrupted Mildred. "Of course I 
delicious peach jam that I love. Oh, Xorah, do 
let me make some ; don't use any of those peach 
bits for shortcake — let 's have something else 
for lunch.'' 

"Well," said Xorah, "I guess you can have 
'em." So Mildred ran for her apron and a re- 
ceipt, which, when she read it over, proved, 
strangely enough, to be a rule for making not 
only peach but all sorts of jams. 

JA^I 

Prepare your fruit nicely: strawberries must be washed 
and hulled, peaches pared and cut up, raspberries looked 
over for poor ones. When they are ready, measure 

1 large cup of fruit to 

1 small cup of sugar. 



154 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Masli the fruit and put it in a kettle in layers with the 
sugar, and press and stir it till it is all wet and juicy. 
Then gently boil it, stirring constantly from the bottom up, 
so the fruit will not burn. Mash with a wooden potato 
masher till all is smooth. When it has cooked nearly an 
hour, try a little on a cold saucer and see if it gets firm. 
'\Mien it does, it is done. Some jams take longer to cook 
than others, because some fruits are more juicy. 

This sounded very easy indeed, and Mildred 
began to mash and measure at once, and soon 
the jam was over the fire. But it took a long 
time to cook. Norah brought a dishjDan full of 
jelly-glasses and put them in the sink, and Mil- 
dred washed these and dried them and arranged 
them on two trays, all ready for the jam; but 
every moment or two she stirred the jam well. 
By and by, after more than an hour, the peaches 
looked transparent, and then Norah said they 
were done ; and, sure enough, when she hurriedly 
put some on a saucer and stood this on the 
ice in the refrigerator to get it cold quickly, 
it grew a little stiff and the edges were like 

jelly. 

Mildred carefully lifted the hot saucepan from 
the fire and began to dip out the jam with a cup 
and put it in the glasses; when she finished, 
there were eight of them, all filled with clear 
golden-pinky-brownish jam, beautiful to look at, 




O 



< 



JAMS AND JELLY 157 

and, oh, so good to taste I Mildred ran for her 
mother and Brownie to look at it. ^'I wish 
Father and Jack were here,'' she sighed, '*and 
Miss Betty, too. I am so proud, I want every- 
body to see it.'' 

^'It really is lovely,'' said her mother. ''I 
never saw any that was nicer. Xext winter we 
will eat it on hot buttered toast, and put it in 
layer cake, and have it ready for school sand- 
wiches." 

''But only eight little, little glasses," mourned 
Mildred. ''T^liy didn't I make eight dozen of 
them?" 

"TVell, eight dozen is a good many," laughed 
her mother. ''Perhaps — just perhaps, you 
know, you might find yon got tired even of peach 
jam before you had eaten all those up. But the 
beauty of making jams in fruit time is that you 
can make a few glasses of it any time you want 
to. Peaches are just in season now, and we 
have them nearly every day. so you can put up 
more at any time." 

"Of course!" said Mildred, delightedly. '•! 
never thought of that. I '11 make the rest of my 
eight dozen yet. Mother Blair ; I 'm sure it won't 
be a bit too much." 

""VThv not make some other thins's that are 



158 THE FUN OF COOKING 

just as good? Grapes are in season too, and 
plums, and pears — " 

^ ' I '11 make them all ! I '11 make every single 
kind of jam that there is!" 

^*You can make jelly too, and compotes, and 
spiced things ; I '11 be so glad to have you learn, 
and they are all as easy as can be." 

*^But, Mother, what can / make?" Brownie 
looked very sober. ^^Is Mildred going to make 
everything all alone? I like to make things, 
too." 

^^Of course you do, and you shall certainly 
help ; jams are so easy anybody in the world can 
make them. ' ' 

''Even Jack?" laughed Mildred. 

''Yes, even Jack, if he wanted to. Why don't 
you and Brownie together make some nice grape 
jam to-morrow?" 

The girls said they would love to ; then their 
mother had them write down a special receipt, 
because grape jam is the one kind that is differ- 
ent from every other. 

GRAPE JAM 

Wash the grapes; take them off the stems one by one as 
though you meant to eat them, but press them between 
your fingers and put the skins in one dish and the pulp in 
another. When j^ou have finished, heat the pulp and stir 



JAMS AND JELLY 159 

it till you can see that the seeds have come out; then put 
the pulp through the colander. Add this to the skins, 
measure, and follow your regular rule. 

This seemed like a queer receipt; grape skins 
in jam! It sounded rather horrid. But they 
made it, anyway, and when they had finished, 
though it was a clear, reddish black, it was 
really delicious. 

It happened that the grapes grew in their own 
garden, and so many of them were ripe that, 
when they had used up quite a large basketful, 
there were plenty left. Norah had been plan- 
ning to use them in jelly, but she said she could 
wait a day longer for that, and the girls might 
have them if they wanted to, and she would show 
them how to make something veiy good indeed 
and very easy. This was 

SPICED FRUIT 

3 pints of fruit, all prepared. 
11/2 small cups of vinegar. 
1% pints of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves. 
Boil till thick; about an hour and a half. 
In making spiced grapes, prepare them exactly as for 
jam, and use pulp and skins. 

Their mother did not know they were making 



160 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

this new kind of preserve, and she was delighted 
when she was shown all the little glasses of 
it 

^^All spiced fruits are especially nice with 
meat,'' she said, ^'and with this rule you can 
spice almost any kind of fruit ; pears, or peaches, 
or apples, or plums — '' 

^*0r strawberries, or pineapple, or raspber- 
ries," said Brownie. 

*'0h, no! I ought to have said any kind of 
autumn fruit — that is a good way to remember 
which ones to use. And, Mildred, Norah di- 
vided this rule for you, to make it easier, but 
when I put up spiced fruit, I take twice as much 
of everything.'' 

**What a pity I 'm so stupid about arith- 
metic!" sighed Mildred. *^ Think of having to 
take twice one and three quarter pints of sugar, 
and twice one and a half cups of vinegar ! I '11 
never get them right." 

' ' Mildred, you remind me of a story some one 
told me the other day, about a girl who had just 
come home from college; it 's a true story too, 
and the girl lives right in this town. She 
thought she would like to learn to cook, so she 
found a rule for cake in the cook-book and read 
it to herself; it began something like this: 



JAMS AXD JELLY 161 

Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, and so on. Pres- 
ently her mother went into the kitchen and found 
on the table three cups, all filled with flour, two 
more cups filled with sugar, one cup of milk, an- 
other cup of raisins, three teaspoons in a row, 
all filled with baking-powder, and so on. Think 
of that I" 

''I s'pose they didn't teach multiplying in 
that college," said Brownie, sympathetically. 

Mildred and her mother laughed. ''Well, I 
suppose I '11 just have to learn to do fractions 
in my head!'' said Mildred. 

"There is n't any other way, if you are going 
to be a good cook," her mother replied. ''You 
can't g-uess at things, or you will spoil them ; you 
have to measure exactly. Xow that you have 
finished these gTapes, I '11 give you some more 
receipts, if you want them." 

The girls hastened to bring out their pretty 
red-covered books. "Just see, Mother Blair," 
said Mildred, turning over the leaves, "how 
many pages are filled up — with such good things, 
tool" And she gave a sigh of such complete 
satisfaction, that her mother laughed. Then 
they settled themselves at the table to write the 
new receipts. 



162 THE FUN OF COOKING 

APPLE CONSERVE 

4 pints of apples, measured after they are 

peeled and cut up in bits. 
4 pints of sugar. 
2 lemons, juice and grated peel. 
2 large pieces of preserved ginger (the kind 
that comes in little pots). 
Mix all together and cook till thick; about an hour and 
a half. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

2V2 pints of washed and chopped cranberries. 
2^ pints of sugar. 
2 large oranges. 

1 pint (or package) seeded raisins, chopped a 
little, after washing. 
Cut the oranges in halves and take out the pulp with a 
spoon; then scrape the skins well till thej^ are ean and 
not very much of the white lining is left; chop the r^st. 
Mix all together and cook till thick. 

'^ These two conserves are so very nice that 
we do not put them on the table and eat them up 
any day in the week, but save them for Sunday 
night supper and other times like that/' said 
Mother Blair; ^^and sometimes they can go into 
sandwiches for afternoon tea. Now would you 
like just a very easy jelly? Here is a nice pne. ' ' 

APPLE JELLY 

"Wash twenty red apples that are not very sweet; cut 
them up in small pieces without peeling them or taking 



JAMS AXD JELLY 163 

out the cores. Put them in a kettle and just cover them 
with water; cook slowly till it is all like soft apple-sance. 
Then put it in a bag — a flour sack is the best — tie up the 
top, and hang the bag up over night with a large bowl 
underneath to catch the juice. In the morning measure 
this. Mrs 

1 pint of juice. 

1 small pint of sugar. 
Put on the fire and boU gently twenty minutes, skimming 
it occasionally; lift off the saucepan and drop into the 
jelly one large lemon, cut up in quarters, squeezing them 
a little; then put a small wire strainer over each jelly- 
glass in turn and pour the jelly iuto each from a enp. 

** There! When you can make that kind of 
jelly, you mil almost have learned how to make 
any other kind. And this is lovely, so ] ink and 
delicatt, and it alwtiys gets ji;-: nun ^rn n^k uni 
no'' too stiff to be nice. Xow. Mildred, yoii may 
try this to-morrow it yon like, and, if it 's per- 
fect, you shall have a prize. ' ' 

The next day the jam was firm on top, and 
Xorah said it ought to be covered and put away 
at once or it would get too hard. 

^^How shall I cover it, Mother?'-' Mildred 
asked anxiously. "Paste on papers or some- 
thing ? ' ' 

^'Oh, no, indeed I nobody does that way any 
more. Ask Xorah if she has any paranin left 



164 THE FUN OF COOKING 

But no, she had used every bit she had to 
cover her grape jelly; so Brownie had to go to 
the drug-store and get ten cents' worth. It 
came in a large cake, so clear and white it looked 
good enough to eat, but it was n't, as the little 
girl found out by tasting. It was just like 
candles, and only mice like to eat candles. 
Norah said she would show the girls how to 
cover jams and jeUies and spiced things, and 
everything you put in jelly-glasses. 

^^You take this little saucepan that I keep on 
purpose for paraffin," she said, ^^and put the 
whole cake in it after you cut it in two, and melt 
it; only be careful and don't let it splash on my 
clean stove and make it greasy. And while it is 
melting you can wipe off the jam glasses with a 
warm, wet dish-cloth and make them all clean 
and dry. ' ' 

While Brownie was washing off the glasses 
Mildred cut some little slips of paper and 
printed on these the names for the different 
things they had made; peach on some, and 
SPICED GRAPES ou others, and grape jam or 
APPLE JELLY ou the rcst. Then she got the 
pot of paste from the library; by this time the 
paraffin was melted and all ready to use. Norah 
showed them how to pour a little on top of each 




'I am so Proud. I want Evrrvlwdv to see mv Jam* 



JAMS AXD JELLY 167 

glass, right on the jam, and then tip the glasses 
a little so it would run up the sides toward the 
top. In a moment it hardened, and was ready 
for the tin covers to go on so the mice could not 
get at it, and then they pasted the labels on, and 
it was done. 

Xorah helped carry the trays to the preserve 
closet and put them away in rows, being veiy 
careful not to tip them and slide the paraffin up 
the sides of the glasses. Then they stood and 
looked at them, and, oh, how proud the girls 
felt! 

*'I '11 make some more to-morrow,'' said Mil- 
dred, "and some more after that, and some more 
after that, and some more after that!'' 



CHAPTER XI 



HALLOWE'EN next week. Wish we 
could do something nice/' Jack said to 
Mildred as they put away their books one night 
at bed-time. 

**So do L I 'm tired of school already, and 
here it is only October! Of course, I don't 
mean that I 'm dreadfully tired of it, you know, 
only just a little bit tired. I think, if we could 
have something very nice indeed to do, I could 
get on till the Christmas vacation — or at least 
till Thanksgiving without making any great 
fuss." 

Jack laughed. He knew that Mildred, like 
himself, was always ready to have a good time. 

^*Let 's have a Hallowe'en party," he sug- 
gested. *^Not a sheet and pillow-case party, 
either ; we 've had those till I can't even think of 
one without wanting to scream." 

^^And not one where you bob for apples 
and walk around the house backward. I 've 



A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 169 

done both those till I never want to do them 
again. I mean some new kind of a party." 

But they could not think of anything new that 
seemed exactly what they wanted; so the next 
day they went in to see Miss Betty after school 
and asked her about it. 

^^Why, a chafing-dish party, of course,'' she 
said. ''That 's exactly the thing to have. You 
make a lot of indigestible things to eat and 
then you go to sleep and dream of ghosts and 
goblins, and hear shivery noises and groans and 
such things — just what you want, on Hallow- 
e'en! I can think of a lot of awfully good 
things to have, things warranted to give you 
nightmares. ' ' 

Jack said that suited him exactly, but Mildred 
was not so sure. 

*' Don't you think we might have two or three 
different kinds of things," she suggested doubt- 
fully. ''.Some of them, for the boys, might be 
pretty bad ; and some others for the girls a lot 
better. I don 't want to dream of ghosts ! ' ' 

Miss Betty was willing to do this, but Jack ob- 
jected. " Be a sport, Mildred ! " he said. ' ' Re- 
member it 's Hallowe'en." 

"Well, we '11 see," she said at last. "Per- 
haps I '11 eat a few dreadful things just to see 



170 THE FUN OF COOKING 

what will happen. Now what can we havel I 
can't use a chafing dish at all.' ' 

''Jack can," Miss Betty said, laughing. 
Jack's cooking never ceased to be a joke. 

^'11 I never cooked in one in my life, except 
cheese dreams, at the DwightsV' Jack assured 
her. 

''A chafing dish and a frying-pan are just 
the same sort of thing, and you know you 
learned all about frying-pans in the summer, 
so now, of course, you must show what you 
can do. I '11 give you the receipts and tell 
you just how to make the things, but you 
must use a chafing-dish; if you won't — then, of 
course, I won't be able to help with the party 
at all." 

So Jack reluctantly promised to do his part. 
''Probably I '11 spoil things and make a mess," 
he grumbled. 

But Miss Betty refused to let him off. "Of 
course you can cook in a chafing dish," she as- 
sured him. "All men can, especially those who 
can do camp cooking, and you know you 're an 
expert there. Jack ! Now let 's see what we can 
have. ' ' 

"Do let 's have oysters for one thing; they are 
just in season now," begged Mildred. 



A HALLOAYETX SUPPER 171 

*'0f course — they are just the thing; suppose 
we have pigs in blankets, and Jack shall make 
them, for they are easy and oh, so good! And, 
Mildred, you shall have a chafing dish, too, and 
make something else : and vre can make things to 
go with them, so there vrill be plenty of supper 
for everybody. How many are you going to 
have ? * ' 

''Oh, we have n't thought about it yet, and we 
must talk it over with Mother and see what she 
thinks: but I know she will love the party, be- 
cause she always does." 

And so, sure enough, their mother did love the 
plan. A chafins'-dish supper was sucli a bright 
idea', she said, and so lik^ Miss Betty. 

They decided to ask only eight guests, four 
boys and four girls. In case the food did not 
turn out to be what they hoped, it was better not 
to have too many to eat it. Jack thought. 

Hallowe'en obligingly came on a Saturday, 
.just as though it knew how convenient that day 
would be for eveiybody. Mildred and Brownie 
and Miss Betty and Mother Blair and Xorah aU 
helped in getting things ready, laying the table, 
filling the alcohol lamps of the two chafing- 
dishes. — one borrowed from Miss Betty, — and 
preparing the good things for the supper. They 



172 THE FUN OF COOKING 

decided to have first, the dish of oysters made 
by Jack at one end of the table, and some eggs 
to go with them, made by Mildred at the other. 
With these were to be some potatoes — a new 
kind Mildred had never heard of — and Brownie 
thought she could make these and send them in 
nice and hot ; she was going to make cocoa, too, 
to go with the other hot dishes, and she and Mil- 
dred together were going to make sandwiches in 
the afternoon. And after these. Miss Betty 
said, there was to be something perfectly won- 
derful — something so good and so new. 

' ' Oh, what f ' ' they all begged. 

Miss Betty's eyes rolled up to the ceiling, and 
she shook her pretty head. ^'Wait and see," 
she said solemnly. ^'I '11 bring in the things 
this afternoon and we will all make it together. ' ' 
And they had to be content with this promise. 

The table was laid just as they had it at break- 
fast and luncheon and Sunday night supper, 
with pretty doilies, one for each person and sev- 
eral over for chafing-dishes and piles of plates 
and sandwiches. In the middle was a big bowl 
of bright colored autumn leaves mixed with 
chrysanthemums ; and at each place was a dainty 
card with a picture of a witch riding a broom- 
stick, and the name of the boy or girl who was to 



A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 173 

sit tliere. The table looked very pretty when it 
was all finished, with the glasses and silver and 
small napkins. Brownie did it almost all alone ; 
she loved to get ready for company. 

Then they got out their receipt books and be- 
gan to put down the different things they were 
to make for supper. Even Jack, smiling sheep- 
ishly, consented to write down the chafing-dish 
rules. They might come in handy when he went 
to college, he said. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

20 very large oysters. 

20 slices of thin bacon. 

A shake or two of pepper. 
"Wrap each oyster in one slice of bacon after you have 
cut off the rind, and pin it with a tiny wooden toothpick. 
Heat the chafing dish very hot by putting the upper pan, 
the one with the handle, directly over the flame. Lay in 
four or five oysters and cook them till the bacon crisps and 
the edges of the oysters curl; then take them up and put 
into a hot covered dish while you cook more. Have ready 
some strips of toast and put the oysters on two or three of 
these on hot plates. Shake a little pepper over them, but 
no salt, as the bacon will salt them enough. If too much 
juice comes out in cooking, pour it off and so keep the pan 
dry. 

The oysters were all made up into ^*pigs" in 
the afternoon, and put in the refrigerator; they 
looked so funny when they were done — just like 



174 THE FUN OF COOKING 

tiny pigs, all asleep. But as Jack thought 
twenty oysters for ten people were not enough, 
they made fifty. Then Mildred was given her 
rule : 

SPANISH EGGS 

Mix in the chafing dish. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 
V2 cup of gravy or strong soup. 

1 onion, chopped fine. 
Vz cupful of thick tomato (canned). 
1 gTeen pepper, Avithout the seeds, chopped 
fine. 
Cook this fifteen minutes, stimng so it will not burn; 
then put into it: 

6 eggs, beaten a little without separating. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
If, in cooking the vegetables, they get dry, put in a little 
more butter and tomato. 

Miss Betty said if Mildred would stir this 
often she did not need to use the hot-water pan 
of the chafing-dish. ' ' It takes so much longer to 
cook with it that I never use it if I can help it,'' 
she explained. *^And now for the potatoes, 
Brownie. ' ' 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

TVash and peel six large potatoes, and slice them thin. 
Butter a baking dish and put in a layer; sprinkle with salt 
and just a little pepper and dot with very little bits of 



A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 175 

butter. When the dish is full pour over it a cupful of 
milk and sift fine crumbs over the top, and add some more 
bits of butter. Bake for three quarters of an hour. 

Like the oysters this dish was made ready in 
the afternoon, all but putting on the milk and 
crumbs. 

*^ You don't need a receipt for cocoa, do you?" 
Miss Betty stopped to ask. 

**No, indeed; we can make that with our eyes 
shut, ' ' laughed Mildred. 

^ * Then we will go on to the sandwiches. Here 
are two kinds which are very good with oysters, 
and perhaps they may possibly give you ghost- 
dreams ; I hope they will ! ' ' 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Scald and peel some tomatoes and put them on ice till 
firm; then slice very thin indeed, and take out all the soft 
part and seeds; sprinkle with a little salt. Slice some 
white bread thin and butter it; lay a slice of tomato on a 
slice of bread and on top put a very thin slice of cheese — 
just a scraping of it; add the other slice of bread, press 
together and cut into attractive shape. 

^^I just happened to see the remains of that 
cold boiled ham you evidently had left over from 
yesterday, sitting in the refrigerator and look- 
ing lonely, so I planned these, which are much 
better than the common kind ; 



176 THE FUN OF COOKING 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES 

Put some cold cooked ham through the meat chopper till 
smooth; add a veiy little dry mustard, a tiny pinch of 
black pepper and a very tiny one of red pepper. To a 
small cupful of the meat add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and press into a cup; when cold spread this on but- 
tered bread." 

^'My, those sound good," murmured Jack to 
himself, ^'and tliey sound like Hallowe'en, too.'' 

^'So they do," laughed Mother Blair, begin- 
ning to slice the bread and spread it. ^^Let 's 
make them now and put them on ice, all rolled up 
in a wet napkin. ' ' 

She and Brownie went to work, but Mildred 
said she was not quite ready yet. *'I want an- 
other chafing-dish rule," she said. ''Two are 
not enough, and they are all we have for our 
books." 

''Well, just one or two more, and then I must 
fly," said Miss Betty; "you see I have to get the 
things for my own special receipt for the party. 
Here is a good one : 

PANNED OYSTERS, CREAMED 

Take four oysters for each person. Make some slices of 
toast, butter them and cut them into rounds just the size 
to fit into the bottom of little brown baking dishes, or any 
small individual dishes which can e-o to the table. Put the 



A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 177 

oysters on these with a shake of salt and pepper for each 
and a bit of butter the size of the tip of your little linger. 
Put the dishes into the oven for ten minutes, or till the 
oysters curl at the edges; then take them out and put two 
teaspoonfuls of hot, thick, sweet cream on each, and a bit 
of parsley; stand each dish on a plate and send to the 
table. 

^^I know Tou will like that; now here is an- 
other : 

CREAMED EGGS 
Take one egg for each person; put the lower pan over 
the flame and fill with hot water from the tea-kettle; put 
in the eggs and boil for ten minutes with the cover of the 
pan on. Take them out, peel them and wrap them in a 
napkin to keep them hot. Set away the lower pan, and in 
the upper one put : 

1 tablespoouful of butter; melt this and add 
1 tablespoouful of flour and rub together un- 
til smooth. Add 
% pint of cream or very rich milk, and stir 

till thick; add 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
1 pinch of cayenne. 
^ teaspoonful paprika. 
Drop the eggs in and turn them over once or twice till 
they are very hot; serve each one on a round of buttered 
toast on a hot plate. 

''Xow that is positively all I can stop to give 
you now; I must begin on my own dish," said 
Miss Betty, putting on her hat. ''But I '11 be 
back again in just two minutes. ' ' 



178 THE FUN OF COOKING 

When she came she was carrying a huge pine- 
apple, the largest the children had ever seen, 
and in a bag three large oranges and three 
bananas. ^^Now," she exclaimed as she put 
them on the kitchen table, ^'you shall see me 
make something very nice.'' This was the way 
she made it : 

STUFFED PINEAPPLE 

Get a large pineapple and cut off the brush at the top, 
but leave a little slice of the fruit on it, so it will stand. 
Scoop out the inside of the pineapple (and when you find 
a bit of the hard core do not put it with the rest but throw 
it away) ; cut the pieces all up into small dice. Cut the 
oranges in halves and take out the pulp with a spoon and 
mix with the pineapple; cut up the bananas and add these 
too. Then sweeten with powdered sugar. Set this away 
in a cold place. In seizing it, fill the pineapple and put 
the brush on again and stand the fruit on a round dish with 
some hea\y, stiff green leaves around it. The one who is 
served first is passed the plate; she takes off the brush and 
lays it by the side of the pineap'ple, and with a ladle dips 
out some of the inside on her dessert plate. 

It took quite a time to prepare this, but they 
all liked to do it, and enjoyed the surprise it was 
going to be when it was first passed. Mother 
Blair said she did so hope she might take off 
the pineapple's cover, and when they came to 
think of it, as she was always served first, of 
course she would ! 



A HALLOWE^EN SUPPER 179 

Well, the Hallowe'en supper was a perfect 
success. Jack, though nervous, proved that his 
camping lessons were not wasted, and Mildred's 
chafing-dish was as easy to manage as could be. 
But the next day when they all talked it over, not 
one of the family and not one of the guests had 
had a single ghost-dream after all ! 



CHAPTER XII 

WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 

ONE day Mother Blair woke up with a very- 
sore throat, and the doctor said, when he 
had looked at it, that she must stay in bed for a 
day or two, and that Brownie had better go visit- 
ing. 

**But where can I go, school and allT' the lit- 
tle girl asked Mildred very soberly after the 
doctor had gone. '^If I lose my goggerfy 
lessons now I won't be the top of the class, 
and I thought I was sure to be ; and when I 'm 
the very top of all, you know Father gives me a 
dollar." 

^^ Perhaps Miss Betty would like to have you 
visit her,'' Mildred said; ** would n't that be 
fun! You could come in every single day and 
see how things are going with us, and we could 
wave at you out of the window — Mother could, I 
mean, — and it would be just lovely. I '11 run 
over and ask her if you may come." 

Miss Betty said she would be perfectly de- 

180 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 181 

lighted to have a visit from Brownie, and Mother 
Blair said in a very croaky voice that it was a 
bright idea. So that very morning Brownie 
packed a bag and Jack carried it over for her, 
and she went visiting. 

Mildred found she could be excused from 
school for a day or two, so she became nurse; 
and Norah said she guessed she could run the 
house alone after all the years she 'd been learn- 
ing how; so everything was just as smooth as 
could be. 

When her mother's room was made all tidy 
and she had settled down to take a nap, Mildred 
ran across to Miss Betty's house to ask her what 
to give her mother to eat. 

*'The doctor said soft things, because her 
poor throat is so sore. What do you think I 'd 
better give her for lunch. Miss Betty?" 

^^ Invalids have to have nourishing things, 
Mildred, strong soups and eggs and cereals with 
cream, and custards. Suppose you plan to have 
a cream soup for to-day and start a meat soup 
for to-morrow; it takes two days to make that 
kind, you know. And — let me see — with cream 
soup you might have an egg, I think, and per- 
haps junket; that is the very softest thing in 
the world. Then by night perhaps she can have 



182 THE FUN OF COOKING 

cream toast; that is perfectly delicious; if my 
throat feels sore toward night, Mildred, will 
you please make enough for two? I just love 
it.'' 

Mildred laughed and promised that she would. 

''And soft boiled custard in a pretty glass 
cup ; and tea, I suppose. By to-morrow she will 
be so much better that I think she can have ever 
so many other things. Shall I write out the re- 
ceipts for you now ? Here is a good one for the 
soup . 

CREAM SOUP 

(This makes one cupful.) 
% cup milk. 
% tablespoonful butter. 
% tablespoonful flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
1 shake pepper. 
1 tiny slice of onion. 
y^ cup of any hot cooked vegetable; measure 
after thoroughly mashing it. 
Scald the milk with the onion in it; then take out the 
onion and slowly mix the milk and vegetable. Melt the 
butter, rub the flour into it and stir till it is smooth; then 
pour gradually on the hot milk; add the seasonmg, bring 
it to the point where it almost boils, strain it and put it 
into a hot cup. 

''This is one of the rules you have to learn by 
heart, Mildred. It is very easy, you see, almost 



TVHEX MOTHER BLAIE WAS SICK 183 

like a very thin white sauce with vegetable in 
it. You can use mashed potato, or peas, or corn 
or celery or carrots, or whatever you happen to 
have in the house to make it with, and if you 
multiply it four times you will have enough for a 
dinner soup." 

** Multiply two-thirds by four—" :\Iildred be- 
gan. 

''Never mind now, my dear! It makes my 
head go round to hear you. Copy this in- 
stead : 

CHICKEN BROTH 

3V2 pounds of chicken. 

3 pints cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls rice. 
1^2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 shake of pepper. 
Have the chicken cleaned and cut up at the market. Take 
off the skin and fat and vripe each piece with a wet cloth. 
Put it into a kettle with the cold water and let it slowly 
get hot until it almost boils. (You can tell by looking at 
the edge of the kettle; when tiny bubbles begin to foim it 
is nearly boiling.) Then skim it carefully; let it cook 
slowly till the meat is very tender; tn.' it with a fork. 
Add the salt and pepper when it is about half done. Strain 
it, and set it away to grow perfectly cold; then there will 
be a layer of fat on top; take this off, add the rice and 
put it back on the stove and gently cook it till the rice is 
done. Or, if you have any cooked rice, add a tablespoonful 
to the soup while it is very hot. Serve in a heated cup. 



184 THE FUN OF COOKING 

'^Then Mildred, you see you will have all the 
chicken meat left ; you can take out a bit of the 
best white meat and put it away for creamed 
chicken for your mother's lunch the next day, 
and have the rest on toast for the family dinner. 
Norah can make a little cream gravy to take the 
place of the broth you have poured off, and it 
will be ever so nice.'' 

^'So it will; Father just loves that kind of 
chicken. Now the junket, Miss Betty." 

JUNKET CUSTARD 

% cup milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
^ junket tablet (buy at the gro- 
cery in a little package). 
1 teaspoonful cold water. 
^ teaspoonful vanilla. 
Small pinch of salt. 
Heat the milk till it is just as warm as the tip of your 
finger; add the sugar, salt and vanilla. Stir the junket 
tablet in the cold water till it melts, and add this. Pour 
it all very quickly into small molds or glasses and set in 
a cold place at once. When ready to serve, turn out of 
the mold, or serve in the glass with a little sugar and 
cream. If you wish to make this in a hurry, use half a 
tablet of the jmiket instead of a quarter. 

*^You can change the flavoring of this, Mil- 
dred, when you get tired of vanilla. Try al- 
mond sometimes; or, melt half a chocolate 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 185 

square and mix -^itli the hot milk ; or put in the 
vanilla and serve scraped maple sugar with it, 
with thick cream; they are all good. Xow for 
the egg ; can you poach that, do you think ? ' ' 

"I suppose I can, really, Miss Betty, because 
I 've seen Xorah poach eggs about a hundred 
times; but I think I 'd like a rule for my 
book." 

^ ' Good idea. Here is one, then : 

POACHED EGGS 

Put the frying pan on the fire half full of hot water; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt. Butter the inside of a tin 
mufiSn ring and put this in the pan. Break a fresh egg 
carefully into a saucer and slip it into the ring; the water 
should cover the egg. Put a cover on the pan and set it 
on the back of the stove and let it stand till the white of 
the egg is like firm jelly. 

"VMiile it is cooking make a slice of nice toast; cut it into 
a circle, butter it and lay it on a hot plate. When the egg 
is done take a cake turner, butter its edge and slip it under 
the mufl&n ring and egg together and hold it over the pan 
till the water drip's away; then take off the ring, slip the 
egg carefully on the round of toast, add just a sprinkle of 
salt and one of pepper, and a bit of parsley. Cover the 
plate till you serve it, to keep it hot. 

*^Now, Mildred, I think you had better run 
home and get out the things for your tray, and 
I '11 come over just before lunch and help you 
lay it prettily, if you want me to. See if you 



186 THE FUN OF COOKING 

can find a pretty, thin cup for the soup, and a 
plate that looks well with it, and something per- 
fectly dear for the junket. And a little napkin, 
not a large one. I '11 bring a flower ; you know 
you always have to have a flower for a sick- 
tray. '* 

^^You do!" Mildred's eyes were round. 
*^What for. Miss Betty? You don't eat a 
flower!'' she giggled. 

*^No, but you can't eat so well without it, if 
you are sick. Just wait till you are, and you '11 
see." 

So Mildred went home and got out all the 
things she could think of for her mother's 
lunch and laid them on one end of the kitchen 
table. Then she tip-toed into the sick room, 
gave her mother her medicine and a cool drink 
of water, and turned her pillow over. After 
that she went out to begin the lunch. 

She found Norah had plenty of junket tablets, 
so first of all she followed the rule for that. 
It was very easy indeed, and in just a moment 
she poured half the junket into a little glass 
for her mother, and the other half into an Qgg 
cup-mold for Jack's lunch. She put both of 
these right on ice so they would be firm, and 
used half the tablet instead of a quarter as her 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 187 

rule suggested, to be perfectly certain the junket 
would be firm enough by noon. 

' * You must be sure not to let them stand one 
minute, Miss Mildred,'' said Norah as she 
watched her. ^^If you do, they '11 never set at 
all." 

*'Why not, Norah? Couldn't I just set the 
dish on the table for two minutes before I put 
it away!" 

Norah assured her that it was quite impossi- 
ble. ^^ Junket isn't like gelatine; it won't 
wait," she said. So Mildred hurried just as 
fast as she could. 

Next she made the soup ; she found a cup of 
spinach in the refrigerator, and used that ex- 
actly as the receipt said, and the soup was a 
lovely pale green color. She put this where it 
would keep hot, and then boiled the water to 
poach the egg. 

Before this bubbled Miss Betty came in with 
a pink geranium in her hand, and two green 
leaves. These she put in a very slender clear 
glass vase she found in the sitting-room, just 
large enough for them. Then she began to help 
Mildred with the tray. 

** First you cover it with a clean napkin or 
tray cloth; that 's a nice napkin, Norah, thank 



188 THE FUN OF COOKING 

you. Then you put on a glass of cold water, 
only half full so it will not spill. Then the plate 
for the soup cup; and the soup spoon at the 
side, with the fork for the egg, and the little 
folded napkin and a cunning little salt and pep- 
per. Next you get the egg and toast ready, 
put them on a hot plate — hot, Mildred, not just 
a little warm, — and cover it up with a hot cereal 
dish turned over it, unless you happen to have 
a covered china dish that comes on purpose. 
Stand this at the back of the tray. Get the 
little junket ready, too, and put the glass on a 
small plate; but you need not put this on the 
tray. Let your mother eat the hot things first, 
and take off the dishes and put the dessert on 
the tray all by itself. You can get it while she 
is eating, you know. Then, last of all, you put 
on the vase of flowers. There — doesn't that 
look sweet f 

Mildred said it certainly did ; then she began 
to poach the egg, and Miss Betty went into 
Mother Blair's room and put an extra pillow 
behind her shoulders and a scarf over her and 
opened the blinds. She drew a little table close 
beside the bed and laid a fresh white cover over 
it, and when the door opened and Mildred came 
in carefully carrying the white tray with the 



WHEN MOTHER BL.\IE WAS SICK 189 

good things to eat on it and the pretty geran- 
iums, her mother was delighted. 

^'Oh, how good it looks," she exclaimed. 
^'Mildred, did you really make that soup? And 
poach that beautiful eggl And actually make 
that junket 1 Well, I never did see anything so 
perfectly lovely. I *m proud to have such a 
daughter!" Then she ate eveiything, and de- 
clared her throat was almost well already. 

In spite of that, however, the doctor made 
Mrs. Blair stay in bed several days, so that 
Mildred learned to make quite a number of new 
dishes for sick people. For one breakfast she 
gave her cereal with cream and bits of dates : 
for one luncheon she had the chicken broth, and 
for one supper cream toast and baked custard ; 
she had goldenrod eggs, too, when her mother's 
throat was better, and baked apple. All of these 
things she wrote down in her book so she would 
not forget how to make any of them. 

CEREAL WITH DATES 

1 heaping tablespoonful oatmeal. 

1 cup of water. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 
'Mix, put in a double boiler and cook for one hour. 
Five minutes before taking this off the fire stir in 

4 dates, washed and cut into small pieces. 

Serve with cream. 



190 THE FUN OF COOKING 

CREAM TOAST 

2 slices of nice brown, dry toast. 

% cup of cream. 

% teaspoonful butter. 

% teaspoonful flour. 

% teaspoonful salt. 
Rub the melted batter and flour; heat the cream till it 
scalds, or almost boils; mix together and pour slowly over 
one slice of the toast in a deep dish; then put on the sec- 
ond slice and pour the rest of the cream over that. Serve 
very hot. 

GOLDENROD EGGS 

% tablespoonful butter. 
% tablespoonful flour, 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
% cup hot milk. 
Rub the butter and flour, and add the milk and salt. 
Have ready 

1 hard boiled egg. (Boil ten 

minutes.) 
1 slice of toast. 
Cut the egg in half, take off the white part and chop it ; 
stir this into the white sauce. Cut the crust off the toast 
and pour over; then quickly rub the egg yolk through the 
sieve and sprinkle over all. Keep the sauce and toast hot 
in the oven until you put on the yolk; serve very hot in a 
covered dish. 

BAKED APPLE 

Peel and core a large sour apple Put in a deep 
earthen dish, fill the center with sugar, and just cover the 
bottom of the dish with water. Bake in a hot oven till 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 191 

soft, basting every five minutes with the syrup in the bot- 
tom of the dish. (That is, with a spoon pour the juice 
over the apple.) Sen^e hot or cold, with cream. 

Mildred could already niake baked custard, 
so slie did not need a new rule for that. But 
soft-boiled custard she had to learn. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 cup of rich milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 
y2 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Put the milk on the fire to heat; beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the sugar and beat again; stir this into the hot 
milk, add the salt and stir till the whole grows thick like 
cream. Then take it off at once; be careful not to let it 
boil at all or it will be spoiled. Let it get very cold; put 
it in a glass, beat half of the white of one egg and add this 
just before servmg. Or, whip one spoonful of thick cream 
and put this on top of the custard. 

After Mildred had learned to make all these 
good things, she used to search her cook book 
for receipts for other things, and as her mother 
got better she made something new every day. 
By the time Mother Blair was perfectly well 
and strong again, she felt she had grown to be 
a real sick-cook. And the best thing of all was 
that the doctor said the reason her mother got 
well so fast was that she had had such nourish- 
ing and delicious things to eat ! 



CHAPTEE XIII 

A DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIEL. PAETY 

MOTHEE BLAIE had an old school friend 
coming ont to spend the day, and she had 
written that she mnst bring her little five year 
old daughter with her. This was n't a bit con- 
venient for the Blairs, because Miss Betty was 
to give a luncheon for the older people, and 
Mildred had planned to go to town for the day ; 
and, of course. Jack couldn't be bothered to 
help take care of a child. That, surely, was n't 
man's work, he declared. 

So Brownie saw that she must entertain the 
small Helen all by herself, and she sat down to 
think what she should do for her. 

^ ^ Five years old, ' ' she said to herself. ^ ' That 
means dolls, I guess. I 'm pretty old for dolls, 
but of course I could get Araminta down from 
the attic, only she 's packed up so nicely that 
I hate to disturb her. I wonder if five year 
olds play games? Mother Blair, do you think 
we could play in the attic with Helen's doll and 

192 



DOLL-AXD-LITTLE-GIEL PAETY 193 

Araminta, if I get her out, or what can we do?'' 
''Helen has had a bad cough, dear, and I 'm 

afraid her mother wouL:I think that she must 
stay where there were no draughts. AVhv don't 
you have a little bit of a party for lier? AVe 
could ask four other children about her age — " 

*^0h, Mother, 1 know! 1*11 have a dolls' 
party, and cook cunning things in tiny little 
dishes just big enough for dolls to eat. That 
would be perfectly lovely, and I know Mildred 
would help me make some of them the day be- 
fore." 

''That would really be ever so much fun." 
Mother Blair said. "Run and ask Xorah if she 
has any very little tins and molds that you can 
use, and I '11 look up some receipts for you. 
Brownie, that dolls' party is what I call a really 
bright idea." 

Xorah was not at all busy just then so she 
got a kitchen chair and hunted on the top shelf 
in the tin closet and found several things for 
Brownie. One was a little tumbler of heavy 
glass, half the size of a small jelly glass; it 
had been used in traveling one summer when 
the Blairs were younger. Then there were six 
muffin tins fastened together like a pan which 
were never used because thev made mutiins so 



194 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

tiny tliat Jack said six were only a bite. And 
beside these she found a little tin cutter meant 
to cut vegetables into shapes for soup ; this one 
was a tube with a star on the end, or rather the 
outline of one. Norah said that it would make 
lovely little cookies, each one the size of a five 
cent piece. Brownie was delighted with it. 

*^But, Norah, we won't want muffins,'' she 
said. ^^I remember when I was ^ve, I could n't 
have even one for breakfast — not till I was about 
seven, I guess it was. And Mother says Mrs. 
Lane is just as partickler as can be about 
Helen." 

*^I know something you can make in 'em," 
nodded Norah. ^^Not muffins. You just wait. 
You make it out of rice, and rice is awful good 
for children. ' ' 

So Brownie ran into her mother's room to tell 
her what they had found and plan the meal with 
her. 

^ ^ Suppose you have a really nice luncheon for 
both the dolls and the girls," she said. *^You 
can have the low sewing table and set it with 
small plates and little napkins and have low 
chairs around it; the four children could sit on 
two sides of the table and Helen at one end and 
you at the other, and the company could all 



DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIRL PARTY 195 

hold their children in their laps and you need 
not have any doll at all because you are hostess. 
How -would that do?" 

^'Perfectly lovely, Mother. And now what 
shall we have to eat?" 

''How would you like a hot first course- 
perhaps some kind of chicken and potatoes, with 
jelly and little cups of cocoa?" 

*'0h, yes. Mother; and tiny sandwiches?" 

*'Yes, indeed; and then some dessert that 
children like; will that be enough, do you 
think?" 

'•Well, if they are not so very hungiy, I think 

it will he." 

Mother Blair laughed. ' ' I think it is all their 
mothers would want them to eat for luncheon, 
anyway. Xow what did Xorah find for you?" 

Brownie told about the little muffin tins, and 
said Xorah said they could have something made 
of rice in them; and there was a little star cooky 
cutter and a little bit of a tumbler. 

Mrs. Blair said they were all exactly what 
would be needed. 

*'I rather think Xorah meant to use the muffin 
tins for these. Brownie. See how easy they are 
to make, and so good, too." 



196 THE FUN OF COOKING 

EICE PATTIES 

1 heaping tablespoonful of rice. 

2 cups of cold water. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 
% an egg. 

1 large cupful of cooked chicken, cut into bits. 

1 small cup of thick white sauce. (See your 
rule.) 
Wash the rice and put it over to cook in the double boiler 
in the water; add the salt; when it has cooked twenty min- 
utes without stirring, taste it and see if it is soft, and no- 
tice if the water has boiled away so it is dry; if it is done, 
take off the cover and stand the boiler in the oven or on 
the back of the stove till each grain of rice is full and there 
is not a drop of water left. Then mix with the egg after 
you have beaten it and divided it, and put a spoonful into 
each muffin pan after it has been buttered; press this on 
the sides and bottom like a thick pie crust; warm the but- 
ter and put a little on the edges of each and put them in 
the oven till brown. Make the white sauce, heat the 
chicken in it and fill the patties at the last moment; put a 
bit of parsley on top of each one. 

*^We used to have these patties often for 
lunch and Norah would put in creamed fish or 
left-over vegetables, or eggs. We have not had 
them for ever so long, and we must remember 
and have them again, they are so good. And 
Brownie, remind me to have chicken for dinner 
the night before the party, so there will be some 
to warm up the next day. ' ' 



DOLL-AXD-LITTLE-GIEL PAETY 197 

'^TVait one minute, Mother, please. I want 
to ask Norah if these are ^vhat she had thought 
of for us/' 

Strangely enough they were, only she had in- 
tended to have the rice shells filled with scram- 
bled eggs. *'But the chicken's better," she 
said. ''Trust your mother for thinkin- of it." 
Brownie ran back again. ''I just wanted to 
be sure she hadn't thought of anything nicer," 
she said. ''And she hadn't. These are going 
to be perfectly lovely." 

*'Xow for the potatoes; what kind do you 
think you would like?" 

"I can make nice ones, chopped and fried," 
said Brownie proudly. 

"I don't believe we had better give those 
small children anything fried, dear; I 'm pretty 
sure their mothers would not like that. What 
would you think of the potato puff Norah makes 
out of left-over mashed potato?" 

"Just the thing. I wouldn't have to boil 
the potatoes and peel them and mash them. 
Left-overs are always 50 convenient!" 

' ' Then we must be sure to have mashed po- 
tato for dinner the night before the party, 
or there won't be any left over," said Mrs. 
Blair, laughing. "Now, write down this re- 



198 THE FUN OF COOKING 

ceipt ; only remember I am making it small for 
you ; for the family you must take two cups or 
more of potato, and one egg. ' ' 

POTATO PUFF 

1 cup of mashed potato. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
y^ cup of milk. 
% of a beaten egg. 
1 teaspoonful of butter. 
Mix the potato with the milk and salt and heat it, beating 
it well. Then stir in the butter after warming it till soft, 
and last the egg. Put in a small dish and bake in a hot 
oven till brown. 

^'I tliink it would be nice to bake this in 
one of the small brown earthenware dishes, 
Brownie ; they always look well on the table, and 
a tin or agate pan would n't do at all ; you know' 
you must serve it right in the pan you bake it 
in.'' 

^' Is n't it funny, you have one-half an egg 
in the potato and one-half in the rice patties. 
Mother. Do you do that on purpose?" 

*^No, it just happened to be so, but it 's an 
economical thing. Brownie, because eggs are so 
high now-a-days that one has to remember to 
use them carefully. The sandwiches come next. 
What kind do you think would be best?" 

^'Not cheese, Mother; dolls and children don't 



DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIRL PARTY 199 

eat cheese; I know that! And not nut; nor 
ham; nor hard-boiled egg. I can't think of any 
kind that would do.'' 

''White bread and brown bread put together, 
just with plain butter, you know; I think those 
would be lovely for children." 

''So they would; I can make those. And we 
can cut them out in little, little circles." 

"I think you could use an egg cup and 
press it down hard ; that would make little cir- 
cles." 

"Just the thing. Now comes the cocoa, and 
I can make that all alone ; may we use the little 
after dinner coffee cups to drink it out of? 
We '11 be very careful. ' ' 

"Well, if you'll be very careful indeed," 
Mother Blair said, hesitating. 

"Oh, yes, we '11 be just awfully careful. And 
what about jelly!" 

"You can have a glass of jelly out of the 
closet made over for you in this way : 

MADE-OVER JELLY 

A glass of currant jelly Tvarmed in a sauce- 
pan till it melts. 

1 teaspoonful of gTanulated gelatine. 
% cup of cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 



200 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Put the gelatine into the cold water, stir it well and let 
it stand for ten minutes; then stir again and add the boil- 
ing water and the hot jelly; stir till it is smooth and strain 
through a coarse bag into two or more small glasses. Put 
on ice till firm. 

*' While tlie jelly is melting you get the rest 
of the things ready and then it takes only a mo- 
ment to put them all together. Norah always 
has a bag because she washes out and puts 
away those that the table salt comes in. When 
you have used it don't forget to wash it out 
for her, will you, dearf 

*^No, Mother. Mildred and I never forget to 
wash up and put things away ever since she 
said we couldn't come into the kitchen at all 
unless we always did that. Do you remember 
how cross she was 1 ' ' 

*'I don't wonder. Brownie. Some day when 
you have a kitchen of your own you will be 
cross, too, if little girls come in and use your 
pots and pans and leave them all sticky and 
messy." 

^'Of course I will. It makes me feel real 
cross now just to think of it. I guess we 'd bet- 
ter plan the dessert before I get worse." 

*^ Perhaps we had," laughed Mother Blair. 
*^ Those children must have something very sim- 



DOLL-AXD-LITTLE-GIKL PAETY 201 

pie, indeed, and I really can't think of anything 
better for them than cornstarch pudding." 

**WeIl," said Brownie doubtfully, "that cer- 
tainly won't hurt them." 

' 'I know you don't like it very well, and grown 
people don't care for it either, but it is good 
for children, and if you learn to make it for 
them you can easily change the rule a little bit 
and make it in half a dozen different ways which 
grown-ups do like. I '11 give you two or three 
rules for your book and you can try them all. 
Here is the first, for your party : 

PLAIN CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

% cup of scalded milk; put in the double 
boiler. 
IV2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarcb. 
% tablespoonful of sugar. 

1 pinch of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk. 

1,4 teaspoonful vanilla. 

While the milk is heating till it scalds (that is, till the 
top wrinkles, but it does not quite boil), mix the corn- 
starch, sugar and salt in the cold milk and then pour 
slowly into the scalded milk, stirring well all the time till 
it grows thick; put on the cover and let it cook eight min- 
utes. Beat the egg without separating it and stir this in 
and cook one minute; take it off the stove, add the vanilla, 
pour it into a mold and let it get finn; serve with cream. 



202 THE FUN OF COOKING 

'^You see that isn't bad at all; but to make 
it ever so mucli better try this : 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Melt a square of unsweetened chocolate by putting it 
into a saucer over the steam of the tea-kettle; stir this in 
just before adding the egg. Pour into a pretty mold on 
ice; turn it out and heap whipped cream around it. 

ALMOND CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Use almond flavoiing instead of vanilla, and when yon 
take the pudding off the fire, stir in a cup of chopped 
almonds. Serve with whipped cream." 

^'That last one sounds, oh, so good, Mother. 
Can't I make that for Sunday dinner T' 

^*Yes, indeed you can, and Father will love it, 
I know. Now, Brownie, let me tell you just one 
thing more about the dessert for the party; 
put the pudding into egg cups, and fill them just 
half full ; then you see when you turn them out 
they will be lovely little molds, one for each 
child; and you can have the cream in the small 
silver pitcher to pass with them.'' 

**What a nice party it will be," sighed 
Brownie. ^^I 'm so glad Helen is only five, be- 
cause if she were older we could n't have these 
cunning, cunning things." 

The party really was lovely. The little table 



DOLL-AXD-LITTLE-GIRL PARTY 203 

had six low seats around it, a hem-stitched lunch 
cloth over it and a small vase of flowers in the 
center. The little girls, each with her best doll 
in her lap, sat around it, too impressed to talk. 
First they had rice patties filled with hot 
creamed chicken on little plates, and spoonfuls 
of brown potato puff; with these the little round 
sandwiches were passed, brown on one side and 
white on the other, and tiny cups of cocoa, and 
helpings from the little glass of jelly which 
Brownie had turned out in a pretty red mold on 
a little bit of a glass dish. After they had eaten 
all they possibly could of these things Xorah 
came in with some more small plates and each 
one had a little mold of delicious cold pudding, 
with cream to put on it and two small star- 
shaped cookies to eat with it. Oh, it was all so 
good I And the best thing about it was that 
Brownie really made every single thing they had 
all by herself, except the cookies. Mildred had 
made those the day before for her. '"I "m so 
sorry I 'm too big to come to the party," she 
said, ^'but at least I can make doll-cookies." 

" 'Doll and little-girl cookies,' you mean," 
corrected Brownie. 



CHAPTEE XIV 

WHEN NOKAH WAS AWAY 

ONE day a messenger boy went around to 
the kitchen door with a telegram for 
Norah, telling her that her sister had broken her 
arm and she must come at once and take care of 
the children ; as there were nine of them, includ- 
ing a tiny baby, Norah felt she must take the 
very first train, and so in only an hour she was 
off, and the Blairs' kitchen was empty. 

** However, it is njt as though we did n't know 
how to cook,'' said Brownie, when she came 
home from school and found out what had hap- 
pened. ^^ Every single one of us can cook — 
even Jack." 

^^Even Jack," called her brother from the 
dining-room. '^1 heard that, Brownie Blair, 
and I '11 tell you this : I can cook just as well as 
any one in this family, if I do say it. ' ' 

<^ Prove it, then," laughed his mother. **I 
got the lunch alone to-day because you were all 
away; but suppose, instead of having regular 

204 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 205 

dinners while Xorali is gone, we have hot sup- 
pers, and you three get them without me. Do 
you think you could manage it ? And I will get 
lunch and breakfast.'^ 

^^Oh, no. Mother Blair. We will all get 
breakfast together, and wash the dishes and 
make the beds before we go to school; we can 
get up earlier. And every single day we will 
get supper all alone and you can go out calling 
or walking or whatever you like." 

<< Perhaps you 'd let me help once in a while," 
suggested their mother meekly. 

**Not once. Of course if you want to make 
one thing for supper to surprise us some time 
and have plenty of time to do it while you are 
getting lunch, we might let you do that. A cake, 
I mean, or gingerbread, just to help out at night; 
none of us can make many kinds of cake." 

**Well, I think most girls know how to make 
too many kinds of cake and very few kinds of 
more sensible things, soups and vegetables and 
so on ; and of the two I believe the regular every- 
day dishes are the more important. You see, 
you can learn to make cake at any time. ' ' 

^*I think this is a rattling good time for Mil- 
dred to learn," declared Jack. ^^ Chocolate 
layer cake and cocoanut cake and fruit cake are 



206 THE FUN OF COOKING 

great, and she '11 never learn younger, Mother. ' ' 

^^ Well, she may make a great big cake for you 
on Saturday for Sunday night supper, if she 
wants to ; but if she does, I shall expect you to 
do your share of the cooking every day." 

*^ Emergency cooking is all right; men ought 
to know how to do that,'' Jack rephed stoutly. 
^'I 'm perfectly willing to cook bacon for break- 
fast, or scramble eggs, or cook fish for supper, 
or make a stew; anything I cooked in camp I 
can do with one hand tied behind my back ! ' ' 

'^This is your chance then, to show what you 
learned last summer. Perhaps if you do splen- 
didly well Father Blair will want to take you 
again," said his mother. ^*Now hurry back to 
school and I will do these dishes and plan the 
supper and get it all ready for you — on paper, — 
and then if you want me to, I '11 disappear and 
you may cook it all alone. ' ' 

*^0f course. Mother Blair. Don't you pay 
any attention to us at all; just come in with 
Father at half past six and it will be all ready," 
Mildred said as she hurried away. 

That afternoon when the kitchen was all tidy 
Mother Blair sat down with a pencil and a 
sheet of paper and wrote out all about the sup- 
per. This is what she planned to have, and 



WHEN XORAH WAS AWAY 207 

after each dish she wrote the name of the one 
who was to make it : 

Cream dried beef (Mildred) 

Corn bread (Jack) Cocoa (Brownie) 

Fresh apple-sauce (Mildred) 

Cake (see cake box) 

When the three younger Blairs came home 
and supper time approached, they found this 
pinned up in the kitchen, and with it the only 
receipts they needed: 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

1 box of shaved dried beef (or ^4 of a pound 

if YOU buy it at the butcher's). 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 cup of hot milk. 

2 shakes of pepper. 

Cut the beef up into tiny bits; pour boiling water over 
it and let it stand one minute; pour it oE and squeeze the 
meat dry. 

Put the butter in the frying-pan and let it melt; when 
it bubbles, add the flour and stir till smooth; add the hot 
milk and pepper, and last the meat ; stir till it thickens like 
cream; serve on squares of hot buttered toast. 

'^Easy!" said Mildred as she read the re- 
ceipt over. "Same old white sauce: it 's funny 
how that is used over and over. I think I *11 let 
that wait till just before supper time to make, 



208 THE FUN OF COOKING 

and get the apple-sauce going. That sounds 
easy, too." 

APPLE SAUCE 

6 large, tart apples. 
1 cup of sugar. 
Yz cup water. 
14 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Wipe the apples, cut in quarter, peel and core them. 
Cut up small and put in a saucepan with the water; cook 
gently till they are soft, and then add the sugar. When 
they are transparent and rather smooth they 8.re done; 
take them up, and either serve as they are, or if you wish, 
put them through the colander. Sprinkle with cinnamon. 

'^Yhile Mildred was making this, Brownie laid 
the table, just as she had learned weeks before ; 
then she got out her receipt-book and made the 
cocoa by that, while Jack made the corn bread 
by his own camp rule, reciting it aloud as he 
mixed the different things and shook do^vn the 
fire and saw that his oven was hot. 

*^ You learn a lot of things camping, Mildred,'' 
he said when he finished and cleared up his 
mixing bowl and other things and wiped otf 
the table. ^*I never had any idea how careful 
you had to be to keep things ship shape till I 
lived with Father up in the woods. He made 
me clean up after every single thing I made, 
and wouldn't let me leave a thing around. I 
thought it was just sort of fussing at first, but 



WHEN NORAH WAS AWAY 209 

after a while I found out it saved time. There 
were n't half as many dishes to do after a meal, 
if you cleaned up as you went along, and when 
you were in an awful hurry to fish or something 
it helped a lot. ' ' 

''I know; Mother always tells Brownie and 
me to do that way. One day we were cooking 
and I wanted the egg beater ; Brownie had used 
it and left it in the dish pan to soak, so I had 
to stop and wash it. Then after I used it I put 
it back in the pan, and Norah needed it and she 
had to wash it ; and that was the way it went all 
the time till we learned that we must wash up 
every pot and pan and dish and spoon just the 
very minute we were through with them. It 
seems a lot of bother at first but you don't 
mind after a little. And then, Jack, while we 
have to wash the dishes at night it will save 
time to do them as we go along now. ' ' 

WTien the toast was made and buttered, Mil- 
dred kept it hot while she quickly creamed the 
dried beef. The cocoa was all ready and so was 
the brown corn bread, and exactly at half past 
six o'clock supper was all ready to go right 
on the table, and everything was as nice as pos- 
sible. **But then," said Father Blair compla- 
cently, ^^what else can you expect? This com 



210 THE FUN OF COOKING 

bread, Jack, tastes to me like that of the good 
old times." 

'^And this beef, Mildred, is exactly right, and 
so is the cocoa.'' 

And so were the apple-sauce and cake, when 
they came on the table. The cake, especially, 
seemed particularly good, though it was only 
the same kind Mildred had often made herself, 
— the one in her own cook book under the title 
^^ Christmas Cake." 

*^I do think nice cake is just as good as can 
be," said Mildred, taking a second piece. **I 
believe I '11 learn to make several kinds right 
away while Norah is gone. ' ' 

*'That 's the kind of talk I like to hear," said 
Jack appreciatively. 

In the morning Jack made the fire and started 
the cereal in plenty of time, while the rest fin- 
ished dressing. This was the very simple rule 
he used: 

OATMEAL 

1 cup of meal. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

When the water boils hard, add the salt and stir in the 

meal quickly; put it all into the double boiler and let it 

cook at least half an hour; take off the cover and let it 

stand till it gets a little dry (about five minutes). Serve 



VrHEX XORAH WAS AWAY 211 

with cream, and, if you like, sliced bananas and a little 
sugar. 

Mother Blair and Mildred laid the table, 
Brownie got the fruit out of the refrigerator and 
arranged it and put on the finger-bowls, and 
then they went into the kitchen to see what 
should be done next. 

"I 'm going to cook bacon," announced Jack: 
*'I 've got it all ready; you might make the 
toast, Mildred, and Mother can make the coffee 
and we '11 be all ready in one jiffy. ' ' 

After breakfast they washed the dishes : or 
rather Jack washed them and Brownie wiped 
them, and they laid the lunch table after taking 
the crumbs up off the floor and table: mean- 
while Mother Blair and Mildred made the beds 
and put the house in order, and when it was 
time for school everything was done. 

"That 's easy enough," Jack said as they 
left. *^ Bather fun, I think, too. I don't care 
if Xorah stays away quite a while." 

For supper that night they found their 
mother had planned this : 

Spanish tomatoes (Mildred) 
Stuff'ed baked potatoes (Brownie) 

Biscuits (anybody) 
Pancakes and maple syrup (Jack) 



212 THE FUN OF COOKING 

** Spanish tomatoes sounds good," said Mil- 
dred, reading Iter easy rule. 

SPANISH TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes, peeled and chopped, or 1 can. 
3 chopped green peppers (first cut each in 

two and take out the seeds). 
y2 an onion (chop with the peppers). 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 
3 shakes pepper. 

1 large teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Mix all together and cook about twenty minutes, slowly, 
or till they look like a thick paste. Pour over buttered 
toast. 

Mother Blair had put a can of tomatoes on 
the kitchen table and the peppers with it, so it 
took only a few moments to get this first dish 
ready; then while it stood waiting to go over 
the fire and cook, Mildred made the biscuits 
and popped them into the oven. Brownie 
washed and baked the potatoes and when they 
were done she stuffed them beautifully and just 
browned them at the last moment, and Mildred 
made the toast to go under the tomatoes. 

Everything was delicious, and while Jack 
made the cakes and brought them in, one plate- 
ful after another, all hot and steaming, the 
family said what fun it all was. 

^* Is n't it queer that some girls just hate to 



WHEN XORAH WAS AWAY 213 

cook, and think it 's simply dreadful when they 
have no maid and have to do their own work ? ' ' 
said Mildred. ^^When I 'm grown up — I 'm go- 
ing to have a house — no, a flat, I guess, that ^s 
cunninger, — and do every single bit of my own 
work." 

*'Do," said Brownie enthusiastically; ''and 
I '11 come and stay with you and help you. ' ' 

* ^ So will I, ' ' laughed their father. 

*^And so will I," said Mother Blair. ''But 
you '11 have to hurry up and learn lots more, 
Mildred ; there are just hundreds of things you 
can learn to cook, and all of them are ever so 
good. ' ' 

'"I 'm going to learn every single one," said 
Mildred solemnly. 

As the week went by, the children found they 
were really learning ever so many of the "hun- 
dreds" of good things their mother spoke of. 
Among them were these, the rules for which 
they put right in their books with the rest : 

EGGS IX RAMEKINS 
4 eggs. 

4 rounds of buttered toast. 
Sprinkle of salt and pepper. 
Butter any small dishes; put in the toast rounds, break 
an egg carefully on each, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and bake in the oven tiU the eggs are done. 



214 THE FUN OF COOKING 

EASY MEAT PIE 

1 cup chopped cooked meat. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 
y<2. teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

2 cups mashed potato. 

(If the potato is left-over, and so is cold, add y2 a cup 
of hot milk to it a>nd beat it up till it is smooth and hot.) 

Mix the meat, water, and seasoning all together in a 
saucepan and let it cook till it gets rather dry, stirring it 
often. Butter a baking dish and cover the sides and bot- 
tom with the potato, half an inch thick. Put the meat in 
the center, and then put the rest of the potato over the 
top and make it nice and smooth. Put bits of butter all 
over the top and brown in the oven. 

CREAMED SALMON 

1 can of salmon (medium size). 
1 large cup of white sauce, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper. 
Open the can, drain the fish of oil and take out the skin 
and bones; mix lightly, lay on squares of buttered toast; 
put slices of lemon and bits of parsley all around the edge 
of the platter. (You can use any sort of cooked fish in- 
stead of salmon.) 

HOT SARDINES 

1 box large sardines. 
4 slices of toast. 



WHEN NORAH WAS AWAY 215 

Juice of Yz a lemon. 

Sprinkles of salt, pepper and diy mustard. 
Open the sardines and lift them out carefully; drain 
the oil off. Put them on a tin plate in the oven to get very 
hot while you make toast and cut it into strips; cut the 
crust off and butter them a little. When the sardines are 
hot put one on each strip of toast, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, salt, pepper and mustard (only a tiny bit of mus- 
tard), and serv'e at once on a hot dish with parsley all 
aromid. 

Besides these good things the children made all 
sorts of potatoes and muffins and everything else 
they had learned, and they really had a beau- 
tiful time. But the most fun of all was on Sat- 
urday when they had the cooking to do for two 
days and plenty of time in which to do it. 



CHAPTER XV 

THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPEB 

MOTHER BLAIR, did you ever think that 
Thanksgiving Day has one great defect T' 

**Why, no, Mildred, I don't believe I ever 
did," smiled her mother. *^Do tell me what it 
is.'' 

*^Well, we have to have dinner in the after- 
noon so the littlest cousins can go home early, 
and so Norah can get away in time for her regu- 
lar party — she always goes to one, you know, 
that evening; and that leaves us with nothing 
to do for hours before bedtime. I don't know 
why it is, but that time always drags. ' ' 

* ' That is a real defect, Mildred, and I 'm glad 
you told me, because we don't want any part of 
Thankgiving Day to drag. It ought to be lovely 
till the very end. What can you think of that 
we can do to make it so?" 

**I think if all the cousins would stay on in- 
stead of going home at dark, and if we arranged 
something interesting, like a little play or cha- 
rades, first, and then, when we got hungry, about 

216 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 217 

eight o'clock, we had a hot supper, that would 
be just perfect. ' ' 

* ^ Of course ! That 's a bright idea, Mildred. 
All the cousins are old enough now to spend the 
evening, and we can have a lovely time together. 
You arrange the play, and I '11 get up the supper 
for you." 

**No, indeed, Mother Blair! We three jun- 
iors will get it — that 's part of the fun. And 
don't you think it would be nice to have it in 
here on the big library table? We could bring 
the things in on trays and then just help our- 
selves. ' ' 

^^That 's another bright idea! Of course it 
would be delightful to have it in here. Then 
afterwards we could have a wood fire in the 
grate and sit around it to tell stories, and have 
games, and charades, and sing some songs to- 
gether, and be just as thankful as possible. 
What shall we have for supper? I fancy we 
shall not want anything very heavy after our 
dinner. ' ' 

^^No, of course not; but it can be something 
awfully good. Cold turkey to begin with, and 
something hot to go with it, and — and what else. 
Mother Blair r' 

^^Oh, cranberry jelly, and perhaps a salad, 



218 THE FUN OF COOKING 

and then something sweet to finish with. Do 
you think that would do I " 

^*Yes, and some kind of a hot drink, I sup- 
pose; coffee for Father and Uncle and Aunt 
Mary and you, and cocoa for the rest of us ; only 
I 'm so tired of cocoa, I don't believe I could 
drink a drop.'' 

*^We certainly have had it pretty often for 
lunch lately; I 've noticed it myself and meant 
to speak to Norah about it. I think I can find 
something else for all of us which you will like 
better — something especially meant for Thanks- 
giving. ' ' 

^^What the Pilgrim Fathers had for their 
Thanksgiving dinner, I suppose," laughed Mil- 
dred. ^^I 'm sure it will be good, too, and we '11 
love it. ' ' 

School closed the day before Thanksgiving, 
and that afternoon Mildred and Brownie began 
to be thankful, because there would be no more 
lessons till Monday. They put their books 
away, planned the funny little play they were 
going to have the next evening, and got together 
everything they would need for that ; then they 
said it was time to think about the supper in the 
library. 

** We will wait till Norah has gone out and the 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 219 

kitchen is all in order," said Mildred. ^^Then 
we can get out the things we want to carry into 
the other room, and put them on two trays; 
Jack and Cousin Fred can carry them when we 
are ready. Plates, and knives, and forks, and 
glasses, and napkins; and the platter of tur- 
key— '^ 

^'And salt,'' said Brownie, ^^and bread, and 
butter." 

*^Yes; and cranberry jelly. Then we will 
make the hot things and bring them in after- 
ward." 

''What shall we make to-day, Mildred T' 

''I wonder if Norah has made the cranberry 
jelly for dinner yet; if she hasn't, you and I 
might make that now, and divide it and put part 
away for the supper. And we can make the des- 
sert, or whatever Mother thinks we had better 
have. The salad we shall have to make to-mor- 
row. ' ' 

Norah was that very minute preparing to 
make the cranberry jelly, but she said she was 
in a hurry, and the girls could make it if they 
would promise not to get in her way. They got 
the receipt from their mother, and began in a 
comer as far off from Norah as they could 
get. 



220 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart of cranberries. Pick them over and 

wash them, then chop them a little. 
IV2 cups of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Boil five minutes; rub while hot through a sieve, and 
pour into a pretty mold. 

This rule, of course, had to be doubled for two 
molds. They found it was not very easy to get 
the cranberries through the sieve; by taking 
turns, however, they were slowly squeezing them 
through when Norah came to their aid and gave 
them the wooden potato-masher to use instead 
of the spoon they were working with. The 
molds were set away to get hard, and then they 
asked their mother for something else to do. 

^^I Ve been thinking,'^ she said, *Hhat we 
ought to have for supper something the men 
would like very much ; they will have had turkey 
once already, and perhaps they will be tired of 
it. Would you like scalloped oysters 1 ' ' 

^^ Mother, we 'd perfectly love them!" ex- 
claimed Mildred. *'But do you think we could 
make them? I always thought they were very 
hard to make. ' ' 

^^My dear, they are the easiest thing in the 
world. To save time, you may copy the rule 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 221 

now, and then to-morrow, when everybody is 
here, I will not have to stop visiting and explain 
it.'' 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 quart of oysters. 

2 packages of crackers, or as many loose ones 

— about half a pound. Koll fine. 
Salt, pepper, and butter. 
1 small cup of milk. 
Drain the oysters and examine each one carefully to see 
that it is free from shell; strain and measure the juice; 
add to it an equal quantity of milk. Butter a deep baking- 
dish and put in a layer of crumbs, and cover these with 
a layer of oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with butter; put on another layer of crumbs, then one of 
oysters, season, and so on till the dish is full, with a layer 
of crumbs on top; cover with small bits of butter; pour 
on the oyster juice and milk, and bake about half an hour, 
or till brown. Ser\^e at once — it must not stand. 

*^ Sometimes, instead of baking these in one 
large dish, I fill little brown baking-dishes in 
just the same way; only, of course, I do not bake 
these so long — only ten or fifteen minutes. And 
sometimes for a lunch party, I get from the fish- 
market very large oyster, or clam, or scallop 
shells, and fill those instead of the little dishes, 
and they are very pretty. ' ' 

*^ Mother Blair, those would be sweet — simply 
sweet! I think I '11 give a luncheon and have 
them." 



222 THE FUN OF COOKING 

^^Do, Mildred, and I '11 help," said Brownie, 
unselfishly. 

^'Or yon can have a luncheon and I ^11 help !'' 
Mildred replied. '^And now what else can we 
do to-day. Mother? Make some sort of des- 
sert?'^ 

^'Yes, I think so; try this; it's simple and 
very nice. ' ' 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

1 pint of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 squares of unsweetened chocolate. 
1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

1 pinch of salt. 
% teaspoonful of vanilla. 
% pint of thick, sweet cream. (Or this may 
/be omitted.) 
Put the milk in a saucepan after taking out a small half- 
cupful and mixing it with the cornstarch; put in the sugar 
and salt. Scrape the chocolate (the squares are those 
marked on the large cake) and put this in next. When it 
steams and the chocolate is melted and looks brown and 
smooth, stir up the cornstarch and put it in, stirring till 
smooth. Cool, add the vanilla, and pour into glasses. Just 
before serving put a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each glass. 

^^I do love that,'* said Brownie, as she wrote 
down the last word. ^^When I eat it, I always 
think I 'm eating melted chocolate creams. ' ' 



THAXKSGmXG DAY SUPPER 



— o 



''So do II" laughed Mildred. ''Perhaps 
Uncle Tom and Aunt Maiy won't eat their 
creams to-morrow night, and then you an<:l I 
can have them for lunch the next day, Brownie. ' ' 

^'They '11 surely eat them!" sighed Brownie. 
*'They 're too good to leave." 

When these were made and safely put away, 
all but the creamy tops, which were to go on just 
before supper the next day, Jack came strolling 
in. 

^'Smells awfully good I" he said. ''Turkey, 
and onions, and mince-pies, and spicy things. 
Got any cooking for a boy to do — proper cook- 
ing, I mean?" 

^*I 've just thought of something," his mother 
said quickly, "and I need you to do it right 
away. The girls are getting up a supper for 
Thanksgiving night, and they really ought to 
have some cake to eat with the dessert they have 
just been making. ' ' 

'Take!" ejaculated Jack. ''I draw the line 
at cake, Mother Blair; making cake is not a 
man's job." 

"Xot cake. Jack, — only something to go in 
cake. I want you to crack some nuts and pick 
them out for the girls. Here is what they are 
going to make now." 



224 THE FUN OF COOKING 

NUT CAKES 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of light brown sugar. 

1 cup of nut meats, chopped fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the eggs without separating them, and stir in the 
sugar, flour, and salt. Add the nuts last, and spread the 
whole in a thin layer on a well-greased tin; bake ten min- 
utes, or till the top is brown. Cut into squares and take 
quickly from the tin; lay on a platter till cold. 

Jack thought he could crack and even pick 
out nuts without injuring his dignity, so he went 
to work on a panful of pecans, and, by the time 
Mildred and Brownie were ready to chop them, 
they were all ready and waiting. Before long 
the little cakes were in the oven and out again, 
crisp and hot ; almost too good to be saved, the 
girls thought, and so did Jack. But they knew 
there would not be time to-morrow to make any 
others, so they had to keep these, and when they 
were cold, shut them up in the cake-box, 

''Now I think you have cooked enough for to- 
day," said their mother, after she had tasted 
one small crumb of their cakes and pronounced 
them perfect. 

''But, Mother, what about the salad T^ asked 
Brownie. 



THAXKSGmXG DAY SUPPER 225 

*'0h, do you really think we need salad with 
all these good things?" 

'^Honestly, I don't think we need it at all," 
said Mildred; ''but I do think it would' be nice 
to have it, because it 's a party. ' ' 

'^Very well! But what can we have? Let- 
tuce, and tomatoes, and other fresh vegetables 
are really out of season, or, at any rate, we can- 
not get them in this town ; and yet we ought to 
have a green salad, because, of course, nobody 
could possibly eat chicken or lobster salad after 
a Thanksgiving dinner." 

''I could!" called Jack, from the next room; 
but nobody paid any attention. 

^'AVell, here is an idea — string-bean salad. 
That is very easy to make, and very good, too, 
and we can make it out of canned beans and 
nobody will know it. I will tell you how to 
make it now, because I '11 be so busy to-morrow, 
and then, in the afternoon, you can get it ready 
quickly. ' ' 

STRIXG-BEAX SALAD 

1 pint of string beans, cooked and cold. 

2 hard-boiled egg's. 

A little lettuce, if you have it. 
French dressing. 
Drain the beans well and sprinkle them with a little salt 
and pepper. If they are canned, let them lie on a platter 



226 THE FUN OF COOKING 

for at least an hour. Arrange them on a few white lettuce 
leaves on plates, or omit the lettuce and use a few yellow 
celery leaves; put two strips of hard-boiled egg on the 
plate, one on each side of the beans, and, just before serv- 
ing, pour a little French dressing over all. This salad must 
be very cold. 

*'Now, certainly, that is all," said Mother 
Blair, as they wrote this down, ^^and I 'm sure 
nobody will go home hungry after such a sup- 
per as that!'' 

^^And what hot drink are you going to have. 
Mother r' 

**0h, I almost forgot that. I planned some- 
thing which is especially Thanksgivingy, too. 
It is really and truly what the Pilgrim Fathers 
are supposed to have made for Thanksgiving 
Day out of wild grapes ; but I am sure they had 
no lemons or spices, so it could not have been 
quite as good as this. We will have this with 
the turkey and oysters for the supper, and no 
coffee or cocoa.'' 

]\IULLED GRAPE-JUICE 

1 quart of bottled grape- juice. 
1 pint of water. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 lemons. 

2 sticks of cinnamon. 
1 dozen cloves. 



THAXKSGIVIXG DAY SUPPER 227 

Put the spiees in a piece of thin cloth and tie this up 
like a bag; put it in a saucepan with the gi'ape-juice, sugar, 
and water, and let it slowly heat till it steams; stir well 
and let it stand on the back of the fire for ten minutes. 
Add the juice of the lemons and the thin yellow rind of one 
(you can peel this off in a strip and drop it in) ; bring it 
all to the boiling-point, take out the lemon-peel, taste it, 
and,, if not sweet enotigh, add more sugar. Ser\-e veiy hot. 

The next evening, just as it gre^ dark, Mil- 
dred and Jack hung a sheet before the double 
doors of the libraiy, and they, Tvith some of the 
cousins, gave a funny shadow-play, ''Young 
Lochinvar," -^ith a rocking-horse for the 
''steed," and a clothes-basket for a boat, and 
their father read the poem as they acted it. 
When everybody had stopped laughing at it, the 
junior Blairs brought in the supper (the oysters 
had been quietly cooking vrhile they played) , and 
arranged it on the library table. Everything 
was hot and delicious, or cold and delicious, and 
the mulled grape-juice was almost the best of 
all. After everything had been eaten up, they 
all gathered around the fire and told stories. 
At last, when the visitors had gone and bed- 
time had come for the Blairs, Mildred said im- 
pressively : 

"Xow that was what I call a Thanksgiving 
Day without a flaw ! ' ' 



CHAPTEE XVI 

CANDY FOR THE FAIR 

THE Alcott School, which Mildred and 
Brownie attended, was going to give a 
Christmas fair. That is, they were going to 
have a big, beautiful fair to which everybody in 
town was to go and buy their Christmas pres- 
ents, and afterward the money was to be given 
to the children's ward in the new hospital. Mil- 
dred and Brownie were on the candy committee, 
and, of course, they were much excited. They 
had to have so much candy for a whole town of 
people that they did not know where it was to 
come from. 

*^We could go around and ask for contribu- 
tions," said Mildred to her mother; **but the 
trouble is that everybody in the school is doing 
that very thing, asking and asking and ashing!^' 

**You might make a good deal of candy your- 
selves, and perhaps other people who would not 
care to buy quantities to give you, would make 
some too. Home-made candy always sells 
well.'' 

228 



CANDY FOE THE FAIR 229 

*^Miss Betty makes the loveliest pinoclie!" 
said Brownie, thoughtfully. 

^^So she does. Suppose we ask her about 
planning to make candy at home.'' 

Miss Betty had just come in from a meeting 
of her own committee on the fair, and was as in- 
terested as could be in the candy table. 

^ ^ I '11 tell you what to do, ' ' she said. ^ ^ Get as 
many people as you can to give you just a little 
money, fifty cents, or even twenty-five, in place 
of giving you any candy — they will be glad to do 
that, you see, because it would save them ever so 
much which they can spend on the fair in other 
ways. Then we will buy sugar, and nuts, and 
such things with the money, and get all the girls 
on your committee to help on the candy-making, 
either in their own homes — " 

^'Oh, at our house. Miss Betty," begged 
Brownie ; ' ' that will be a party ! ' ' 

'^Very well, if your mother doesn't mind," 
laughed Miss Betty. ''Then, when we see how 
much we can make in two afternoons, we will 
beg enough for the rest that we need. And I '11 
help you. I make awfully good candy ! ' ' 

When the girls told their mother the plan, she 
said, ' ' That 's a bright idea ! ' ' and told the girls 
to ask the eight others on the committee to go to 



230 THE FUN OF COOKING 

work at once and get the money for materials. 

The next days were busy ones, and when, 
three days before the fair, the committee met, 
they were astonished to see how much money 
they had collected, enough to buy all the ma- 
terials and have a good sum over. The girls all 
promised to help make the candy, and said they 
would surely be at the Blairs' for two whole 
afternoons, from two o 'clock till dark, beginning 
the next day. 

Jack went down-town and bought everything 
on the list Miss Betty gave him. White sugar 
and brown, flavoring, chocolate and nuts, citron 
and little rose-leaves, pink and green coloring, 
paraffin paper, and all kinds of boxes, little and 
big, covered with holly paper, or plain red 
paper, or just white paper. "When he got home, 
he cracked nuts and picked them out beautifully, 
nearly all in perfect halves. Miss Betty said he 
was a regular trump. 

The next day, the Blairs had an early lunch, 
and then Norah put the dining-room and kitchen 
in order, and got out saucepans, spoons, and 
egg-beaters. Mildred and Brownie laid lunch- 
cloths over two small tables in the dining-room, 
and found scissors and anything else they could 
think of that would be needed. On the dining- 




'' This Candy ought to be at least a Dollar a Pound " 



CAXDY FOR THE FAIE 233 

room table, across one end, Jack laid a white 
marble table-top from an old-fashioned table in 
the attic, and this they washed off and made 
very clean. Mother Blair said she was sure 
some kinds of candy were made on marble, and 
she meant to be prepared. 

When the girls had come and their hands and 
aprons were ready, Miss Betty said she would 
take four or five girls into the kitchen to start 
the candy, and the rest could blanch almonds 
and get them ready to salt ; and when the candy 
was ready for the finishing touches, she would 
bring it in and show them what to do with it. 
So she went off with Mildred and three other 
girls, and Mother Blair and Brownie went to 
work with the rest on the almonds. They 
wanted to have quantities of these because they 
always sold so well at fairs. This was the rule 
she used: 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 pound of Jordan almonds. 
White of one egg. 
^2 tec-Spoonful of salt. 
Put a cupful of shelled almonds into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water, enough to well cover them. Put on a cover and 
let them stand two minutes; take out one and see if the 
skin slips off easily in your hand; if not, pour off the 
water, p'our on more that is boiling, and let them stand 



234 THE FUN OF COOKIXG 

again. "WTien they are read}', dip out a few at a time and 
keep the rest under water; slip off the skins and put them 
in bowls till all are done. Beat the white of the egg till 
half light, mix with the nuts, and spread them on shallow 
tins; sprinkle with salt and put them in the oven; stir 
them every few minutes till they become an even, light 
brown; then take them out. 

Instead of liaving one pound of almonds, they 
had ten pounds, so the girls had plenty to do to 
keep them busy till the candy came in. Mean- 
while, Miss Betty was showing them how to 
make 

COFFEE CANDY 

3 tablespoonfuls of ground coffee. 

1 small cup of boilmg water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of chopped nuts. 
Boil the coffee in the water for two minutes; then strain 
through a very fine sieve. Measure one-half a cupful and 
mix with the sugar; boil without stirring, till it spins a 
thread when you hold up a little on a sp'oon. Then stand 
the saucepan in another, half full of verj- cold water, and 
beat rapidly till it becomes a cream; stii' in the nuts, pour 
into a shallow pan and cool, cut in squares. 

Miss Betty had to show the girls how to see 
candy ''spin a thread," because those words, she 
said, came in so often in all rules for candy. 
She just lifted a little up on the spoon and 
tipped it ; at first the candy just dropped off, but 



CANDY FOE THE FAIR 235 

as it grew thick it fell more slowly, and at last a 
tiny thread floated off in the air as the syrup 
dropped. 

Of course, they made a great deal of this 
candy, as it was easy. And when it was cool, 
they took the pans to the girls in the dining- 
room. Two of them left the almonds, and cut it 
up and packed it carefully in boxes which they 
lined with paraffin paper, tied each one up with 
narrow ribbon, labeled them with the name, and 
then put them aside. Meanwhile the girls in 
the kitchen made 

FONDANT 

1 cup of granulated sugar. 
V2 cup of milk. 
Put this on the stove to heat, and stir till the sugar is 
dissolved, but, until then, do not let it boil. When there is 
no sugar left on the edges or bottom of the saucepan, let 
it boil without stirring; have ready a cup of cold water, 
and after three minutes drop in a little bit and see if you 
can make it mto a ball in your fingers; if not, boil again 
till you can. Shake the saucepan occasionally so the sugar 
will not bui^n. When you can make a firm but not a hard 
ball, take it off, and set it in a pan of cold water till it is 
cool enough to put j^our finger in without burning. Then 
stir and beat, and, when it begins to get hard, knead it 
with your hands. Add flavoring while still rather soft. 

''This," Miss Betty said to the girls, ''is the 
one thing, above all others, that you must learn 



236 THE FUN OF COOKING 

to make, because it is the beginning of all sorts 
of cream candies. In part of it we can put al- 
mond flavoring and make it into balls and put a 
half-almond on top ; or use vanilla flavoring, and 
bits of citron on top. Or we can add chopped 
nuts to it, or roll pieces of Brazil nuts in, and so 
on. And of course some of it we will color 
green, to put green pistachio-nuts on, and pink, 
to put bits of rose-leaves on. And we can take 
it while it is still pretty soft, and make little 
balls of it and dip each one in melted chocolate 
with the tii3 of a fork, and make lovely chocolate 
creams.'^ 

^'Oh, Miss Betty, let me make those!'' begged 
Mildred; and ^'Oh, Miss Betty, let me make 
pistachio creams!"; and ^^Oh, please, dear Miss 
Betty, let me make the nut creams !" begged the 
girls. Miss Betty laughed, and shook her head 
at them all. ^ ' The dining-room girls will finish 
these, all but the chocolate creams — those we 
will make to-morrow. ' ' So she took all the pans 
of fondant into the dining-room, and Mother 
Blair showed the girls there how to turn this 
plain white candy into colored bonbons, working 
on the marble slab ; they were lovely when they 
were finished, and packed in boxes like the rest. 
Meanwhile, Miss Betty said they would make : 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 237 

CHOCOLATE COCOANXT CAKES 

1 cup of sugar. 

14 cup of water. 

TVTiite of 1 egg. 

1 cup of gTated coeoanut from a package. 

2 squares of chocolate, melted. 

Let the sugar and water boil till it spins a thread. Beat 
the egg white stiff, and very slowly pour in the syrup while 
beating all the time; add the coeoanut, and then the melted 
chocolate. Drop on sheets of buttered paper in spoonfuls. 

^'If you want to liaA'e these like little biscuits, 
do not put in the chocolate; just put them on 
the paper after spreading it in shallow tins, and 
bake them till they are brown on top. I think 
it would be nice to make some of each." 

"When these were done and carried into the 
dining-room, Miss Betty said: ^^And now I 
will show you how I make my very own pinoche. 
When I have to earn my living, I shall do it by 
making this candy, and I 'm sure in a veiy short 
time I '11 be a millionaire." The girls laughed, 
and said they wanted to learn to get rich too. 

PIXOCHE 

2^4 cups of brown sugar. 
y2 cup of cream. 
Butter the size of an egg. 
% cup of chopped walnuts. 
% cup of chopped almonds. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 



238 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Boil tlie sugar, cream, and butter together twenty min- 
utes; add the nuts and vanilla, and beat well; when smooth 
and creamy, pour into buttered tins; when cool, cut in 
squares. 

*^It 's just as well we have so many to work," 
said Mildred. *'It takes lots of strength to beat 
this candy. ' ' 

^^Yes, we need Jack's strong arm/' said Miss 
Betty, smiling. ^ * To-morrow, we must get him 
to help. Now here is another kind of nut candy 
that is very good indeed, and when you are all 
done with that pinoche, we will make this next." 

NUT CREAMS 

3 cups of light brown sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

1 cup of chopped nuts. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Boil the sugar and water, stimng and beating till the 
sugar is all dissolved; then let it boil without stirring till 
it spins a thread. Remove from the fire and let it stand 
on the table for just a moment, to be sure it has stopped 
boiling ; then pour it over the stiff whites of the eggs, beat- 
ing with a wire beater all the time ; put in the vanilla while 
you are beating. When it is creamy and getting stiff, add 
the nuts, stir well, and spread on buttered paper. If you 
prefer, do not use vanilla, but almond flavoring, and add 
almonds instead of other nuts. 

^^Now, girls, just one more kind and that will 



CANDY FOE THE FAIK 239 

be enough, I am sure. To-morrow we will 
change work, and I will teach all this to the 
other girls while you make salted almonds and 
tie boxes; I 'm sure we shall sell all we can 
make. ^ ' 

^'This candy will be worth a dollar a pound I" 
said Mildred. 

''At least that," said Miss Betty, laughing; 
''only we won't ask quite that much, I think. 
Now this is the last receipt." 

CHOCOLATE SQUARES 

1 cup of sugar. 
^ cake of chocolate. 
y2 cup of molasses. 
% cup of milk. 
Yz cup of butter. 
Mix this all together and boil it twenty minutes; cool it 
a very little and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla , Pour in 
pans, and, when cool, mark off in squares. 

It was dark when all this candy was done and 
in the boxes. The girls were tired, but de- 
lighted with their work, and the next day they 
came, eager to finish it. Those who worked in 
the kitchen made the same things as the other 
girls had made before, and, when everybody was 
done, it was astonishing how many, many boxes 
thev had. 



240 THE FUN OF COOKING 

They had already decided not to have any 
two-pound or five-pound boxes, but to make only 
pound and half-pound ones, as these would sell 
better. They tied up the boxes which were cov- 
ered with holly paper with red ribbons, and the 
red boxes with holly ribbons, and the plain white 
boxes with red, with a bit of holly tied in each 
bow. When Norah saw them all, she said they 
were ^^ stylish." Certainly they were pretty, 
and the candy was delicious, and fresh as well, 
and all the committee and Mother Blair and 
Miss Betty were just as proud as proud could 
be. 

When the fair was over, the ladies who were 
in charge of it sent a special little note to the 
candy committee telling them how well they 
had done. 

^*Next time we will make ever so many more 
kinds of candy," said Mildred, as they talked 
it all over. ^'I never knew there were so many. 
I used to think all you could make at home were 
molasses candy and peanut brittle, and every- 
body can make those, so they are not much fun. " 

^^When the children get into their ward, we 
will make some candy for them," said Brownie. 
*^I think the children with broken legs, and bad 
knees, and the not-very-sick children would like 




Selliiicr Candv at the Christmas Fair 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 243 

some, especially if we put it in white boxes and 
tie them up with big bows of ribbon. ' ' 

**0f course they would," said Mildred. ^'It 
would be just lovely and would help them to get 
well ever so much quicker, I know. That 's 
what Mother would call a particularly bright 
idea. Brownie Blair ! ' ' 



CHAPTER XVII 

EXAMINATION DAY 

CHILDEEN," said Mother Blair on New 
Year's day, ^^wheii you have all finished 
whatever you are doing and have a whole hour 
to spare, I want you to bring your receipt books 
into the sitting-room. I 'm going to have an ex- 
amination. ' ' 

Jack gave a loud groan. 

^ ^ That 's no fair, Mother. No exams in vaca- 
tion!'' 

*^Yes, it is fair, perfectly fair to have this ex- 
amination in vacation time, because you never 
have a moment while school is going on to give 
me for it ; now is my only chance. But it won't 
be a very long or severe one. I fancy I can find 
out all yoii know about cooking in a very short 
time. Jack!" 

Jack laughed and went upstairs for his book, 
and presently they all gathered in the sitting- 
room by the fire. The three children sat in a 
row on the great big sofa with the pillows tucked 

244 



KXAAfTXATIOX DAY 245 

behind them, and Mother Blair sat in front, ex- 
actly like a teacher. She had three pads and 
pencils ready, and three packages well wrapped 
up, in her lap. 

''It was just a year ago to-day that we got 
those books,'' said Brownie. '"Mine has heaps 
of rules in it, too." 

''So has mine," said Mildred, turning the 
leaves. "I did not know I had so many. And 
what fun we had making some of the things! 
Do you remember your cheese dreams at the 
House-in- the-Woods party. Jack? And the 
Hallowe 'en things in the chafing-dish 1 And the 
attic picnic, Brownie? I 'm soriy we can't have 
all those parties over again. Mother." 

"We '11 have plenty more, dear, and better 
ones, too. But how many receipts have you, 
Jack?" 

Jack proudly displayed his camping receipts 
and a few others, principally chafing-dish rules. 
"Lots!" he said. 

"Not half enough. You 've done only pretty 
well, Jack; but a beginning is something, after 
all. But now, children, the examination is going 
to begin. Here is a written question for each of 
you, and you are to write the answer down on 
this pad. ' ' 



246 THE FUN OF COOKING 

** Dreadful," murmured Mildred, accepting 
her slip of paper and pad with a long sigh. 
This is what she read: 

**What would you have for luncheon, if you 
found in the refrigerator some eggs, a little 
celery, cold boiled potatoes, a bottle of milk and 
butter ; and beside had in the house cookies and 
a basket of very poor pears ! Look up the rule 
for each dish in your receipt book/' 

**That 's easy," said Mildred, happily, going 
to work at once. 

Brownie's slip said: 

**If you were ordering breakfast to-morrow 
morning, what would be the nicest things you 
could think of ? And could you make them all *? " 

And when Jack opened his folded paper he 
read: 

^'Plan a Sunday night supper with nothing 
but what you can make yourself." 

**Ask me a hard one," Jack said, waving his 
paper around his head. 

Mother Blair took a book and began to read to 
herself while the pencils scratched away on the 
pads and the receipt books were consulted over 
and over. It was only a few moments before, 
'*Done!" said Mildred, and '^Done!" said 
Brownie. Jack was a trifle slower, and they 



EXAMINATION DAY 247 

had to wait for him to finish. It was not so easy 
an examination as he had thought at first. 

* ' Read the question first and then the answer ; 
you begin, Mildred/' said Mother Blair. So 
Mildred read her question, and then taking her 
pad read what she had put down : 

*^For luncheon I would have first, cream of 
celery soup, made by the rule I copied under 
cream soups ; I learned how to make those when 
Mother was sick. After that I would have 
creamed eggs on toast. (You know I can make 
those, Mother; I made them just last week.) 
And with them I 'd have hashed brown potatoes ; 
that rule I know by heart. And then for dessert 
I 'd stew those poor pears, like apple sauce, you 
know, only I wouldn't cut them up but keep 
them in halves the way Norah does; and I 'd 
have the cookies with them.'' 

^^Good, Mildred — splendid! I did not know 
you could manage so well. Now let 's see what 
Brownie would have for breakfast." 

'* Cereal first; see the rule of cereal with 
dates, — only I 'd leave out the dates this time — 
and then I 'd have muffins ; of course, I can make 
those. And coffee, and poached eggs. Do you 
think that is a good breakfast. Mother!" 

^'Delicious, dear. I only wish it were break- 



248 THE FUN OF COOKING 

fast time now. And how did you get along, 
Jackr' 

^'You gave me the hardest of all/' Jack 
grumbled. *^But I did it, all the same. I 'd 
have cheese dreams, and corned beef hash first ; 
then I 'd have pigs in blankets on toast; and 
camp coffee ; and then corn cakes and syrup to 
finish off with.'' 

Jack smiled complacently. * ^ That 's what I 
call a good, substantial meal." 

Mildred was screaming with laughter as he 
finished. 

*^ Cheese dreams and pigs in blankets, and 
corned beef hash. Mother Blair! For Sunday 
night supper!" 

*'You 'd have regular Hallowe'en nightmares 
after that meal, Jack ! ' ' said his mother, laugh- 
ing too. ^* However, as you know how to make 
all those, we will let you have them — on paper. 
Only when you get a supper for this family you 
need not have quite so many things, especially if 
we have company; they might not appreciate 
them. Now are you ready for the next ques- 
tion!" 

The examination proved such fun that they 
kept it up all the morning. They told how to 
lay a table for breakfast, luncheon and dinner; 



EXAMINATION DAY 249 

how to arrange a sick-room tray ; what to give a 
little child who came in to a meal ; how to make 
fudge, and sandwiches, and tea and salads and 
cake; how to put up jelly, and how to cook eggs 
in different ways ; some of these things Brownie 
and Jack did not know, but most of them they 
wrote down on their papers very well indeed. 
And they planned all sorts of meals, and that 
was the most fun of all, family dinners, and 
company luncheons, and picnic suppers, and 
party meals for Thanksgiving and Fourth of 
July and Washington's Birthday and other 
times. It really was not so much of an exam- 
ination as it was a game. 

Finally Mother Blair said they had done 
enough. *^You know so much more than I 
thought you did that I 'm satisfied," she said. 
*' Really and truly, children, I 'm proud of you! 
You all get a hundred in your examination, and 
you each have earned a prize beside for standing 
at the top of your three classes." 

Then she opened the packages she had had in 
her lap all this time and brought out three books. 

*' Before I distribute the prizes I must make a 
speech," she said. ''That 's the way it 's al- 
ways done at school, you know. 

''Children: You have done so well in your 



250 THE FUN OF COOKING 

cooking lessons that I am going to give eacli of 
you a real cook book, for you know now liow to 
use one. There are many other dishes beside 
those you have learned already that I am sure 
you will want to know how to make, too. All 
you have to do is to turn to any rule here and 
follow it carefully, exactly as you do in the books 
you have made yourselves. Mildred, here is 
your book — I present it with pride ! It 's a 
regular grown-up cook book, only it 's a very 
easy one. And, Brownie, yours is a little girPs 
cook book ; you will love it, and I present it with 
pride, too, my dear child ! And Jack — " 

**I do hope mine has plenty of cake in it, 
Mother, and lovely desserts all made with gela- 
tine, and fancy salads with fixings on them ; you 
know those are the things I really like to make,'' 
said Jack demurely. 

^*I 'm sorry to disappoint you,'' laughed his 
mother, *^but yours is a regular boy's cook book, 
all about — " 

** Camping!" interrupted Jack, as he saw its 
title. **Well, now, that 's about the right kind 
of a book for me, after all. Say, Mother Blair, 
I think your prizes are great. ' ' 

*^ So do I," murmured Mildred, who was deep 



EXAMIXATIOX DAY 



251 



in a nile for a perfectly delicious dessert with 
whipped cream and nuts in it. 

But Brownie did not say a word. She was 
reading the story in her book about how some 
children learned to cook. 




"^4Mf ^ m 



IXDEX 



BEVERAGES 
Cocoa, 33 
CoflFee, 87 
CofiFee, camp, 122 
Grape juice, mulled, 226 
Lemonade, 68 
Lemonade, grape juice, 

98 
Tea, 84 
BREADS 

Baking powder biscuit-s, 

34 
Camper's bread, 144 
Corn cakes, 126 
Corn meal mush, fried, 

142 
Muffins, S3 
Pancakes, 130 
Toast, cream, 190 
CAKE 

Brownies, 22 
Chocolate crackers, 49 
Christmas, 16 
Currant, 80 
Gingerbread, •'perfectly 

lovely,"' 46 
Gingerbread men, 24 
Macaroons, oatmeal, 17 
Marguerites, 67 
Nut, 224 

Peanut wafers, 49 
Spier cookies, 64 
CANDY * 

Chocolate cocoanut cakes, 

237 
Chocolate squares. 239 
Christmas elves, 25 
Coffee candv. 234 



253 



Eondant, 235 

Nut creams, 238 

Pinoche, 237 

Pop corn balls, 21 
CEREAL 

Cereal with dates, 189 

Oatmeal. 210 
DESSERTS 

Chocolate cream, 222 

Custard, baked, 79 

Custard, soft. 191 

Custard, junket, 1S4 

PrDDI>.-GS : 

Camp, 150 

Cornstarch, almond. 202 
Cornstarch, chocolate. 202 
Cornstarch, plain, 201 
Strawberries in box, 119 
Strawberry cake, 118 
Strawberry Russe, 118 
Strawberry short caiie. 
11.5 

ICE CEZAMS: 

Chocolate, 96 
Fruit. 96 
Parfait, 104 
Plain, 95 

Strawberries, frozen, 100 
Strawberries and ice 
cream, 103 
EGGS 

Deviled, 51 
Goldenrod, 190 
Creamed, 177 
Poached, 185 
In ramekins, 213 
Scrambled, 36 
Spanish, 174 



254 



INDEX 



FISH 

Baked, 149 
Broiled, 129 
Fish balls, 142 
Panned, 132 
Salmon, creamed, 214 
Salmon, scalloped, 81 
Salmon, steamed, 135 
Sardines, hot, 215 
Small fish, broiled, 132 
Warmed over, 129 

OYSTEES : 

Panned, creamed, 176 
Pigs in blankets, 173 
Scalloped, 221 
Stew, 36 
FRUIT 

Apples, baked, 190 
Apple sauce, 208 
Dates, stuffed, 69 
Orange baskets, 68 
Pineapple, stuffed, 178 
Strawberries for first 
course, 116 
JAMS AND JELLIES 
Conserve : 
Apple, 162 
Cranberry, 162 
Jam, 153 

Grape, 158 
Jelly: 

Apple, 162 
Made over, 199 
Spiced fruit, 159 
MEATS 

Chicken, creamed, 112 
Corned beef hash, 132 
Dried beef, creamed, 207 
Ham and eggs, 125 
Meat pie, easy, 214 
Pork, salt fried, 141 
Stew, ten minute, 138 
Veal loaf, 60 
MISCELLANEOUS 

Almonds, salted, 233 
Covering jellies, 163 



Icing for cake, 20 
Laying the table, 74 
Packing a freezer, 94 
Sick room tray, 187 
White sauce, 82 
PASTRY 

Tartlets, 20 
SALADS 

Chicken, 52 
Fruit, 53 
String bean, 225 
Tomato, plain, 110 
Tomato, yellow. 111 
French dressing, 52 
SANDWICHES 
Cheese, 45 
Cheese dreams, 35 
Egg, 45 

Ham, deviled, 140 
How to make, 43 
Lettuce, 45 
Meat, 44 

Orange marmalade, 63 
Sardine, 45 
Sweet, 45 

Toasted sardine, 61 
Tomato and cheese, 175 
SOUPS 

Chicken broth, 183 
Cream, 182 
VEGETABLES 

Beans, baked, 143 
Corn, boiled, 148 
Corn, roasted, 148 
Onions, boiled, 149 
Potatoes : 

Baked, 128 

Baked and stuffed, 32 

Boiled, 129 

Creamed, 83 

Fried, 135 

Puff, 198 

Scalloped, 174 
Rice patties, 196 
Tomatoes, Spanish, 212 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

Flora Kelly Van Solver 
Book Fund 




/• 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



"Such a Perfectly Lovely Picnic!" 



THE FUN OF COOKING 

A STORY FOB BOYS AND GIBLS 



CAROLINE FRENCH BENTON 

Author of "A Uttle Cook Book for a Little 

Girl," "Margaret's Saturday 

Homings," etc. 



NEW YORK 

THE CENTURY CO. 

1915 






>t;-;x^ 



Copyright, 1914, 1915, by 
The Centurt Co. 



Published, September, 1915 



! 
I 



/ 






r I 



•> % 



To 
DEAR LITTLE KATHARINE THE FIFTH 



CONTENTS 



OHAFTBB PAGB 

I THE DAY BEFORE OHBISTMAS 13 

II SUPPEB AT THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS ... 27 

III JACK'S SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 41 

IV THE BIBTHDAY PICNIC 67 

V SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPEB 72 

VI MILDBED'S SCHOOL PABTY 91 

VII STRAWBEBBY TIME 106 

VIII IN CAMP 120 

IX IN CAMP, continued 137 

X JAMS AND JELLY 151 

XI A HALLOWE'EN SUPPEB 168 

XII WHEN MOTHEB BLAIB WAS SICK ..... 180 

XIII A DOLL-AND-LITTLEGIBL PABTY 192 

XrV WHEN NOBAH WAS AWAY 204 

XV THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPEB 216 

XVI CANDY FOB THE FAIB 228 

XVII EXAMINATION DAY 244 

INDEX 253 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

"Such a lovely picnic" Frontispiece 

PAGE 

Jack fried the "Cheese Dreams" 38 

Brownie and Mildred making "Chocolate Crackers" 47 

Making "Orange Baskets" 65 

Arranging a small round tray in front of her mother's 
place 76 

She looked carefully in the oven through a tiny crack 85 

The refreshnuents were perfectly delicious, everybody said 09 

"Here comes Jack with the berries, just in time" .114 

The first supper in camp 123 

Jad^ gets breakfast 134 

The next day was perfect for fishing 139 

Roasting corn over a bed of coals 145 

But, Norah, if you can't begin till you know how" .156 

I am so proud I want everybody to see my jam" . 165 

"This candy ought to be at least a dollar a pound" . 231 

Selling candy at the Christmas fair ....... 241 



(t 



u 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



CHAPTER I 

THE DAY BBFOBE OHBISTMAS 

THE Blairs were a partionlarly nice family. 
That is what the neighbors always said of 
them, and, to tell the truth, the Blairs believed 
it. That is, the father and mother thought the 
children were particularly nice, and the children 
thought their father and mother and each other 
particularly nice; and so, of course, they all 
must have been very nice indeed. 

Saturdays and Sundays and vacation days 
were all holidays to them, and they did such in- 
teresting things, and laughed so much as they 
did them, that everybody said, **What good 
times those Blairs do have ! ^ ' 

Jack and Mildred Blair were named after 
their father and mother, and Brownie, whose 
real name was Katharine, was named for her 

13 



14 THE FUN OF COOKING 

grandmother; so to avoid getting everybody 
mixed, the children were called the Junior 
Blairs by everybody. 

Now it happened that there were ever so 
many nncles and annts and cousins who were 
Blairs, too, but most of them lived a long way 
off, and they were very seldom able to get to- 
gether for a family party; but this winter, ten 
of them were coming to spend Christmas with 
the real Blairs, and, as five of them were be- 
tween fourteen and twelve, the ages of Mildred 
and Jack, and some more about nine, like 
Brownie, they were all planning to have the 
very nicest sort of a time, and everybody was as 
excited as could be. 

Christmas was only two days away, when, 
suddenly, it began to snow. And how it 
snowed 1 The flakes came down steadily hour 
after hour, and soon the sidewalks were cov- 
ered, and the steps were buried, and the piles of 
snow almost covered the gate. Everybody said 
that all the trains were delayed ; and it was not 
long before the little Blairs began to whisper, 
''Whatever shall we do if they can^t get here in 
time for Christmas T' Mother Blair guessed 
what the trouble was, and said cheerfully that, 
of course, the snow would stop falling- before 



THE DAT BEFOEE CHEISTMAS 15 

long, and the trains would be on time in the 
morning. 

**And a beautiful white Christmas is the love- 
liest thing in the world,'* she added. But the 
children looked out of the window and were 
afraid, deep down in their hearts, that some- 
thing dreadful might happen. 

**If we only had something nice to do right 
now,'' groaned Jack, **so we could forget the 
snow. But we can't trim the tree till everybody 
comes to help, and the presents are all tied up, 
and there is n't anything Christmasy to do that 
I can think of." 

*^Why not cook?" suggested Mother Blair, 
*' There are lots of things to make — Christmas 
things, you know. ' ' 

Mildred began to brighten up. **If we could 
cook things all alone, I 'd like that," she said. 

**Boys don't cook," Jack said scornfully, still 
looking out of the window. 

**Boys make pop-corn, though," laughed his 
mother. **And then suppose you make that up 
into nice balls, and have them aU ready when 
the cousins come. And, Mildred, I think Norah 
would give you and Brownie one comer of the 
kitchen, and let you cook all by yourselves. ' ' 

So Jack took the corn-popper and went down 



16 



THE FUN OF COOKING 



to the fnmace, and when he opened the door, he 
found a great bed of red coals waiting for him ; 
and Mildred and Brownie put on their big ging- 
ham aprons and went out into the kitchen. 








The Christmas cakes 

Underneath the large table was a smaller one ; 
this Mother Blair pulled out and pushed across 
the room to an empty place. Then she wrote 
out very plainly a little receipt, and under 
this she explained exactly how to put things 
together; this she pinned on the wall over the 
table. ** There!'' she said. **Now you can go 
right to worf This was what was on the 
paper : 

CHRISTMAS CAKES 

% cup of butter. 
% cup of sugar. 
y^ cup of milk. 

1 egg. 

1 cup of flour. 






THE DAY BEFORE CHEISTMAS 17 

1 teaspoonful of baking-p'owder. 
% teaspoonful of vanilla- 
Put the butter and sugar in a bowl, and rub them to- 
gether till smooth and creamy. Beat the egg without 
separating it^ and put that in next; beat all together, then 
add the milk, a little at a time. Put a rounded spoonful of 
baking-powder in the flour and stir it well, and add that 
slowly, mixing as you do it; and, last, put in the vaniUa. 
Grease some little scalloped tins, and fill them half full; 
bake till brown. 

Mildred rubbed the butter and sugar while 
Brownie beat the egg; they took turns putting 
in the other things, and, last, Norah set the tins 
in the oven for them. Then the two girls rushed 
into the sitting-room and said, **That *s all 
done. Mother Blair! . Now something else to 
cook, please ! ' ' 

**But don^t forget to watch your cakes,'' said 
Mother Blair, as she handed them a second 
receipt. * ^ Open the oven door every little while 
just enough to peek in at them; if you forget 
them, they will surely bum.'' 

The second receipt was for 

OATMEAL MACAEOONS 

3 cups of rolled oats. 
2^ teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
3 level tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 



18 THE FUN OF COOKING 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Put the butter and sugar in a bowl and cream them; beat 
the yolks of the eggs, put them in, and beat again ; mix the 
oatmeal with the baking-powder and salt, and add this next, 
a little at a time; then put in the vanilla, and, last, the stiff 
whites of the eggs. Have ready a shallow pan, greased, 
and drop the batter on this in tiny bits, no larger than the 
end of your thumb, and two inches apart. Bake in an 
oven that is not very hot. When they are brown on the 
edges, they are done; remove them from the pan while they 
are still warm. 

While Mildred was mixing these, Brownie 
took a last peep into the oven, and found the 
cakes were baked. Norah helped her take them 
out, and she herself took them from the x>aiis and 
put them on a platter to cool. Then it was not 
long before the first panful of macaroons was 
done, too, and these came out all crisp and de- 
licious. 

Just as they were finishing them, their mother 
came out into the kitchen. **0h, how lovely 1'' 
she exclaimed. **I never, never saw anything 
so good as those macaroons. Perfectly deli- 
cious ! ' ' 

**But see the scalloped cakes, Mother,'' said 
Brownie. * * Are n 't they lovely, too t ' ' 

*^ Lovely? Of course they are. And I 've 
such a bright idea about those cakes, too !" 



THE DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS 19 

**0h, what!*' cried both the giris together, be- 
cause Mother Blair's bright ideas were always 
particirlariy nice, just like herself. 

'*I Ve been looking over the boxes of Christ- 
mas candy, and I find we have lots of candied 
cherries. And, Norah, you had some of the cit- 
ron left from the plum-pudding, had n't youf 

Norah said she had a large piece put away. 

**Well, then, suppose we cut the citron into 
thin slices, and cut those up into little bits of 
green leaves, and cut some of the cherries into 
tiny bits to look like berries ; then we will ice the 
little cakes and around each one, right on top, 
we will make a green holly wreath with holly 
berries in it. Won't those be pretty!" 

**0h, Mother, let me, let mel" Brownie 
begged. 

"Very well, you make the leaves and berries 
while Mildred ices the cakes," said Mother 
Blair. 

So while Mildred mixed the icing. Brownie 
took some small scissors and cut up the citron 
and the cherries. At first her scissors bothered 
her by getting sticky, but Norah showed her 
how to dip them in water often and wipe them 
dry, and after she tried that way, she had no 
trouble. 



20 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mildred's rule for icing was this : 

ICING 

The white of one egg. 
1 teaspoonf ul of cold water. 
1 cup of powdered sugar. 
% teaspoonful of flavoring. 

Put the white of the egg in a bowl, add the water, and 
beat till light; stir in the sifted sugar and the flavoring, 
and spread on the cakes while they are still a little warm ; 
smooth over with the blade of a knife. 

After the cakes were iced, the leaves were laid 
in a wreath around the edges, with the tiny red 
berries among them ; and they were the prettiest 
things for Christmas anybody ever saw. 

When, at last, they were put away, Norah told 
them she had some bits of pie-crust left over 
from her mince-pies that they could have, if 
they wanted it. Brownie dashed into the hall, 
shouting, ** Mother, Mother I What can we 
make with piecrust? Norah says we can have 
some. * ' 

** Tartlets,'^ called Mother Blair from up- 
stairs. And when Brownie ran up for it she 
gave her this receipt : 

TARTLETS 

Flour the pastry board ; roll out some piecrust very thin, 
and press it into little scalloped tins; prick holes in the 



THE DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS 21 

bottom to let the air in. Cut oft the edges smoothly, and 
bake till light brown. Just before you need them fill the 
shells with jelly. 

The very moment when the tarts disappeared 
in the pantry, Jack came up with his pans of 
pop-corn. 

**Real cooking is just for girls,'' he said, with 
his mouth full of a stolen macaroon. **It 's all 
right for boys to make pop-corn balls, though. 
Only how do you do itf His mother told him 
to wash his hands well, and then gave him this 
rule: 

POP-CORN BALLS 

1 cnp of molasses. 
% cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. 
% teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter. 

Boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Pour a little 
over a pan of com, and take up in your hands all that 
sticks together, and roll it into a ball. Keep the candy hot 
on the b&ck of the stove, and pour on more till it is all done. 

This made a great dishful of lovely balls, and 
they set them away in a cold place; and then 
Norah told them they must run out of the 
kitchen, because she wanted to get luncheon 
ready. 

After lunch. Jack had to go and shovel out 
paths again, because those he had made had all 



22 THE FUN OF COOKING 

disappeared. Mildred and Brownie dressed a 
tiny doll for a cousin they were afraid might 
not have quite as many as she would want^ and 
when that was done, they said they wanted to 
cook some more. 

Their mother told them she had one very, 
very nice receipt meant especially for holidays, 
which, strangely enough, had Brownie's name. 
*' Because you are so very, very nice yourself,'' 
she said with a hug, ** perhaps you can make 
these all by yourself, too. ' ' 

BROWNIES 

3 squares of chocolate. 

2 eggSy beaten together. 
% cup of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 
% cup of butter. 

1 cup of chopped English walnuts. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, and add the eggs, 
well beaten without separating; then add the flour. Melt 
the chocolate by cutting it up into small bits and putting 
it in a little dish over the steam of the tea-kettle. Put this 
in next, and, last, the nuts. Lay a greased paper on the 
bottom of a shallow pan, and pour the cake in, in a thin 
layer. Bake twenty-five minutes; mark off into squares 
while warm, and cut before removing from the pan. These 
should be as thick as cookies when done. 

** Don't you want me to help you make them, 
Brownie f" Mildred asked, as she read the re- 



THE DAT BEFOEE CHEISTMAS 23 

oeipt over. **You see, I could beat the eggs for 
you, and you know how hard it is for you not 
to tip the bowl over when you beat them ! * * 

**Well,'' Brownie said slowly, **I might let 
you do just that one thing, Mildred, but Mother 
said I was to make these cakes all alone. ' ' 

*'But let me help just a tiny little bit,*' Mil- 
dred coaxed ; * * they do sound so interesting 1 ' ' 

So in the end the two made the cakes together, 
all delicious, and just the thing for company. 

While they were still fresh from the oven, in 
came a pretty grown-up neighbor, whom all the 
Blairs, big and little, loved very much, because 
she always was ready for a good time with them. 

**Fee-fy-fo-fum!'' she exclaimed, wrinkling 
up her little nose. **I smell something good to 
eat!'' 

*'0h, dear Miss Betty," Brownie cried, *4t is 
Christmas cooking I Come and see it." 

So Miss Betty saw all the lovely little holly 
cakes, and the tartlets, and the macaroons, and 
the Brownies, and ate little crumbs off wherever 
she could find one. Then she said, **I want to 
cook too I May I, Norah f ' ' 

**Sure you may," said Norah, who thought 
Miss Betty was the nicest young lady in the 
world. 



24 



THE FUN OF COOKINa 



Then Miss Betty wrote out this receipt, and 
pinned it up, and everybody helped her make 



GINGERBREAD MEN 

2 cxLpB of molasses. 

1 eup of equal parts of butter and lard, mixed. 

1 level tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Flour to mix very stiff. 

Melt the butter, add the molasses and ginger, then the 
soda, dissolved in a teaspoonful of boiling water; stir in 
flour till the dough is so stiff you ca^ot stir it with a 
spoon; take it out on the floured board, and roll a little at 
a time, and with a knife cut out a man; press currants in 
for eyes and for buttons on his coat. Bake in a floured 
pan. 

** These are going to 

be Santa Clauses," said 

Miss Betty. **Jack, if 

you will cut me some tiny 

cedar twigs, we will stick 

them in the right hands 

— one in each. ' ' So Jack 

whittled down the ends 

of some little twigs till 

they were very sharp, 

and while the men were 

warm and soft, they put a twig in the right hand 

of each, and they were as funny as could be. 

**Now, Jack, I Ve something lovely for you 




Gingerbread man 



THE DAT BEFORE CHRISTMAS 25 

to makel'^ said Miss Betty. **I came over on 
purpose to tell you about if 

"Boys don't cook!*' said Jack, loftily. 

**Boys would be perfectly wild to make 
these,'* laughed Miss Betty, *'if only they knew 
how; but of course if you don't care to — " 

**What are they?" 

"Christmas elves, and the cunningest things 
you ever saw. ' ' She opened a box and showed 
them a dear, droll little figure, brown and fat. 
It made the children laugh to look at him. 

"We will make one for each person at the 
Christmas dinner, and stand them at the plates 
with cards in the hands, to show where every- 
body is to sit. Now, Jack, do you want to try?' ' 

Jack instantly was hard at work. 

CHRISTMAS ELVES 

Take A square of thin wood and drive two long, slender 
nails through it; these are the legs of the elf. Turn it up- 
side down and push two large raisins on eaeh nail, and then 
a fig on both — ^these are the legs and the body. Take a 
wire about four inches long, and put two raisins on each 
end, twisting up the ends to hold them. Lay this across 
the i^ body and press it down to hold it firm. Put a 
marshmallow on a wooden toothpick, and put that on top 
for a head, and half of a fig for a cap. Draw eyes, nose, 
and mouth on the face with pen and ink, and, if you 
choose, brush a little melted chocolate on the sides of his 
head, for hair. Put a sprig of Christmas green in his cap. 



26 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Jnst as the elves were put in a row on the 
table. Miss Betty exolaimed, "Children, it's 
stopped snowing! It will be all clear to-mor- 



The Christmaa elvea 

row, and everybody will get here in time, after 
all!" 

They mshed to the window to look, for sure 
enough, the storm was over, and everybody was 
going to have A Merry Ckristmasl 



CHAPTER n 

SUPPER AT THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS 

WHEN the Junior Blairs came down to 
breakfast on New Year's morning, there 
were three good-sized red-covered books lying 
on the table, one by each plate, and on the cover 
of each, in gold letters, was the name of Mildred, 
or Jack, or Brownie. But when they opened 
them there was nothing inside — only just white 
paper leaves. 

* * What are they for t ' ' asked Mildred, puzzled. 
**For school, for examples and compositions?" 

*'Not a bit of it!'* laughed her mother. 
* ' They are cook-books, or they will be when you 
have filled them full of receipts. When you 
made such delicious things for Christmas, I or- 
dered these for you, so you could write down 
each rule that you used then, and add others as 
you learned other things. You see, there are 
little letters all down the edges of the book, and 
when you want to find gingerbread, for instance, 
all you have to do is to turn to G ; and when you 
want — '* 

27 



28 THE FUN OF COOKING 

**Cake,'^ interrupted Brownie, *'you turn to 

Everybody laughed then, but in a minute Jack 
said soberly: ^*If you don't mind, Mother, I 
think I '11 use mine for school. You see, boys 
don't cook." 

**It seems to me I 've heard that before," 
said Father Blair, nodding at him. **But you 
just tuck that book away in your bureau drawer 
and keep it, because I 've an idea you may want 
it yet for a cook-book. ' ' 

Jack shook his head energetically, but as 
Norah just then brought in a fresh plate of pop- 
overs, he was too busy to say anything more. 

That afternoon, the girls began their books by 
copying very neatly the receipts they had al- 
ready used : Brownies, Christmas Cakes, Icing, 
Christmas Elves, Gingerbread Men, Oatmeal 
Macaroons, Pop-corn Balls, and Tartlets all 
went in, each under its own initial. Then they 
said they wanted some more receipts right 
away, because these looked so lonely. 

*'Very well," said their mother; **but first 
we will have a talk, because I have a bright 
idea. ' ' 

Now it happened that one of the particularly 
nice things about the Blair family was that they 



, SUPPER IN THE WOODS 29 

owned a little bit of a house not many miles 
from town, right in the midst of a pine grove. 
A farmer lived quite close by, but the trees hid 
his house from sight; and the trolley-cars ran 
just around the comer, but they could not be 
seen either ; so when the family went there for a 
day or two, or a week or two, it was just as 
though they were a long, long distance from 
everybody in the world. They called this little 
place the House in the Woods, and Brownie 
Blair often pretended it was the one in the fairy 
book, and that Goldilocks might come in at any 
moment to eat a bowl of porridge with the three 
Blairs, instead of the three bears. 

** You see,'^ Mother Blair went on, *Hhe snow 
is still so fresh and lovely, and the sleighing so 
good, and the full moon is still coming up so 
very early, that I thought — '* 

**0h, I know!*' Jack shouted. **A sleighing 
partyl'* 

**Yes,'' said his mother; **to the House in the 
Woods for supper. Won't that be fun? And 
you can cook the supper. Only, if you invite 
seven boys and girls to go with you, we must 
have plenty of things for them to eat; and of 
course you will want to cook them all your- 
selves. ' ' 



30 THE FUN OF COOKING 

**0f course,'' Mildred said decidedly. 
**Wliat shall we have for the supper T' 

**0h, have cheese dreams I'* Jack begged. 
**The fellows think they 're great I '11 make 
'em myself, if you will. I learned how at the 
Dwights when I was there last week." 

''You did!" teased his mother. **But I 
thought boys didn't cookt" Jack's face grew 
decidedly red. 

*'0f course boys cook with a chafing-dish," he 
explained ; * ' so do men, too. In college, lots of 
them make Welsh-rabbit and oysters and things 
like that for spreads, you know. And you can 
make the same things in a frying-pan on the 
stove just as well. So I '11 make the dreams up 
before we go, and cook 'em when we get there. ' ' 

''Very well," said his mother; "but I bar- 
gain with you that you are to put the receipt in 
your own cook-book. ' ' And Jack had to prom- 
ise. 

Then Milded and her mother planned the rest 
of the supper. They were to have oyster stew, 
because that was what everybody wanted at a 
sleighing party; and then the cheese dreams, 
and potatoes, and cocoa ; and Mother Blair said 
they would have a dish of scrambled eggs for 
anybody who did not like cheese. And, last of 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 31 

all, they would have little hot brown biscuits and 
honey; Fanner Dunn always had beautiful 
honey. 

**Now, let us plan things out/' said Mildred. 
** You and Brownie and I, Mother, can go out to 
the House in the Woods by trolley, and get the 
fires going and the table all ready; and Father 
and Jack can drive out with the others just at 
supper-time, and then we can all go back to- 
gether afterward." This seemed the very best 
way of managing ; so early one Saturday after- 
noon they reached the little house, and while 
Mildred and her mother went in and opened the 
windows and looked all around to see if every- 
thing was as they left it. Brownie ran off for 
Farmer Dunn, who soon brought wood and 
made up rousing fires in the rooms. By the 
time the baskets were unpacked on the kitchen 
table, he was ready to go back to his house and 
get milk and cream and eggs and butter and 
honey. As the Blairs always left the house 
ready to open at a moment's notice, they had 
sugar and flour and salt and things like that in 
the pantry. 

Mildred and Brownie laid the table, putting 
on plates and cups and glasses, and they rubbed 
the forks and spoons and made them as bright 



32 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

as the sunshine. When it was all done, they 
got a beautiful great bunch of feathery pine 
branches for a centerpiece, and then it looked 
exactly as though the table knew there was go- 
ing to be a party. 

^*It is nearly five o'clock,*' their mother caUed 
to them as they finished. * * It is time we began 
to get supper. Brownie, here is a receipt for 
you ; do you think you can manage it all alone? ' ' 

**0f course,'' said Brownie, with great dig- 
nity. * * Only you might just tell me how, first. ' ' 

Mother Blair laughed, and read the receipt 
over to her, and told her what to do. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Take six large potatoes, wash and scrub them well, and 
bake them for about forty minutes in a hot oven, or till 
they are done. Take one potato at a time, hold it in a 
towel, and cut it in two, lengthwise. Scoop out the inside 
with a spoon into a hot bowL When all six are ready, add 
% teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of butter, beating 
and mashing well till they are light; then fill the potato 
shells, heaping them full; arrange in a shallow pan, and 
set it in the oven; bake about ten minutes, or till they are 
brown. 

As soon as Brownie was busy with the pota- 
toes, Mildred said she would make the cocoa, be- 
cause that could stand and wait while other 
things cooked. Her mother told her to get the 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 33 

double boiler, put some hot water in the outside, 
and set it on the stove. Then she gave her this 
receipt : 

COCOA 

6 teaspoonfuls of cocoa. 
1^ cups of boiling water. 
1% cups of boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

1 small pinch of salt. 

Always measure spoonfuls just a Utile rounded. Put the 
powdered cocoa into the double boiler and pour on it the 
boiling water, a little at first, stirring it until it melts; add 
the boiling milk, and cook two minutes, stirring all the 
time; add the sugar, stir a moment longer; add the salt and 
take from the fire. If not to be used at once, stand the 
double boiler on the back of the stove till wanted. 

*^But, Mother, we will need a great many 
more cups of cocoa than this,'' Mildred ex- 
claimed, as she read the rule over. ** Those 
boys will drink at least two apiece, and the girls 
may, too ; they will all be just starving ! ' ' 

* * Of course, ' ' said Mother Blair. * * But what 
do you go to school for, if not to learn multipli- 
cation? How many times over must you make 
the rule?" 

Mildred thought two whole minutes, and then 
said she thought about five times would do ; so 
she very carefully measured everything five 



34 THE FUN OF COOKING 

times over. **I never thought arithmetic was 
any good before, ^ * she said soberly. * * But now 
I see it is to cook by. ' ' 

**Yes, I find it useful myself,'^ her mother 
said, with a smile. **Now, Mildred, we might 
make the biscuits, I think ; those will not be hurt 
by standing any more than the cocoa will. But 
this rule I think you will have to multiply by 
three. ' ' 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 

1 pint of sifted flour. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
% cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of batter. 

Put the salt and baking-powder in the flour and rub the 
butter into these with a spoon; little by little add the milk, 
mixing all the time; lift the dough out on the floured board, 
dust it over with flour, and flour the rolling-pin; roll out 
lightly, just once, till it is an inch tiiick. Flour your 
hands and make it into little balls as quickly as you can; 
put a very little flour on the bottom of a shallow pan, and 
put the biscuits in it, dose together. Bake in a hot oven 
about twenty minutes, or till tiiey are brown. 

These were great fun to make, and when the 
very last panful was done, Mildred tucked all 
the little brown biscuits up in a big fresh towel, 
and put them in a pan in the warming oven to 
keep hot till they were needed. At that very 



-5— 



SUPPER IN THE WOODS 35 

minute, they heard sleigh-bells, and everybody 
rushed to throw open the door and let the party 
in. Such shouting and laughing and talking 
you never heard in all your life ! All the boys 
and girls had been out to the House in the 
Woods often before, and they were so glad to 
come again, they hardly knew what to do. 

While they were taking off their wraps, Jack 
slipped out into the kitchen and demanded the 
frying-pan. * ' See, ' ' he said proudly, opening a 
box, **here are the cheese dreams, all ready to 
cook ! Are n 't they fine I ' ^ 

^^ Lovely I'' exclaimed his mother, and then 
added, with a merry twinkle in her eyes, * *you '11 
be a great cook yet, Jack 1 ' ' 

This was the receipt Jack had used to make 
them : 

CHEESE DEEAMS 

(Six large sandwiches) 

12 slices of bread, eut half an inch thick. 
12 thin slices of cheese. 

1 pinch of soda, cayenne pepper, and salt for each slice. 
Put together like sandwiches, and then cut into rounds. 
Heat a frying-pan very hot, melt a teaspoonful of butter 
in it, and lay in two or three sandwiches ; when one side is 
brown, turn it over and cook the other; take from the pan 
and lay in the oven in a pan on a paper till all are ready. 

Of course Jack had made more than six sand- 



36 THE FUN OF COOKING 

wiohes, for he knew everybody would want two 
apiece; so he had a great boxful, and it took 
him quite a little time to fry them all ; but it was 
just as well, for Mildred and her mother had to 
make the oyster stew, which was to be eaten 
first. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 pint of oysters. 
% pint of water. 

1 quart of rich milk. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Drain the juice off the oysters and examine each 
to remove any pieces of shell that may still adhere to 
it; add the water to the oyster juice, and boil one 
minute; skim this well. Heat the milk and add to this, 
and when it steams, drop in the oysters and simmer just 
one minute, or till the edges of the oysters b^^ to curl; 
add the salt and take up at once; if you choose, add a cup 
of sifted cracker crumbs. 

**What is * simmer 'f asked Mildred, as she 
read the rule over. 

'* Just letting it boil a tiny little bit,^' said her 
mother, * * around the edges of the saucepan, but 
not all over. And here is the receipt for 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

1 egg for each person. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk to each egg. 
2 shakes of salt. 

1 shake of pepp'er. 



"Cheese Dreams" 



SUPPEE IN THE WOODS 39 

Break the eggs in a bowl, beat them twelve times, then 
add the milk, salt, and pepper; heat a pan, put in a piece 
of butter the size of a hickory-nut, and when it is melted, 
pour in the eggs; stir them as they cook, and scrape them 
off the bottom of the pan; when they are all thick and 
creamy, they are done. 

**I have taken the rule for the stew three 
times over for twelve people, and I don't think 
it will be a bit too much; but as almost every 
one will want the cheese dreams, suppose we 
scramble only five eggs. 

* * You 'd better do that right away, for supper 
is almost ready. Brownie's potatoes are just 
done, and she can be filling the glasses with 
water, and putting on the butter and bread, and 
these two big dishes of honey to eat with the 
biscuits for the last course." 

While Mildred was cooking the eggs, Mother 
Blair put the oysters on the table, with the hot 
soup-plates and a generous supply of crisp 
oyster-crackers; the cheese dreams were done 
and in the oven, and Mildred covered the eggs 
and set the dish in the warming oven, and put 
the cocoa on the table in a chocolate pot. Then 
everybody sat down and began to eat. 

After the oyster stew was all gone, they had 
the hot cheese dreams and scrambled eggs and 
the stufiPed potatoes and cocoa all at once ; and 



40 THE FUN OF COOKING 

when those too had vanished, there were the lit- 
tle biscuits and the beautiful golden clover- 
honey in the comb, and x)erhaps that was the 
very best of alL 

** Never, never, did I eat anything so good as 
this supper 1 ' ' Father Blair said solemnly, as he 
ate his fourth biscuit. **That oyster stew — 
those potatoes — ^the cheese direams — " 

**What a greedy father !'* said Mildred. 
*^And you never said a word about the cocoa — ** 

**Nor about the scrambled eggs — *^ said 
Brownie, eagerly. 

**But I ate them all,'' said her father. **I 
ate everything I was given, and I should like to 
eat them all again I Next time we come, have 
twice as much of everything, won't you?" 

But everybody else said that they couldn't 
have eaten one single crumb more. And they 
knew perfectly well that Father Blair could n't, 
either. 

Then everybody helped wash the dishes and 
put things away, and Farmer Dunn came over 
to put out the fires and shut the doors ; and pres- 
ently it was all dark in the House in the Woods, 
and so still that, far, far off, you could hear the 
sound of the singing of the boys and girls as 
they rode home across the snow. 



CHAPTEB m 



jaok's sohool-lxtkcheons 



<iT» -"OTHER," said Jack, one evening, "I 'd 



M 



like to take my lunch to school for the 
next few weeks ; all the fellows are going to, so 
we can have more time for class elections and so 
on. Do you suppose Norah could put up one 
for me every morning r* 

**Why not let Mildred put it upt Her school 
is so near that she does not have to start till 
long after you do ; and then, Jack, you could 
easily pay her for her trouble by helping her 
with her Latin ; you know she is bothered with 
that just now. ' * 

Mildred was overjoyed at the suggestion of 
the bargain, * * Oh, Jack I I ^11 do you up the 
most beautiful luncheons in the world if you will 
only help me with that horrid CaBsar. I 'm 
just as stupid as I can be about it. What do 
you like best to eat in all the world f 

Jack said he was n^t very particular as long 
as he had plenty of pie and cake and pickles and 

41 



42 THE FUN OF COOKING 

pudding and iee-cream; Mildred langhed, and 
said she guessed she could manage to think up 
a few other things beside. 

So the very next morning she put up the 
first luncheon. But, alas, Norah had no cold 
meat to slice — only bits of beefsteak left from 
dinner ; and not a single piece of cake. All she 
could find for lunch was some plain bread and 
butter, which she cut rather thick, a hard-boiled 
egg, and an apple. ^ * Pretty poor, * ' she sighed, 
as she saw him trudge off with the box under 
his arm. 

That afternoon, when she came home from 
school, she went to Mother Blair for help. '^I 
must give him nice luncheons, '* she explained. 
*^Now what can I have for to-morrow? I can't 
think of anything at all, except bread and cake, 
and stupid things like those. ' ' 

*^0h, there are lots and lots of things," said 
her mother. * ^ Putting up lunches is just fun ! 
I only wish you would do up some for me, too I 
And first, dear, you had better see that there is 
plenty of bread, because it takes a good deal for 
sandwiches, and it must not be too fresh to slice 
nicely, nor too stale; day-old bread is best 
And if you can find some brown bread as well as 
white, that will be ever so nice. You will want 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 43 

cake, too, and fruit ; you might ask Norah what 
she has on hand. ' ' 

In a moment, Mildred came back with the 
news that, as there was to be fish for dinner, 
there would be no kft-over meat at aU in the 
morning; the bits of steak were still there. 
* * But imagine beefsteak sandwiches ! ' ' said she, 
scornfully. And though there was no cake now, 
Norah was going to make some. 

* * I think we had better learn first how to make 
all kinds of sandwiches, because that will help 
you more than anything else in putting up 
lunches, * * her mother said, getting out her cook- 
book. **You will need some paraffin paper for 
them, too, and paper napkins ; suppose you look 
on the top shelf of the kitchen closet and see if 
we had any left over from summer picnics. ' ' 

By the time Mildred had found these, as well 
as a box to pack the lunch in, these receipts were 
all ready for her to copy in her own book : 

SANDWICHES 

Use bread that is at least a day old. Spread the batter 
smoothly on the loaf; if it is too cold to spread well, warm 
it a little; slice thin, with a sharp knife; spread one slice 
with the filling, lay on another, press together, and trim 
off the heavy part of the crust; cut in two pieces, or, if 
the slices are very large, in three. Put two or three sand- 



44 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

widies of the same kind together, and wrap in paraffin 
paper. 

MEAT SANDWICHES 

Take any cold meat, cut off the gristle and fat, and put 
it through the meat chopper. Add a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of dry mustard, a shake of pepper, and, last, a teaspoonf ul 
of melted butter; press into a cup, and put away to grow 
firm. 

**Now you see the nice thing about this rule 
is, that any sort of cold meat will do to use, and 
if you have bits of two or more kinds, you can 
use them together. There are those beefsteak 
ends ; all you have to do is to follow your rule, 
and they will make as good sandwiches as any- 
thing else/' 

*'But, Mother, if you had nice roast-beef 
slices, you would not chop those up, would 
you!'* 

**No, indeed! I would make sandwiches of 
plain bread and butter and put the slices of 
meat in by themselves. But chopped meat 
makes better sandwiches than slices of meat be- 
tween bread. ' ' 

**But what do you make sandwiches out of if 
you don^t use meat? I think plain bread and 
butter is horrid for lunches.'' 

* * Oh, there are plenty of other things to use ; 
see, here are your next rules : 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 45 

EGG SANDWICHES 

1 hard-boiled egg, chop*ped fine. 
1 teaspoonful of oil. 
3 drops of vinegar. 
1 pinch of salt. 
1 shake of pepper. 

Mix well and spread on buttered bread. 

"And then sometimes you can have 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread thin battered brown bread with cream cheese; 
sprinkle with a veiy little salt and pepper. Sometimes 
add chopped nnts for a change. 

* * Or, here are these : 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Spread some veiy thin white bread; lay on a leaf of 
lettuce; sprinkle with a very little oil, vinegar, salt, and 
pepper, as in the egg sandwiches. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Drain off all the oil from a little tin of sardines; skin 
each fish, take out the bones, and mash smoothly, addiag 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice; spread on white buttered 
bread. 

**And then, when yon have no cake or cookies 
for Innch, yon can have two or three sandwiches 
with meat and two more like these : 

SWEET SANDWICHES 

Spread buttered bread with a very little jam or jelly; 
or with chopped dates or figs; or with scraped maple 



46 THE FUN OF COOEJNa 

sugar; or with chopped raisins and nuts; or with a thick 
layer of brown sugar. 

* * Those are just as good as cake, and better, I 
think,'* said Mother Blair, as Mildred finished 
copying them all down. *^And now, what 
comes next in a lunch, after sandwiches T' 

* * Cake, * * said Mildred, promptly. 

**Yes, sometimes, but not always. What else 
can you think of that would be nice? ' * 

Mildred said she thought gingerbread might 
be good, or perhaps doughnuts; but she could 
not think of anything else. 

**0h, I can think of ever so many things, '* 
said her mother. ^*But we will put down the 
gingerbread first ; and, by the way, what do you 
think Betty calls itf This: 

^'PERFECTLY LOVELY'* GINGERBREAD 

1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of shortening (butter and lard mixed). 
3 cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, ginger, and soda. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, well beaten 
without separating, then the molasses mixed with the 
spices and soda, then the flour, then the milk. Stir and 
beat well. Put in a shallow tin and bake slowly.'' 



Brownie and Mildred Mtiking "Chocolate Crackers" 



^"S 



JACK^S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 49 

*' Things don't sound as good as they taste, 
do they?'* said Mildred, as she read the receipt 
over. **I just love gingerbread, but butter and 
lard and soda don't sound appetizing/' 

**Well, then, try this," laughed Mother Blair; 
** every bit of this sounds good: 

PEANUT WAFERS 

1 cup of sugar. 
% cup of milk. 

% teaspoonf ul of soda. 
% cup of butter. 

2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of chopped peanuts. 

Cream the butter and sugar; put the soda in the milk, 
stir thoroughly, and put in next; then the flour. Beat well. 
Grease a shallow pan and spread the mixture evenly over 
the bottom, and scatter the nuts on top. Bake till light 
brown, and cut in squares while warm." 

^*0h, those do sound good!*' Mildred ex- 
claimed, as she wrote the last words down. 

*'What sounds good?'* asked Miss Betty's 
voice, as her pretty head popped in the door. 
So they told her all about the luncheons, and she 
said she knew some good things, too, and the 
first one was 

CHOCOLATE CRACKERS 

2 squares of chocolate. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 



./. 



50 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Bntter, the size of tbe tip of your thumb. 

3 drops of vanilla. 
Cut the chocolate np into bits and pat it in a saucer over 
the tea-kettle; when it melta, add the sogar and batter and 
vanilla; stir, and drop in some small crackers, only one at 
a time, and lay them on a greased paper to dty. 

"Oh, Mother, I *ve just got to stop writing 



"I've got to make some this very minute." 

and mate someof those this very minute!" Mil- 
dred exclaimed. Miss Betty said she had lots 
of things she wanted to talk over with Mother 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 51 

Blair wHle Mildred was busy. Brownie came 
miming in just then, and the two girls worked 
so fast they had a whole plateful of crackers 
done in no time ; and after everybody had had 
one apiece to eat, Mildred said: ^^NoWj I will 
learn to make some more things/' 

**Let me see," said her mother, slowly. 
* * Sandwiches and cake — ^what else can you think 
of for luncheons, Betiyf 

^* Deviled eggs," said Miss Betty, as quick as 
a flash. "Please let me tell how I 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil three eggs for ten minutes; peel them, cut them in 
halves, and put the yolks in a bowl; add 

y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

^ teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

1 pinch of pepper. 

1 teaspoonful of oil. 
^ teaspoonful of vinegar. 

Mix well, fill the whites, press smooth with a knife, and 
put two halves together.'* 

^*But three eggs are too many for Jack,'' 
complained Brownie. **He won't need three; 
can't I have one for my lunch here!" 

Miss Betty laughed, and said it would be easy 
for Mildred to make enough for eveiybody in- 
stead of making three, as the rule said. 

**If I just made one, I suppose I 'd take 



52 THE FUN OF COOKING 

pinches instead of teaspoonfuls,** said Mildred, 
thoughtfully. **I mean, I 'd take just a little of 
everything, enough to make the egg taste 
goodf 

**Exactly!^' said Miss Betty; *^that is just 
the way a real grown-up cook does. And, Mil- 
dred, when I had to take my lunch to school, I 
used to have the best thing — salad. I had it 
when there were no real sandwiches, only bread 
and butter; it was put in a little round china jar 
with a tin top that screwed on, so it never 
spilled. But perhaps Jack does n't like salad.'' 

**He just loves it," said Brownie; ^^he loves 
every single thing to eat that there is I " 

^'Then he will surely ^just love' these things! 
Write them down, Mildred. ' ' 

CHICKEN SALAD 

y^ cup of cold chicken, cut in small bits. 
% a hard boiled egg, cut up. 

Or use celeiy in place of the egg, or use both. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

2 teaspoonfuls of oil. 
^ teaspoonful vinegar. 

1 pinch of salt. 

2 shakes of pepper (paprika is best). 

Beat the dressing well and mix with the 

chicken and egg. 
Make more dressing if the salad is too dry. 



JACK'S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 53 

LUNCHEON FRUIT SALAD 

Cut a seedless orange in halves; take out the pulp with 
a spoon; use alone, or mix with bits of banana or other 
fruit; or use chopped celery and apple together. Add 
the dressing. 

*' There 1'' said Miss Betty, triumphantly, as 
Mildred read the receipts aloud when she^had 
copied them. **If Jack doesn't like those, he 
is n't the boy I take him for. And you see, Mil- 
dred, when you have no salad for him, you can 
sometimes put in a nice stalk of celery; and 
when you have had the same fruit over and 
over, you can just give him a fruit salad. 
I do believe I '11 start on a long journey 
and take a whole week's supply of lunches 
along. All these receipts make me feel just like 
it!" 

**0h, do let me go too," begged Mildred. 

**So you shaU," laughed Miss Betty. ^*But 
before we start, I must tell you one thing more : 
if you want an ab-so-lute-ly perfect lunch, you 
must always have a surprise for the very last 
thing of aU." 

*'How do you make one?" asked Brownie, 
curiously. 

**0h, you don't make them at all, or at least 
not usually ; a surprise is something which has 



54 THE FUN OF COOKING 

to be eaten last of all, after all the sandwiches 
and other things are gone, for a sort of dessert ; 
sometimes I had a piece of maple-sugar, or a bit 
of sweet chocolate, or a couple of marshmallows ; 
sometimes it was a fig or two, or a few dates. 
But it was always hidden down in the very bot- 
tom of the box, and everything had to be fin- 
ished up before I opened the little paper it was 
in. Honestly, I don't think boys need surprises 
at all, because they will eat everything up any 
way, but often girls wiU skip a sandwich or two, 
unless they know about the surprise. ' * 

* * When I take my lunch, I shall have one every 
time,*' said Brownie. 

**So shall 1,'^ laughed Mother Blair. 

**I shall certainly give Jack one every day, 
because of Caesar,*' said Mildred. 

The next morning bright and early, Mildred 
hurried to get Jack's luncheon all ready be- 
fore breakfast, and her mother said she would 
help her, just for once. First they made three 
beautiful thin sandwiches out of bread and but- 
ter spread with the nice beefsteak filling, and 
wrapped these up by themselves and put them 
in one comer of the box; then in the opposite 
comer went the surprise, this time four little 
chocolate crackers, all wrapped up carefully ; on 



JACK^S SCHOOL-LUNCHEONS 55 

top of them, to hide them, went three more 
sandwiches, made of brown bread and butter 
and cheese; then the deviled egg filled the 
comer on top of the other pile, and one of 
Norah's cakes was put opposite. 

''Now for the fruit, '^ said Mother Blair. 
''What is there?'' 

Mildred said there was an orange, but it 
would not go in the box. 

"Oh, you don't give anybody an orange whole 
for luncheon ! Peel it first, then break it care- 
fully in halves, wrap each half up in paper by 
itself, and you will see how well it fits in and 
how easy it wiU be to eat when you have no fruit- 
knife or orange-spoon to use with it. Now that 
is all, and it 's what I call a perfectly delicious 
luncheon, don 't you f ' ' 

^^ Perfectly I" said Mildred, rapturously, as 
she tied up the box. "I guess the other boys 
will wish they had lunches just exactly like it ; 
and I think it 's very interesting to do them up, 
too." 

That afternoon, when Jack came home from 
school, he shouted up the stairs : 

"Say, Mildred, what will you take to do up 
lunches for the crowd? They told me to ask 
you. They said they had never seen anything 



56 THE FUN OF COOKING 

so good. Where is that Caesar? I ^11 do about 
ten pages for you if you want me to. ^ ' 

When the lesson was over, Mildred hugged 
Jack gratefully. **I can do it alone in no time 
now, because you ^re such a good teacher, * ' she 
said, as Jack squirmed away. **And, when 
summer comes, just think of all the picnic 
lunches I can do up for everybody!** 

**We won*t wait till summer for a picnic,** 
said Mother Blair. **I *ve got such a bright 
idea!** 



CHAPTER IV 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 



JUST as Mother Blair declared that she had 
* * sutch a bright idea I ' ' a caller came in, and 
it was dinner-time before Mildred had a chance 
to ask her what it was. And then her mother 
put her finger on her lip and shook her head ; so 
Mildred knew, of course, that it was a secret, 
and waited till later on to hear what it was. 

**Now I will tell you all about it,'' Mother 
Blair said, after she had read Brownie a fairy 
story and tucked her up for the night. * * Jack, 
you can hear, too, and Father, if he wants to. ' ' 
So they all drew up around the fire to listen. 

**You remember how much Brownie loved the 
picnics we had last summer, ' ' she began. * ' She 
used to say that she would rather eat plain 
bread and butter out of doors than ice-cream in 
the dining-room ; and whenever we took our sup- 
per and went off for the afternoon, she was so 
happy 1'' 

* ' So she was, ' ' said Father Blair. * * Brownie 

67 



58 THE FUN OF COOKING 

is her father's own daughter; I love picnics 
too/* 

**But, Mother, we can't have a picnic at this 
time of year I ' ' exclaimed Mildred. * * Just listen 
to the rain and snow coming down together this 
minute ; and the slush on the sidewalk is so deep 
you have to wade to school. ' ' 

**But this is just where my bright idea comes 
in I You see, next week will be Brownie 's birth- 
day, and every year since she was two, she has 
had some sort of a party ; now this year, for a 
real change, I think it would be fun to have a 
picnic for her, a lovely in-door picnic, for ten 
boys and girls ; and we '11 have it up in the 
attic!" 

**Isn't that just like Mother!" Jack ex- 
claimed, laughing. **Who else in the world 
would ever have thought of such a thing I ' ' 

* ' But think what fun it wiU be ! " Mother Blair 
went on, her cheeks growing pink as she ex- 
plained all about it. "The attic is nice and 
large, and empty except for the trunks and old 
furniture which are tucked away around the 
eaves. The children will all come in their every- 
day clothes, and wear their coats and hats, so 
they won't take cold up there. And we can 
spread down in the middle of the open space the 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 59 

two old green parlor carpets, for grass ; they are 
all worn out, but nobody will notice that. And 
then, Jack, you can carry up the two palms and 
the rubber plant, and put them on the edge of 
the * grass,' and Farmer Brown can bring us in 
some little cedar- and spruce-trees from the 
woods the next time he drives to town, and we 
will plant them in sand in big earthen flower- 
pots, and stand those around, too. Can't you 
see how lovely it will be? Just like a little 
grassy grovel" 

Everybody laughed, but everybody thought it 
was going to be great fun to make a picnic-place 
in the attic. 

**And we will tie a hammock to the rafters,'' 
said Father Blair ; ^ * and there is the old ping- 
pong set to play with, and the ring-toss ; and the 
boys can play ball, if they choose ; there 's noth- 
ing they can hurt. ' ' 

And so it was all arranged ; and Brownie was 
told she was going to have a beautiful surprise 
for her birthday, and she must not ask a single 
question about it. Mother Blair asked ten boys 
and girls to come at twelve on Saturday and 
spend the rest of the day, and, after the notes 
were sent, she and Mildred began to plan the 
luncheon. 



60 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

**0f course all the things must be packed in 
baskets, '* said Mildred, ** exactly like a regular 
picnic. ' * 

' ' Of course ! ' ' said her mother. * * And in one 
basket we will put a lunch cloth to lay on the 
* grass,' and wooden plates, and paper napkins, 
and glasses, and forks. And they can spread 
the cloth and arrange everything themselves. ' * 

**And what will they have to eatt They are 
sure to be dreadfully hungry.*' 

**Well, there must be one substantial dish to 
begin with. We might have cold sliced ham, of 
course, but I think perhaps they would like some- 
thing else better. Suppose we have veal loaf f ' ' 

** Just the very thing,'* said Mildred. *'May 
I make itf " 

**0f course you may, and everything else 
as well, if you want to. If you will get your 
book, you can write down the receipts this min- 
ute. Here is the first: 

VEAL LOAF 

2 pounds of veal, chopped fine. 
% pound of salt pork, chopped with it. 
% cup of bread crumbs, soaked in milk. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped onion. 
% teaspoonful each of pepper and paprika. 
1 level teaspoonful of salt. 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 61 

Have the meats chopped together at the market; put the 
crumbs in a bowl and cover them with milk, and let them 
stand for fifteen minutes; then squeeze them dry and add 
to the meat. Beat the egg without separating it, and mix 
that in next, and then the seasoning. Stir all together, 
and put in a bread tin and bake one hour. Have on the 
stove a cup half full of hot water mixed with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and every fifteen minutes open the 
oven door and pour a quarter of this over the meat When 
done, put in a cold place over night. SHce thin, and put 
parsley around it. 

* ' You see, this is very easy to make, and it is 
always good for luncheon for ourselves, and for 
Sunday night supper as well. You can make it 
Friday afternoon, and then, by the time for the 
picnic, it will be ready to slice. * ' 

**And what are they to eat with it?'' 

**I think it would be nice to have some sand- 
wiches — ^hot ones. ' ' 

**Hot sandwiches, Mother Blair! I never 
heard of them. How do you make them ! ' ' 

**I invented them myself," laughed her 
mother. * *I really did, this very morning, when 
I was thinking about the picnic. Here is the 
rule." 

TOASTED SARDINE SANDWICHES 

1 tin sardines. 
8 slices of toast. 



62 THE FUN OF COOKING 

^ a lemon. 

Large pinch of salt, and as much dry mustard. 

Open a can of sardines, drain off the oil, and spread 
them on brown paper. Scrape off the skin caref ully, and 
open each one on the side and take out the back bone. 
Sprinkle over them all the salt and mustard, and squeeze 
the lemon on. Then make the toast, large brown slices, and 
butter th^n a little; lay two together, trim off the crust, 
and cut them in strips. Open the strips, and between each 
two put one sardine and press together. Put them in the 
oven between two hot plates till needed. 

**0h, those do sound so good I Caa't I make 
some for Innch to-day, Mother?' ' Mildred 
begged. 

* * But they belong to the surprise I Let 's wait 
till after the picnic, and then you may make lots 
of them/' 

** Weill'' sighed Mildred, "then let me have 
another receipt right away, so I '11 forget them. 
I do want to make them so much. ' ' 

**Here is another receipt you will like just as 
well ; part of it is for the picnic, and part of it is 
for a little bit of a party for you and Miss Betty 
and me, while the picnic is going on upstairs. ' ' 

"A party for us ? What kind of a party ? ' ' 

** Lovely grown-up afternoon teal" laughed 
her mother. "You can invite Miss Betty your- 
self won't that be nicet" 

''Perfectly lovely I Do tell fasterl" 



THE BIETHDAY PICNIC 63 

**Well, first you make for the picnic some 
sweet sandwiches like those we planned for the 
school lunches ; these are simply, to begin with : 

ORANGE MARMALADE SANDWICHES 

Spread thin white bread and butter with orange mar- 
malade; trim off the crusts and cut into even shapes; a 
round cooky cutter makes pretty sandwiches." 

^^I-'ve made those for Jack, lots of times, *' 
said Mildred, as she wrote this down, **only I 
didn't cut them in round shapes, because boys 
don't care about that." 

**No," said her mother, smiling, *^boys don't, 
but girls do I So make part of these in rounds, 
and put them away, and send the square ones 
up-stairs. And when it 's time for our party, 
just toast ours quickly, and you will find them 
the most delicious things you ever ate, especially 
with tea; that 's what we three will have." 

'* Those win be Miss Betty's surprise!" 
laughed Mildred, as she wrote down the word 
toasted after the title of the sandwiches. * * Now 
what next!" 

** Suppose you try some very easy cookies; 
those are just the thing for a picnic; you can 
make them Saturday morning, and then they 
will be fresh. Here is the rule : 



64 THE FUN OF COOKING 

SPICY COOKIES 

Sprinkle the baking board with flour and rub it smoothly 
over; do the same to the rolling-pin, and scatter a little 
flour evenly also over the bottom of some shallow tins. 
Have a panful of sifted flour ready on the table, as you 
may need to do this several times. 

% cup of sugar. 

3 tablespoonf uls of butter. 

6 tablespoonf uls of milk. 

1 egg. 

1% cups of flour, 

% teaspoonful of soda. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of hot water. 

%, teaspoonful of cloves. 

^ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, and rub together. Beat 
the egg without separating, and put in next. Mix the soda 
and hot water, put the milk with this; put the salt in the 
flour; add part of the flour to the sugar and other things, 
and then part of the milk, and so on ; then put in the spices 
|tnd stir all together. Put the dough on the board, roll it 
out thin, and with a cutter mark it all over; then lift out 
the pieces with a cake turner, very carefully, and arrange 
them in your pans, but do not let them touch. Bake fifteen 
minutes ; take them out of the pans while warm, and spread 
out on a platter to cool." 

**Dear me, that sounds pretty hard!'* said 
Mildred, as she finished. 

** Cookies are not quite as easy to make as 
some other things, but they are so good, so nice 



Making "Orange Baskets" 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 67 

for luncheon and suppers and other times, that 
I think you will be glad to know how to make 
them. And Father is so fond of cookies I ' ' 

*' So he is. Well, Mother, I '11 try them. And 
now what comes nextf 

* * Some cunning, easy little cakes, so easy that 
next time Brownie can make them herself. 
They are called 

MAEGUERITES 

20 round, thin crackers. 
20 marshmallows. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped nuts. 

2 teaspoonf uls of butter. 

Butter the crackers on one side, just a little; put a 
marshmallow on each, a tiny bit of butter on it, and a 
sprinkle of chopped nuts of any kind. Put them in a shal- 
low pan, and bake tiU they are soft and brown; eat while 
fresh and warm." 

**0h, lovely I Mother, I must have some of 
the girls in and have those for myself ! ' * 

**So you shall, any day you want to. Now 
don't you think that is almost enough for the 
picnic f 

* * I think we ought to have something to finish 
off with— to eat with the cookies and marguer- 
ites; don't you think sof 

**Yes, I do; something in the way of fruit. 



68 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

Suppose we give them this — ^it is much nicer 
than plain oranges or bananas; write it down, 
dear. 

OEANGB BASKETS 

6 large oranges. 

2 bananas. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Cut the oranges in halves; take out the pulp with a 
spoon, and put it in a bowl. Scrape out the inside, leaving 
nice, clean shells, and then scallop or point the edges with 
the scissors. Peel the bananas, cut them in long, narrow 
strips, and these into small bits, and mix lightly with the 
orange, and add the sugar; heap in the baskets and set 
away to grow cold. 

*'If we happened to have any pineapple or 
white grapes in the house, I should put some of 
those in too; but these will be delicious just as 
they are. Now anything moref 

* ' Something to drink with ,the lunch. I think 
pink lemonade would be nice. ' ' . 

** Perfectly lovely !'* laughed Mother Blair. 
**We will get a can of raspberries out of the 
fruit closet, and make something for them that 
will be ever so good. This is the rule: 

PICNIC LEMONADE 

8 lemons. 

12 glasses of water. 
3 cups of sugar. 
1 oup of raspberry juice. 



THE BIBTHDAT PICNIC 69 

Boll the lemons till they are soft; cut them and squeeze 
the juice out. Put the sugar in a little pan with a glass 
of water, and boil it two minutes; add this to the lemon 
and raspberry juice, and strain it; add the rest of the 
water; serve with broken ice in a glass pitcher. 

**Be sure and boil the sugar and water to- 
gether, Mildred, whenever you make any kind of 
drink like lemonade ; it is so much better than if 
you put in plain sugar. When it is all done, if it 
is not quite sweet enough, you can add a little 
powdered sugar without hurting it/' 

** Mother, we forgot the surprise! You re- 
member, * every luncheon must have a surprise,' 
you said ; see, here it is in the book. ' ' 

**Dear me, so I did I What shall it be, Mil- 
dred! I can't seem to think of another thing 
for that picnic.*' 

'^Neither can I." 

** Stuffed dates!" exclaimed Mother Blair, 
presently. *^I knew there must be something, 
and those will be exactly right. ' ' 

STUFFED DATES 

Wash the dates and wipe them dry. Open one side and 
take out the stone; in its place press in half a pecan or 
other nut; close the edges, and roll each date in powdered 
sugar. 

**I do hope there will be some of those over 



70 THE FUN OF COOKING 

for us,'' said Mildred, as she put her book away. 
^ * Those children are going to have a wonderful 
lunch!" 

Brownie could not imagine what her birthday 
surprise was to be. She could not help guess- 
ing, but she never once was ^*warm." When 
Saturday came, and the boys and girls arrived 
in their every-day clothes and even kept on their 
wraps in the parior, she did not know what to 
think ; and there was actually no lunch for them 
in the dining-room! She began to look very 
sober. 

But when everybody had come, Mother Blair 
said : * * Won 't you go up-stairs ! ' ' and Mildred 
and Jack ushered them up to the attic 

It was such a lovely surprise ! The big green 
carpets were spread down on the bare floor, and 
all around were set little green trees in pots. 
The canary was hung up out of sight, and he 
was singing as hard as he could. It was not a 
bit too cold, for the door had been kept open all 
day and the sun was shining in at the window. 

And just then appeared Mother Blair, and 
Norah, and Jack, and Mildred, all carrying 
baskets, which they put down on the floor. 
Then the picnic began ! 

There was first the cloth to spread down on 



THE BIRTHDAY PICNIC 71 

the grass, and paper plates and napkins to be 
passed around. The veal loaf was found, a plat- 
ter of it tied up in a large napkin, and hot sand- 
wiches between hot plates, tied up in another 
napkin, and marmalade sandwiches folded in 
paraflSn paper by them- 
selves. Last of all 
were the orange bas- 
kets, each one twisted 
up in a paper napkin 
with a funny little frill 
on top made of the ends 
of the napkin; and the 
dates were in little 
square paper boxes, one 
box for each child. 

As they began to eat, ^'^ "^^ ^^ lemonade 
Jack came up with a big, big pitcher of beauti- 
ful pink lemonade, and little glasses to drink it 
out of. Oh, such a picnic as it was! Such a 
perfectly lovely picnic I Out-of-door picnics 
were nothing to it. And when they had eaten 
up every crumh and drank up every drop, they 
played games until the attic grew dark; and 
then they all went home, and the birthday was 
over. 



CHAPTEE V 

SUNDAY NIGHT STJPPEB 

ONE Sunday afternoon just as the clock 
struck three, the Blairs* telephone rang; 
and after she had answered it, Mother Blair 
called Mildred, who sat reading hy the window. 

**My dear,** she said, **do you remember 
hearing Father speak of his old friends the 
Wentworths, whom he used to know so well 
years ago ? Well, they have come east, and are 
in town for a day or two, and they want to come 
out and see us this very afternoon. Now I 
should love to ask them to stay to supper, but if 
I do, I shall have to stay with them and visit and 
can't help you at all ; and Norah is out. Do you 
suppose you three children could get the supper 
and serve it all by yourselves ! * * 

**Why, of course. Mother Blair,*' said Mil- 
dred, reproachfully. * * Of course we can I You 
don't know how many things your children can 
do when they try! Now what shall we have? 

72 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPEE 73 

It ought to be something very good, because 
they have never been here before. ^ ' 

"We were going to have canned sahnon,'* said 
her mother, thoughtfully; "we might scallop 
that, and have potatoes with it, and perhaps 
muffios or biscuits. ^ * 

"Oh, have muffins. Mother! I have seen 
Norah make them lots of times, and I 'm sure I 
could, too, if you give me the receipt. ' ^ 

"Well, you may try,** said her mother, "but 
I think you had better have some toast ready, 
too, in case they do not come out right. And 
what else can we have ? Preserves, I suppose ; 
but, Mildred, aU the nice preserves are gone, be- 
cause it is so late in the spring. But we might 
have little baked custards. * * 

"Yes, in the cunning little brown baking 
dishes ; those will be lovely I And I *11 make 
some little cakes to eat with them; Norah said 
there were just cookies for supper. * ' 

* * But do you really think you can do all that t 
Don't you think the cookies will dof 

"No, indeed,** said Mildred, "not for extra 
nice company I But little cakes are no trouble 
to make. And isn*t it fun to have company 
come when you don't expect it! It *s so much 
nicer than to specially invite them!** 



74 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mother Blair laughed. **I hope you will al- 
ways think so/' she said. And Mildred ran 
away to call Brownie to get her apron and come 
to the kitchen. 

* * We will lay the table first, even though it is 
so early,*' said their mother. ** Brownie, bring 
me the pile of the best doilies in the sideboard 
drawer. ' ' 

^ * The Wheelers always use a regular big cloth 
for supper," Brownie said, as she came over 
with them to the table. 

^*Many people do, but I think the table looks 
prettier at breakfast and luncheon and supper 
with the doilies. And then, too, if anybody hap- 
pens to spill anything — " 

** Jack spilled gravy yesterday, awfully," said 
Brownie, soberly. 

**Well, you see Norah had to wash only one 
little doily because of that; if we had had 
on a table-cloth, all of it would have had to go 
into the wash. But if we had no doilies, I 
should use a lunch cloth that would just cover 
the top of the table, and that would be pretty, 
too. Put one doily for each person. Brownie, 
and a large one in the middle for the fern dish, 
and little ones for the tumblers. Now for tlie 
silver." 



Arranging a Small Round Tray in Front of lier Mother's Place 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 77 

Mildred came with knives, forks, and spoons. 

**No knives, because there is no meat,'* said 
her mother; **but if we were going to use them, 
which side would you put them onf 

**Left,'' said Brownie, guessing. 

**Not unless you were left-handed,*' smiled 
her mother. * * The rule is : put on the right side 
what you will use with the right hand, and on 
the left what you will use with the left hand. 
That is, if there are no knives, all the sUver goes 
on the right, and the fork or spoon you are to 
use first goes the farthest away from the plate, 
the next one next to that, and so on ; if you re- 
member that, you will never be puzzled as to 
which fork to use. Now the teaspoons — ^put 
those on the right, too ; and the dessert spoon or 
fork may go at the top, across the plate if you 
Uke, though I prefer it on the dessert plate 
itself. Put the napkin at the left, always ; and 
the tumbler goes at the top to the right, and the 
bread-and-butter plate and knife at the top too, 
toward the left. There! Doesn't that look 
pretty?" 

Mildred had been getting out the best cups 
and saucers and arranging a small round tray 
in front of her mother's place with cream and 
sugar and the tray bowl, and a place left for 



78 THE FUN OF COOKING 

the tea-pot; the cups she put at the right, ar- 
ranging them in twos — two cups on two saucers. 

** Mildred, after you pass the sahnon, you 
may put the dish right in front of Father; 
and the potatoes may go on the table too, as 
Norah isn't here, though I like best to have 
them passed from the sideboard. The muffins 
may stand at the side of the table, half-way 
down. Now let us carry out all the dishes and 
begin to cook.'' 

So Mildred took a pile of plates to heat, and 
Brownie carried a dish for the potatoes, and 
Mother Blair brought the little custard cups; 
they arranged these on the kitchen table where 
they would not be in the way, and then Mother 
Blair told Mildred to see that the fire was all 
right. ** Always remember to look at tiiat 
first," she said. *^It needs shaking down a 
little, and to have more coal on ; and pull out the 
dampers so the oven will heat. ' ' 

Mildred hunted for the dampers, but could 
not find any. **I don't believe there are any on 
this stove, ' ' she said, just as Jack came in to see 
what was going on. 

**No dampers! Is n't that just like a girl I" 
he exclaimed. **See, here they are, tucked un- 
der the edge of the stove. You puU them out — 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 79 

so — ^and then you shut the draft at the top, op- 
posite the coal, and open the one at the bottom, 
so the air will blow right up through the fire and 
make it go like everything. And you have to 
turn the dampers in the pipe, too, to let the heat 
go up the chimney. ' * 

**Good!'^ said his mother. **I didn't know 
you knew so much about stoves. Now suppose 
you shake the fire down and put the coal on — 
that 's a man's work.'' 

**A11 right," said Jack; **I don't mind things 
like that; but boys don't cook, you know." 

His mother put both hands over her ears. 
** Jack, if I hear you say that once more, I shall 
believe you are turning into a parrot ! And you 
are all wrong, too, and some day I am going to 
give you some special lessons myself. But to- 
day you may just tend the fire and bring us 
things from the refrigerator as we need them, to 
save time. Now, Mildred, we will begin with 
the custards, because they must be nice and cold. 
Brownie, you bring the spoons and bowls and 
such things, and. Jack, you get the milk and 
eggs." 

BAKED CUSTARDS 

1 quart of milk. 
Yolks of four eggs. 



80 THE FUN OF COOKING 

4 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
% teaspoonfol of vanilla. 

1 pinch of salt. 
% teaspoonf ul of grated nutmeg. 

Put the sugar in the milk; beat the eggs light, and add 
those, with salt and vanilla. Pour into the cups, sprinkle 
with nutmeg, and arrange the cups in a shallow pan. Bake 
half an hour, or till, when you put the blade of a knife in 
one, it comes out clean. 

It took just a few moments to make these, and 
then came the next rule : 

CURRANT CAKES 

% cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour. 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
% cup of currants. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Wash the currants and rub them dry in a towel. Put 
the flour in a bowl; take out a large tablespoonful and 
mix with the currants, and then mix the baking-powder 
with the rest of it. Bub the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar, then the milk, then the egg, beaten without sepa- 
rating, then the flour mixed with the baking-powder, then 
the flavoring, and, last, the currants. Grease some small 
tins, fill them half full, and bake in an oven not too hot. 

**You must always mix some flour with 
raisins or currants to keep them from sinking 
to the bottom of the cake ; but do not add any to 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 81 

the mle — just take a little out from what you 
are going to use in the cake. Now, Jack, please 
get me two cans of salmon from the pantry and 
open them; and we will need butter and milk 
from the refrigerator, too. It *8 fine to have a 



Brownie rolled Uie trackers 

' handy man * around to help us cook ! Now, Mil- 
dred, double this rule, because there will be so 
many at supper." 

SCALLOPED SALMON 
1 good-sized can of Balmon, or one pint of any 

eooked fish. 
1 cnp of white sfluce. 
1 cnp of cracker crumbs. 



82 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Batter a baking dish^ put in a layer of fish, then one of 
crumbs; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, and dot the 
crumbs with butter; then put on a layer of white sauce. 
Repeat till the dish is full, with the crumbs on top; dot 
with butter and brown well in the oven; it will take about 
twenty minutes. 

Brownie rolled the crackers for this, while 
Mildred made the white sauce by the rule she 
said was so easy it was exactly like learning a 
bo. 

*^That is so queer,'* laughed her mother, ** be- 
cause cooks call it just that — ^the a b c of cook- 
ing 1 It is the rule you use more often than any 
other. 

WHITE SAUCE 

1 rounded tablespoonful of butter. 
1 rounded tablespoonful of flour. 

1 cup of milk. 

% teaspoonful of salt. 

2 shakes of pepper. 

Melt the butter; when it bubbles, put in the flour, stir- 
ring it well; when this is smooth, slowly add the milk, salt, 
and pepper; stir and cook till very smooth; you can make 
it like thin cream by cooking only one minute, or like thick 
cream hy cooking it two minutes. 

** Sometimes you want it thicker than others,'* 
said her mother, **so I just put that in to ex- 
plain. To-day make it like thin cream. Now, 
Mildred, you can put it all together while Jack 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 83 

brings in the cold boiled potatoes and Brownie 
cuts them up. ' * 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Cut eight large boiled potatoes into bits the size of the 
end of your thumb. Put them in a saucepan and cover 
them with milk; stand them on the back of the stove where 
they will cook slowly; watch them so they will not bum. 
In another saucepan make white sauce as before. When 
the potatoes have drunk up all the milk and are rather dry, 
drop them in the sauce; do not stir them; sprinkle with 
pepper. 

**Now for the muflSns, for it is after five 
o ^clock. Brownie, you find the muffin pans and 
make them very hot. Do you know how to 
grease them!'* 

*'Yes, indeed!'* said Brownie, proudly. 
**This is the way.*' She got a clean bit of 
paper, warmed the pans, and dropped a bit of 
butter in each, and then with the paper rubbed 
it all around. 

MUFFINS 

2 cups of flour. 
1 cup of milk. 

1 rounded tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggSy beaten separately. 

1 teaspoonf ul of baking-powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 



84 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

Beat the egg yolks first; then add the milk; melt the 
butter and put that in, then the flour, well mixed with the 
baking-powder, then the salt and sugar. Last, add the stiff 
whites of the eggs. Fill the pans half f ulL 

^ ^ Some things, like cake, cannot bear to have 
the oven door opened while they are baking/^ 
said Mother Blair; **but salmon does not mind 
if you open quiekly ; so, Mildred, put these in as 
fast as you can; they will take about twenty 
minutes to bake. I do believe that is all we 
have to make except the tea, and that takes 
only a moment when everything else is ready. 
I will give you the receipt for it now, and after 
everybody is here and you have said *How do 
you dor to them, you can slip out and make 
this, and while it stands you can put the other 
things on the table. But perhaps you had bet- 
ter make some coffee too ; the men may like it ' * 

TEA 

Fill the kettle with fresh, cold water and let it boil up 
hard. Scald out an earthen tea-kettle, and put in two 
rounded teaspoonf uls of tea for six people, or more, if you 
want it quite strong. Pour on six cups of boiling water 
and let the pot stand where it is warm for just two miautes. 
Scald out the pot you are going to send to the table, and 
strain the tea into that. Have a jug of hot water ready 
to send in with it. 



She looked Carefully in the Oven Through a Tiny Crack 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 87 

COFFEE 

1 rounded tablespoonful of ground coffee for 

each person; and 
1 extra tablespoonful. 
% cup of cold water. 
1 egg shell, washed and broken, with a little 

bit of the white. 

Mix these in a bowL Then put in a very clean pot and 
add 

1 cup of boiling water for each person and 
1 cup more. 
Let it boil up hard just once; stir it, pour in 

1 tablespoonful of cold water; let it stand 
three minutes, strain and put in a hot pot. 

Just before the door-bell rang, Mildred went 
to the refrigerator to look at her custards and 
found them nice and cold. Then she looked 
carefully in the oven through a tiny crack, and 
found the muflSns were done and the salmon 
beautifully brown ; so she took up the potatoes, 
and put them in the covered dish on the back of 
the-stove where they would keep hot, and asked 
Brownie to lay the hot plates around the table, 
one for each person. Then she went into the 
parior and said **How do you doT* to the 
guests, and after a moment slipped out again, 
and put everything on the sideboard, made the 
tea, filled the glasses, and put butter on the 



88 THE FUN OF COOKING 

bread-and-butter plates. Then Brownie asked 
everybody to come to supper. 

When they had all sat down, Mildred passed 
the dish of salmon, offering it on the left side, 
of course, just 
as Norah always 
did; then she pnt 
the dish down be- 
fore her father 
and passed the 
potatoes and muf- 
fins in the same 
way, while Mother 
Blair poured the 
' tea and handed 
it around without 
rising from her 
seat. And then 
everybody began 
to eat, and say, 
"Oh, how good 
this salmon is!" and "Did you ever taste 
such mufifins?" and "Did you really, really 
make all these good things yourselves, children? 
We don't see how you ever did itl" And they 
ate at two helpings of everything, and Father 
Blair ate three. And when it was time to take 



Jade serred tbe ciutarde 



SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPEE 89 

the dishes off, there was not a speck of sahnon 
left, nor a spoonful of potato, nor even a single 
muffin. 

Then Brownie quietly took the crumbs off as 
she had seen Norah do, brushing them onto a 
plate with a folded napkin; and as she was 
doing this. Jack slipped out to the refrigerator 
and got the custards, all as cold as ice and brown 
on top, looking as pretty as could be in their 
cunning cups; each cup was set on a dessert 
plate and a spoon laid by its side, and the fresh 
cakes were passed with them. 

Soon after supper the company went home, 
and then Mildred said: **I feel exactly like a 
toy balloon — so light inside 1 Wasn^t that a 
good supper f And did n't they like the things 
we had! And isn't it fun to have company! 
When I am grown up and have a house of my 
own, I shall have company every day in the 
weef 

**I shall make a point of coming every other 
day at least,'' said Father Blair. **I 'm so 
proud of my family to-night! Those Went- 
worths may be staying at the very best hotel in 
town, but I know they don't have such suppers 
there. ' ' 

** Don't you wish you could cook. Jack!" in- 



90 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

qtiired his mother, with a twinkle in her eye. 
And then everybody laughed, and said : * * Dear 
me, what good times we Blairs do have to- 
gether T' 



CHAPTER VI 

mildbed's school paety 

ONE day early in June, Mildred ran up to 
her mother's room as soon as she came 
home from school. She tossed her hat on the 
bed, and dropped hei* books in an arm-chair. 
'*0h. Mother!'* she exclaimed, out of breath, 
* * do you suppose I could have twenty girls here 
some afternoon for a little bit of a party? I do 
so want to ask them right away, before exams 
begin. They are my twenty most particular 
friends, and some of them are going away just 
as school closes, so, you see, I have to hurry. ' ' 

**0f course you may have them,'* said Mother 
Blair. **But only twenty particular friends, 
Mildred ? What about the rest of the class ? ' ' 

Mildred laughed. **Well, I mean these are 
the girls I happen to know best of all, and I want 
to have a kind of farewell before summer really 
comes. What sort of a party shall we have. 
Mother? I mean, what shall we have to eatf 

**I should think strawberry ice-cream would 

91 



92 THE FUN OF COOKING 

be jnst the thing, with some cake to go with 
it, and something cold to drink; is that about 
what you had thought off 

** Just exactly, Mother. But do you think we 
can make enough ice-cream here at home for 
twenty people! Wouldn't it be better to buy 
it!'' 

*^0h, I am sure we can easily make it, and 
home-made ice-cream is so good — ^better, I think, 
than we could buy. We can borrow Miss 
Betty's freezer, which holds two quarts, and as 
ours holds three, that will be plenty. We count 
that a quart will serve about seven, — ^more cook- 
ing arithmetic, Mildred! If one quart will be 
enough for seven people, how many quarts will 
be needed for twenty!" 

**The answer is that five quarts will be just 
about right, ' ' laughed Mildred. * ' Perhaps some 
of them will want two helpings. But, Mother, 
if we have the party on Saturday, Norah will be 
very busy, and who will make the cream!" 

**We will all make it together, and Jack may 
pack the freezers and turn them for us. And 
Norah may make the cake for you on Friday, so 
that wiU be out of the way. ' ' 

So, early on Saturday morning, Mildred and 
Brownie began to hull strawberries for the 



MILDRED ^S SCHOOL PARTY 93 

party and put them away in bowls on the ice. 
Then they made the table all ready on the 
porch, putting a pretty little cloth on it, and 
arranging plates and napkins ; glasses, for what 
Brownie called the * ' nice-cold drinks, * ' were set 
out too, and little dishes of the candy which 
Father Blair had brought home and called his 
contribution to the party; and in the middle of 
the table they put a bowl of lovely red roses. 

After an early luncheon, everybody went at 
once to the kitchen. The berries were put on 
the large table, and the cream and milk brought 
from the refrigerator. The two freezers stood 
ready in the laundry with a big pail for the 
broken ice, a heavy bag, a wooden mallet, and 
a large bag of coarse salt. 

*^Come, Jack,'* his mother said, as he stood 
picking out the biggest berries from the bowl 
and eating them, **here *s some more man's 
work for you ! We want you to break the ice 
and pack these freezers for us. ' ' 

**What do I get for itT' Jack asked, pretend- 
ing to grumble. **If the girls are going to eat 
up all the ice-cream, I guess I won't bother 
freezing it. ' ' 

**No, indeed, they are not going to eat it all 
up," said Mother Blair. **I am counting on 



94 THE FUN OF COOKING 

having ever so much left over for dinner to- 
night ; and you shall have two helpings. * ' 

**Make it three and I '11 think about it/' said 
Jack, choosing the very biggest berry of all. 

'^ Three then,'' said Mildred, disgustedly, tak- 
ing the bowl away. * * Boys do eat so much ! ' ' 

* ^ This cream is going to be so good that you 
will want three yourself," laughed Mother 
Blair. * * Now, Jack, this rule is for you. Some 
cooks think that all you have to do in packing 
a freezer is to put in layers of broken ice and 
salt, and then turn the handle; but there is a 
right way to do it, and if you follow this, you 
will find the cream will freeze ever so much 
more quickly than if you are careless in pack- 
ing." 

PACKING A FREEZER 

2 large bowlfuls of broken ice. 
1 bowlful of coarse salt. 

Put the ice in a strong bag and pound with a mallet till 
it is evenly broken into bits the size of an egg. Put the 
ice in a pail till you have a quantity broken, and then meas- 
ure; add the salt quickly to the ice and stir it well; then 
put the empty ice cream tin in the freezer with the cover 
on, and fasten on the top and handle. Pack the ice all 
around the tin tightly till it is even with the top. Then 
stand it away, covered with a piece of carpet or blanket, 
in a dark, cool place, for half an hour. There should be 



MILDEED'S SCHOOL PAETY 95 

a thick coating of frost all over the inside when the cream 
is put in. 

While Jack was working in the laundry, Mil- 
dred and Brownie were reading the receipt their 
mother gave them, and getting out the spoons 
and sugar and other things they would need. 

**Are the berries washed ?'* asked Mother 
Blair. ^*Yes, I see they are; now. Brownie, 
you may put half of them at a time into this 
big bowl, and crush them with the wooden po- 
tato-masher till they are all juicy. And, Mil- 
dred, here is the rule for making one quart of 
plain white ice-cream; all you have to do is to 
add any kind of fruit or flavoring to this, and 
you can change it into whatever you want. * ' 

**Just like a fairy's receipt!*' said Brownie. 

**ExactlyI'' said their mother. **Now, Mil- 
dred, multiply this rule by five.'' 

PLAIN ICE-CREAM 

3 cups of milk. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of cream. 
Flavoring. 

Put the cream, milk and sugar in a saucepan on the fire, 
and stir till the sugar is melted and the milk steams, but 
does not boil. Take it off and beat with the ^'g^ beater till 
it is cold; add the flavoring and freeze. 



96 THE FUN OF COOKING 

PEUIT ICE-CREAM 

1 quart of fruit, or enough to make a 

cupful of juice. 
1 small cup of sugar. 

Mash the fruit, rub it through a sieve, add the sugar, 
and stir into the cream just before putting it into the 
freezer. 

**You see what an easy rale this is. Yon 
can use fresh raspberries or pineapple or 
peaches in summer-time, and in winter you can 
use canned fruit If the fruit is sour, of course 
you must take a little more sugar than if it is 
very sweet. And when juice is very sour in- 
deed, like currant or cherry juice, do not use it 
for ice-cream. And when you want to make 
chocolate ice-cream you put in — '* 

'*Do let me write that down. Mother, please, 
because I perfectly love chocolate ice-cream,'' 
interrupted Mildred. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM 

Make the plain ice cream as before; while still on the 
stove add 

3 squares of unsweetened chocolate, 

grated. 
y^ cup of sugar. 
2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Put the vanilla in last, just before freezing. 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PARTY 97 

It took only a little while to mix the cream 
and cool it, and then Brownie had the berries all 
ready to go in; so Mildred called to Jack to 
know if the two freezers were ready. Jack was 
reading ** Treasure Island '' in a comer of the 
laundry, and it took three calls to rouse him. 

**The freezers r' he asked; *Hhe freezers — 
oh, yes, they are all ready. At least I suppose 
they are, they 've been standing so long. I Ve 
been having a great time with old Silver in the 
stockade!" 

^^Well,'' said Mildred, doubtfully,'* 4f you Ve 
been oflf on one of your treasure trips, I don't 
know whether the freezers will be ready or" 
not.'' 

But when they looked inside, there was the 
thick frost all over the tin. ** Perfect I" said 
Mother Blair. **Now you will see how quickly 
the cream will freeze. It makes all the differ- 
ence in the world whether or not it is ice-cold 
inside.'' Then they poured in the cream and 
shut the freezer tightly, and Jack began to turn 
the handles, first of one and then of the other, 
with ** Treasure Island" open before him on an 
upturned pail, though he very soon found that 
the freezers needed all his attention. He was 
devoting himself to his task with grim deter- 



98 THE FUN OF COOKING 

mination when Mildred peeped in at the door 
and stood watching him for a moment before 
she asked, mischievously, ** And what is old Sil- 
ver doing now. Jack? I believe you Ve really 
going to deserve those three plates of ice-cream, 
after all.'^ 

* * Come, Mildred ! ' ^ called her mother, * * we will 
make something perfectly delicious to drink, '^ 
and she handed a fresh receipt to the girls. 

GRAPE-JUICE LEMONADE 

4 lemons. 

1 quart of water. 

2 large cups of sugar. 
1 quart of grape-juice.. 
1 orange. 

Put the water and sugar on the fire and boil them two 
minutes. Boll the lemons and squeeze the juice; when the 
water is cool, add this and stand it away till you need it. 
Then add the grape-juice, and put it in a large bowl with 
a good-sized piece of ice; slice the orange very thin and 
cut into small pieces and add last. Serve in glass cups. 

* * That is so easy anybody could make it, ' ^ said 
Brownie. * * I guess I ^11 make some for us all on 
the next hot night. '* 

**0h, goody !*' said Mildred. ** Think how 
lovely it would taste out on the porch just be- 
fore bedtime I ^ ' 



The Refreshmcnta were Perfectly Delicious, Everybody Said 



MILDRED'S SCHOOL PARTY 101 

** Specially if there was a moon,*' said 
Brownie, 

* * Yes, indeed ! especially if there was a moon ! 
You won 't forget, will you ! ' ' 

Brownie promised faithfully she would not. 

By the time this was done and ready to put 
away in the refrigerator to get very cold. Jack 
was shouting for somebody to come and see if 
the cream was frozen. **It turns awfully 
hard,*' he complained, rubbing his arms. 

His mother wiped off the edges of the tin very 
carefully so no salt could get in, and then lifted 
the cover, and, sure enough, the cream was firm 
and smooth, and a beautiful pink color. Mil- 
dred watched Her carefully and took the second 
freezer, doing exactly what her mother did to 
the first one. They slowly pulled out the dash- 
ers, scraping them off as they did so, and then 
packed the cream down hard; the covers were 
put on again, each with a cork where the dasher- 
top had been. Meanwhile Jack had been told 
to break more ice and mix it exactly as he had 
before. When this was ready, the plug at the 
side of each freezer was pulled out and the water 
drained off, and then the cans of cream were 
buried in the fresh ice so that neither of them 
could be seen, a piece of carpet was laid over 



102 THE FUN OF COOKING 

eachy and it was put back in its dark comer. 

* * There ! ' * said their mother, when it was all 
finished. ^ ' Ice-cream has to stand at least two 
hours after it is packed before it is quite good 
enough to eat. Thank you, Jack! You are 
really learning lots about cooking, are n^t youf 
And now we will cut the cake and put it on 
plates in the refrigerator to keep fresh, and 
then we will all go and dress for the party, be- 
cause it is three o'clock.*' 

The refreshments were perfectly delicious, 
everybody said, and the girls said the pink ice- 
cream, and the sponge-cake, and the grape-juice 
lemonade were **the best ever.*' When every- 
body had gone, Mildred took a big plateful of 
ice-cream over to Miss Betty. 

* * Oh, how good that is ! * * she said as she ate 
it. **How beautifully good! So good to look 
at, I mean, as well as to taste. Would you like 
to have some more strawberry ice-cream re- 
ceipts to go with itf Mildred said she would 
love to, so Miss Betty began to write : 

FROZEN STEAWBERRIES 

1 quart of water. 
2V^ cups of sugar. 

2 quarts of berries. 
Juice of 1 lemon. 



MILDKED'S SCHOOL PAETY 103 

Crush the berries and press through a sieve; there should 
be two cups of juice ; if not, add a few more berries. Boil 
the water and sugar one minute, cool, add the berry juice 
and that of the lemon, cool and freeze; serve in glass cups. 

**You can see, Mildred,** went on Miss Betty, 
as she finished this, * * that a pretty way to serve 
this is to put each cup on a small plate and lay 
a few fresh strawberry leaves by it.- 

** Sweet I** said Mildred, and Miss Betty be- 
gan the second receipt 

ICE-CREAM AND STRAWBERRIES 

1 quart of plain ice cream. 
1 quart of large strawberries. 
% cup of powdered sugar. 

Cut the berries in slices and lay them on a dish, and 
sprinkle the sugar over them. Take some tall glasses, put 
in a layer of ice cream, then a layer of berries; let the 
cream be on top, and put two or three whole berries on top 
of all. Or, if you can get little wild strawberries, use those 
whole both in the layers and on top. 

*' Those are both just perfect,'^ sighed Mil- 
dred. ^'Now haven't you one more receipt, 
dear Miss Betty? Three is a lucky number, you 
know. ' ' 

Miss Betty thought a moment. ''Well, here 
is something I think is just delicious, and it 's 
so easy that Brownie could make it alone— or 
even Jack! There is no turning of the freezer 



104 THE FUN OF COOKING 

at all, only the ice to be broken. But it must 
be made in good season, for it has to stand 
awhile, as you will see. And when you turn it 
out you can put a row of lovely big straw- 
berries aU around it and sprinkle them with 
sugar. ' ' 

PAEFAIT 

1 cup of sugar. 
1 pint of cream. 
1 cup of water. 
Whites of 3 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Put the sugar and water on the stove and boil gently 
three minutes without stirring. lift a little of the syrup 
on the spoon and see if a tiny thread drops from the edge ; 
if it doesy it is done; if not, cook a moment longer. Then 
let this stand on the edge of the stove while you beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiff and slowly pour the syrup 
into them, beating all the time. While you are doing this, 
have somebody else beat the cream stiff; when the eggs 
and syrup are beaten cold, fold the cream into them, add 
the flavoring, and put in a mold with a tight cover. Put 
this in a pail, cover deeply with ice and salt as before, and 
let it stand Ave hours. 

**You see how easy that is,'' said Miss Betty. 
' * That 's all the receipts to-day. But, Mildred, 
if you and Jack, and Brownie will all come to 
luncheon next Saturday, I '11 have something 
else made out of strawberries for you. ' ' 



MILDEED^S SCHOOL PARTY 105 

**0h, Miss Betty 1^* cried Mildred, raptur- 
ously, **we *11 come — ^indeed we will!'' 

**Very well; and teU Jack he can have three 
helpings of everything I ^ ^ 



CHAPTEE Vn 



STRAWBBBBY TIME 



EARLY in the morning of the next Saturday- 
came a note from Miss Betty, which said : 

Dear Mildred and Dear Brownie: 

Just to think that I forgot to tell you I wanted you both 
to help me cook the luncheon for our party! Do come 
over at about eleven, and bring your aprons. And please 
tell Jack that if he wants to come and help too, I'll find 
him something perfectly proper for a boy to do. 

Your Loving Betty. 

* * Oh, goody ! ' * exclaimed Brownie, as she read 
the note over Mildred ^s shoulder. **The very 
best fun of parties is getting ready for them, 
and I know Miss Betty will have something nice 
for us to do. * ^ 

**What do you suppose Miss Betty wants me 
to do r ^ asked Jack, curiously. * * I just believe 
it *s a joke, and she really means to get me to 
make cake, or some other kind of giri^s cook- 
ing. I don^t believe I *11 go till lunch-time. ' ' 

106 



STEAWBEERY TIME 107 

**0h, it *s an invitation!^' said Brownie, much 
shocked. **You have to go! And it's Miss 
Betty, too!'' 

Jack laughed. **Well, all right," he said. 
**Miss Betty is such fun that perhaps I won't 
mind. ' ' 

^'Take your clean apron, Jack," said Mildred, 
teasingly. 

* ' Pshaw ! ' ' sniffed Jack, with a lordly air. 

Miss Betty's house was just across the lawn; 
when they reached it, she met them at the door 
and told the girls to go right in and get their 
aprons on. **Now, Jack," she said, dimpling, 
* * I 'm afraid I 've brought you over under false 
pretenses, for I really don't want you to cook at 
all. I only hope you won't be too disappointed'! 
But the weeding man who takes care of the gar- 
den has not come to-day, and I want some straw- 
berries. Would you mind picking some for 
me?" 

Jack's sober face lighted. ** Why, I 'd love to 
do it! That 's what I call a man's work. Miss 
Betty. How many do you want!" 

* * Well, I want two kinds ; first about a quart 
of ordinary ones, and the rest the very biggest 
in the garden; here are two baskets for them, 
and you may pick in one as you go along, and in 



108 THE FUN OF COOKING 

the other lay the big berries on the freshest, 
prettiest strawberry leaves you can find. I 
want eight berries apiece for us — ^let me see — 
eight times four — '* but Jack was off before she 
finished. 

* * Now, girls, ' ^ Miss Betty said, as she tied on 
her own apron, *'we will go right out to the 
kitchen and begin. But first. Brownie, can you 
lay the table for us T ' 

* * Cer-tain-ly I can,'* said Brownie, proudly. 
**You can just tell me what you are going to 
have to eat, and show me where you keep things, 
and I can do it all alone. ' ' 

So Miss Betty gave her a pretty square lunch - 
cloth to put oomerwise on the round table, and 
showed her where she kept the napkins and sil- 
ver and china. * * We are going to have creamed 
chicken, and iced cocoa, and salad, and straw- 
berry shortcakes,*' she said. 

**Hot plates for the chicken,'* murmured 
Brownie, counting out four, * * and cold plates for 
salad ; tall glasses for cocoa ; hot or cold plates 
for shortcake. Miss Betty?" 

* * Just warm, I think. I '11 help you carry all 
these out to the kitchen so they will be ready 
when we want them. And are you sure you do 
not want me to help you put on the silver I" 



STEAWBEERY TIME 109 

But Brownie shook her head, and went on talk- 
ing to herself as she arranged the forks : 

* ' Never use knives except to cut up meat with ; 
so forks for creamed chicken, and forks for 
salad, both on the right, because everybody is 
right-handed; and the chicken fork farthest 
away, because that comes first, and the salad 
fork next the plate, because that comes after. 
Shall I put on a fork or a spoon for the short- 
cake! '^ 

' ' We shall need both, but I think we will lay 
those right on the plates when we put them on 
the table. Here are the finger-bowls; we will 
put them on these small, pretty plates with a lit- 
tle doily under each bowl; and to-day we will 
stand them at the top of the place, not directly in 
front. ^' 

'* Mother always puts the fruit plate and 
finger-bowl right down in the middle of the 
front,** said Brownie, doubtfully; **not at the 
top.** 

'^That is the way when you are going to eat 
an orange or peach on the plate; but you will 
see by and by why it is different to-day. Now 
I know Mildred wants me in the kitchen, so 
I *11 leave you to finish the tfible all by your- 
self.** 



110 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

As soon as Miss Betty appeared, Mildred 
asked, **Now what first f and pushed up her 
sleeves. 

''First we must start the salad. I really 
ought to have done that long ago, but I waited 
for you. It is much better when it stands. * * 

She brought in three large tomatoes and 
washed them and cut out the stems. Then she 
put them into a saucepan and poured boiling 
water over them, and, after they had watched a 
moment, they saw the skin all around the edge 
of the stem-hole begin to curl up; then they 
poured off the water, and Miss Betty put a fork 
into one and with a small sharp knife quickly 
pulled off all the skin; then she gave the fork to 
Mildred, and let her finish the others and put 
them away on the ice while she washed the let- 
tuce and rolled it up in a towel and put that on 
ice, too, to make it get crisp. Then she read her 
this rule : 

PLAIN TOMATO SALAD 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, and put them on ice for an 
hour. Wash the lettuce after separating, roll in a towel, 
and put on ice also. When it is time to use the salad, 
slice the tomatoes and arrange with the lettuce on plates or 
in a bowl. Make the usual French dressing, and put it in 
a cream bottle; just before using, shake this veiy hard and 
pour pver at once. 



STRAWBERRY TIME 111 

^^You know how to make French dressing, 
don't yon, Mildred!'' 

**0h, yes, indeed I I learned that long ago, 
when I was putting up luncheons for Jack. But 
I never put it in a bottle — ^I just mixed it in a 
bowl." 

' ' My dear, I 've only just learned to put it in 
a bottle! You will be surprised to find how 
much better it is for a hard shaking, such as you 
cannot give it in a bowl. It is thick, and so well 
mixed that it is twice as good. I found that out 
myself the other day. 

**And here is a special receipt for you, 
Brownie," continued Miss Betty, as Brownie 
came into the kitchen; **such a cunning little 
one I" 

YELLOW TOMATO SALAD (BROWNIE'S) 

Scald and peel little yellow tomatoes; chill, and lay on let- 
tuce leaves; add French dressing just before serving, Or 
mix the yellow tomatoes with little bits of red ones. 

'*0h, that must be lovely!" said Brownie. 
* *I 'm going to copy that in my book, and put my 
name after it, as my very own salad I ' ' 

**Now what next!" asked Mildred, as she set 
away the French dressing in the cream bottle. 

** Delicious little strawberry shortcakes; do 
jou remember your rule for biscuits!" 



112 THE FUN OF COOKING 

* * Indeed I do ! I Ve made those so often I 
never even look in my cook-book. ' ^ 

** Well, then, you may make a panful of those ; 
only remember to roll the dough out very thin — 
not thicker than half an inch ; and do not let the 
biscuits touch each other in the pan. Now, 
Brownie, here is a platter of cold roast chicken, 
left from dinner last night, for you to pick off 
the bones and cut up in little, even pieces about 
the size of the end of your thumb. Use the 
white meat first, because that looks best 
creamed, and if there is not enough, then use 
some of the dark. Here is the rule : 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

1 large cup of thick white sauce. 

2 cups of cold chicken in small pieces. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 

% teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 shake of pepper. 

Make the usual white sauce, but use two tablespoonfuls 
of flour to one of butter, so it will be thick (see your rule). 
When it is done, add the seasoning and then the chicken; 
keep very hot, but do not let it boil again. 

''You can serve this on squares of buttered 
toast, or just as it is in little dishes, or on one 
round platter. ' ' 

Mildred's biscuits were all ready to go into 



'"Here Comes Jack with the BerrteB, just in Timei' 



^ 



STRAWBERRY TIME 115 

the oven by this time, and Miss Betty said they 
were lovely, but told her to put a bit of butter 
on top of each one, so they would be brown. 
* * Now copy off your rule, ' * she added. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKES 

Make the usual rule for biscuits, but divide it, unless you 
wish a good many. Butter the top of each biscuit; when 
baked, gently separate them into two layers. Put a little 
butter on each half. Crush some ripe strawberries and 
sweeten them; arrange the lower halves of the biscuits on 
a dish, or put one on each plate; cover with the berries, 
put on the tops, sift sugar over them, and add two or three 
berries to each. Pass cream with them. 

**If some day you want to make one large 
shortcake, Mildred, all you have to do is to make 
one very large biscuit, and split it open just as 
you have done these small ones. * ' 

** Shall we make the cocoa now?" Mildred 
asked, as she finished writing her receipt. 

* * My dear, that had to be very, very cold for 
luncheon, so Ellen made it right after breakfast, 
and put it on ice; but it does n't matter, because 
you know how to make that. However, as we 
can't put any ice in it — that makes it horrid 
and watery — ^you may put a piece of ice in each 
of these tall glasses to chill them, and that will 
help make the cocoa cold ; we will take it out at 



116 THE FUN OF COOKING 

the last moment and put the cocoa in. Here 
comes Jack with the berries, just in time I * ^ 

Jack had two baskets of them, one of the big- 
gest, loveliest ones, all laid on pretty strawberry- 
leaves. Those Miss Betty washed and dried 
and put on the ice at once, with the leaves ; the 
smaller ones she gave to Brownie to hull after 
washing. Then she read this receipt aloud : 

STRAWBERRIES FOR A FIRST COURSE 

Wash, dry, and chill the berries, but do not hull them. 
Put a little paper doily on a small, pretty plate and ar- 
range the berries on the leaves around the edge in a circle, 
the points toward the center; in the middle put a little heap 
of sifted, powdered sugar. To eat them, take them by the 
hulls and dip in the sugar. 

*' There!'* she said, as she and Mildred fin- 
ished arranging them, ^* don't they look pretty! 
I think for breakfast or luncheon they are de- 
licious this way. Now you see, Brownie, why 
the finger-bowls had to go at the top of the plate ; 
these small plates go right before you on the 
table, and when Ellen takes them off, she can 
take off the others, too. Aren't the biscuits 
done yet, Mildred?" 

Mildred ran to look — she had forgotten all 
about them, but luckily they were exactly right, 
a beautiful brown. So she took them out of the 



STRAWBERRY TIME 117 

pan and carefully opened them at the side, using 
a knife at first, and then tearing them gently 
apart so they would not be heavy. When 
Brownie finished the berries, Mildred crushed 
them a little and sweetened them, but did not put 
them on the biscuits ; Miss Betty said that must 
be done only just before serving, or the crust 
would be soaked with the juice. So she helped 
fill the glasses with water, and put on the bread 
and butter and cocoa, while Miss Betty and 
Brownie arranged the salad on plates and put 
the hot chicken in little dishes, each with a bit of 
parsley on top. Then they all sat down and ate 
up the luncheon, and nobody could say which 
was the best thing, the beautiful berries, or the 
lovely hot chicken, or the ice-cold cocoa, or the 
salad, or the shortcakes— it was all so good. 

When they had finished, Mildred said there 
was only one fault to find with the lunch — ^that 
they had strawberries only twice. 

* * That ^s exactly the way I feel ! ' ' nodded 
Miss Betty. **In strawberry time, I want to 
have them in the place of meat and potatoes 
and bread, and everything else, and at least at 
all three meals a day, and between times, tool 
Now would you like some more strawberry re- 
ceipts for your cook-book!'* 



118 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

* * Yes, indeed ! ' * said Mildred, running to get a 
pencil. Then Miss Betty gave her these : 

STRAWBERRY CAKE 

1 small cup of sugar. 
% cup of butter. 

1 cup of cold water. 

2 cups of flour. 

3 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Put the baking-powder in the flour and mix well. Rub 
the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the egg without 
separating, and add this; add a little water, then a little 
of the flour, and so on till all is in. Bake in two shallow 
tins. When done, and just before serving, put a layer of 
crushed, sweetened berries between the two layers and cover 
the top with whipped cream dotted with whole berries. Or 
cover with powdered sugar and whole berries and pass 
plain cream. 

*'This rule makes perfectly delicious rasp- 
berry or peach shortcake, too. Try it as soon 
as raspberries come, Mildred, for you will love 
it. Now just one more rule, and this is espe- 
cially for Brownie. * * 

STRAWBERRY RUSSE 

Oet a dozen ladyflngers, split them in halves, and cut 
each one in two. Arrange these around the edge of small 
glasses ; flll the centers with berries cut in halves and sweet- 
ened, and cover with whipped cream; put one berry on 
top of each. 



STRAWBERRY TIME 119 

'*0h, Miss Betty give me one more, please!/* 
begged Brownie. ^*I love special ones, just for 
me/' 

** Very well; here is one of the cunningest ones 
you ever saw." 

BOX SHORTCAKES 

Get from the baker's some small, oblong sponge-cakes; 
with a sharp knife mark all around the top edge, and then 
take out the middle part, leaving small, empty boxes. Fill 
these heaping full of sliced berries, or, if you can get them, 
small field berries, and cover the tops with powdered sugar; 
pass a pitcher of cream. 

^ ' Of course you can make little cakes at home 
for these instead of buying them at the baker's, 
but really, for this particular receipt, the bought 
ones are better. Hark I Isn't that your 
mother calling?" 

It was, so they called Jack, who was reading 
*'Kim" in the library, and all went home. 



CHAPTER Vni 

IN CAMP 

<<T 'VE a nice long vacation ahead of me,'* 
JL announced Father Blair at breakfast one 
hot summer morning, **and I Ve set my heart 
an going to Maine on a camping trip. I don't 
want any guide to take care of me, yet I do need 
some one who will help me cook. I had thought 
of asking you to go. Jack, but as *boys don't 
cook ' — of course — ' ' 

*'0h, but they do camp cooking I *' Jack ex- 
claimed enthusiastically ; * * all sorts of things — 
bacon, and fried eggs, and corn-bread — *' 

**But, you see, you can't make any of those, 
and my digestion being delicate, I don't feel that 
I can be experimented upon," said his father, 
with a twinkle in his eye. * * Now if only you had 
taken lessons all these months as the girls have, 
I might consider taking you. ' ' 

^ ' I '11 learn right off, honestly I will ! I 'U be- 
gin this very day. And I can make cheese 
dreams, and — ^and boil eggs, now." 

120 



IN CAMP 121 

**How long do you boil them, Jack!*' 

* * Till they *re done ! ' * said Jack, trium- 
phantly. 

Father Blair went off laughing, and said he 
was afraid he wouldn't be able to stand his 
son's cooking. 

Jack spent a nervous day. Would his father 
really take him to Maine, to the camp in the 
woods he had always heard about, where his 
father and his men friends went nearly every 
year? Or would he be left at home merely be- 
cause he did not know how to cook? At last he 
consulted his mother. 

**I think Father will surely take you," she 
said comfortingly; **and he is just pretending 
about the cooking ; he can do all kinds of camp 
cookery beautifully, and up there he will teach 
you himself how to make things. ' ' 

So, sure enough, in just a week. Jack and his 
father were off for the woods of Maine, to a 
lake where the fishing was wonderful. They 
had a little log-cabin to sleep in, with a lean-to 
for their stores and cooking things, and there 
was a circle of stones, all blackened from other 
fires, where they could cook out of doors. The 
trees ran right down to the water's edge, and it 
was so still, and cool, and lovely that, if they 



122 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

had not been so hungry they conld have sat and 
looked out at the lake for hours. As it was, as 
soon as they were settled and the guide had 
paddled off, they decided to have supper at 
once. 

The first thing was to make a fire, and Jack 
brought an armful of twigs and began to lay 
them in the stone fireplace. 

**No, that 's not the way," said his father. 
* ' There are several kinds of camp-fires, and the 
one we want to-night is the quick one. You 
must get two green sticks, about three feet long, 
with crotches at the top, and stick them well into 
the ground so they will cross at the top; then 
you can fill the kettle with water and hang it up, 
two feet from the fire, and under it you arrange 
loosely some very dry small twigs; have some 
larger ones at hand to put on as they bum up ; 
that makes a hot, quick fire ; some campers call 
it a * wigwam* fire, because they build it up in 
that pointed shape. To-night, however, the first 
thing to do is to start the coffee ; this is the way 
to make it : 

CAMP COFFEE 

1 pint of cold water. 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls of ground 
coffee. 



The First Supper in Camp 



IN CAMP 125 

As soon as the water bubbles, and before it really boils, 
take the kettle off and let it stand for ten minutes where 
it is hot. Pour a tablespoonful of cold water down the 
spout to settle it." 

While the coffee was making, they cut a large 
slice of ham from the whole one they had 
brought with them, and after the frying-pan was 
heated on the coals, they put this in it to cook. 
Then Jack got out four eggs to have them ready, 
while Father Blair gave him this simple rule : 

HAM AND EGGS 

Cut off the rind; when the pan is hot, put the meat in; 
turn often; season with pepper. Take up, put on a hot 
dish, and cover; break the eggs into the hot fat, and when 
they are set, turn each one carefully over and brown it. 

'*You cook bacon exactly in this way, too; 
only you must be careful not to cook it too long ; 
you take it up when it is still transparent and 
before it turns to dry chips. Now, if you will 
get out the cups and sugar and condensed 
milk, and the bread and butter, supper will be 
ready. ' ^ 

They slept that night rolled up in their 
blankets in the bunks built on the cabin walls, 
and woke very early to hear the birds singing at 
the top of their little lungs. When they had 
had a dip in the lake and the fire was burning 



126 THE FUN OF COOKING 

brightly and the kettle was on, Jack said he 
wanted more ham and eggs for breakfast. 

**Not.a bit of it!'^ said his father. ^*We are 
too far from civilization to have eggs every 
day ; remember, the guide will not be back for a 
week with any more, and we must be saving of 
these. This morning we wiU have bacon — ^lots 
of it — and corn-cakes; by dinner-time, if we 
have any sort of luck, we shall have some fish to 
fry.^* 

As they had two frying-pans. Jack used the 
smaller one on one side of the fire for the bacon, 
while his father, after mixing the cakes, baked 
them in the larger one. As the strips of bacon 
grew a little brown and curly. Jack took them 
up one by one and kept them hot till the cakes 
and coffee were ready too. 

* * Pour out all the bacon fat from the pan and 
save it,'* said his father, as Jack finished the 
last piece. * ' It 's the best thing in the world to 
cook with in camp, for it flavors everything just 
as you want it. We '11 need all we can get of it. 
And here 's your receipt for the cakes. ' ' 

CORN-CAKES 

% pint of com-meal. 
y^ pint of flour. 
1 rounded teaspoonf ul of baking-powder. 



IN CAMP 127 

1 rounded teasp'oonful of sugar. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix all together, and then gently add cold water and stir 
till you have a thick batter. Have ready a hot frying-pan, 
well greased, and put the batter in in spoonfuls; they will 
run together as they bake, but you can cut tlhem. apart; 

turn them over and brown on the under side. 

« 

After breakfast they heated some water and 
washed up all the dishes, made their beds, and 
picked everything up around the cabin. Jack 
hated to waste time doing this, he was in such a 
hurry to go fishing, but his father would not 
leave till it was all done. ** Campers often let 
things go,'' he said, **and soon the whole place 
is full of empty tin cans, and half -burned sticks, 
and all sorts of rubbish, and it 's a horrid place 
to live in. You '11 find it pays to keep every- 
thing about a camp in decent shape. But now 
we will get off. ' ' 

The lake was full of bass, and long before 
noon they had several fine ones, enough for two 
meals. **Some day soon we will go into the 
deep woods and fish for trout," said Father 
Blair. **This is too easy; trout-fishing is the 
real sport for us. ' ' 

Then Jack had his first lesson in scaling and 
cleaning a fish, and found it no joke; however, 



128 THE FUN OF COOKING 

after a time it went more easily, and then his 
father left him, to make a new kind of fire. 

* * This is what I call a lasting fire, ' * he said. 
** The quick kind we made first goes out too soon 
to leave a bed of coals which we need to bake 
with. This is the way I do : I make a little pile 
of twigs just as before, but close up to a rock ; 
then I stand several large sticks up in front and 
lean them back so they rest on the rock — so; 
then, as they burn, they fall down into the twig- 
fire and make coals. By adding wood from time 
to time I could keep this for hours. Now for 
my oven!'* 

He dug a hole about eight inches deep and a 
foot long right under the edge of the fire, and 
was soon able to fill it with hot coals. **When 
that is hot, say in ten minutes, I shall take the 
coals out and put my potatoes in. ' ' 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash potatoes of even size; put them in the oven under 
the fire, cover with ashes, and put coals on top ; new pota- 
toes will cook in half an hour, old ones in forty minutes. 

*'Now how is your fish getting on? Luckily 
you don't have to scale all our fish; some you 
can skin, and some, like trout, you simply clean 
and cook just as they are. This is the way you 
do a good-sized fish : 



IN CAMP 129 

BEOILED FISH 

Scale or skin, clean, and wipe dry. Spread open the 
broiler and rub the wires with bacon rind or pork; cut the 
head oft and split the fish open down the back, and lay it 
in; hold the broiler over the coals and turn it often; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper." 

It was only a moment before the fish began to 
sizzle deliciously, and by the time it was done, 
the potatoes were done too, and white as snow 
after their black coats had been taken off. To- 
gether they made a wonderful meal, and there 
was enough fish left for supper. 

WARMED-OVER FISH 

1 pint of fish. 

1 pint of hot mashed potato. 

1 beaten egg. 

Salt and pepper. 

Use any kind of cooked fish, removing the skin and bones. 
Mix the ingredients, make into little cakes, and fry brown 
in a little hot fat. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Choose those which are the same size, so they will all be 
done at once. Peel them, dropping each one in cold water 
till all are done, and then* put them in a pot of boiling, 
salted water, and cook gently half an hour. When soft, 
pour off the water, stand the pot, uncovered, close to the 
fire, and let them get dry. Eat them with salt and butter 
as they are, or mash them in the kettle, adding the same 
seasoning. 



130 THE FXJN OF COOKING 

Jack cooked these, and mixed the cakes and 
got them all ready to brown. **What else are 
we going to have, Father Blair! '^ he asked anx- 
iously. **I don't think these will be half 
enough. ' ' 

*^I think I feel just like pancakes,'' said his 
father, throwing down the book he had been 
reading. ''I hope there 's plenty of that pre- 
pared flour, Jack. I think I shall want about 
six cakes ; how many will you need?" 

Jack said he thought he could manage with 
eight, if they were pretty good-sized. 

PANCAKES 

Take two cups of prepared flour and mix with water (or 
use half water and half condensed milk) until it makes a 
batter like thick cream. Have ready a hot, greased frying- 
pan; pour in the batter from a small pitcher. 

* * Sometimes I have these instead of bread to 
eat with meat, and then we have gravy on them. 
Then sometimes we have maple-syrup, and call 
them dessert. ' ' 

** Syrup for mel'^ said Jack, struggling to 
turn his fish-cakes without breaking them. 
^*But I did n't know you were so much of a cook. 
Father. '^ 

* * Jack, while we are eating, I '11 tell you a true 
story, one of the dark secrets of my eventful 



IN CAMP 131 

life; that will explain to you why I believe a 
man should know how to cook. ' ' 

So when the pancakes were finished and Jack 
had time to listen, his father told him the story 
of how, when they were first married, the Blairs 
had taken a trip across the prairie, and had 
camped a long way from a town; how Mother 
Blair had been taken ill and could not do the 
cooking, and poor Father Blair had to do every- 
thing for her and himself too, and did not know 
how to cook an egg, or make a cup of tea, or a 
bit of toast ; and. what a time it was I * * I tell 
you. Jack, after that was over, I went to work 
and learned how to do a few things ; and now, as 
you say," he added complacently, **I 'm quite a 
cook. And the sooner you learn to cook, the 
better, for some day you *11 need to know how ; 
all men do. ' ' 

* * S 'pose so, ' ' Jack murmured thoughtfully. 

The next day was perfect for trout-fishing, so 
they started early with some lunch, and went 
back into the deep woods where there was a 
brown stream all full of little rocks and hollows, 
and there Jack took his first lesson in fly-fishing, 
and at night he was the proudest of boys when 
they looked at their basket of speckled beauties, 
four of which he had caught. It was great 



132 THE FUN OF COOKING 

fun to cook them too, when they got back to 
camp. 

SMALL FISH, BROILED 

Clean the fish; put them on a green sticky passing it 
through their gills; put a slice of bacon or salt pork be- 
tween each two fish ; have a hot bed of coals; and hold them 
over this till done, turning often. 

Several of the larger ones they strung on a 
string and put away in a dark, cool place among 
the rocks, and kept them till the next day, when 
they cooked them in a different way, and had 

PANNED FISH 

Clean the fish; cut off the heads and break the spines, to 
keep them from curling as they cook. Put three slices of 
bacon or pork into a frying-pan, and, when this is done, 
take it out and put in the fish; cook quickly and turn often. 

One day a rain-storm came on, so they could 
not go fishing, but had to stay in and play games 
and read and write letters. At noon, they went 
to a sheltered corner of the rocks and made a 
quick fire, where the rain could not reach it, and 
cooked their dinner ; they had 

CORNED-BEEF HASH 

1 can of corned beef. 

1 onion. 

2 large cups of cold boiled potato. 
Pepper and dry mustard. 



Jack Gets Breakfast 



IN CAMP 135 

Cook the onion, after slicing it fine, in a little fat. Chop 
the potatoes and beef and add these, with the seasoning; 
when the under side is brown, turn it like an omelet. 

For supper they had to go to their stores 
again ; this time they had 

STEAMED SALMON 

Turn the salmon into a dish ; take out the bones and fat, 
and pour away the juice; season with salt and pepper; put 
in a covered can and stand in a kettle of boiling water till 
very hot. 

* ^ We '11 have fried potatoes with the salmon, 
Jack. Can you make those all alone?'' 

^^Yes, indeed!" said Jack, who by this time 
could do a great many things. 

FRIED POTATOES 

Slice cooked or raw potatoes; heat a frying-pan, put in 
enough fat to cover the bottom when melted, and cook the 
potatoes till brown ; scrape them up from the bottom often, 
so they will not bum. 

The potatoes and salmon made a very good 
supper, but Jack was not sorry to hear that, 
when the iguide made his weekly visit the next 
day, he would bring eggs and milk and vege- 
tables. 

**And I 'm going to send for a little light 
sheet-iron stove made especially for campers," 



136 THE FUN OF COOKING 

said Mr. Blair. *'Then we '11 have real corn- 
bread, and baked fish, and biscuits. Don't you 
want to learn to make biscuits like Mildred's, 
Jack?" 

Jack grew red all through his tan as he looked 
at his father's teasing face. 

**Well," he said doubtfully, **I suppose bis- 
cuits are all right, and I '11 leam to make them 
if you say so. But, Father, you won't want me 
ever to make cake or desserts, will you ? I draw 
the line there ! ' ' 

* * We '11 see ! ' ' laughed his father. * * Perhaps 
you '11 change your mind about that, some day. ' ' 



CHAPTER IX 

IN CAMP (continued) 

THESE was a wait of a week before the 
camp stove could arrive, and during that 
time, Jack took lessons in all sorts of cooking, 
and learned to make a number of good things ; 
and this was fortunate, for one day two friends 
of his father surprised them ; they were on their 
way to a camp farther in the woods, and wanted 
to stay a night and a day with the Blairs before 
going on. This meant that there were four 
people to cook for instead of two, and it needed 
all the experience Jack had to do his share of 
the work. 

The visitors did not come until supper was 
done, and everything was eaten up ; not even a 
bit of fish was left over. So the Blairs had to 
go to their stores and find something they could 
get ready quickly, and something very hearty as 
well. 

** These fellows are as hungry as hunters/' 

137 



138 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mr. Blair said, while the men were washing up 
in the lake and getting ready for supper. 
* * Here 's some tinned meat ; let ^s have that, 
with potatoes in it/ * 
**But potatoes take so long to cook — '' 
*'Not the way I ^m going to cook them; only 
ten minutes. You can peel four and slice them 
very thin, and put them in cold water, and then 
peel and slice an onion while I open the meat 
and boil the kettle for coffee. Then I '11 show 
you how to make a 

TEN-MINUTE STEW 
4 potatoes, sliced very thin. 
1 onion, sliced thin. 

1 can of tinned meat (not corned beef). 
Salt and pepper. 

1 rounded tablespoonful of flour. 
1 large cup of cold water. 

Put the potatoes on to cook in a saucepan of boiling 
salted water. Then put the onion in a hot frying-pan with 
a tablespoonful of pork or bacon fat, and fry brown. Put 
the flour in the cold water and stir till it is smooth, and 
mix this with the onion and stir it up; when the potatoes 
are done, drain them and add next, and then put in the 
sliced meat and heat; do not boil." 

By the time this was done, the coffee was 
ready too, and the nice hot stew was served with 
large cups of the coffee and plenty of bread and 
butter. With a second cup of coffee and 



9 Perfect for Fishing 



IN CAMP 141 

crackers and cheese, their guests had made an 
excellent supper. 

The next morning, Jack got up extra early, 
because he knew everybody would be anxious to 
go fishing. So he soon had the kettle boiling 
and the breakfast started, and cooked it all by 
himself while the men dressed. The principal 
dish was 

FRIED SALT PORK 

Slice thin and put in a frying-pan with enough warm 
water to cover; stir it around till the water begins to sim- 
mer, and turn this all off and drain the pork. Then fry 
till crisp. Put this in a hot dish near the fire while you 
make the gravy. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

2 cups of boiling water. 
A little pepper. 

Put the flour in the grease in the frying-pan, and rub 
till smooth and brown; add the water slowly, stirring all 
the time, and then the pepper; when smooth and a little 
thick, pour over the fried pork. 

With this he had pancakes, plenty of them, 
which were delicious with the pork gravy, and 
on these, with plenty of co£fee, the men said they 
could get along very comfortably till dinner- 
time. 

For dinner they had some of the fish they 
caught, broiled, with boiled potatoes; and, for 



142 THE FUN OP COOKING 

dessert^ com-cakes and maple-syrup. For sup- 
per Jack took the fish left from dimier and made 

FISH-BALLS 

1 pint of cooked fish, picked up smalL 
1 quart of hot mashed p'otato. 
1 tablespoonfol of butter. 
A little pepper. 

Beat all together till veiy light, and make into bails the 
size of an egg. Have ready a pail of very hot fat, and 
drop in two balls at a time and cook till light brown ; take 
them out, keep hot, and put in two more, and so on. 

After this, he had something which had taken 
a long time to make, but he did not mind it. 

FRIED COEN-MEAL MUSH 

1 rounded tablespoonful of salt. 
1 quart of yellow corn-meal. 
4 quarts of water. 

Bring the water to a hard boil in a kettle over the fire; 
mix the meal with enough cold water to make a thick batter 
(this is to avoid lumps). Drop spoonfuls of the meal into 
the water gradually, so it does not stop boiling; when all 
is in, stir steadily for ten minutes. Then put a cover on 
the pot and hang it high over the fire so it will cook slowly 
for one hour; stir occasionally so it will not bum; then 
pack tightly in a pan and let it get perfectly cold and firm. 
(The best plan is to let it stand all night if you can.) 
When you wish to use it, slice it, and fry in very hot grease 
in the frying-pan tiU brown. 

The next day the men left, after saying they 



IN CAMP 143 

had had a fine visit and had never had such 
good things to eat in camp. Then Jack and his 
father had a quiet time till the guide appeared 
once more, his boat full of stores and his pockets 
crammed with newspapers and letters; and in 
the end of his boat he had a small sheet-iron 
stove. That they quickly set up under the edge 
of the lean-to where, if it rained, it would not 
get wet and rusty. 

** And now, Jack,'' said his father, rubbing his 
hands, * *you shall taste my baked beans. I may 
say without boasting that they will be the very 
best you ever ate in your life. Women may be 
able to cook ordinary food, but it takes a man to 
cook beans — and I 'm the man ! ' ' 

Jack laughed, and said he wanted to learn how 
so he could beat his father making them, and he 
watched carefully everything that was done. 

BAKED BEANS 

Pick over a pint of beans and throw away aU that are 
shriveled and poor. Wash the rest and put them in cold 
water to cover them, and let them stand all night. The 
next day, put the beans in fresh water and gently cook them 
half an hour, skimming them occasionally. 

In another kettle, put a piece of salt pork as large as a 
man's fbt; cover it with water and let it cook till the beans 
are done. Then drain the water off both, and cut the pork 
in two pieces; slice each piece part way down, leaving the 



144 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

lower portion solid. Put one piece in the bottom of an 
earthen dish, and pile the beans around and over it, and 
put the other piece on top. Mix 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 
y^ teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. 
% teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

Pour this all over the beans and cover the pan; put in 
the oven, and bake at least two hours; uncover and brown 
during* the last twenty minutes. If the beans get very dry, 
pour on half a c^p of boiling water when they are half 
done. 

**Aha!'* said Father Blair, as he put the pan 
in the oven when they were ready to bake. 
* * Those will be simply fine. Now we could have 
made them by putting them in a kettle over the 
fire and baking them so, or we could have buried 
the kettle in a hole in the ashes; but they are 
really better done in an oven if one happens to 
have one. And, anyway, I needed a stove to 
bake biscuit in, so that *s why I got one. I think 
we will make some for supper, too, and put them 
in when the beans come out. The name of the 
one big biscuit I 'm going to make to-night is 

CAMPER'S BREAD 

1% pints of flour. 

1% rounded teaspoonf uls of baking-powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 



IN CAMP 147 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls of any kind of 

fat (lard is best). 
^ pint of cold water. 

Put the baking-powder and salt in the flour; mix well 
and then rub in the lard till there are no lumps left and it 
does not stick to the pan; add the water^ a little at a time, 
and stir with the spoon till smooth. Grease a pan and put 
the dough in in rather a thin layer; smooth the top and 
bake, till, when you put in a sliver of wood, it comes out 
clean. Eat while warm; do not cut, but break into 
pieces. 

^ ' Now I could have cooked this just as I could 
have cooked the beans, without the oven. I 
could have put it in the frying-pan in a bed of 
hot ashes and covered it and put ashes on top 
and let it cook till done; but it *s better to cook 
it this way if you can, because it *s lighter and 
browner. When you want regular biscuits, all 
you do is to make the dough into little balls, 
and be sure you put flour on your hands before 
you try it, Jack, or you *11 get into an awful 
mess. And then you put them in the pan and 
just bake them till they are done. ' * 

*'I like the big loaf,*' said Jack. *'It *s more 
like real camp cooking; biscuits are for a 
house.'* 

''And now we are going to have something 
extra good to-day — ^green corn on the cob. I 



148 THE FUN OF COOKING 

tell you that 's a luxury for campers ! How will 
you have it, boijed or roasted T' 

**Both/^ said Jack, who liked com immensely. 

**Very well, but one way at a time, young 
man ! We will have it boiled this noon, and we 
will roast it over the coals to-night. ' ' 

BOILED COKN 

Have a deep kettle full of water boiling hard; take off 
the huskB and silk, and boil the ears hard for twenty min- 
utes; serve with butter and salt. 

* ' Some campers boil the com in the husk and 
think it is better that way, but I find I always 
bum my fingers taking off the leaves and silk, so 
I believe in peeling it as we do at home,** said 
Jack's father, as he put the ears in the kettle 
slowly, so as not to stop the boiling of the water. 
^ ^ Now for supper, this is the way to fix it : 

ROAST CORN 

Take off the husks and silk. Put a stick in the end of 
the ear, and toast it brown over a bed of coals; have ready 
butter and salt to put on each." 

The baked beans proved all their cook prom- 
ised they should be, and almost the best thing 
about them was that they were just as good cold 
as hot, and so saved cooking things sometimes 
when they were in a hurry. 



IN CAMP 149 

One day, they caught a perfectly huge fish, too 
large to broil well, and then their little stove 
proved a treasure, for the oven would just hold 
a baking pan ; they cooked it in this way : 

BAKED PISH 

Clean and scale the fish, but do not take off the head or 
tail. Slice an onion fine, and fry brown in two tablespoon- 
fuls of fat; add to this a cnp of fine, diy bread crumbs and 
a little salt and pep^per, and stir till brown. Wipe dry the 
inside of the fish, and put this stuffing in; wind a string 
around the outside to hold it firmly in place. Put in a pan 
with four slices of salt pork or bacon, and lay three or four 
more on the top of the fish; shake a little fiour, salt, and 
pepper over alL Bake in a hot oven till the skin begins 
to break open a little; every fifteen minutes open the oven 
door and baste the fish; that is, pour a spoonful of juice 
from the pan over the fish; if there is not enough, pour 
a small cup of boiling water into the pan. 

With this they had 

BOILED ONIONS 

Peel onions of about the same size, and drop them in a 
kettle of boiling, salted water; when they have cooked half 
an hour, throw this water away and put them in fresh boil- 
ing water. This will prevent their being too strong. Cook 
for one hour altogether. Put melted butter, pepper, and 
salt over them. 

Before they could possibly think it was tune to 
go home, their vacation was over. 

For dinner, the last night, Father Blair made 
something very good indeed : 



150 THE FUN OF COOKING 

CAMP PUDDING 

% pound of dried prunes. 

8 slices of bread, cut thin and buttered. 
% cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Wash the prunes and cover them with cold water, and 
let them stand all night. In the morning, put them on the 
fire in this water, and cook slowly till they are very soft; 
then take out the stones. line a dish with the bread, cut 
in pieces, with a layer on the bottom; put on a spoonful 
of prunes and juice, then a layer of bread, and so on till 
the dish is full, with bread on top ; sprinkle with sugar and 
bits of butter and bake brown. 

' * My, but we 've had a good time I ' ' said Jack, 
thoughtfully rubbing the end of his sunburned 
nose as he watched the shores of the lake fade 
away the next day. **I never supposed it was 
such fun to camp. And I Ve become quite a 
cook; now haven't I, Father Blair f 

* * I should say you had. Too bad your mother 
and the girls can't know about it. But they will 
never know!" and his father smiled mischie- 
vously. 

'* Well, perhaps some day I '11 cook something 
for them," said Jack, sheepishly. ^*I don't 
mind knowing how to cook as much as I thought 
I should, now that I know men cook. I guess 
I 'U surprise them some day, Father!" 



CHAPTEE X 



JAMS AND JELLY 



NOEAH was preserving peaches. The frag- 
rant odor filled the house one day, and 
Mildred sniffed it delightedly. **Dear me! I 
wish I could make preserves, '' she sighed. 
**Norah's always look so lovely in their jars, and 
they taste so good, too. I wonder if she would 
let me help her f 

But no, Norah would not. Peaches, she ex- 
plained, must be done up very carefully, and no- 
body could do them up unless they knew just 
how. 

**But, Norah, if you canH begin till you know 
how, how does anybody ever learn I And I want 
to do them so much! Just see how beautiful 
yours are, ' ^ and Mildred looked longingly at the 
row of jars on the kitchen table full of yellow 
peaches in a syrup like golden sunshine. * * Oh, 
Norah ! * ' she murmured pathetically. 

But Norah was firm. Miss Mildred could n't 
do up peaches ; she was too young ; and, anyway, 
she could n't be bothered teaching h^r. So Mil- 

151 



152 THE FUN OF COOKING 

dred sighed and gave it up. But when she told 
her mother about it, Mother Blair laughed. 

^*You want to begin at the top,*' she said. 
**Norah is quite right in saying that peaches are 
not easy to put up — that is, not the very best, 
most beautiful peaches, and nobody wants any 
other kind. But why not make something else 
to begin with, jams and jellies and other good 
things? And by the time you know all about 
those, you will find that peaches will be perfectly 
easy for you. * * 

Mildred brightened up. **Now that 's what I 
call a good idea, one of your very best, Mother 
Blair. Can't I make something right away to- 
day?'' 

* * Just as soon as Norah is all through with her 
preserving, if she does n't mind, you may. And 
perhaps she has something all ready for you to 
begin on. Eun and ask her if you may have the 
parts of the peaches she did not want to use. ' ' 

That puzzled Mildred, and as she hurried to 
the kitchen she thought about it. 

** Norah, Mother says you are not going to use 
all the parts of the peaches, and perhaps I may 
have what you don't want But what are they t 
Because if they are just the skins and stones, I 
don't want them either." 



JAMS AND JELLY 153 

Norah was just fastening on the last top on 
her jars of preserves, and she looked very good- 
natured. 

^ * Sure, I Ve got lots left I * * she said, and 
showed Mildred a large covered bowl filled with 
bits of peach pulp. 

**I won't put any bruised peaches in pre- 
serves, * ' she explained, * * so I just cut up peaches 
with soft spots and put 'em in here ; and when 
I 'm done, I make a shortcake out of 'em. If 
I 've got enough, sometimes I make 'em into—" 

**JamI" interrupted Mildred. **0f course I 
delicious peach jam that I love. Oh, Norah, do 
let me make some ; don't use any of those peach 
bits for shortcake^ — ^let 's have something else 
for lunch. ' ' 

**Well," said Norah, **I guess you can have 
'em. ' ' So Mildred ran for her apron and a re- 
ceipt, which, when she read it over, proved, 
strangely enough, to be a rule for making not 
only peach but all sorts of jams. 

JAM 

Prepare your fruit nicely; strawberries must be washed 
and hulled, peaches pared and cut up, raspberries looked 
over for poor ones. When they are ready, measure 

1 large cup of fruit to 

1 small cup of sugar. 



r 



A 



154 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Mash the fruit and put it in a kettle in layers with the 
sugar, and press and stir it till it is all wet and juicy. 
Then gently boil it, stirring constantly from the bottom up, 
so the fruit will not bum. Mash with a wooden potato 
masher till all is smooth. When it has cooked nearly an 
hour, try a little on a cold saucer and see if it gets firm. 
When it does, it is done. Some jams take longer to cook 
than others, because some fruits are more juicy. 

This sounded very easy indeed, and Mildred 
began to mash and measure at once, and soon 
the jam was over the fire. But it took a long 
time to cook. Norah brought a dishpan full of 
jelly-glasses and put them in the sink, and Mil- 
dred washed these and dried them and arranged 
them on two trays, all ready for the jam; but 
every moment or two she stirred the jam well. 
By and by, after more than an hour, the peaches 
looked transparent, and then Norah said they 
were done ; and, sure enough, when she hurriedly 
put some on a saucer and stood this on the 
ice in the refrigerator to get it cold quickly, 
it grew a little stiff and the edges were like 

jelly. 

Mildred carefully lifted the hot saucepan from 
the fire and began to dip out the jam with a cup 
and put it in the glasses; when she finished, 
there were eight of them, all filled with clear 
golden-pinky-brownish jam, beautiful to look at, 



( 




JAMS AND JELLY 157 

and, oh, so good to taste ! Mildred ran for her 
mother and Brownie to look at it. **I wish 
Father and Jack were here,'' she sighed, **and 
Miss Betty, too. I am so proud, I want every- 
body to see it. ' ' 

**It really is lovely,'' said her mother. **I 
never saw any that was nicer. Next winter we 
will eat it on hot buttered toast, and put it in 
layer cake, and have it ready for school sand- 
wiches. ' ' 

* * But only eight little, little glasses, ' ' mourned 
Mildred. **Why didn't I make eight dozen of 
them?" 

**Well, eight dozen is a good many," laughed 
her mother. ** Perhaps — ^just perhaps, you 
know, you might find you got tired even of peach 
jam before you had eaten all those up. But the 
beauty of making jams in fruit time is that you 
can make a few glasses of it any time you want 
to. Peaches are just in season now, and we 
have them nearly every day, so you can put up 
more at any time. ' ' 

**0f course I" said Mildred, delightedly. *'I 
never thought of that. I '11 make the rest of my 
eight dozen yet. Mother Blair; I 'm sure it won't 
be a bit too much. ' ' 

**Why not make some other things that are 



158 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

just as good! Grapes are in season too, and 
plums, and pears — ** 

**I *11 make them all! I '11 make every single 
kind of jam that there isl'* 

**You can make jelly too, and compotes, and 
spiced things ; I *11 be so glad to have you learn, 
and they are all as easy as can be. ' ' 

* * But, Mother, what can / make t * ^ Brownie 
looked very sober. * * Is Mildred going to make 
everything all alone? I like to make things, 
too.'' 

*'0f course you do, and you shall certainly 
help ; jams are so easy anybody in the world can 
make them. ' ' 

''Even Jack?" laughed Mildred. 

' ' Yes, even Jack, if he wanted to. Why don't 
you and Brownie together make some nice grape 
jam to-morrow?" 

The girls said they would love to ; then their 
mother had them write down a special receipt, 
because grape jam is the one kind that is differ- 
ent from every other. 

GRAPE JAM 

Wash the grapes; take them off the stems one by one as 
though you meant to eat them, but press them between 
your fingers and put the skins in one dish and the pulp in 
another. When you have finished, heat the pulp and stir 



JAMS AND JELLY 159 

it till you can see that the seeds have come out; then put 
the pulp through the colander. Add this to the skins, 
measure^ and follow your regular rule. 

This seemed like a queer receipt; grape skins 
in jam I It sounded rather horrid. But they 
made it, anyway, and when they had finished, 
though it was a clear, reddish black, it was 
really delicious. 

It happened that the grapes grew in their own 
garden, and so many of them were ripe that, 
when they had used up quite a large basketful, 
there were plenty left. Norah had been plan- 
ning to use them in jelly, but she said she could 
wait a day longer for that, and the girls might 
have them if they wanted to, and she would show 
them how to make something very good indeed 
and very easy. This was 

SPICED FRUIT 

3 pints of fruit, all prepared. 
1% small cups of vinegar. 
1% pints of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonf ul of powdered cloves. 

Boil till thick; about an hour and a half. 
In making spiced grapes, prepare them exactly as for 
jam, and use pulp and skins. 

Their mother did not know they were making 



160 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

this new kind of preserve, and she was delighted 
when she was shown all the little glasses of 
it 

**A11 spiced fruits are especially nice with 
meat,*' she said, *^and with this rule you can 
spice almost any kind of fruit ; pears, or peaches, 
or apples, or plums — *' 

**0r strawberries, or pineapple, or raspber- 
ries, * * said Brownie. 

* * Oh, no ! I ought to have said any kind of 
autumn fruit — ^that is a good way to remember 
which ones to use. And, Mildred, Norah di- 
vided this rule for you, to make it easier, but 
when I put up spiced fruit, I take twice as much 
of everything. ' ' 

^^What a pity I *m so stupid about arith- 
metic I'' sighed Mildred. ** Think of having to 
take twice one and three quarter pints of sugar, 
and twice one and a half cups of vinegar I I '11 
never get them right. ' ' 

* * Mildred, you remind me of a story some one 
told me the other day, about a girl who had just 
come home from college; it 's a true story too, 
and the girl lives right in this town. She 
thought she would like to learn to cook, so she 
found a rule for cake in the cook-book and read 
it to herself; it began something like this: 



JAMS AND JELLY 161 

Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, and so on. Pres- 
ently her mother went into the kitchen and found 
on the table three cups, all filled with flour, two 
more cups fiilled with sugar, one cup of milk, an- 
other cup of raisins, three teaspoons in a row, 
all filled with baking-powder, and so on. Think 
of thatr' 

*'I s'pose they didn't teach multiplying in 
that college,'' said Brownie, sympathetically. 

Mildred and her mother laughed. **Well, I 
suppose I 'U just have to learn to do fractions 
in my head 1 ' ' said Mildred. 

** There is n't any other way, if you are going 
to be a good cook," her mother replied. **You 
can't guess at things, or you will spoil them ; you 
have to measure exactly. Now that you have 
finished these grapes, I '11 give you some more 
receipts, if you want theuL ' ' 

The girls hastened to bring out their pretty 
red-covered books. **Just see. Mother Blair," 
said Mildred, turning over the leaves, **how 
many pages are filled up — ^with such good things, 
tool" And she gave a sigh of such complete 
satisfaction, that her mother laughed. Then 
they settled themselves at the table to write the 
new receipts. 



162 THE FUN OF COOKING 

APPLE CONSEEVB 

4 pints of apples, measured after they are 

peeled and cut up in bits. 
4 pints of sugar. 
2 lemons, juice and grated peeL 
2 large pieces of preserved ginger (the kind 

that comes in little pots). 

Mix all together and cook till thick; about an hour and 
a half. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

2% pints of washed and chopped cranberries. 
2% pints of sugar. 

2 large oranges. 

1 pint (or package) seeded raisins^ chopped a 
little; after washing. 

Cut the oranges in halves and take out the pulp with a 
spoon; then scrape the skins well till they are clean and 
not very much of the white lining is left; chop the rest. 
Mix all together and cook till thick. 

** These two conserves are so very nice that 
we do not put them on the table and eat them up 
any day in the week, but save them for Sunday 
night supper and other tunes like that/* said 
Mother Blair ; * * and sometimes they can go into 
sandwiches for afternoon tea. Now would you 
like just a very easy jelly ! Here is a nice one. ' ' 

APPLE JELLY 

Wash twenty red apples that are not very sweet; cut 
them up in small pieces without peeling them or taking 



JAMS AND JELLY 163 

out the cores. Put them in a kettle and just cover th^n 
with water; cook slowly till it is all like soft apple-sauce. 
Then put it in a bag — a flour sack is the best — ^tie up the 
top, and hang the bag up over night with a large bowl 
underneath to catch the juice. In the morning measure 
this. Mix 

1 pint of juice. 

1 small pint of sugar. 

Put on the fire and boil gently twenty minutes, skimming 
it occasionally; lift off the saucepan and drop into the 
jelly one large lemon, cut up in quarters, squeezing them 
a little; then put a small wire strainer over each jelly- 
glass in turn and pour the jelly into each from a cup. 

*' There! When yon can make that kind of 
jelly, yon will almost have learned how to make 
any other kind. And this is lovely, so pink and 
delicate, and it always gets jnst firm enough and 
not too stiff to be nice. Now, Mildred, you may 
try this to-morrow if you like, and, if it ^s per- 
fect, you shall have a prize. * * 

The next day the jam was firm on top, and 
Norah said it ought to be covered and put away 
at once or it would get too hard. 

**How shall I cover it. Mother!' * Mildred 
asked anxiously. ** Paste on papers or some- 
thing?'' 

**0h, no, indeed! nobody does that way any 
more. Ask Norah if she has any paraffin left 
over. ' ' 



164 THE FUN OF COOKING 

« 

But no, she had used every bit she had to 
cover her grape jelly ; so Brownie had to go to 
the drug-store and get ten cents' worth. It 
came in a large cake, so clear and white it looked 
good enough to eat, but it was n% as the little 
girl found out by tasting. It was just like 
candles, and only mice like to eat candles. 
Norah said she would show the girls how to 
cover jams and jellies and spiced things, and 
everything you put in jelly-glasses. 

**You take this little saucepan that I keep on 
purpose for paraffin, *' she said, **and put the 
whole cake in it after you cut it in two, and melt 
it ; only be careful and don't let it splash on my 
clean stove and make it greasy. And while it is 
melting you can wipe off the jam glasses with a 
warm, wet dish-cloth and make them all clean 
and dry. * ' 

While Brownie was washing off the glasses 
Mildred cut some little slips of paper and 
printed on these the names for the different 
things they had made; peach on some, and 
SPICED GBAPES ou others, and geape jam or 
APPLE JELLY OU the rest. Then she got the 
pot of paste from the library ; by this time the 
paraffin was melted and all ready to use. Norah 
showed them how to pour a little on top of each 



J Proud, I want Everybody ti 



JAMS AND JELLY 167 

glass, right on the jam, and then tip the glasses 
a little so it would run up the sides toward the 
top. Li a moment it hardened, and was ready 
for the tin covers to go on so the mice could not 
get at it, and then they pasted the labels on, and 
it was done. 

Norah helped carry the trays to the preserve 
closet and put them away in rows, being very 
careful not to tip them and slide the paraffin up 
the sides of the glasses. Then they stood and 
looked at them, and, oh, how proud the girls 
felt I 

**I *11 make some more to-morrow, '* said Mil- 
dred, * * and some more after that, and some more 
after that, and some more after that I'' 



CHAPTEB XI 



A Hallowe'en suppbb 



^'TTALLOWE'EN next week. Wish we 
XJL could do something nice,'' Jack said to 
Mildred as they put away their hooks one night 
at hed-time. 

* * So do L I 'm tired of school already, and 
here it is only October! Of course, I don't 
mean that I 'm dreadfully tired of it, you know, 
only just a little bit tired. I think, if we could 
have something very nice indeed to do, I could 
get on till the Christmas vacation— or at least 
till Thanksgiving without making any great 
fuss." 

Jack laughed. He knew that Mildred, like 
himself, was always ready to have a good time. 

**Let 's have a Hallowe'en party," he sug- 
gested. **Not a sheet and pillow-case party, 
either; we 've had those till I can't even think of 
one without wanting to scream." 

**And not one where you bob for apples 
and walk around the house backward. I 've 

166 



A HALLOWE^EN SUPPER 169 

done both those till I never want to do them 
again. I mean some new kind of a party. ' ' 

But they could not think of anything new that 
seemed exactly what they wanted; so the next 
day they went in to see Miss Betty after school 
and asked her about it. 

*^Why, a chafing-dish party, of course, *' she 
said. * * That 's exactly the thing to have. You 
make a lot of indigestible things to eat and 
then you go to sleep and dream of ghosts" and 
goblins, and hear shivery noises and groans and 
such things — ^just what you want, on Hallow- 
e^enl I can think of a lot of awfully good 
things to have, things warranted to give you 
nightmares. * ' 

Jack said that suited him exactly, but Mildred 
was not so sure. 

** Don't you think we might have two or three 
different kinds of things,'* she suggested doubt- 
fully. *^Some of them, for the boys, might be 
pretty bad ; and some others for the girls a lot 
better. I don 't want to dream of ghosts ! ' ' 

Miss Betty was willing to do this, but Jack ob- 
jected. * * Be a sport, Mildred I ' ' he said. * * Ee- 
member it 's Hallowe'en.'' 

**Well, we '11 see," she said at last. ** Per- 
haps I '11 eat a few dreadful things just to see 



170 THE FUN OF COOKJNG 

what will happen. Now what can we have? I 
can't use a chafing dish at alL ' ' 

"Jack can,'' Miss Betty said, laughing. 
Jack's cooking never ceased to be a joke. 

^*If I never cooked in one in my life, except 
cheese dreams, at the Dwights'," Jack assured 
her. 

**A chafing dish and a frying-pan are just 
the same sort of thing, and you know you 
learned all about frying-pans in the summer, 
so now, of course, you must show what you 
can do. I '11 give you the receipts and tell 
you just how to make the things, but yon 
must use a chafing-dish; if you won't — ^then, of 
course, I won't be able to help with the party 
at all." 

So Jack reluctantly promised to do his part. 
* * Probably I 'U spoil things and make a mess, ' ' 
he grumbled. 

But Miss Betty refused to let him off. **0f 
course you can cook in a chafing dish," she as- 
sured him. **A11 men can, especially those who 
can do camp cooking, and you know you 're an 
expert there. Jack ! Now let 's see what we can 
have. ' ' 

**Do let 's have oysters for one thing; they are 
just in season now, ' ' begged Mildred. 



6 A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 171 

«ta' <*0f course — ^they are just the thing; suppose 

we have pigs in blankets, and Jack shall make 
iMjfc them, for they are easy and oh, so good ! And, 

li Mildred, you shall have a chafing dish, too, and 

fe,(9f make something else ; and we can make things to 

m go with them, so there will be plenty of supper 

for everybody. How many are you going to 
mf have!'' 

Of J! * * Oh, we have n 't thought about it yet, and we 

I0K must talk it over with Mother and see what she 

gj 18 thinks ; but I know she will love the party, he- 

ld le cause she always does. ' ' 

J jg And so, sure enough, their mother did love the 

^i plan. A chafing-dish supper was such a bright 

jjjf idea; she said, and so like Miss Betty. 

They decided to ask only eight guests, four 
^ boys and four girls. In case the food did not 

jji' turn out to be what they hoped, it was better not 

to have too many to eat it. Jack thought. 
d Hallowe'en obligingly came on a Saturday, 

just as though it knew how convenient that day 
would be for everybody. Mildred and Brownie 
and Miss Betty and Mother Blair and Norah all 
helped in getting things ready, laying the table, 
filling the alcohol lamps of the two chafing- 
dishes, — one borrowed from Miss Betty, — and 
preparing the good things for the supper. They 



15- 

to 
I 
D 



172 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

decided to have first, the dish of oysters made 
by Jack at one end of the table, and some eggs 
to go with them, made by Mildred at the other. 
With these were to be some potatoes — a new 
kind Mildred had never heard of — and Brownie 
thought she could make these and send them in 
nice and hot ; she was going to make cocoa, too, 
to go with the other hot dishes, and she and Mil- 
dred together were going to make sandwiches in 
the afternoon. And after these. Miss Betty 
said, there was to be something perfectly won- 
derful — something so good and so new. 

* ' Oh, what f ' ' they all begged. 

Miss Betty's eyes rolled up to the ceiling, and 
she shook her pretty head. *'Wait and see,'* 
she said solemnly. **I '11 bring in the things 
this afternoon and we will all make it together. ' ' 
And they had to be content with this promise. 

The table was laid just as they had it at break- 
fast and luncheon and Sunday night supper, 
with pretty doilies, one for each person and sev- 
eral over for chafing-dishes and piles of plates 
and sandwiches. In the middle was a big bowl 
of bright colored autumn leaves mixed with 
chrysanthemums ; and at each place was a dainty 
card with a picture of a witch riding a broom- 
stick, and the name of the boy or girl who was to 



jii 



aiKf 



a, tot 
di 

Bel 



her. 



ppeTi 



A HALLOWE^EN SUPPER 173 

sit there. The table looked very pretty when it 
was all finished, with the glasses and silver and 
small napkins. Brownie did it almost all alone ; 
she loved to get ready for company. 

Then they got out their receipt books and be- 
gan to pnt down the different things they were 
to make for supper. Even Jack, smiling sheep- 
ishly, consented to write down the chafing-dish 
rules. They might come in handy when he went 
to college, he said. 



# PIGS IN BLANKETS 

20 very large oysters. 
20 slices of thin bacon. 
J A shake or two of pepper. 

''^ Wrap each oyster in one slice of bacon after you have 

56^ cut off the rind, and pin it with a tiny wooden toothpick. 

^ Heat the chafing dish very hot by putting the upper pan, 

!t the one with the handle, directly over the flame. Lay in 

four or five oysters and cook them till the bacon crisps and 
^' the edges of the oysters curl; then take them up and put 

feak* into a hot covered dish while you cook more. Have ready 

some strips of toast and put the oysters on two or three of 
these on hot plates. Shake a little pepper over them, but 
^^^ no salt, as the bacon will salt them enough. If too much 

]0 juice comes out in cooking, pour it off and so keep the pan 
bo^ dry. 

^ The oysters were all made np into ** pigs'' in 

^^ the afternoon, and put in the refrigerator ; they 
^^^ looked so fnnny when they were done — ^just like 



174 THE FUN OF COOKENa 

tiny pigSy all asleep. Bat as Jack thought 
twenty oysters for ten people were not enough, 
they made fifty. Then Mildred was given her 
rule: 

SPANISH EGGS 

Mix in the chafing dish. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 
y^ cup of gravy or strong soup. 
1 onion, chopped fine. 
% cupful of thick tomato (canned). 
1 green pepper, without the seeds, chopped 
fine. 
Cook this fifteen minutes, stirring so it will not bum; 
then put into it: 

6 eggs, beaten a little without separating. 
1 teaspoonf 111 of salt. 
If, in cooking the y^;etables, they get dry, put in a little 
more butter and tomato. 

Miss Betty said if Mildred would stir this 
often she did not need to use the hot-water pan 
of the chafing-dish. * * It takes so much longer to 
cook with it that I never use it if I can help it,'' 
she explained. **And now for the potatoes, 
Brownie. ' ' 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Wash and peel six large potatoes, and slice them thin. 
Butter a baking dish and put in a layer; sprinkle with salt 
and just a little pepper and dot with very little bits of 



A HALLOWE^EN SUPPER 175 

^j' butter. When the dish is full pour over it a cupful of 
milk and sift fine crumbs over the top, and add some more 
' ^^^ bits of butter. Bake for three quarters of an hour. 

B(lf£f 

Like the oysters this dish was made ready in 
the afternoon, all but putting on the milk and 
J crumbs. 

* * You don 't need a receipt for cocoa, do you T * 
Miss Betty stopped to ask, 

* * No, indeed ; we can make that with our eyes 
shut,'' laughed Mildred. 

^ * * Then we will go on to the sandwiches. Here 

are two kinds which are very good with oysters, 

»i* and perhaps they may possibly give you ghost- 
dreams ; I hope they will ! ' ' 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Seald and peel some tomatoes and put them on ice till 

firm; then slice very thin indeed, and take out all the soft 

^l part and seeds; sprinkle with a little salt. Slice some 

^j0\ white hread thin and butter it; lay a slice of tomato on a 

slice of bread and on top put a very thin slice of cheese — 

just a scraping of it; add the other slice of bread, press i 

T together and cut into attractive shape. \ 



)0 



**I just happened to see the remains of that 
cold boiled ham you evidently had left over from 
yesterday, sitting in the refrigerator and look- 
it ing lonely, so I planned these, which are much 
^ better than the common kind : 



176 THE FUN OF COOKING 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES 

Put some cold cooked ham through the meat chopper till 
smooth; add a very little diy mustard, a tiny pinch of 
black pepper and a very tiny one of red pepper. To a 
small cupful of the meat add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and press into a cup; when cold spread this on but- 
tered bread." 

**My, those sound good,'' mummred J suck to 
himself, **and they sound like Hallowe'en, too." 

**So they do," laughed Mother Blair, begin- 
ning to slice the bread and spread it. **Let 's 
make them now and put them on ice, all rolled up 
in a wet napkin. ' ' 

She and Brownie went to work, but Mildred 
said she was not quite ready yet. * * I want an- 
other chafing-dish rule," she said. *'Two are 
not enough, and they are all we have for our 
books. ' ' 

* * Well, just one or two more, and then I must 
fly," said Miss Betty; **you see I have to get the 
things for my own special receipt for the party. 
Here is a good one : 

PANNED OYSTERS, CREAMED 

Take four oysters for each person. Make some slices of 
toast, butter them and cut them into rounds just the size 
to fit into the bottom of little brown baking dishes, or any 
small individual dishes which can go to the table. Put the 



A HALLOWE'EN SUPPER 177 

oysters on these with a shake of salt and pepper for each 
and a bit of batter the size of the tip of your little finger. 
Put the dishes into the oven for ten minutes, or till the 
oysters curl at the edges; then take them out and put two 
teaspoonfuls of hot, thick, sweet cream on each, and a bit 
of parsley; stand each dish on a plate and send to the 
table. 

**I know you will like that; now here is an- 
other : 

CREAMED EGGS 

Take one egg for each person; put the lower pan over 
the flame and fill with hot water from the tea-kettle; put 
in the eggs and boil for ten minutes with the cover of the 
pan on. Take them out, peel them and wrap them in a 
napkin to keep them hot. Set away the lower pan, and in 
the upper one put: 

1 tablespoonful of butter; melt this and add 
1 tablespoonful of flour and rub together un- 
til smooth. Add 
y^ pint of cream or very rich milk, and stir 

till thick; add 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
1 pinch of cayenne. 
% teaspoonful paprika. 

Drop the eggs in and turn them over once or twice till 
they are very hot; serve each one on a round of buttered 
toast on a hot plate. 

*'Now that is positively all I can stop to give 
you now; I must begin on my own dish,'* said 
Miss Betty, putting on her hat. **But I *11 be 
back again in just two minutes. ' ' 



178 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

When she came she was carrying a huge pine- 
apple, the largest the children had ever seen, 
and in a bag three large oranges and three 
bananas. **Now,'^ she exclaimed as she put 
them on the kitchen table, **you shall see me 
make something very nice. ' ' This was the way 
she made it : 

STUFFED PINEAPPLE 

Qet a large pineapple and cut off the brush at the top, 
but leave a little slice of the fruit on it, so it will stand. 
3coop out the inside of the pineapple (and when you find 
a bit of the hard core do not put it with the rest but throw 
it away) ; cut the pieces all up into small dice. Cut the 
oranges in halves and take out the pulp with a spoon and 
mix with the pineapple; cut up the bananas and add these 
too. Then sweeten with powdered sugar. Set this away 
in a cold place. In serving it, fill the pineapple and put 
the brush on again and stand the fruit on a round dish with 
some heavy, stiff green leaves around it. The one who is 
served first is passed the plate; she takes off the brush and 
lays it by the side of the pineap*ple, and with a ladle dips 
out some of the inside on her dessert plate^ 

It took quite a time to prepare this, but they 
all liked to do it, and enjoyed the surprise it was 
going to be when it was first passed. Mother 
Blair said she did so hope she might take off 
the pineapple's cover, and when they came to 
think of it, as she was always served first, of 
course she would I 



A HALLOWE^EN SUPPEE 179 

Well, the Hallowe'en supper was a perfect 
success. Jack, though nervous, proved that his 
camping lessons were not wasted, and Mildred's 
chafing-dish was as easy to manage as could be. 
But the next day when they all talked it over, not 
one of the family and not one of the guests had 
had a single ghost-dream after all I 



CHAPTER Xn 

WHEN MOTHEB BLAIB WAS 8ICK 

ONE day Mother Blair woke up with a very 
sore throaty and the doctor said, when he 
had looked at it, that she mast stay in bed for a 
day or two, and that Brownie had better go visit- 
ing. 

**But where can I go, school and all!^' the lit- 
tle girl asked Mildred very soberly after the 
doctor had gone. **If I lose my goggerfy 
lessons now I won't be the top of the class, 
and I thought I was sure to be ; and when I 'm 
the very top of all, you know Father gives me a 
dollar/' 

** Perhaps Miss Betty would like to have you 
visit her,*' Mildred said; '* would n't that be 
fun I You could come in every single day and 
see how things are going with us, and we could 
wave at you out of the window — ^Mother could, I 
mean, — and it would be just lovely. I '11 run 
over and ask her if you may come." 

Miss Betty said she would be perfectly de- 

180 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIE WAS SICK 181 

lighted to have a visit from Brownie, and Mother 
Blair said in a very oroaky voice that it was a 
bright idea. So that very morning Brownie 
packed a bag and Jack carried it over for her, 
and she went visiting, 

Mildred found she could be excused from 
school for a day or two, so she became nurse; 
and Norah said she guessed she could run the 
house alone after all the years she 'd been learn- 
ing how; so everything was just as smooth as 
could be. 

When her mother's room was made all tidy 
and she had settled down to take a nap, Mildred 
ran across to Miss Betty's house to ask her what 
to give her mother to eat. 

**The doctor said soft things, because her 
poor throat is so sore. What do you think I 'd 
better give her for lunch. Miss Betty ! ' ' 

*' Invalids have to have nourishing things, 
Mildred, strong soups and eggs and cereals with 
cream, and custards. Suppose you plan to have 
a cream soup for to-day and start a meat soup 
for to-morrow; it takes two days to make that 
kind, you know. And — ^let me see — ^with cream 
soup you might have an eggy I think, and per- 
haps junket; that is the very softest thing in 
the world. Then by night perhaps she can have 



182 THE FUN OF COOKING 

cream toast; that is perfectly delicious; if my 
throat feels sore toward night, Mildred, will 
you please make enough for two! I just love 
it/' 

Mildred laughed and promised that she would. 

**And soft boiled custard in a pretty glass 
cup ; and tea, I suppose. By to-morrow she will 
be so much better that I think she can have ever 
so many other things. Shall I write out the re- 
ceipts for you now t Here is a good one for the 
soup« 

CEEAM SOUP 

(This makes one eupfoL) 

% cup milk. 
% tablespoonful butter. 
Yz tablespoonful flour. 
y^ teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 shake pepper. 

1 tiny slice of onion. 

y^ cup of any hot cooked v^etable; measure 
after thoroughly mashing it. 

Scald the milk with the omaa in it; then take out the 
onion and slowly mix the milk and vegetable. Melt the 
butter, rub the flour into it and stir till it is smooth; then 
pour gradually on the hot milk; add the seasoning, bring 
it to the point where it almost boils, strain it and put it 
into a hot cup. 

* * This is one of the rules you have to learn by 
heart, Mildred. It is very easy, you see, ahnost 



WHEN MOTHEE BLAIB WAS SICK 183 

like a very thin white sauce with vegetable in 
it. Ton can use mashed potato, or peas, or com 
or celery or carrots, or whatever you happen to 
have in the house to make it with, and if you 
multiply it four times you will have enough for a 
dinner soup/' 

*^ Multiply two-thirds by four — *' Mildred be- 
gan. 

** Never mind now, my dear I It makes my 
head go round to hear you. Copy this in- 
stead : 

CHICKEN BROTH 

3% pounds of chieken. 

3 pints cold water. 

2 tablespoonf uls rice. 
V/z teaspoonfals salt. 

1 shake of pepper. 

Have the chicken cleaned and eat up at the market. Take 
off the skin and fat and wipe each piece with a wet cloth. 
Put it into a kettle with the cold water and let it slowly 
get hot until it almost boils. (You can tell by looking at 
the edge of the kettle; when tiny bubbles begin to form it 
is nearly boiling.) Then skim it carefully; let it cook 
slowly till the meat is very tender; try it with a fork. 
Add tiie salt and pepper when it is about half done. Strain 
it, and set it away to grow perfectly cold; then there will 
be a layer of fat on top; take this off, add the rice and 
put it back on the stove and gently cook it tiU the rice is 
done. Or, if you have any cooked rice, add a tablespoonful 
to the soup while it is very hot. Serve in a heated cup. 



184 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

* * Then Mildred, yon see yon will have all the 
chicken meat left ; yon can take ont a bit of the 
best white meat and pnt it away for creamed 
chicken for yonr mother's Innch the next day, 
and have the rest on toast for the family dinner. 
Norah can make a little cream gravy to take the 
place of the broth yon have ponred off, and it 
will be ever so nice/' 

**So it will; Father jnst loves that kind of 
chicken. Now the jnnket, Miss Betty." 

JUNKET CUSTARD 

% cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 
y^ junket tablet (buy at the gro- 
ceiy in a little package). 

1 teaspoonful cold water. 
% teaspoonful vanilla. 

Small pinch of salt. 

Heat the milk till it is just as warm as the tip of your 
finger; add the sugar, salt and vanilla* Stir the junket 
tablet Iq the cold water till it melts, and add this. Pour 
it all very quickly into small molds or glasses and set in 
a cold place at once. When ready to serve, turn out of 
the mold, or serve in the glass with a little sugar and 
cream. If you wish to make this in a hurry, use Half a 
tablet of the junket instead of a quarter. 

**You can change the flavoring of this, Mil- 
dred, when yon get tired of vanilla. Try al- 
mond sometimes; or, melt half a chocolate 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIE WAS SICK 185 

square and mix with the hot milk ; or put in the 
vanilla and serve scraped maple sugar with it, 
with thick cream; they are all good. Now for 
the egg; can you poach that, do you think f 

**I suppose I can, really. Miss Betty, because 
I Ve seen Norah poach eggs about a hundred 
times ; but I think I 'd like a rule for my 
book/^ 

* * Good idea. Here is one, then : 

POACHED EGGS 

Put the frying pan on the fire half full of hot water; 
add half a teaspoonf ul of salt. Batter the inside of a tin 
mufOn ring and put this in the pan. Break a fresh egg 
carefully into a saucer and slip it into the ring; the water 
should cover the egg. Put a cover on the pan and set it 
on the back of the stove and let it stand till the white of 
the egg is like firm jelly. 

While it is cooking make a slice of nice toast; cut it into 
a circle, butter it and lay it on a hot plate. When the egg 
is done take a cake turner, butter its edge and slip it under 
the muf&n ring and egg together and hold it over the pan 
till the water dripls away; then take off the ring, slip the 
egg carefully on the round of toast, add just a sprinkle of 
salt and one of pepper, and a bit of parsley. Cover the 
plate till you serve it, to keep it hot. 

**Now, Mildred, I think you had better run 
home and get out the things for your tray, and 
I '11 come over just before lunch and help you 
lay it prettily, if you want me to. See if you 



186 THE FUN OF COOKING 

can find a pretty^ thin cup for the soup, and a 
plate that looks well with it, and something per- 
fectly dear for the junket. And a little napkin, 
not a large one. I *11 bring a flower ; you know' 
you always have to have a flower for a sick- 
tray. ' ' 

**You do I'' Mildred's eyes were round. 
**What for, Miss Bettyf You don't eat a 
flower ! ' ' she giggled. 

**No, but you can't eat so well without it, if 
you are sick. Just wait tiU you are, and you 'U 
see. ' ' 

So Mildred went home and got out all the 
things she could think of for her mother's 
lunch and laid them on one end of the kitchen 
table. Then she tip-toed into the sick room, 
gave her mother her medicine and a cool drink 
of water, and turned her pillow over. After 
that she went out to begin the lunch. 

She found Norah had plenty of junket tablets, 
so first of all she followed the rule for that. 
It was very easy indeed, and in just a moment 
she poured half the junket into a little glass 
for her mother, and the other half into an egg 
cup-mold for Jack's lunck She put both of 
these right on ice so they would be firm, and 
used half the tablet instead of a quarter as her 



— - * — "^ 



WHEN MOTHER BLAHt WAS SICK 187 

mle suggested, to be perfectly certain the junket 
would be firm enough by noon. 

* * You must be sure not to let them stand one 
minute, Miss Mildred,'* said Norah as she 
watched her. **If you do, they '11 never set at 
all." 

*'Why not, Norah? Couldn't I just set the 
dish on the table for two minutes before I put 
it away!" 

Norah assured her that it was quite impossi- 
ble. ** Junket isn't like gelatine; it won't 
wait," she said. So Mildred hurried just as 
fast as she could. 

Next she made the soup ; she found a cup of 
spinach in the refrigerator, and used that ex- 
actly as the receipt said, and the soup was a 
lovely pale green color. She put this where it 
would keep hot, and then boiled the water to 
poach the egg. 

Before this bubbled Miss Betty came in with 
a pink geranium in her hand, and two green 
leaves. These she put in a very slender clear 
glass vase she found in the sitting-room, just 
large enough for them. Then she began to help 
Mildred with the tray. 

** First you cover it with a clean napkin or 
tray cloth ; that 's a nice napkin^ Norah, thank 



188 THE FUN OF COOKING 

you. Then you put on a glass of cold water, 
only half full so it will not spilL Then the plate 
for the soup cup; and the soup spoon at the 
side, with the fork for the egg, and the little 
folded napkin and a cunning little salt and pep- 
per. Next you get the egg and toast ready, 
put them on a hot plate — hot, Mildred, not just 
a little warm, — and cover it up with a hot cereal 
dish turned over it, unless you happen to have 
a covered china dish that comes on purpose. 
Stand this at the back of the tray. Get the 
little junket ready, too, and put the glass on a 
small plate; but you need not put this on the 
tray. Let your mother eat the hot things first, 
and take off the dishes and put the dessert on 
the tray all by itself. You can get it while she 
is eating, you know. Then, last of all, you put 
on the vase of flowers. There — doesn^t that 
look sweet? ^* 

Mildred said it certainly did ; then she began 
to poach the egg^ and Miss Betty went into 
Mother Blair *s room and put an extra pillow 
behind her shoulders and a scarf over her and 
opened the blinds. She drew a little table close 
beside the bed and laid a fresh white cover over 
it, and when the door opened and Mildred came 
in carefully carrying the white tray with the 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 189 . 

good things to eat on it and the pretty geran- 
iums, her mother was delighted. 

**0h, how good it looks,'* she exclaimed. 
* ' Mildred, did yon really make that soup f And 
poach that beautiful eggf And actually make 
that junket ? Well, I never did see anything so 
perfectly lovely. I 'm proud to have such a 
daughter !'* Then she ate everything, and de- 
clared her throat was almost well already. 
In spite of that, however, the doctor made 
I Mrs. Blair stay in bed several days, so that 

I Mildred learned to make quite a number of new 

{ dishes for sick people. For one breakfast she 

\ gave her cereal with cream and bits of dates; 

for one luncheon she had the chicken broth, and 
for one supper cream toast and baked custard ; 
j she had goldenrod eggs, too, when her mother's 

j throat was better, and baked apple. All of these 

things she wrote down in her book so she would 
J, not forget how to make any of them. 

k CEREAL WITH DATES 

^ 1 heaping tablespoonful oatmeal. 

i 1 cup of water. 

y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix, put in a double boiler and cook for one hour. 

Five minutes before taking this off the fire stir in 
t 4 dateS) washed and cut into small pieces. 

je Serve with cream. 



H 



190 THE FUN OF COOKING 

CREAM TOAST 

2 slices of nice brown, dry toast. 
% cup of cream. 
% teaspoonf ul butter. 
% teaspoonful flour. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

Rub the melted butter and flour; beat the cream till it 
scalds, or almost boils; mix together and pour slowly over 
one slice of the toast in a deep dish; then put on the sec-. 
ond slice and pour the rest of the cream over that. Serve 
very hot. 

GOLDENROD EGGS 

y2 tablespoonful butter. 
% tablespoonful flour. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
% cup hot milk. 

Rub the butter and flour, and add the milk and salt. 
Have ready 

1 hard boiled egg. (Boil ten 

minutes.) 
1 slice of toast. 

Cut the egg in half, take off the white part and chop it ; 
stir this into the white sauce. Cut the crust off the toast 
and pour over; then quickly rub the egg yolk through the 
sieve and sprinkle over all. Keep the sauce and toast hot 
in the oven until you put on the yolk; serve very hot in a 
covered dish. 

BAKED APPLE 

Peel and core a large sour apple Put in a deep* 
earthen dish, fill the center with sugar, and just cover the 
bottom of the dish with water. Bake in a hot oven till 



WHEN MOTHER BLAIR WAS SICK 191 

soft, basting every five minutes with the syrup in the bot- 
tom of the dish. (That is, with a spoon pour the juice 
over the apple.) Serve hot or cold, with cream. 

Mildred could already make baked custard, 
so she did not need a new rule for that. But 
soft-boiled custard she had to learn. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 cup of rich milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 
% teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the milk on the fire to heat; beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the sugar and beat again; stir this into the hot 
milk, add the salt and stir till the whole grows thick like 
cream. Then take it off at once; be careful not to let it 
boil at all or it will be spoiled. Let it get very cold; put 
it in a glass, beat half of the white of one egg and add this 
just before serving. Or, whip one spoonful of thick cream 
and put this on top of the custard. 

After Mildred had learned to make all these 
good things, she used to search her cook book 
for receipts for other things, and as her mother 
got better she made something new every day. 
By the time Mother Blair was perfectly well 
and strong again, she felt she had grown to be 
a real sick-cook. And the best thing of all was 
that the doctor said the reason her mother got 
well so fast was that she had had such nourish- 
ing and delicious things to eat ! 



CHAPTEE xnr 

A DOIiL-AND-LITTLE-GrRL PABTY 

MOTHER BLAIE had an old school friend 
coming out to spend the day, and she had 
written that she must bring her little five year 
old daughter with her. This wasn't a bit con- 
venient for the Blairs, because Miss Betty was 
to give a luncheon for the older people, and 
Mildred had planned to go to town for the day ; 
and, of course. Jack couldn't be bothered to 
help take care of a child. That, surely, was n't 
man's work, he declared. 

So Brownie saw that she must entertain the 
small Helen all by herself, and she sat down to 
think what she should do for her. 

* * Five years old, ' ' she said to herself. * * That 
means dolls, I guess. I 'm pretty old for dolls, 
but of course I could get Araminta down from 
the attic, only she 's packed up so cicely that 
I hate to disturb her. I wonder if five year 
olds play games? Mother Blair, do you think 
we could play in the attic with Helen's doll and 

192 



DOUi-AND-UTTLE-GIEL PAETY 193 

Araminta, if I get her out, or what can we do T ' 

** Helen has had a bad cough, dear, and I 'm 
afraid her mother would think that she must 
stay where there were no draughts. Why don't 
you have a little bit of a party for herf We 
could ask four other children about her age — '* 

**0h, Mother, / know! I'll have a dolls' 
party, and cook cunning things in tiny little 
dishes just big enough for dolls to eat. That 
would be perfectly lovely, and I know Mildred 
would help me make some of them the day be- 
fore. ' ' 

**That would really be ever so much fun,'' 
Mother Blair said. * * Eun and ask Norah if she 
has any very little tins and molds that you can 
use, and I '11 look up some receipts for you. 
Brownie, that dolls ' party is what I call a really 
bright idea." 

Norah was not at all busy just then so she 
got a kitchen chair and hunted on the top shelf 
in the tin closet and found several things for 
Brownie. One was a little tumbler of heavy 
glass, half the size of a small jelly glass; it' 
had been used in traveling one summer when 
the Blairs were younger. Then there were six 
muflSn tins fastened together like a pan which 
were never used because they made muflSns so 



194 THE FUN OF COOKING 

tiny that Jack said six were only a bite. And 
beside these she found a little tin cutter meant 
to cut vegetables into shapes for soup ; this one 
was a tube with a star on the end, or rather the 
outline of one. Norah said that it would make 
lovely little cookies, each one the size of a five 
cent piece. Brownie was delighted with it. 

*'But, Norah, we won't want muffins,*' she 
said. *'I remember when I was five, I could n't 
have even one for breakfast — ^not till I was about 
seven, I guess it was. And Mother says Mrs. 
Lane is just as partickler as can be about 
Helen." 

**I know something you can make in 'em," 
nodded Norah. **Not muffins. You just wait. 
You make it out of rice, and rice is awful good 
for children. ' ' 

So Brownie ran into her mother 's room to tell 
her what they had found and plan the meal with 
her. 

* * Suppose you have a really nice luncheon for 
both the dolls and the girls," she said. **You 
can have the low sewing table and set it with 
small plates and little napkins and have low 
chairs around it ; the four children could sit on 
two sides of the table and Helen at one end and 
you at the other, and the company could all 



DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIEL PAETY 195 

hold their children in their laps and you need 
not have any doll at all because you are hostess. 
How would that dor ' 

** Perfectly lovely, Mother. And now what 
shall we have to eatf* 

**How would you like a hot first course — 
perhaps some kind of chicken and potatoes, with 
jelly and little cups of cocoat*' 

**0h, yes, Mother; and tiny sandwiches!" 

**Yes, indeed; and then some dessert that 
children like; will that be enough, do you 
think?" 

* * Well, if they are not so very hungry, I think 
it will be." 

Mother Blair laughed. * * I think it is all their 
mothers would want them to eat for luncheon, 
anyway. Now what did Norah find for yout" 

Brownie told about the little muffin tins, and 
said Norah said they could have something made 
of rice in them ; and there was a little star cooky 
cutter and a little bit of a tumbler. 

Mrs. Blair said they were all exactly what 
would be needed. 

**I rather think Norah meant to use the muffin 
tins for these. Brownie. See how easy they are 
to make, and so good, too. ' ' 



196 THE FUN OF COOKING 

EICE PATTIES 

1 heaping tablespoonf ul of rice. 

2 cups of cold water. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 
% an egg. 

1 large cupful of cooked chicken, cut into bits. 
1 small cup of thick white sauce. (See your 
rule.) 

Wash the rice and put it over to cook in the double boiler 
in the water; add the salt; when it has cooked twenty min- 
utes without stirring, taste it and see if it is soft, and no- 
tice if the water has boiled away so it is dry; if it is done, 
take off the cover and stand the boiler in tiie oven or on 
the back of the stove tiU each grain of rice is full and there 
is not a drop of water left. Then mix with the egg after 
you have beaten it and divided it, and put a spoonful into 
each mufiSn pan after it has been buttered; press this oa 
the sides and bottom like a thick pie crust; warm the but- 
ter and put a little on the edges of each and put them in 
the oven till brown. Make the white sauce, heat the 
chicken in it and fill the patties at the last moment; put a 
bit of parsley on top of each one. 

**We used to have these patties often for 
lunch and Norah would put in creamed fish or 
left-over vegetables, or eggs. We have not had 
them for ever so long, and we must remember 
and have them again, they are so good. And 
Brownie, remind me to have chicken for dinner 
the night before the party, so there will be some 
to warm up the next day.*' 



DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIEL PARTY 197 

''Wait one minute, Mother, please. I want 
to ask Norah if these are what she had thought 
of for us/' 

Strangely enough they were, only she had in- 
tended to have the rice shells filled with scram- 
bled eggs. *'But the chicken 's better, '* she 
said. ''Trust your mother for thinkin' of if 

Brownie ran back again. "I just wanted to 
be sure she hadn't thought of anything nicer," 
she said. "And she hadn't. These are going 
to be perfectly lovely." 

"Now for the potatoes; what kind do you 
think you would like f ' ' 

"I can make nice ones, chopped and fried," 
said Brownie proudly. 

"I don't believe we had better give those 
small children anything fried, dear ; I 'm pretty 
sure their mothers would not like that. What 
would you think of the potato puff Norah makes 
out of left-over mashed potato ? ' ' 

"Just the thing. I wouldn't have to boil 
the potatoes and peel them and mash them. 
Left-overs are always so convenient!" 

"Then we must be sure to have mashed po- 
tato for dinner the night before the party, 
or there won't be any left over," said Mrs. 
Blair, laughing. "Now, write down this re- 



198 THE FUN OF COOKENa 

ceipt ; only remember I am making it small for 
you ; for the family you must take two cups or 
more of potato, and one egg. ' ' 

POTATO PUFF 

1 cup of mashed potato. 
^ teaspoonf 111 salt. 
y^ cup of milk. 
% of a beaten eg'g, 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Mix the potato with the milk and salt and heat it, beating 
it well. Then stir in the butter after warming it till sof t, 
and last the ^'g. Put in a small dish and bake in a hot 
oven tiU brown. 

**I think it would be nice to bake this in 
one of the small brown earthenware dishes, 
Brownie ; they always look well on the table, and 
a tin or agate pan would n't do at all ; you know 
you must serve it right in the pan you bake it 
in.'' 

**Isn't it funny, you have one-half an egg 
in the potato and one-half in the rice patties. 
Mother. Do you do that on purpose!" 

**No, it just happened to be so, but it 's an 
economical thing, Brownie, because eggs are so 
high now-a-days that one has to remember to 
use them carefully. The sandwiches come next. 
What kind do you think would be best ? ' ' 

**Not cheese. Mother; dolls and children don't 



DOLL-AND-UTTLE-GIRL PARTY 199 

eat cheese; I know that! And not nut; nor 
ham ; nor hard-boiled egg. I can't think of any 
kind that would do. ' ' 

** White bread and brown bread put together, 
just with plain butter, you know; I think those 
would be lovely for children.*' 

* * So they would ; I can make those. And we 
can cut them out in little, little circles. ' ' 

**I think you could use an egg cup and 
press it down hard ; that would make little cir- 
cles. ' ' 

**Just the thing. Now comes the cocoa, and 
I can make that all alone ; may we use the little 
after dinner coffee cups to drink it out off 
We '11 be very careful. ' ' 

**Well, if you '11 be very careful indeed," 
Mother Blair said, hesitating. 

* * Oh, yes, we '11 be just awfully careful. And 
what about jelly!" 

**You can have a glass of jelly out of the 
closet made over for you in this way : 

MADE-OVER JELLY 

A glass of currant jelly warmed in a sauce- 
pan till it melts. 

1 teaspoonful of granulated gelatine. 
% cup of cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 



200 THE FUN OF COOKING 

Put the gelatine into the cold water, stir it well and let 
it stand for ten minutes; then stir again and add the boil- 
ing water and the hot jelly; stir till it is smooth and strain 
through a coarse bag into two or more small glasses. Put 
on ice till firm. 

*' While the jelly is melting you get the rest 
of the things ready and then it takes only a mo- 
ment to pnt them all together. Norah always 
has a bag because she washes out and puts 
away those that the table salt comes in. When 
you have used it don't forget to wash it out 
for her, will you, dear ? ' ' 

*'No, Mother. Mildred and I never forget to 
wash up and put things away ever since she 
said we couldn't come into the kitchen at all 
unless we always did that. Do you remember 
how cross she was 1 ' ' 

**I don't wonder, Brownie. Some day when 
you have a kitchen of your own you will be 
cross, too, if little girls come in and use your 
pots and pans and leave them all sticky and 
messy." 

*'0f course I will. It makes me feel real 
cross now just to think of it. I guess we 'd bet- 
ter plan the dessert before I get worse." 

'* Perhaps we had," laughed Mother Blair. 
* ' Those children must have something very sim- 



DOLL-AND-UTTLE-GIEL PAETT 201 

pie, indeed, and I really can't think of anything 
better for them than cornstarch pudding. ' ' 

**Well," said Brownie doubtfully, **that cer- 
tainly won't hurt them." 

**I know you don't like it very well, and grown 
people don't care for it either, but it is good 
for children, and if you learn to make it for 
them you can easily change the rule a little bit 
and make it in half a dozen different ways which 
grown-ups do like. I '11 give you two or three 
rules for your book and you can try them all. 
Here is the first, for your party : 

PLAIN CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

% cup of scalded milk; put in the double 
boiler. 
1^ tablespoonf uls of cornstarch. 
% tablespoonful of sugar. 

1 pinch of salt. 

2 tablespoonf uls of cold milk. 

1 egg* 
y^ teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

While the milk is heating till it scalds (that is, till the 
top wrinkles, but it does not quite boil), mix the corn- 
starch, sugar and salt in the cold milk and then pour 
slowly into the scalded milk, stirring well all the time till 
it grows thick; put on the cover and let it cook eight min- 
utes. Beat the e^ without separating it and stir this in 
and cook one minute; take it off the stove, add the vanilla, 
pour it into a mold and let it get firm ; serve with cream. 



202 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

"You see that isn't bad at all; but to make 
it ever so much better try this : 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Melt a square of unsweeteiied chocolate by putting it 
into a saucer over the steam of the tea-kettle; stir this in 
just before adding the egg. Pour into a pretty mold on 
ice; turn it out and heap whipped cream around it. 

ALMOND CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Use almx)nd flavoring instead of vanilla, and when you 
take the pudding off the fire, stir in a cup of chopped 
almonds. Serve with whipped cream." 

**That last one sounds, oh, so good. Mother. 
Can't I make that for Sunday dinner f 

**Yes, indeed you can, and Father will love it, 
I know. Now, Brownie, let me tell you just one 
thing more about the dessert for the party; 
put the pudding into egg cups, and fill them just 
half full ; then you see when you turn them out 
they will be lovely little molds, one for each 
child ; and you can have the cream in the small 
silver pitcher to pass with them.** 

**What a nice party it will be,** sighed 
Brownie. **I *m so glad Helen is only five, be- 
cause if she were older we couldn't have these 
cunning, cunning things.** 

The party really was lovely. The little table 



DOLL-AND-LITTLE-GIEL PAETY 203 

had six low seats around it, a hem-stitched lunch 
cloth over it and a small vase of flowers in the 
center. The little girls, each with her best doll 
in her lap, sat around it, too impressed to talk. 
First they had rice patties filled with hot 
creamed chicken on little plates, and spoonfuls 
of brown potato puff ; with these the little round 
sandwiches were passed, brown on one side and 
white on the other, and tiny cups of cocoa, and 
helpings from the little glass of jelly which 
Brownie had turned out in a pretty red mold on 
a little bit of a glass dish. After they had eaten 
an they possibly could of these things Norah 
came in with some more small plates and each 
one had a little mold of delicious cold pudding, 
with cream to put on it and two small star- 
shaped cookies to eat with it. Oh, it was all so 
good I And the best thing about it was that 
Brownie really made every single thing they had 
all by herself, except the cookies. Mildred had 
made those the day before for her. **I 'm so 
sorry I 'm too big to come to the party, '' she 
said, **but at least I can make doll-cookies.'' 

** *Doll and little-girl cookies,' you mean," 
corrected Brownie. 



CHAPTER XIV 

WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 

ONE day a messenger boy went aronnd to 
the kitchen door with a telegram for 
Norah, telling her that her sister had broken her 
arm and she must come at once and take care of 
the children ; as there were nine of them, includ- 
ing a tiny baby, Norah felt she must take the 
very first train, and so in only an hour she was 
off, and the Blairs ' kitchen was empty. 

** However, it is n^t as though we did n't know 
how to cook,*' said Brownie, when she came 
home from school and found out what had hap- 
pened. ** Every single one of us can cook — 
even Jack/' 

^^Even Jack," called her brother from the 
dining-room. **I heard that. Brownie Blair, 
and I '11 tell you this : I can cook just as well as 
any one in this family, if I do say it. ' ' 

*^ Prove it, then," laughed his mother, **I 
got the lunch alone to-day because you were all 
away; but suppose, instead of having regular 

204 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 205 

dinners while Norah is gone, we have hot sup- 
pers, and you three get them without me. Do 
you think you could manage it? And I will get 
lunch and breakfast/^ 

*'0h, no, Mother Blair. We will all get 
breakfast together, and wash the dishes and 
make the beds before we go to school; we can 
get up earlier. And every single day we will 
get supper all alone and you can go out calling 
or walking or whatever you like. * ' 

* * Perhaps you 'd let me help once in a while, ' * 
suggested their mother meekly. 

**Not once. Of course if you want to make 
one thing for supper to surprise us some time 
and have plenty of time to do it while you are 
getting lunch, we might let you do that. A cake, 
I mean, or gingerbread, just to help out at night; 
none of us can make many kinds of cake. ' ^ 

**Well, I think most girls know how to make 
too many kinds of cake and very few kinds of 
more sensible things, soups and vegetables and 
so on ; and of the two I believe the regular every- 
day dishes are the more important. You see, 
you can learn to make cake at any time. * ' 

**I think this is a rattling good time for Mil- 
dred to learn, '^ declared Jack. *' Chocolate 
layer cake and cocoanut cake and fruit cake are 



206 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

great, and she '11 never learn younger, Mother/' 

* * Well, she may make a great big cake for you 
on Saturday for Sunday night supper, if she 
wants to ; but if she does, I shall expect you to 
do your share of the cooking every day. * * 

** Emergency cooking is all right; men ought 
to know how to do that,'' Jack replied stoutly. 
**I 'm perfectly willing to cook bacon for break- 
fast, or scramble eggs, or cook fish for supper, 
or make a stew ; anything I cooked in camp I 
can do with one hand tied behind my back ! ' ' 

* * This is your chance then, to show what you 
learned last summer. Perhaps if you do splen- 
didly well Father Blair will want to take you 
again,'' said his mother. **Now hurry back to 
school and I will do these dishes and plan the 
supper and get it all ready for you — on paper, — 
and then if you want me to, I '11 disappear and 
you may cook it all alone. ' ' 

**0f course. Mother Blair. Don't you pay 
any attention to us at all; just come in with 
Father at half past six and it will be all ready," 
Mildred said as she hurried away. 

That afternoon when the kitchen was all tidy 
Mother Blair sat down with a pencil and a 
sheet of paper and wrote out all about the sup- 
per. This is what she planned to have, and 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 207 

after each dish she wrote the name of the one 
who was to make it : 

Cream dried beef (Mildred) 

Com bread (Jack) Cocoa (Brownie) 

Fresh apple-sance (Mildred) 

Cake (see cake box) 

When the three younger Blairs came home 
and supper time approached, they found this 
pinned up in the kitchen, and with it the only 
receipts they needed: 

CREAMED DRIED BEEP 

1 box of shaved dried beef (or ^ of a pound 

if you buy it at the butcher's). 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 cup of hot milk. 

2 shakes of pepper. 

Cut the beef up into tiny bits; pour boiling water over 
it and let it stand one minute; pour it off and squeeze the 
meat dry. 

Put the butter in the frying-pan and let it melt; when 
it bubbles, add the flour and stir till smooth; add the hot 
milk and pepper, and last the meat ; stir till it thickens like 
isream; serve on squares of hot buttered toa^t. 

**Easy!'^ said Mildred as she read the re- 
ceipt over. * * Same old white sauce ; it 's funny 
how that is used over and over. I think I '11 let 
that wait till just before supper time to make, 



208 THE FUN OF COOKING 

and get the apple-sauce going. That sounds 
easy, too. ' ' 

APPLE SAUCE 

6 large, tart apples. 

1 cup of sugar. 
% cup water. 
^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Wipe the apples, cut in quarters, peel and core them. 
Cut up small and put in a saucepan with the water; cook 
gently till they are soft, and then add the sugar. When 
they are transparent and rather smooth they are done; 
take them up, and either serve as they are, or if you wish, 
put them through the colander. Sprinkle with cinnamon. 

While Mildred was making this, Brownie laid 
the table, just as she had learned weeks before ; 
then she got out her receipt-book and made the 
cocoa by that, while Jack made the com bread 
by his own camp rule, reciting it aloud as he 
mixed the different things and shook down the 
fire and saw that his oven was hot. 

* ' You learn a lot of things camping, Mildred, ' ' 
he said when he finished and cleared up his 
mixing bowl and other things and wiped off 
the table. '*I never had any idea how careful 
you had to be to keep things ship shape till I 
lived with Father up in the woods. He made 
me clean up after every single thing I made, 
and wouldn't let me leave a thing around. I 
thought it was just sort of fussing at first, but 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 209 

after a while I found out it saved time. There 
were n't half as many dishes to do after a meal, 
if you cleaned up as you went along, and when 
you were in an awful hurry to fish or something 
it helped a lot. * * 

**I know; Mother always tells Brownie and 
me to do that way. One day we were cooking 
and I wanted the egg beater ; Brownie had used 
it and left it in the dish pan to soak, so I had 
to stop and wash it. Then after I used it I put 
it back in the pan, and Nor ah needed it and she 
had to wash it ; and that was the way it went all 
the time till we learned that we must wash up 
every pot and pan and dish and spoon just the 
very minute we were through with them. It 
seems a lot of bother at first but you don't 
mind after a little. And then, Jack, while we 
have to wash the dishes at night it will save 
time to do them as we go along now. ' ' 

When the toast was made and buttered, Mil- 
dred kept it hot while she quickly creamed the 
dried beef. The cocoa was all ready and so was 
the brown com bread, and exactly at half past 
six o'clock supper was all ready to go right 
on the table, and everything was as nice as pos- 
sible. "But then," said Father Blair compla- 
cently, "what else can you expect? This com 



210 THE FUN OF COOKING 

bread, Jack, tastes to me like that of the good 
old times/' 

**And this beef, Mildred, is exactly right, and 
so is the cocoa. ' * 

And so were the apple-sauce and cake, when 
they came on the table. The cake, especially, 
seemed particularly good, though it was only 
the same kind Mildred had often made herself, 
— the one in her own cook book under the title 
''Christmas Cake.*' 

''I do think nice cake is just as good as can 
be,'' said Mildred, taking a second piece. ''I 
believe I '11 learn to make several kinds right 
away while Norah is gone. ' ' 

' ' That 's the kind of talk I like to hear, ' ' said 
Jack appreciatively. 

In the morning Jack made the fire and started 
the cereal in plenty of time, while the rest fin- 
ished dressing. This was the very simple rule 
he used: 

OATMEAL 

1 cup of meal. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

When the water boils hard, add the salt and stir in the 
meal quickly; put it all into the double boiler and let it 
cook at least half an hour; take off the cover and let it 
stand till it gets a little dry (about five minutes). Serve 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 211 

with cream; and, if you like, sliced bananas and a little 
sugar. 

Mother Blair and Mildred laid the table, 
Brownie got the fruit out of the refrigerator and 
arranged it and put on the finger-bowls, and 
then they went into the kitchen to see what 
should be done next. 

* * I ^m going to cook bacon, ' ' announced Jack ; 
*'I Ve got it all ready; you might make the 
toast, Mildred, and Mother can make the coffee 
and we *11 be all ready in one jiffy. ' * 

After breakfast they washed the dishes; or 
rather Jack washed them and Brownie wiped 
them, and they laid the lunch table after taking 
the crumbs up off the floor and table; mean- 
while Mother Blair and Mildred made the beds 
and put the house in order, and when it was 
time for school everything was done. 

**That 's easy enough,'' Jack said as they 
left. ** Bather fun, I think, too. I don't care 
if Norah stays away quite a while. ' ' 

For supper that night they found their 
mother had planned this : 

Spanish tomatoes (Mildred) 
Stuffed baked potatoes (Brownie) 

Biscuits (anybody) 
Pancakes and maple syrup (Jack) 



212 THE FUN OF COOKJNa 

^^ Spanish tomatoes sounds good/' said Mil- 
dred, reading her easy rule. 

SPANISH TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes, peeled and chopped, or 1 can. 

3 chopped green peppers (first cut each in 

two and take out the seeds). 
% an onion (chop with the peppers). 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 

3 shakes pepper. 

1 large teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Mix all together and cook ahout tw^ity minutes, slowly, 
or till they look like a thick paste. Pour over buttered 
toast. 

Mother Blair had put a can of tomatoes on 
the kitchen table and the peppers with it, so it 
took only a few moments to get this first dish 
ready; then while it stood waiting to go over 
the fire and cook, Mildred made the biscuits 
and popped them into the oven. Brownie 
washed and baked the potatoes and when they 
were done she stuffed them beautifully and just 
browned them at the last moment, and Mildred 
made the toast to go under the tomatoes. 

Everything was delicious, and while Jack 
made the cakes and brought them in, one plate- 
ful after another, all hot and steaming, the 
family said what fun it all was. 

**Isn't it queer that some girls just hate to 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 213 

cook, and think it 's simply dreadful when they 
have no maid and have to do their own workT^ 
said Mildred. * * When I 'm grown up — ^I 'm go- 
ing to have a house — ^no, a flat, I guess, that 's 
cunninger, — ^and do every single bit of my own 
work. ^ ' 

^*Do,'' said Brownie enthusiastically; **and 
I '11 come and stay with you and help you. ' ' 

**So will I,'' laughed their father. 

*'And so will I,'' said Mother Blair. **But 
you '11 have to hurry up and learn lots more, 
Mildred; there are just hundreds of things you 
can learn to cook, and all of them are ever so 
good. ' ' 

**I 'm going to learn every single one,*' said 
Mildred solemnly. 

As the week went by, the children found they 
were really learning ever so many of the ** hun- 
dreds'' of good things their mother spoke of. 
Among them were these, the rules for which 
they put right in their books with the rest : 

EGGS IN RAMEKINS 

4 eggs. 

4 rounds of buttered toast. 

Sprinkle of salt and pepper. 

Butter any small dishes; put in the toast rounds, break 
an egg carefully on each, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and bake in the oven till the eggs are done. 



214 THE FUN OF COOKING 

EASY MEAT PIE 

1 cup chopped cooked meat. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

2 cups mashed potato. 

(If the potato is left-over, and so is cold, add V^ a cup 
of hot milk to it and beat it up till it is smooth and hot.) 

Mix the meat, water, and seasoning all together in a 
saucepan and let it cook till it gets rather dry, stirring it 
often. Butter a baking dish and cover the sides and bot- 
tom with the potato, half an inch thick. Put the meat in 
the center, and then put the rest of the potato over the 
top and make it nice and smooth. Put bits of butter all 
over the top and brown in the oven. 

CREAMED SALMON 

1 can of salmon (medium size). 
1 large cup of white sauce, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper. 

Open the can, drain the fish of oil and take out the skin 
and bones; mix lightly, lay on squares of buttered toast; 
put slices of lemon and bits of parsley all around the edge 
of the platter. (Ton can use any sort of cooked fish in- 
stead of salmon.) 

HOT SARDINES 

1 box large sardines. 
4 slices of toast. 



WHEN NOEAH WAS AWAY 215 

Juice of % a lemon. 

Sprinkles of salt, pepper and dry mustard. 

Open the sardines and lift them out carefully; drain 
the oil off. Put them on a tin plate in the oven to get very 
hot while you make toast and cut it into strips; cut the 
crust off and butter them a little. When the sardines are 
hot put one on each strip of toast, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, salt, pepper and mustard (only a tiny bit of mus- 
tard), and serve at once on a hot dish with parsley all 
around. 

Besides these good things the children made all 
sorts of potatoes and muffins and everything else 
they had learned, and they really had a beau- 
tiful time. But the most fun of all was on Sat- 
urday when they had the cooking to do for two 
days and plenty of time in which to do it. 



CHAPTEE XV 

TSANKBaWINQ DAY SUFFEB 

• 

**Tiir OTHER BLAIR, did yon ever think that 
J. V JL Thanksgiving Day has one great defects 

**Why, no, Mildred, I don't believe I ever 
did,*' smiled her mother. "Do tell me what it 
is,'' 

**Well, we have to have dinner in the after- 
noon so the littlest cousins can go home early, 
and so Norah can get away in time for her regu- 
lar party — she always goes to one, you know, 
that evening; and that leaves us with nothing 
to do for hours before bedtime. I don't know 
why it is, but that time always drags." 

* * That is a real defect, Mildred, and I 'm glad 
you told me, because we don't want any part of 
Thankgiving Day to drag. It ought to be lovely 
till the very end. What can you think of that 
we can do to make it so!" 

"I think if all the cousins would stay on in- 
stead of going home at dark, and if we arranged 
something interesting, like a little play or cha- 
rades, first, and then, when we got hungry, about 

216 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPEE 217 

eight o'clock, we had a hot supper, that would 
be just perfect/' 

**0f course! That 's a bright idea, Mildred. 
All the cousins are old enough now to spend the 
evening, and we can have a lovely time together. 
You arrange the play, and I 'U get up the supper 
for you. ' ' 

**No, indeed. Mother Blair! We three jun- 
iors will get it — ^that 's part of the fun. And 
don't you think it would be nice to have it in 
here on the big library table? We could bring 
the things in on trays and then just help our- 
selves. ' ' 

**That 's another bright idea! Of course it 
would be delightful to have it in here. Then 
afterwards we could have a wood fire in the 
grate and sit around it to tell stories, and have 
games, and charades, and sing some songs to- 
gether, and be just as thankful as possible. 
What shall we have for supper? I fancy we 
shall not want anything very heavy after our 
dinner. ' ' 

**No, of course not; but it can be something 
awfully good.' Cold turkey to begin with, and 
something hot to go with it, and — and what else, 
Mother Blair?" 

**0h, cranberry jelly, and perhaps a salad. 



218 THE FUN OF COOKING 

and then something sweet to finish with. Do 
you think that would do f 

**Yes, and some kind of a hot drink, I sup- 
pose; coffee for Father and Uncle and Aunt 
Mary and you, and cocoa for the rest of us ; only 
I ^m so tired of cocoa, I don't believe I could 
drink a drop. ' ' 

**We certainly have had it pretty often for 
lunch lately ; I Ve noticed it myself and meant 
to speak to Norah about it. I think I can find 
something else for all of us which you will like 
better — something especially meant for Thanks- 
giving. *' 

'*What the Pilgrim Fathers had for their 
Thanksgiving dinner, I suppose,'' laughed Mil- 
dred. **I 'm sure it will be good, too, and we '11 
love it. ' ' 

School closed the day before Thanksgiving, 
and that afternoon Mildred and Brownie began 
to be thankful, because there would be no more 
lessons till Monday. They put their books 
away, planned the funny little play they were 
going to have the next evening, and got together 
everything they would need for that ; then they 
said it was time to think about the supper in the 
library. 

** We will wait till Norah has gone out and the 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 219 

kitchen is all in order/' said Mildred. **Tlien 
we can get out the things we waat to carry into 
the other room, and put them on two trays; 
Jack and Cousin Fred can carry them when we 
are ready. Plates, and knives, and forks, and 
glasses, and napkins; and the platter of tur- 
key— '^ 

*'And salt,'* said Brownie, ^*and bread, and 
butter.'' 

**Yes; and cranberry jelly. Then we will 
make the hot things and bring them in after- 
ward. ' ' 

**What shall we make to-day, Mildred T' 

**I wonder if Norah has made the cranberry 
jelly for dinner yet; if she hasn't, you and I 
might make that now, and divide it and put part 
away for the supper. And we can make the des- 
sert, or whatever Mother thinks we had better 
have. The salad we shall have to make to-mor- 
row. ' ' 

Norah was that very minute preparing to 
make the crauberry jelly, but she said she was 
in a hurry, and the girls could make it if they 
would promise not to get in her way. They got 
the receipt from their mother, and began in a 
comer as far off from Norah as they could 
get 



220 THE FUN OF COOKING 

CRANBEflRY JELLY 

1 quart of cranberries. Pick them over and 

wash them, then cl^op them a little. 
1% cups of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Boil five minutes; rub while hot throng a sieve, and 
pour into a pretty mold. 

This rule, of course, had to be doubled for two 
molds. They found it was not very easy to get 
the cranberries through the sieve; by talking 
turns, however, they were slowly squeezing them 
through when Norah came to their aid and gave 
them the wooden potato-masher to use instead 
of the spoon they were working with. The 
molds were set away to get hard, and then tiiey 
asked their mother for something else to do. 

**I Ve been thinking,'* she said, **that we 
ought to have for supper something the men 
would like very much ; they will have had turkey 
once already, and perhaps they will be tired of 
it. Would you like scalloped oysters I ' * 

*' Mother, we 'd perfectly love theml'' ex- 
claimed Mildred. **But do you think we could 
make them? I always thought they were very 
hard to make.*' 

**My dear, they are the easiest thing in the 
world. To save time, you may copy the rule 



r' 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPEE 221 

now, and then to-morrow, when everybody is 
here, I will not have to stop visiting and explain 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 quart of oysters. 

2 packages of crackers, or as many loose ones 

— about half a pound. Boll fine. 
Salt, pepper, and butter. 
1 small cup of milk. 

Drain the oysters and examine each one carefully to see 
that it is free from shell; strain and measure the juice; 
add to it an equal quantity of milk. Butter a deep baking- 
dish and put in a layer of crumbs, and cover these with 
a layer of oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with butter; put on another layer of crumbs, then one of 
oysters, season, and so on till the dish is full, with a layer 
of crumbs on top; cover with small bits of butter; pour 
on the oyster juice and milk, and bake about half an hour, 
or till brown. Serve at once — ^it must not stand. 

** Sometimes, instead of baking these in one 
large dish, I fill little brown baMng-dishes in 
just the same way; only, of course, I do not bake 
these so long — only ten or fifteen minutes. And 
sometimes for a lunch party, I get from the fish- 
market very large oyster, or clam, or scallop 
shells, and fill those instead of the little dishes, 
and they are very pretty. ' ' 

* * Mother Blair, those would be sweet — simply 
sweet 1 I think I '11 give a luncheon and have 
them.'' 



222 THE FUN OF COOKING 

**Do, Mildred, and I *11 help/* said Brownie, 
unselfishly. 

* ' Or you can have a luncheon and I 'II help 1 * ' 
Mildred replied. **And now what else can we 
do to-day, Mother? Make some sort of des- 
sert?'* 

''Yes, I think so; try this; it *s simple and 
very nice. * ' 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

1 pint of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 squares of unsweetened chocolate. 
1 tablespoonf ul of cornstarch. 

1 pinch of salt. 
% teaspoonful of vanilla. 
% pint of thick, sweet cream. (Or this may 
be omitted.) 

Put the milk in a saucepan after taking out a small half- 
cupful and mixing it with the cornstarch; put in the sugar 
and salt. Scrape the chocolate (the squares are those 
marked on the large cake) and put this in next. When it 
steams and the chocolate is melted and looks brown and 
smooth, stir up the cornstarch and put it in, stirring till 
smooth. Cool, add the vanilla, and pour into glasses. Just 
before serving put a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each glass. 

**I do love that,'' said Brownie, as she wrote 
down the last word. **When I eat it, I always 
think I 'm eating melted chocolate creams. ' ' 



THANKSGIVING DAT SUPPER 223 

**So do II'' laughed Mildred. ^'Perhaps 
Uncle. Tom and Aunt Mary won't eat their 
creams to-morrow night, and then you and I 
can have them for lunch the next day, Brownie. ' ' 

* * They 'U surely eat them ! ' ' sighed Brownie. 
* * They 're too good to leave. ' ' 

When these were made and safely put away, 
all but the creamy tops, which were to go on just 
before supper the next day. Jack came strolling 
in. 

*^ Smells awfully good!" he said. ** Turkey, 
and onions, and mince-pies, and spicy things. 
Got any cooking for a boy to do — ^proper cook- 
ing, I mean?" 

**I 've just thought of something," his mother 
said quickly, **and I need you to do it right 
away. The girls are getting up a supper for 
Thanksgiving night, and they really ought to 
have some cake to eat with the dessert they have 
just been making." 

"Cake I" ejaculated Jack. "I draw the line 
at cake. Mother Blair; making cake is not a 
man's job." 

* ' Not cake. Jack, — only something to go in 
cake. I want you to crack some nuts and pick 
them out for the girls. Here is what they are 
going to make now." 



224 THE FUN OF COOKING 

NUT CAKES 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of light brown sugar. 

1 cup of nut meats, chopped fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. 
y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the eggs without separating them, and stir in the 
sugar, flour, and salt. Add the nuts last, and spread the 
whole in a thin layer on a well-greased tin; bake ten min- 
utes, or till the top is brown. Cut into squares and take 
quickly from the tin ; lay on a platter till cold. 

Jack thought he could crack and even pick 
out nuts without injuring his dignity, so he went 
to work on a panful of pecans, and, hy the time 
Mildred and Brownie were ready to chop them, 
they were all ready and waiting. Before long 
the little cakes were in the oven and out again, 
crisp and hot ; almost too good to be saved, the 
girls thought, and so did Jack. But they knew 
there would not be time to-morrow to make any 
others, so they had to keep these, and when they 
were cold, shut them up in the cake-box. 

**Now I think you have cooked enough for to- 
day, *' said their mother, after she had tasted 
one small crumb of their cakes and pronounced 
them perfect. 

**But, Mother, what about the salad f asked 
Brownie. 



THANKSGIVING DAY SUPPER 225 

**0h, do you really think we need salad with 
all these good things f" 

"Honestly, I don't think we need it at all," 
said Mildred; *'but I do think it would be nice 
to have it, because it 's a party. ' ' 

**Very well! But what can we havet Let- 
tuce, and tomatoes, and other fresh vegetables 
are really out of season, or, at any rate, we can- 
not get them in this town ; and yet we ought to 
have a green salad, because, of course, nobody 
could possibly eat chicken or lobster salad after 
a Thanksgiving dinner/' 

**I could T' called Jack, from the next room; 
but nobody paid any attention, 

**Well, here is an idea — string-bean salad. 
That is very easy to make, and very good, too, 
and we can make it out of canned beans and 
nobody will know it. I will tell you how to 
make it now, because I '11 be so busy to-morrow, 
and then, in the afternoon, you can get it ready 
quickly. ' ' 

STEING-BEAN SALAD 

1 pint of string beans, cooked and cold. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

A little lettuce, if you have it. 
French dressing. 

Drain the beans well and sprinkle them with a little salt 
and pepper. If they are canned, let them lie on a platter 



226 THE FUN OF COOKING 

for at least an hour. Arrange them on a few white lettuce 
leaves on plates, or omit the lettuce and use a few yellow 
celery leaves; put two strips of hard-hoiled egg on the 
plate, one on each side of the heans, and, just before serv- 
ing, pour a little French dressing over alL This salad must 
be very cold. 

**Now, certainly, that is all,'* said Mother 
Blair, as they wrote this down, **and I 'm sure 
nohody will go home hungry after such a sup- 
per as that I'* 

*^And what hot drink are you going to have, 
Mother!'^ 

*^0h, I almost forgot that. I planned some- 
thing which is especially Thanksgivingy, too. 
It is really and truly what the Pilgrim Fathers 
are supposed to have made for Thanksgiving 
Day out of wild grapes ; hut I am sure they had 
no lemons or spices, so it could not have been 
quite as good as this. We will have this with 
the turkey and oysters for the supper, and no 
coffee or cocoa. * ' 

MULLED GRAPE-JUICE 

1 quart of bottled grape-juice. 
1 pint of water. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 lemons. 

2 sticks of cinnamon. 
1 dozen doves. 



THANKSGIYING DAY SUPPER 227 

Put the spices in* a piece of thin cloth and tie this up 
like a bag; put it in a saucepan with the grape-juice, sugar, 
and water, and let it slowly heat till it steams; stir well 
and let it stand on the back of the fire for ten minutes. 
Add the juice of the lemons and the thin yellow rind of one 
(you can peel this off in a strip and drop it in) ; bring it 
all to the boiling-point, take out the lemon-peel, taste it, 
and, if not sweet enough, add more sugar. Serve very hot. 

The next evening, just as it grew dark, Mil- 
dred and Jack hung a sheet before the double 
doors of the library, and they, with some of the 
cousins, gave a funny shadow-play, ** Young 
Lochinvar,*' with a rocking-horse for the 
** steed, *^ and a clothes-basket for a boat, and 
their father read the poem as they acted it. 
When everybody had stopped laughing at it, the 
junior Blairs brought in the supper (the oysters 
had been quietly cooking while they played) , and 
arranged it on the library table. Everything 
was hot and delicious, or cold and delicious, and 
the mulled grape- juice was almost the best of 
all. After everything had been eaten up, they 
all gathered around the fire and told stories. 
At last, when the visitors had gone and bed- 
time had come for the Blairs, Mildred said im- 
pressively: 

^*Now that was what I call a Thanksgiving 
Day without a flaw 1 ' * 



CHAPTEE XVI 

CANDY FOB THE FAIB 

THE Alcott School, which Mildred and 
Brownie attended, was going to give a 
Christmas fair. That is, they were going to 
have a hig, beautiful fair to which everybody in 
town was to go and buy their Christmas pres- 
ents, and afterward the money was to be given 
to the children's ward in the new hospital. Mil- 
dred and Brownie were on the candy committee, 
and, of course, they were much excited. They 
had to have so much candy for a whole town of 
people that they did not know where it was to 
come from. 

**We could go around and ask for contribu- 
tions, '* said Mildred to her mother; **but the 
trouble is that everybody in the school is doing 
that very thing, asking and asking and asking I^^ 

**You might make a good deal of candy your- 
selves, and perhaps other people who would not 
care to buy quantities to give you, would make 
some too. Home-made candy always sells 
well.'' 

228 



CANDY FOR THE FAIB 229 

**Miss Betty makes the loveliest pinoohel'' 
said Brownie, thoughtfully. 

"So she does. Suppose we ask her about 
planning to make candy at home. ' ' 

Miss Betty had just come in from a meeting 
of her own committee on the fair, and was as in- 
terested as could be in the candy table. 

* * 1 11 tell you what to do, ' ' she said. ^ ' Get as 
many people as you can to give you just a little 
money, fifty cents, or even twenty-five, in place 
of giving you any candy — ^they will be glad to do 
that, you see, because it would save them ever so 
much which they can spend on the fair in other 
ways. Then we will buy sugar, and nuts, and 
such things with the money, and get all the girls 
on your committee to help on the candy-making, 
either in their own homes — '' 

**0h, at our house. Miss Betty,'' begged 
Brownie; **that will be a party!'' 

**Very well, if your mother doesn't mind," 
laughed Miss Betty. * * Then, when we see how 
much we can make in two afternoons, we will 
beg enough for the rest that we need. And I '11 
help you. I make awf uUy good candy I ' ' 

When the girls told their mother the plan, she 
said, **That 's a bright idea I" and told the girls 
to ask the eight others on the committee to go to 



230 THE FUN OF COOKING 

work at once and get the money for materials. 

The next days were busy ones, and when, 
three days before the fair, the committee met, 
they were astonished to see how much money 
they had collected, enough to buy all the ma- 
terials and have a good sum over. The girls all 
promised to help make the candy, and said they 
would surely be at the Blairs' for two whole 
afternoons, from two o'clock till dark, beginning 
the next day. 

Jack went down-town and bought everything 
on the list Miss Betty gave him. White sugar 
and brown, flavoring, chocolate and nuts, citron 
and little rose-leaves, pink and green coloring, 
paraflSn paper, and all kinds of boxes, little and 
big, covered with holly paper, or plain red 
paper, or just white paper. When he got home; 
he cracked nuts and picked them out beautifully, 
nearly all in perfect halves. Miss Betty said he 
was a regular trump. 

The next day, the Blairs had an early lunch, 
and then Norah put the dining-room and kitchen 
in order, and got out saucepans, spoons, and 
egg-beaters. Mildred and Brownie laid lunch- 
cloths over two small tables in the dining-room, 
and found scissors and anything else they could 
think of that would be needed. On the dining- 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 233 

room table, across one end, Jack laid a white 
marble table-top from an old-fashioned table in 
the attic, and this they washed off and made 
very clean. Mother Blair said she was sure 
some kinds of candy were made on marble, and 
she meant to be prepared. 

When the girls had come and their hands and 
aprons were ready, Miss Betty said she would 
take four or five girls into the kitchen to start 
the candy, and the rest could blanch almonds 
and get them ready to salt ; and when the candy 
was ready for the finishing touches, she would 
bring it in and show them what to do with it. 
So she went off with Mildred and three other 
girls, and Mother Blair and Brownie went to 
work with the rest on the almonds. They 
wanted to have quantities of these because they 
always sold so well at fairs. This was the rule 
she used : 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 pound of Jordan almonds. 
White of one egg. 
y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Pnt a cupful of shelled almonds into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water, enough to well cover them. Put on a cover and 
let them stand two minutes; take out one and see if the 
skin slips off easily in your hand; if not, pour off the 
water, p'our on more that is boiling, and let them stand 



234 THE FUN OF COOKING 

again. When th^ are ready, dip out a few at a time and 
keep the rest under water; slip off the skins and pnt them 
in bowls till all are done. Beat the white of the egg till 
half light, mix with the nuts, and spread them on shallow 
tins; sprinkle with salt and put them in the oven; stir 
them eveiy few minutes till they become an even, light 
brown; then take them out 

Instead of having one pound of almonds, they 
had ten ponnds, so the girls had plenty to do to 
keep them hnsy till the candy came in. Mean- 
while, Miss Betty was showing them how to 
make 

COFFEE CANDY 

3 tablespoonfuls of ground coffee. 

1 small cup of boiling water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of chopped nuts. 

Boil the coffee in the water for two minutes; then strain 
through a very fine sieve. Measure one-half a cupful and 
mix with the sugar; boil without stirring, tiU it spins a 
thread when you hold up a little on a sp*oon. Then stand 
the saucepan in another, half full of yery cold water, and 
beat rapidly till it becomes a cream; stir in the nuts, pour 
into a shallow pan and cool, cut in squares. 

Miss Betty had to show the girls how to see 
candy "spin a thread,' ' because those words, she 
said, came in so often in all rales for candy. 
She just lifted a little up on the spoon and 
tipped it ; at first the candy just dropped off, but 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 235 

as it grew thick it fell more slowly, and at last a 
tiny thread floated oflf in the air as the syrup 
dropped. 

Of course, they made a great deal of this 
candy, as it was easy. And when it was cool, 
they took the pans to the girls in the dining- 
room. Two of them left the almonds, and cut it 
up and packed it carefully in boxes which they 
lined with paraflfin paper, tied each one up with 
narrow ribbon, labeled them with the name, and 
then put them aside. Meanwhile the girls in 
the kitchen made 

FONDANT 

1 cup of granulated sugar. 
% cup of milk. 

Put this on the stove to heat, and stir tiU the lugar is 
dissolved, but, until then, do not let it boil. When there is 
no sugar left on the edges or bottom of the saucepan, let 
it boil without stirring; have ready a cup of cold water, 
and after three minutes drop in a little bit and see if you 
can make it into a ball in your fingers; if not, boil again 
till you can. Shake the saucepan occasionally so the sugar 
will not burn. When you can make a firm but not a hard 
bally take it off, and set it in a pan of cold water till it is 
cool enough to put your finger in without burning. Then 
stir and be^at, and, when it begins to get hard, knead it 
with your hands. Add flavoring while still rather soft. 

^*This,'' Miss Betty said to the girls, *4s the 
one thing, above all others, that you must learn 



236 THE FUN OF COOKING 

to make, because it is the beginning of all sorts 
of cream candies. In part of it we can put al- 
mond flavoring and make it into balls and put a 
half -almond on top ; or use vanilla flavoring, and 
bits of citron on top. Or we can add chopped 
nuts to it, or roll pieces of Brazil nuts in, and so 
on. And of course some of it we wiU color 
green, to put green pistachio-nuts on, and pink, 
to put bits of rose-leaves on. And we can take 
it while it is still pretty soft, and make little 
balls of it and dip each one in melted chocolate 
with the tip of a fork, and make lovely chocolate 
creams.'' 

*'0h. Miss Betty, let me make those!'' begged 
Mildred; and **0h. Miss Betty, let me make 
pistachio creams I " ; and * * Oh, please, dear Miss 
Betty, let me make the nut creams ! ' ' begged the 
girls. Miss Betty laughed, and shook her head 
at them all. * * The dining-room girls will finish 
these, all but the chocolate creams — ^those we 
will make to-morrow. ' ' So she took all the pans 
of fondant into the dining-room, and Mother 
Blair showed the girls there how to turn this 
plain white candy into colored bonbons, working 
on the marble slab ; they were lovely when they 
were finished, and packed in boxes like the rest. 
Meanwhile, Miss Betty said they would make : 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 237 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKES 

1 cup of sugar. 

% cup of water. 

White of 1 egg. 

1 cup of grated cocoanut from a package. 

2 squares of chocolate, melted. 

Let the sugar and water boil till it spins a thread. Beat 
the egg white stiff, and very slowly pour in the syrup while 
beating all the time; add the cocoanut, and then the melted 
chocolate. Drop on sheets of buttered paper in spoonfuls. 

**If you want to have these like little biscuits, 
do not put in the chocolate; just put them on 
the paper after spreading it in shallow tins, and 
bake them till they are brown on top. I think 
it would be nice to make some of each. * ' 

When these were done and carried into the 
dining-room, Miss Betty said: **And now I 
will show you how I make my very own pinoche. 
When I have to earn my living, I shall do it by 
making this candy, and I 'm sure in a very short 
time I '11 be a millionaire.*' The girls laughed, 
and said they wanted to learn to get rich too. 

PINOCHE 

2% cups of brown sugar. 
% cup of cream. 
Butter the size of an egg, 
% cup of chopped walnuts. 
% cup of chopped almonds. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 



238 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

Boil fhe sngar^ cream, and batter togetHer twenty min- 
utes; add the nuts and vanilla, and beat well; when smooth 
and creamy, pour into buttered tins; when cool, cut in 
squares. 

**It 's just as well we have so many to work,'* 
said Mildred. * ' It takes lots of strength to beat 
this candy.*' 

**Yes, we need Jack's strong arm,'' said Miss 
Betty, smiling. * * To-morrow, we must get him 
to help. Now here is another kind of nut candy 
that is very good indeed, and when you are all 
done with that pinoche, we will make this next. ' ' 

NUT CREAMS 

3 cups of light brown sugar. 
VHiites of 2 eggs. 
1 cup of boiling water. 
1 cup of chopped nuts. 
1 teaspoonf ul of vanilla. 

Boil the sugar and water, stirring and beating till the 
sugar is all dissolved; then let it boil without stirring tiU 
it spins a thread. Remove from the fire and let it stand 
on the table for just a moment, to be sure it has stopped 
boiling; then pour it over the stiff whites of the eggs, beat- 
ing with a wire beater all the time ; put in the vanilla while 
you are beating. When it is creamy and getting stiff, add 
the nuts, stir well, and spread on buttered paper. If you 
prefer, do not use vanilla, but almond flavoring, and add 
almonds instead of other nuts. 

*'Now, girls, just one more kind and that will 



CANDY FOB THE FAIR 239 

be enough, I am sure. To-morrow we will 
change work, and I will teach all this to the 
other girls while you make salted almonds and 
tie boxes; I ^m sure we shall sell all we can 
make. ' ' 

^ * This candy will be worth a dollar a pound ! ' ' 
said Mildred. 

''At least that/' said Miss Betty, laughing; 
''only we won't ask quite that much, I think. 
Now this is the last receipt. ' ' 

CHOCOLATE SQUARES 

1 cup of sugar. 
y^ cake of chocolate. 
^ cup of molasses. 
% cup of milk. 
% cup of butter. 

Mix this all together and boil it twenty minutes; cool it 
a very little and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour in 
panSy and, when cool, mark off in squares. 

It was dark when all this candy was done and 
in the boxes. The girls were tired, but de- 
lighted with their work, and the next day they 
came, eager to finish it. Those who worked in 
the kitchen made the same things as the other 
girls had made before, and, when everybody was 
done, it was astonishing how many, many boxes 
they had. 



240 THE FUN OF COOKINa 

They had already decided not to have any 
two-pound or five-pound boxes, but to make only 
pound and half-pound ones, as these would sell 
better. They tied up the boxes which were cov- 
ered with holly paper with red ribbons, and the 
red boxes with holly ribbons, and the plain white 
boxes with red, with a bit of holly tied in each 
bow. When Norah saw them all, she said they 
were ** stylish.'' Certainly they were pretty, 
and the candy was delicious, and fresh as well, 
and all the committee and Mother Blair and 
Miss Betty were just as proud as proud could 
be. 

When the fair was over, the ladies who were 
in charge of it sent a special little note to the 
candy committee telling them how well they 
had done. 

**Next time we will make ever so many more 
kinds of candy,'* said Mildred, as they talked 
it all over. **I never knew there were so many. 
I used to think all you could make at home were 
molasses candy and peanut brittle, and every- 
body can make those, so they are not much fun. ' ' 

**When the children get into their ward, we 
will make some candy for them," said Brownie. 
* * I think the children with broken legs, and bad 
knees, and the not-very-sick children would like 



g Candj at the Christmas Fair 



CANDY FOR THE FAIR 243 

some^ especially if we put it in white boxes and 
tie them up with big bows of ribbon. ' ' 

**0f course they would, '^ said Mildred. *'It 
would be just lovely and would help them to get 
well ever so much quicker, I know. That 's 
what Mother would call a particularly bright 
idea, Brownie Blair I ' ' 



CHAPTER XVn 

EXAMINATION DAY 

^^^HILDEEN," said Mother Blair on New 
\^ Year's day, **when you have all finished 
whatever you are doing and have a whole hour 
to spare, I want you to bring your receipt books 
into the sitting-room. I 'm going to have an ex- 
amination/' 

Jack gave a loud groan. 

* * That 's no fair, Mother. No exams in vaca- 
tion!'* 

*^ Yes, it is fair, perfectly fair to have this ex- 
amination in vacation time, because you never 
have a moment while school is going on to give 
me for it ; now is my only chance. But it won't 
be a very long or severe one. I fancy I can find 
out all you know about cooking in a very short 
time. Jack!" 

Jack laughed and went upstairs for his book, 
and presently they all gathered in the sitting- 
room by the fire. The three children sat in a 
row on the great big sofa with the pillows tucked 

244 



EXAMINATION DAT 245 

behind them, and Mother Blair sat in front, ex- 
actly like a teacher. She had three pads and 
pencils ready, and three packages well wrapped 
np, in her lap. 

**It was just a year ago to-day that we got 
those books, * ' said Brownie. * * Mine has heaps 
of roles in it, too. * * 

**So has mine,'* said Mildred, turning the 
leaves. **I did not know I had so many. And 
what fun we had making some of the things I 
Do you remember your cheese dreams at the 
House-in-the-Woods party, Jack? And the 
Hallowe 'en things in the chafing-dish f And the 
attic picnic. Brownie t I 'm sorry we can't have 
all those parties over again. Mother." 

**We '11 have plenty more, dear, and better 
ones, too. But how many receipts have you, 
Jack?" 

Jack proudly displayed his camping receipts 
and a few others, principally chafing-dish rules. 
*^Lots!"hesaid. 

' * Not half enough. You 've done only pretty 
well, Jack; but a beginning is something, after 
alL But now, children, the examination is going 
to begin. Here is a written question for each of 
you, and you are to write the answer down on 
this pad. ' ' 



246 THE FUN OF COOKING 

** Dreadful,'' murmured Mildred, accepting 
her slip of paper and pad with a long sigh. 
This is what she read: 

**What would you have for luncheon, if you 
found in the refrigerator some eggs, a little 
celery, cold hoiled potatoes, a bottle of milk and 
butter ; and beside had in the house cookies and 
a basket of very poor pears ? Look up the rule 
for each dish in your receipt book. ' ' 

**That 's easy,*' said Mildred, happily, going 
to work at once. 

Brownie's slip said: 

**K you were ordering breakfast to-morrow 
morning, what would be the nicest things you 
could think of f And could you make them all ? " 

And when Jack opened his folded paper he 
read : 

**Plan a Sunday night supper with nothing 
but what you can make yourself. ' ' 

**Ask me a hard one," Jack said, waving his 
paper around his head. 

Mother Blair took a book and began to read to 
herself while the pencils scratched away on the 
pads and the receipt books were consulted over 
and over. It was only a few moments before, 
**Donel'' said Mildred, and **Done!" said 
Brownie. Jack was a trifle slower, and they 



EXAMINATION DAY 247 

had to wait for him to finish. It was not so easy 
an examination as he had thonght at first. 

**Read the question first and then the answer; 
yon begin, Mildred,*' said Mother Blair. So 
Mildred read her question, and then taking her 
pad read what she had put down : 

**For luncheon I would have first, cream of 
celery soup, made by the rule I copied under 
cream soups ; I learned how to make those when 
Mother was sick. After that I would have 
creamed eggs on toast. (You know I can make 
those, Mother; I made them just last week.) 
And with them I 'd have hashed brown potatoes ; 
that rule I know by heart. And then for dessert 
I 'd stew those poor pears, like apple sauce, you 
know, only I wouldn't cut them up but keep 
them in halves the way Norah does ; and I 'd 
have the cookies with them. ' ' 

**Good, Mildred — splendid I I did not know 
you could manage so well Now let 's see what 
Brownie would have for breakfast.'' 

** Cereal first; see the rule of cereal with 
dates, — only I 'd leave out the dates this time — 
and then I 'd have muffins ; of course, I can make 
those. And cojBFee, and poached eggs. Do you 
think that is a good breakfast. Mother!" 

** Delicious, dear. I only wish it were break- 



248 THE FUN OF COOKING 

fast tiine now. And how did you get along, 
Jackf^^ 

*'You gave me the hardest of all,*' Jack 
grumbled. **But I did it, all the same. I 'd 
have cheese dreams, and corned beef hash first ; 
then I 'd have pigs in blankets on toast ; and 
camp coffee ; and then com cakes and syrup to 
finish off with." 

Jack smiled complacently. * ^ That 's what I 
call a good, substantial meal. ' ' 

Mildred was screaming with laughter as he 
finished. 

^^ Cheese dreams and pigs in blankets, and 
corned beef hash. Mother Blair I For Sunday 
night supper !'* 

**You *d have regular Hallowe'en nightmares 
after that meal. Jack ! ' ' said his mother, laugh- 
ing too. * * However, as you know how to make 
all those, we will let you have them— on paper. 
Only when you get a supper for this family you 
need not have quite so many things, especially if 
we have company; they might not appreciate 
them. Now are you ready for the next ques- 
tion?'' 

The examination proved such fun that they 
kept it up all the morning. They told how to 
lay a table for breakfast, luncheon and dinner; 



EXAMINATION DAT 249 

how to arrange a sick-room tray ; what to give a 
little child who came in to a meal ; how to make 
fudge, and sandwiches, and tea and salads and 
cake ; how to put up jelly, and how to cook eggs 
in different ways ; some of these things Brownie 
and Jack did not know, but most of them they 
wrote down on their papers very well indeed. 
And they planned all sorts of meals, and that 
was the most fun of all, family dinners, and 
company luncheons, and picnic suppers, and 
party meals for Thanksgiving and Fourth of 
July and Washington's Birthday and other 
times. It really was not so much of an exam- 
ination as it was a game. 

Finally Mother Blair said they had done 
enough. "You know so much more than I 
thought you did that I 'm satisfied, *' she said. 
* * Eeally and truly, children, I 'm proud of you I 
You all get a hundred in your examination, and 
you each have earned a prize beside for standing 
at the top of your three classes. ' ' 

Then she opened the packages she had had in 
her lap all this time and brought out three books. 

"Before I distribute the prizes I must make a 
speech,'* she said. "That's the way it's al- 
ways done at school, you know. 

"Children: You have done so well in your 



250 THE FXJN OF COOKING 

cooking lessons that I am going to give each of 
you a real cook book, for you know now how to 
use one. There are many other dishes beside 
those you have learned already that I am sure 
you will want to know how to make, too. AU 
you have to do is to turn to any rule here and 
follow it carefully, exactly as you do in the books 
you have made yourselves. Mildred, here is 
your book — ^I present it with pride I It 's a 
regular grown-up cook book, only it *s a very 
easy one. And, Brownie, yours is a little giri's 
cook book ; you will love it, and I present it with 
pride, too, my dear child I And Jack — ' ' 

**I do hope mine has plenty of cake in it, 
Mother, and lovely desserts all made with gela- 
tine, and fancy salads with fixings on them ; you 
know those are the things I really like to make,*' 
said Jack demurely. 

**I *m sorry to disappoint you,'* laughed his 
mother, **but yours is a regular boy's cook book, 
all about — *' 

** Camping I'* interrupted Jack, as he saw its 
title. **Well, now, that 's about the right kind 
of a book for me, after all. Say, Mother Blair, 
I think your prizes are great. ' * 

**So do I,'* murmured Mildred, who was deep 



EXAMINATION DAY 



251 



in a rule for a perfectly delicious dessert with 
whipped cream and nuts in it. 

But Brownie did not say a word. She was 
reading the story in her book about how some 
children learned to cook. 




INDEX 



BEVERAGES 

Cocoa^ 33 

Coffee, 87 

Coffee, camp, 122 

Grape juice, mulled, 226 

Lemonade, 68 

Lemonade, grape juice, 
08 

Tea, 84 
BREADS 

Baking powder biscuits, 
34 

Camper's bread, 144 

Com cakes, 126 

Corn meal mush, fried, 
142 

Muffins, 83 

Pancakes, 130 

Toast, cream, 190 
CAKJE 

Brownies, 22 

Chocolate crackers, 49 

Christmas, 16 

Currant, 80 

Gingerbread, ''perfectly 
lovely," 46 

Gingerbread men, 24 

Macaroons, oatmeal, 17 

Marguerites, 67 

Nut, 224 

Peanut wafers, 49 

Spicy coidcies, 64 
CANDY 

Chocolate cocoanut cakes, 
237 

Chocolate squares, 239 

Christmas elves, 25 

Coffee candy, 234 



263 



Fondant, 235 

Nut creams, 238 

Pinoche;, 237 

Pop com balls, 21 
CEREAL 

Cereal with dates, 189 

Oatmeal, 210 
DESSERTS 

Chocolate cream, 222 

Custard, baked, 79 

Custard, soft, 191 

Custard, junket, 184 

FUDDIIf GS : 

Camp, 150 

Cornstarch, almond, 202 
Cornstarch, diocolate, 202 
Cornstarch, plain, 201 
Strawberries in box, 119 
Strawberry cake, 118 
Strawberry Russe^ 118 
Strawberry short cake, 
115 

lOE CBEAMS: 

Chocolate^ 96 
Fruit, 96 
Parfait, 104 
Plain, 95 

Strawberries, frozen, 100 
Strawberries and ice 
cream^ 103 
EGGS 

Deviled, 51 
Goldenrod, 190 
Creamed, 177 
Poached, 185 
In ramekins, 213 
Scrambled, 36 
Spanish, 174 



254 



INDEX 



FISH 

Baked, 149 
Broiled, 129 
Fiah balls, 142 
Panned, 132 
Salmon, creamed, 214 
Salmon, scalloped, 81 
Salmon, steamed, 135 
Sardines, hot, 215 
Small fish, broiled, 132 
Warmed over, 129 

OTSTEBS: 

Panned, creamed, 176 

Pigs in blankets, 173 

Scalloped, 221 

Stew, 36 
FRUIT 

Apples, baked, 190 

Apple sauce, 208 

Dates, stuffed, 69 

Orange baskets, 68 

Pineapple, stuffed, 178 

Strawberries for first 
course, 116 
JAMS AND JELLIES 
Conserve: 

Apple, 162 

Cranberry, 162 
Jam, 153 

Grape, 158 
Jelly: 

Apple, 162 
Made over, 199 
Spiced fruit, 159 

MEATS 

Chicken, creamed, 112 
Corned beef hash, 132 
Dried beef, creamed, 207 
Ham and ^gs, 125 
Meat pie, easy, 214 
Pork, salt fried, 141 
Stew, ten minute, 138 
Veal loaf, 60 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Almonds, salted, 233 
Covering jellies, 163 



Icing for cake, 20 
Laying the table, 74 
Packing a freezer, 94 
Sick room tray, 187 
White sauce, 82 

PASTRY 

Tartlets, 20 

SALADS 

Chicken, 52 
Fruit, 53 
String bean, 225 
Tomato, plain, 110 
Tomato, yellow, 111 
French dressing, 52 

SANDWICHES 
Cheese, 45 
Cheese dreams, 35 
Egg, 45 

Ham^ deviled, 140 
How to make, 43 
Lettuce, 45 
Meat, 44 

Orange marmalade, 63 
Sardine, 45 
Sweet, 45 

Toasted sardine, 61 
Tomato and cheese, 175 
SOUPS 

Chicken broth, 183 
Cream, 182 
VEGETABLES 

Beans, baked, 143 
Corn, boiled, 148 
Com, roasted, 148 
Onions, boiled, 149 
Potatoes: 

Baked, 128 

Baked and stuffed, 32 

Boiled, 129 

Creamed, 83 

Fried, 135 

Puff, 198 

Scalloped, 174 
Rice patties, 196 
Tomatoes, Spanish, 212 



r ' 




Nidftinlta^ 




^: 



IBOOK 



HEV* VI 




