O 




SALMOM 

COOK BOOK 

10W 10 [AIMED SALMON 



SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 




CANNED 
SALMON 

EECIPES 







Pacific 





1915 




Salmon Cook Book 





\NNED SALMON is one of the mosl 
important, nutritious and appetizing of 
fish foods. Its culinary advantages are 
numerous and exceedingly valuable. 
It may be eaten in so many different 
ways that it readily adapts itself to the require- 
ments of the breakfast, luncheon, dinner or supper, 

and gives seasonable variety 
to the meal. It is always 
ready for immediate use 
when the unexpected 
visitor happens in at meal 
time, or may be made to 
nil the most elaborate 
demands of a full course 
dinner. Canned Salmon 
is especially suited for 
picnic and outing lunches, 
and is invaluable for 
camp life. 




Salmon Cook Book 



How 

to Open 
the Can 




ILLUSTRATION NO 1 . 



First lay the can 

on its side and 

insert the can 

opener close to 
the seam, as shown in 
illustration No. 1 , then stand- 
ing the can on end press the 
top firmly down and work 
the can opener around to 
the seam as shown in illustration No. 2. This 
permits the Salmon to come out in unbroken 
form. Always remove the Salmon from 
the can immediately after opening. This is 
very important. 

Canned Salmon contains as much protein as 
lamb chops or beefsteak; 60 per cent more than 

eggs; more fat than 
chicken, eggs or beef. 
It is incomparably of 
greater food value 
than fruits or vege- 
tables. 

It should be eaten 
at least once a week. 




ILLUSTRATION NO 2. 



Salmon Cook Book 



Any good sauce for fish or meat is equally good 
for Salmon. We give several of the best in this 
book. In all the recipes where a 
"Can of Salmon" is referred to 
the contents of a one pound 
can is understood. Unless 
otherwise specified, when a 
spoonful is given as a stand- 
ard of measurement, 
a level 
spoonful 
is intended. 







Salmon Cook Book 



Scrambled One can of Salmon flaked, six 
Eggs and eggs, six tablespoonfuls milk, or 
Salmon cream, one -fourth teaspoonful of 

salt, Cayenne pepper to taste, 
one tablespoonful of butter and chopped parsley. 
Break eggs into a bowl, beat slightly, add the 
milk, pepper and salt; put butter in saucepan 
and when hot add the eggs and other ingredients; 
when they begin to thicken add the Salmon. 
Before taking from the stove sprinkle with parsley. 
Garnish wiih toast points and serve hot. 

Salmon Two cupfuls of minced Salmon, one 
Fish cupful of mashed potatoes, 

Balls one-half cupful of drawn butter, 

pinch of pepper and one -fourth 
teaspoonful of salt. Work in the potatoes with 
the Salmon, and moisten with the drawn butter 
until it is soft enough to mold and will keep its 
shape. Roll the balls in flour and fry quickly to 
a golden brown in lard or cooking oil. Take 
from fat as soon as they are done and lay in a 
sieve to drain. Serve on a hot platter. Use more 
seasoning if desired. 

8 



Salmon Cook Book 



Creamed Two level tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Salmon two level tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, pinch of 

pepper, one cup of Lot milk, one can of Salmon. 

Mix butter in saucepan; when bubbling but not 
burning, add the flour, salt and pepper 
and mix until perfectly smooth; add 
very slowly the hot 
milk, beating each 
time. Cook until it 
thickens, adding more 
salt if necessary. Re- 
move all bones and 
skin from the Salmon, 
and break into inch 

pieces; stir lightly into the sauce, and when 

thoroughly heated, serve. 

Salmon To a cup of White Sauce ( see 
Toast Sauces) stir in a cupful of Salmon 

which has been picked up fine, and 
pour over rounds of crisp toast. This makes a 
delicious breakfast dish. 




Salmon Cook Book 




A Simple Put a can of Salmon into a saucepan 
Breakfast and cover with boiling water, cook ten 
Dish minutes, remove Salmon from can and 

drain off liquor into a separate dish. 
After separating the skin and bones from the 
Salmon, place in a hot dish and pour over and 
around the fish the following sauce: One cup of 
milk, two level tablespoonfuls of corn starch, the 
Salmon liquor, one level tablespoonful of butter, one 
egg well beaten, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, 
pinch of pepper. Heat the milk to boiling, thicken 
with corn starch, add the butter, salt, pepper, 
Salmon liquor and egg. Serve at once. 



10 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon Three eggs, three level tablespoonfuls 
Omelet of cream or milk, three pinches of 
paprika, one-fourth scant teaspoonful 
of salt, three-fourths cup minced Salmon. Separate 
yolks from whites of eggs. Mix in ordinary 
sized bowl yolks of eggs, cream, salt, pepper 
and a half-cup of Salmon. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Have a hot, clean 
omelet pan generously buttered, pour in the 
mixture. Spread it evenly over the top and 
allow it to cook; shake in the pan gently to prevent 
burning. When brown on the under side, place it 
in the oven a moment to dry on top. Remove, 
sprinkle over the top the remaining cup of Salmon, 
or more if desired, fold and turn out on hot platter. 
Garnish with lettuce. Serve immediately. 




Salmon Cook Book 



Pressed Two eggs, two level tablespoonfuls of 
Salmon melted butter, two cupfuls of fine 
bread crumbs, one can of Salmon 
(put through a sieve), one-fourth level teaspoonful 
of salt, pinch of Cayenne pepper or two 
pinches of Paprika. Mix all together, turn 
into a mold, cover and steam 
one hour. When cold, cut 
thin slices. Serve with or 
without Tartar Sauce 
(see Sauces). This is 
found excellent for t m 

sandwiches. *^M 



in L ~ 




Casserole of Line the bottom and sides of a 
Rice and mold with cold boiled rice one- 

Salmon half inch thick, fill the cavity 

with creamed Salmon and cover 
with the rice. Steam forty-five minutes, turn out 
on hot platter, pour either a White Sauce or a 
Tartar Sauce over and around it. Serve hot. If 
a mold is not used, it can be put into a bowl 
and brown paper tied over the top. 



12 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon One can of Salmon, one cupful 
Cutlets of thick White Sauce (see Sauces), 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
one egg. Pick over the Salmon and remove 
skin, bones and oil; mix the Salmon and 
lemon juice, then stir in the thick White Sauce. 
Turn out on plate to cool, divide in twelve portions 
and shape like cutlets. Beat the eggs slightly, 
roll cutlets in it, then cover thoroughly with fine 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat until brown. 
Garnish with parsley and serve. 

Cold A can of Sal- 

Salmon mon is delicious 
when eaten 
cold, just as it is taken from 
the can. It may be served 
with either cold Bearnaise, 
Mayonnaise, Tartar Sauce, 
lemon juice or vinegar. 
Garnish with sliced hard 

-* 

boiled eggs and sprigs 
of parsley. 



13 




Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon Use one roll for each person; cut off 
Loaves the tops of the rolls, scoop out the 
crumbs, brush inside and outside with 
melted butter and put in a hot oven until they are 
a delicate brown. Make a creamed Salmon with 
chopped parsley and the whites of hard boiled 
eggs in it. Heat the cases, fill with the creamed 
Salmon, cover and serve. 




14 



Salmon Cook Book 




Salmon One can of Salmon, one tablespoon- 
Croquettes ful of melted butter, yolks of two 
hard boiled eggs, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one-half slice of stale bread (crumbed), 
one-half tablespoonful of Anchovy Sauce, pinch of 
pepper, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg to 
taste. Mince the Salmon fine and powder the 
yolks of eggs; work them in together with lemon 
juice, bread crumbs, Anchovy Sauce, salt, pepper 
and nutmeg. Make into little rolls, dip in beaten 
egg, roll in fine bread crumbs or cracker dust, fry 
in hot drippings. Serve dry and hot and garnish 
with water cress. 



15 



Salmon Cook Book 



Scalloped One can of Salmon, one cup of White 
Salmon Sauce (see Sauces), five or six soda 
crackers. Pick Salmon over, remove 
skin, bones and oil; flake fish with a fork. Take 
a medium sized agate dish, place in a layer of 
Salmon, a layer of White Sauce, a layer of rolled 
crackers, another layer of Salmon, and so on, con- 
tinuing until the fish is all used. Reserve enough 
crackers for the top. Bake in hot oven until brown. 
In preparing the White Sauce to be used in the 
above, follow the recipe exactly, with the exception 
of adding four tablespoonfuls of flour instead of two. 







16 



Salmon Cook Book 



Scalloped One can of Salmon picked over 
Salmon and broken into small pieces, one 

D>ith can of green peas, two cupfuls of 

Green Peas thin White Sauce (see Sauces) 
and bread or cracker crumbs. 
Butter a pudding dish, sprinkle with bread or 
cracker crumbs, put in a layer of Salmon and 
peas, cover with White Sauce; repeat until all is 
used. Cover well with buttered bread or cracker 

crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven 
until crumbs are 
brown. Serve hot. 




Boiled 
Salmon 



Place a can of Salmon in a saucepan, 
cover with boiling water and cook 
fifteen minutes. Take the fish from 

can, drain off oil and separate skin and bones. 

Serve hot with a Hollandaise Sauce (see Sauces). 



17 



Salmon Cook Book 




Balked For one can of Salmon stir one 

Salmon tablespoonful of flour, after moistening 
and working smooth, into a quart of 
boiling milk, add half a teacupful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of minced onion, a pinch 
of Cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Drain all the oil from the Salmon, pick out the 
skin and bones and flake fine. Then in a pudding 
dish place a layer of the fish, cover with as much 
or more grated bread crumbs and the dressing, 
then more fish, crumbs, etc., finishing with crumbs. 
Put dots of butter over the top, and bake to a 
delicate brown. To be eaten hot. Serve with 
bread and butter or lemon and crackers. 



18 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon One and one-third cupfuls pastry 
Fritters flour, two level teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, one egg, two-thirds of a cup of milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, then 
egg well beaten. Season three-fourths of a cup 
of minced Salmon with salt, Cayenne pepper and 
lemon juice if desired. Add to the batter and drop 
by spoonfuls into deep fat and brown. Drain 
on brown paper, and serve hot with Tartar 
Sauce. (See Sauces). 




19 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon Line a pudding dish with hot, mashed 
'Pie potatoes about an inch to an inch and 

a half thick, then fill in the center with 
a creamed Salmon (seasoned with onion if de- 
sired), cover with the mashed potatoes and brush 
the top of the potatoes over with melted butter or 
milk, and bake in oven until a delicate brown, or 
beat the potatoes smooth and arrange in a circle 
on a hot dish and pour the fish in the center 
and serve at once. 



Salmon 

with 

Macaroni 



Pick one can of Salmon into small 
pieces, drain off the oil. Make a pint 
of White Sauce 

(see Sauces). Put a layer of 

boiled macaroni broken in inch 

lengths in the bottom of baking 

dish, next a layer of sauce, then 

a layer of Salmon, continuing 

until dish is filled. Sauce 

should come last and be sprink- 
led with buttered crumbs. 

Bake until brown. 



20 




Salmon Cook Book 




Camp Mess One can of Salmon, one-pound can of 
Salmon tomatoes; arrange in alternate layers, 
Ba^e season with salt, pepper and two 

ounces of salt pork cut into dice, add 
the liquid from both cans and cover the top with 
powdered hard bread, put a little dripping on top 
and bake a light brown. 



Army and One can of Salmon, one-half can of 
Navy tomatoes, three hard tack (soaked), 

Salmon one-fourth pound fried salt pork, one 
Scouse onion sliced, one pound potatoes cut 

into quarters; season to taste. Stew, 
adding a little water if necessary. When done it 
may be placed in oven to brown. 



21 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon One-half onion the size of an egg, 
Curry two level tablespoonfuls of butter, 

liquor from one can of Salmon, three- 
fourths cup of stock, one level tablespoonful of 
flour, two level teaspoonfuls of curry powder, one 
level teaspoonful of lemon juice, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, pinch of pepper, one-half can of 
Salmon. Fry finely chopped onion and butter 
until brown, add to it Salmon liquor and stock, 
simmer five minutes and strain. Mix flour, curry 

* 

powder, salt, pepper and 
lemon juice with enough 
cold water to form a thin 
paste. Stir into other 
mixture and when boiling 
add the Salmon, which 
has been picked over and 
\ broken into inch pieces, 
and serve when very hot. 




22 



Salmon Cook Book 










Salmon One can .of Salmon; remove the 
Loaf oil and pick up fine; one-half cup 

of fine bread crumbs, yolks of fcur 
eggs well beaten, four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one-fourth level teaspoonful of salt, 
one level teaspoonful poultry dressing, one level 
teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, whites of four 
eggs well whipped. Mix in the order given, and 
steam in a mold one hour. Serve hot or cold. If 
eaten hot, serve with Fish Sauce (see Sauces). 

23 



Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon One can of Salmon, one 

a la pound boiled halibut, one pound 

Bouillabaisse salt codfish (freshened), four to 

eight shrimps, one medium sized 
onion, one carrot, two tomatoes, four cloves, 
five small red peppers, one clove of garlic, pinch 
of saffron, one bay leaf, three sprays of parsley, 
one-half pint of olive oil, one-half cup of cider, 
one-half pint of stock; season with salt, pepper 
and orange peel if desired. 

Remove skin and bones from fish, break in 
large pieces, slice onion, carrot and tomatoes 
(canned tomatoes may be used), macerate the 
garlic and break up bay leaf. Heat oil in large 



skillet, add the fish and vegetables (except parsley 
which should be added just before taking from 
stove). Cook for about twelve minutes, tossing 
often, then add the cloves, bay leaf, saffron, 
peppers, cider and stock. Cook from fifteen to 
twenty minutes more. Line dish with crisp pieces 
of toast, cover with the mixture just prepared and 
serve immediately. 



24 



Salmon Cook Book 



Spiced or Place a can of Salmon in a saucepan, 
Pickled cover with boiling water and cook 
Salmon one-quarter of an hour; then open 
can, remove fish and drain off oil. 
Take one pint of cider vinegar, one- half 
teaspoonful of celery seed, two bay leaves, 
one-half teaspoonful whole cloves, one teaspoonful 
mixed spices, one-half clove garlic, one-half of 
medium-sized onion sliced, 
and a quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful salt; put into a saucepan 
and bring to a boiling 'point; 
then pour this mixture over 
the Salmon, and allow it to 
stand twenty-four hours. If 
the vinegar is very strong, 
reduce with water. 





Salmon Cook Book 



Salmon One can of Salmon, one -half pint 
Salad of celery and one -half pint of 

Mayonnaise dressing. Free the Salmon 
from skin, bones and oil; pick the fish apart and add 
the celery (which has been cut fine) and May- 
onnaise dressing, tossing lightly. Season to taste. 
Save a little Mayonnaise to pour over the top. 
Arrange in salad dish and garnish with curled 
lettuce and "drops of red jelly, or serve on fresh, 
crisp lettuce leaves. 




26 



Salmon Cook Book 




Stuffed Eggs Make a regular Salmon Salad 



with the chopped celery, yolks 
of eggs and Mayonnaise. Take 
many eggs as desired, put 



as 



with 

Salmon 

Filling 

them into a bath of boiling water 
and let them stand thirty-five minutes. Remove 
the shells, cut a slice off the top and bottom (the 
latter to make it stand), then take out the yolks 
and fill the whites with the salad. Serve in lettuce 
leaves, and over all pour Mayonnaise dressing. 



27 



Salmon Cook Book 



capers, 



Green Peppers One can of Salmon flaked, one- 
with quarter teaspoonful of salt, two 

Salmon Filling tablespoonfuls of chopped gher- 

kins, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped olives, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
capers, Mayonnaise dressing and green peppers. 
Remove seeds, membrane and stem end from 

peppers and soak in salt 
water. Mix gherkins, olives, 
and salt with 
Salmon; add enough 
Mayonnaise to hold 
it together; fill green 
peppers, 
garnish 
and 
serve. 
If the 

fresh green 
peppers are 
not in season the 
canned ones may be used. 




Sal 



mon 



CU P f Boiled Salad Dressing 
Sauces), \V 2 cups of Minced 
. balmon, season to taste. Mix dressing 
and Salmon to a paste; slice bread very ihin and 
spread with the Salmon paste, cut into fancy shapes 



28 



Salmon Cook Book 



and garnish with water cress or parsley. These 
can be made two or three hours before serving by 
placing closely together and covering with a 
damp napkin. The Salmon Paste will keep 
indefinitely. 

'Deviled Heat one pint of milk to boiling; stir 
Salmon in teaspoonful of butter and one- half 
tablespoonful flour dissolved in a little 
cold milk. When thick take from the fire, add 
small half cup of Worcestershire Sauce, juice of 
one lemon, pepper, salt and one can of Salmon 
picked fine. Fill individual dishes or large 
baking dish; spread bread crumbs on top and 
add a little cream, which helps it to brown. 
Bake quickly and serve hot. 

Salmon One can of Salmon, one large 
C/roWer potato, one small onion, one -quarter 
pound salt pork, one -half pint milk 
or cream, one ship cracker, salt and pepper 
to taste. Remove Salmon from can and drain 
off the liquid and break fish into small pieces. 
Slice the potato and onion and cut the pork into 



29 



Salmon Cook Book 



half-inch dice. Put the pork and the onion into a 
pan and fry them quickly with a little butter until 
they are a light brown. Place alternate layers of 
potato, fish, pork and onion in a large saucepan; 
dust with salt and pepper. Continue the layers in 
this order until all the ingredients are used. Cover 
the whole with boiling water and let the mixture 
simmer for twenty minutes. Scald a half-pint of 
milk or cream, take it off the fire and add one-half 
tablespoonful of butter and one broken ship 
cracker, or the same quantity of water biscuits. 
Arrange the fish mixture in a mound on a dish, 
cover it with the softened cracker, and pour over 
the whole the scalded milk 
or cream. Serve very hot. 




30 



Salmon Cook Book 



Canned Place two cans of Salmon into a 
Salmon saucepan and cover with boiling water, 
a la cook ten minutes, and then remove 

Newburg fish from cans and drain off liquor. 
Heat one gill of cream in a double 
boiler. Rub one large tablespoonful flour into 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Rub the yolks of 
three hard boiled eggs smooth with a little cream 
or milk, add to hot cream with flour mixture. 
Stir until smooth. Add a shake of red pepper and 
a little salt. Add the Salmon and cook a few 
minutes longer. Add two tablespoonfuls Sherry 
or Madeira wine and serve at once. 

Salmon Cut one can of Salmon into dice, 

Patties heat one pint of the dice in half a 

pint of cream, season to taste with 
Cayenne pepper and salt. Fill warm patty shells 
with the Salmon and serve while hot with a Fish 
or Hollandaise Sauce. 







31 



Salmon Cook Book 




Jtfayonnaise Yolks of two raw eggs, one level 
Dressing teaspoonful of salt, one level tea- 

spoonful mustard, one teaspoonful 
of vinegar or lemon juice, juice of one lemon, pint 
to a pint and a half of salad oil, according to the 
quantity of dressing desired. Put the yolks of the 
eggs into a bowl, stir enough to break them, then 
add the salt, mustard, teaspoonful of vinegar or 

32 



Salmon Cook Book 



lemon juice and teaspoonful of salad oil; mix with 
an egg beater until smooth; beat in grad- 
ually about half a teaspoonful (not more) at a 
time of salad oil until half a pint has been used; 
add occasionally a teaspoonful or more of lemon 
juice as the rest of the oil is beaten in. If by 
chance too much oil should be added, do not 
attempt to stir it all in at once, but take it up grad- 
ually. Sometimes when the dressing curdles a 
little vinegar being added will bring it back. If 
this fails, take the yolk of a fresh egg and put it in 
another dish; beat it slightly, and add the curdled 
dressing, just as you would add oil (slowly). This 
is sure to meet with success if egg is fresh. 

White Two level tablespoonfuls of flour, two 
Sauce level tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
cup of hot milk, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, pinch of pepper. Melt butter in saucepan 
until it bubbles; add the flour, salt and pepper; 
mix until smooth; then pour the hot milk in gradually, 
stirring and beating each time. Cook until 
it thickens. 



33 



Salmon Cook Book 



Fish One cup of milk, one egg, one level 
Sauce tablespoonful of corn starch, two level 
tablespoomuls of butter, one teaspoonful 
of catsup, pinch of Cayenne pepper. Cook over 
hot water until it thickens, stirring constantly. 



Thick 

White Sauce 
For Cutlets or 
Croquettes 



Four level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two level tablespoonfuls 
of butter, one cup hot milk, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
pinch of pepper. Melt butter 

in saucepan until it bubbles; add the flour, salt 

and pepper; mix until smooth; then pour the hot 

milk in gradually, stirring and 

beating each time. 

Cook until it thickens. 




-.. 



34 



Salmon Cook Book 



'Drawn One-half cup of butter, two table- 
Butter spoonfuls of flour, sprig of parsley. 
Sauce Melt butter in stew pan, add flour and 

mix until smooth, then add gradually a 
pint of boiling water, beating each time. 

Tartar Yolks of two eggs, one-quarter tea- 
Sauce spoonful salt, pinch of pepper, one 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, one 
level teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsl^, one tablespoonful of chopped 
gherkins or capers. Mix yolks of eggs, salt, 
pepper, tarragon vinegar and mustard; ' stir until 
smooth and then add a gill of salad oil drop by 
drop. Stir in the chopped parsley, gherkins or 
capers with a fork. If the sauce is not sharp 
enough to taste, add more vinegar or lemon juice. 

Boiled Three eggs well beaten, one table- 
Salad spoonful of butter, two level tea- 

'Dressing spoonfuls of mustard, one level tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half cup of 
vinegar, one-fourth teaspoonful of white pepper. 
Mix the ingredients well in a bowl, set bowl in 
hot water and stir the mixture until it thickens. 
Cool. If desired add more mustard. 



35. 



Salmon Cook Book 



Hollandaise Half a teacupful of butter, the 

Sauce juice of one-half a lemon, the 

yolks of two eggs, a dash of 
Cayenne, one-half a cupful of boiling water, one- 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the yolks one by one, then the lemon 
juice, pepper and salt. Place the bowl in which 
these are mixed in a saucepan of hqiling water. 
Beat with an egg-beater until the wuyce begins to 
thicken (about a minute) and Tid the boiling 
water, beating all the time. jR(h"6n. like a soft 
custard it is done. 




