FOOD 





TMIRD 
COITION 



SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



FOOD AND 
COOKERY 



* ****** V ****** * 



HAND BOOK FOR TEACHERS AND 
PUPILS FOR USE IN COOKING 
CLASSES AND DEMONSTRATIONS 



THIRD REVISED 
EDITION 

BY 
H. S. ANDERSON 

INSTRUCTOR IN COOKING IN THE COLLEGE OF 
MEDICAL EVANGELISTS AT LOMA LINDA, CALIF. 

1915 

THE COLLEGE PRESS 

LOMA LINDA. CALIFORNIA 



Copyright 1915 by The College Press 
Loma Linda, California 




PREFACE 



' I 'HE author of the present work, having been for several 
years employed as cook in many of the leading hotels 
and clubs of some of the largest cities of the Middle West 
and Pacific Coast, as well as being for the past five years 
connected with the Loma Linda Sanitarium, is well prepared 
to speak of the subject here discussed. His position as ex- 
perimental cook and teacher of cooking in the Nurses' Train- 
ing School has also shown the importance of getting out 
something that may serve as a guide to teachers in present- 
ing this subject before classes. Hence the present work 
is largely designed to serve as a manual for those who may 
be called upon to teach the subject in sanitariums and other 
educational institutions. With this idea in view, a complete 
list of twenty lessons, so arranged as to cover in an outline 
way all the more important points of the subject, constitute 
a valuable feature of the book. 

The second edition having been all sold, and many warm 
commendations received for it, the publishers have felt 
encouraged to issue this thoroughly revised and enlarged 
edition, with the hope that it may be of assistance to those 
who are struggling to bring the teaching of this subject in 
our sanitariums and elsewhere into full accord with sound 
principles. 

THE PUBLISHERS. 



CONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION Page 

FOODS, THEIR USES IN THE BODY - 17 

FOOD VALUES - 20 

FOOD ECONOMY - 24 

SUGGESTIVE COURSE OF LESSONS - 28 

PREPARATION OF FOOD - 30 

ESSENTIALS TO SUCCESS - - 31 

FREE FATS 32 

BREAD - 36 

UNFERMENTED BATTER BREADS 37 

UNFERMENTED DOUGH BREADS - 39 

FERMENTED BREADS 41 

CAKES - 100 

CANNING - 115 

COMBINATIONS, MENU-MAKING - 118 

DESSERTS 90 

FROSTINGS, FILLINGS - 103 

GRAINS, NUT FOODS, ENTREES 56 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES - 69 

INVALID DIETARY 109 

ICES AND ICE CREAM - 113 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 34 

PIES, CRUSTS, ETC. - 96 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS, VEGETABLE 83 

SALADS AND SAUCES, FRUIT - 87 

SANDWICHES 108 

SOUPS - 50 

TOASTS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 104 

VEGETABLES - 71 

JELLY MAKING - 117 
SUGGESTIVE MENUS ------ 122 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



FOODS, THEIR USES IN THE BODY 

<<r ~PO care for the body, by providing for it food that is 
* relishable and strengthening, is one of the first duties 
of the householder." We all have in the beginning a certain 
vital force from which to draw. To know how to husband it 
properly is the most essential thing in preserving health. 

By taking food into the body, the system is nourished and 
built up. Disease results if this food is improper in quantity, 
or poor in quality, or if it is poorly prepared for assimilation. 
There is a constant breaking down of the tissues of the body; 
every thought of the mind, every movement of a muscle, 
involves waste, and this waste is repaired from our food. It 
is highly important, then, that everyone should be able to 
choose those foods which best supply the elements needed to 
make good blood, which in turn imparts life and strength to 
nerve, muscle and tissue. 

Grains contain the food elements most evenly distributed. 
Wheat is considered a perfect food, and the representative 
of all foods, containing properties which so nearly represent 
the constituent parts of the body structure, as to indicate a 
special providence in providing it for the human race. Grains 
are very nutritious, and when cooked under a high degree of 
heat, as in baking, they are easily digested and assimilated. 
When they are cooked by the process of boiling or steaming, 
they require several hours cooking in order to render them 
digestible. 

In the olive, as in the various nuts, we find nature's store- 
house of fats. These, when properly prepared, supply the 
place of animal oil and fats. 

Fruits are used, not so much with a view of supplying 
nutrients, as for other purposes; the organic acids and essen- 

(17) 



18 FOOD AND COOKERY 

tial oils, with the easily digestible form in which the nutrients 
are present, are factors which give fruits a high value in the 
dietary. These acids and essential oils impart palatibility to 
the food, and assist functionally in the digestive process. 

Figs and prunes contain chemical compounds that are laxa- 
tive in character. 

In our study of the purposes which the various food ele- 
ments serve in the vital economy, and of the foods best 
adapted to the accomplishment of these' purposes, valuable 
help is given us in a practical knowledge of the composition 
of the various food materials, which enables us to arrive at 
an idea of the real value of the food in question ( Plate I ) . 

In speaking of food, we understand something w r hich is 
capable, upon being taken into the body, of either repairing 
its waste or furnishing it with material from which to pro- 
duce heat and muscular work. This brings to view the two 
main functions of food in the body. By the former function, 
food provides for the conservation of the material of the 
body; by the latter, conservation of bodily energy is main- 
tained. Substances which are unable to help in the one or 
the other of these directions, cannot be called food. Ex- 
amples of such non-foods are to be found in extractives of 
meat, tea, coffee, spices, etc. 

All foods are made up of one or more of three distinct 
classes of organic compounds, known as proteid or albumin- 
ous substances, carbohydrates and fats and different inor- 
ganic salts. These substances are spoken of as th^ "nutri- 
tive constituents" of food, and may be separated into four 
divisions: 

1. The proteid, or nitrogenous substances, are represented 
in the food by the casein in milk, the curd of the milk being 
very highly nitrogenous; the gluten of the wheat; the albu- 
men in the white of egg, which is the purest form of proteid; 
the legumen in peas and beans; and the myosin of lean meat. 

2. The carbohydrates are represented by the starches and 
sugars in the various foods. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 19 

3. Fats, as olive oil, butter, the oil eaten in the olive, in 
nuts, and to some extent in most articles of diet. 

4. The inorganic substances, as water and mineral matters. 
The chief office of proteid matter is to provide for the 

growth and repair of the material of . the body. The carbo- 
hydrates and fats furnish the fuel for the body. They yield 
the heat that keeps it warm and the energy that enables it 
to work. The mineral matters are required by the body for 
the building of the bones and the teeth. 

The changes which food undergoes in the body are essen- 
tially changes due to oxidation. Latent heat is just as surely 
found in the food we use as in wood and coal. They are both 
waiting to be oxidized, that they may be converted into heat 
and energy. 

The latent energy in different foods has been determined 
by their oxidation, outside the body, in the apparatus known 
as the bomb calorimeter. "The amount of heat given off in 
the oxidation of a given quantity of any material is called its 
'heat combustion, ' and is taken as a measure of its latent 
and potential energy." The calorie is the unit measure or 
standard of heat production, and means the amount of heat 
necessary to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water 
1 degree C., or about one pint of water 4 degrees F. Care- 
ful observation by Atwater, Rubner, Chittenden and others, 
has shown that the heat value of one gram of each of the 
three chief nutritive constituents of food, when taken into 
the tissues, is as follows: 

1 gram ] of proteid yields 4 calories. 

1 gram of carbohydrates yields 4 calories. 

1 gram of fat yields 8.9 calories. 

Bulletin Xo. 142, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

As the ounce is made the standard or unit in calculating 
weight, so the calorie is the standard of heat production. By 
the figures in the column at the right-hand side of chart 
( Plate I ) are represented the total amount of calories, or 

1. 28.3 grams equal 1 ounce. 



20 

food units, contained in one pound of each of the various 
foods under consideration. The building material proteid 
is represented by the red color, and the carbohydrates by the 
green, etc. 

The vital part of all tissue is proteid. Without proteid, the 
body would waste away* for the wear and tear of tissue must 
be made good. Though there is no article of diet, except 
sugar and pure fat, into which proteid matter does not enter 
to a greater or less degree, yet there are foods which contain 
an unusually high per cent of proteid, known as proteid foods. 
These are peas, beans, lentils, nuts, eggs and meat. 

The fact that proteid matter is an essential element for 
the growth and repair of the body tissues, has a tendency to 
lead people to believe that they might be benefited by the 
consumption of large quantities of proteid foods; when the 
fact is, the body can use only a limited amount for the devel- 
opment and repair of tissues. Although proteid matter is 
capable of yielding a certain amount of heat on oxidation, it 
is inferior for this purpose to carbohydrates and fats; be- 
cause, on being burned in the body, it yields certain deleteri- 
ous products, which throw upon the liver and kidneys an un- 
necessary amount of labor that overtaxes them and lays 
them liable to attacks of disease. Many of the ailments so 
prevalent to-day, as rheumatism, gout, gastro-intestinal dis- 
turbances, indigestion and liver troubles, have been found to 
bs closely associated with the habitual overeating of proteid 
foods. 

There is wisdom in a diet that shall provide an abun- 
dance of carbohydrates and fats, proteid being added only in 
sufficient amounts to meet the needs of the body for nitro- 
gen, for the development of fresh muscle-fibers, etc. Care- 
ful experiments have demonstrated that the body is best sus- 
tained in health, and its strength and endurance promoted, 
by a diet which contains a proportion of one ounce of proteid 

matter to from eight to twelve ounces of carbohydrates and 
fats. 

A study of the composition of the various foods will enable 



Food Values 

(Nitrogenous PROTEID Tissue-forming Substances 

(CARBOHYDRATES) .. , Fnp 

(^Non-nitrogenous j pATS Heat and Lnergy 

Inorganic Salts - - Mineral Matters, Water 



I I I I I I 




FOOD AND COOKERY 21 

us to see the wise provision made for man in the diet 
appointed for him in the beginning. Man, in adding to his 
diet fleshmeats, with their exceedingly high percentage of 
proteid, besides other objectionable features connected with 
their use, finds himself grappling with a problem whose only 
solution is to be found in a study of cause and effect. 

In the diet appointed in the beginning, man was guarded 
in this respect, for in nature we find the various food ele- 
ments better balanced to meet the needs of the body. The 
numerous exhaustive works of to-day, written on the subject 
of diet and the needs of the body, are designed to fill a long- 
felt want. They are the response of thinking men to a 
world's great need. To meet this great need, God has sent 
us a message of health reform which comprehends man's 
complete restoration, physically and spiritually. 

A quotation from "Ministry of Healing" gives a key to the 
divinely appointed plan: "In His written word and in the 
great book of nature, He has revealed the principles of life. 
It is our work to obtain a knowledge of these principles, and 
by obedience to cooperate with Him in restoring health to the 
body as well as to the soul." Page 115. 

The accompanying diagram ( Fig. 1 ) will help to bring 
before our minds the Bible picture of our original home, and 
the tender care of the Creator over His erring children, in 
giving them light and hope through all the different phases 
of their rebellion and apostasy; and it shows that He is actu- 
ally leading them back step by step to Eden restored. He 
who created man and understands his needs, appointed 
Adam his food, as it is written, "Behold, I have given you 
every herb yielding seed, and every tree in which is the 
fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for food." 
Gen. 1: 29, A.R.V. After the fall, when the ground was 
cursed for man's sake, the herb of the field was added to his 
diet. Gen. 3: 18. 

Then we are brought down to the time of the flood, when, 
all vegetation being destroyed by water, God permitted man 




(22) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 23 

to eat flesh. Next we find the chosen people in the land of 
Egypt, where they were in heavy bondage, after which the 
Lord brought them out with a strong hand and by an out- 
stretched arm, to make them the depositaries of His holy law, 
and through them it was designed that all the world should 
come to a knowledge of the true God. Their health was 
jealously guarded, and they were given a fleshless diet. God 
desired to make them His peculiar treasure above all people; 
but they cried for flesh, so He permitted them to eat clean 
flesh. Deut. 14: 3-20. 

Then we come down to the end of the Jewish dispensation, 
at the time when the gospel was preached to the Gentiles, 
saying, "Ye are the temple of God." "There shall in no 
wise enter into it anything that is unclean." Rev. 21: 27. 

In ancient time, the distinction made between things clean 
and things unclean was no arbitrary distinction, for the 
things prohibited were unwholesome. Even so now, the use 
of injurious foods defile the body, planting the seeds of dis- 
ease and corruption in the system, thus laying the founda- 
tion for sickness and premature death. 

To the chosen people of God, the laws relating to both 
physical and spiritual well-being were made plain, and on 
condition of obedience, He assured them: "The Lord will 
take away from thee all sickness." Deut. 7: 15. "Ye 
shall serve the Lord your God, and He shall bless thy bread 
and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the 
midst of thee." Ex. 23: 25. 

These promises are .for us to-day. The same principle 
which directed in giving these sanitary laws and regulations 
in times of old, and which has been the foundation in every 
true reform to the present time, is no less powerful to-day, 
and is summed up in these words: "Whether therefore ye 
eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of 
God." 1 Cor. 10: 31. This principle, if heeded, will guide 
in all matters of diet, as in every act of life. It will pre- 
serve us from intemperance in all its varied forms. "Every 



24 FOOD AND COOKERY 

practice which destroys the physical, mental or spiritual 
energies, is sin. The laws of nature, as truly as the pre- 
cepts of the decalogue, are divine; and only in obedience to 
them can health be recovered and preserved." 

There is great need to-day of that education that not 
merely teaches right methods in the treatment of the sick, 
but which encourages right habits of living, and spreads a 
knowledge of right principles. The desire of God for every 
human being is expressed in these words: "Beloved, I wish 
above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, 
even as thy soul prospereth." 3 John s 2. Every "Thou 
shalt not," whether in physical or moral law, implies a 
promise. If we obey it, blessing will attend our steps, and 
we shall know the meaning of the promise of God to His 
people, which says, "I am the Lord that healeth thee." 
Ex. 15: 26. 

FOOD ECONOMY 

"Economy is not saving, but wisely spending. " Ruskin. 

When we have ascertained that a food is rich in nutritive 
constituents, and that it is of a nature to be easily digested 
in the stomach, we have still to find whether the nutriment 
it yields is obtained at a reasonable cost. When one realizes 
that the market price of a food is no indication of its real 
money value, the practical importance of such a test is more 
convincingly felt, because in the market one usually pays 
for flavor and rarity, not for nutritive qualities. To the 
working classes, who spend on an average fifty per cent of 
their wages for food supply, such knowledge is of special 
value. By a study of the chemical analysis of various foods 
bought for a particular sum, this test may be applied with- 
out difficulty (Fig. 2). 

It will be seen that for energy (calories), grains lead the 
way. As, for instance, we find on comparison that twenty 
cents spent for round steak obtains food to the value of 1432 
units; twenty cents invested in eggs buys 635 units; the same 
for striped bass obtains 400 units; twenty cents worth of 



>- 

z 

o 

z 
o 
o 

u 



o 

a _ c 

+: alp 



1 



4 






D 



uJ - J 



a 9 



I 

Q. 










o 
o 
o 





o 

o 



o 

o 
o 

CO 



G 
CD 

O 



o 

o 

O 
iO 










d 
o 



o 

o 

O 



* J 



RTICLES 

AS PURCHASED 



A 



- -2> 



^ 



(25) 



26 FOOD AND COOKERY 

oysters at fifty cents per quart, yields only 184 units; while 
twenty cents worth of wheat flour buys 9570 units, and in 
the form of good, well-baked bread, ready for use, 4560 
units. In the matter of protein, the legumes come first, 
while most of the grains contain protein in a very liberal 
proportion. 

When the flesh of animals is used as food, there is great 
danger of having an excess of proteid material. Besides 
being of a stimulating character, it contains no carbohydrate 
to offset the large per cent of proteid. One advantage in 
using food of vegetable origin, is that in their growth vege- 
tables secrete no poisons; whereas, in all animals the very 
process of life consists in the breaking down of tissues and 
the formation of various poisons. These poisons are in the 
flesh when the animal is killed, and no amount of cooking 
can remove them. Thus, by taking our food in the vege- 
table form, we avoid burdening the system with such a 
quantity of harmful substances, which must be eliminated 
from the system only at a great sacrifice to the vital organs. 

Again, it should be remembered that while animal products 
all contain a share of the nutritive constituents necessary 
for our existence, because the animal has taken sustenance 
from the vegetable or mineral kingdoms, nevertheless, the 
meats have had their electrical energy expended in physical 
and mental dissipation by the animal itself, thereby leaving 
but little generative quality for the consumer. 

Many people seem to be under the impression that bodily 
strength and health are dependent upon the use of flesh- 
meats. A quotation again from "Ministry of Healing" 
throws much light on this question, and points out in a 
simple manner the advantage to be had in a simpfe and 
natural diet above that of a more complex nature: 

"It is a mistake to suppose that muscular strength 
depends on the use of animal food. The needs of the system 
can be better supplied, and more vigorous health can be 
enjoyed, without its use. The grains, with fruits, nuts and 



FOOD AND COOKERY 27 

vegetables, contain all the nutritive properties necessary to 
make good blood. These elements are not so well or so 
fully supplied by a flesh diet. Had the use of flesh been 
essential to health and strength, animal food would have 
been included in the diet appointed to man in the beginning. 

"When the use of flesh food is discontinued, there is often 
a sense of weakness, a lack of vigor. Many urge this as 
evidence that flesh food is essential; but it is because foods 
of this class are stimulating because they fever the blood 
and excite the nerves, that they are so missed. Some will 
find it as difficult to leave off flesh-eating as it is for the 
drunkard to give up his dram; but they will be the better 
for the change. 

"When flesh food is discarded, its place should be supplied 
with a variety of grains, nuts, vegetables and fruits, that 
will be both nourishing and appetizing." Page 316. 

It would seem that the use of fieshmeats must be doubly 
objectionable now, since disease in animals is so rapidly 
increasing. Those who use flesh food little know what they 
are eating. Tuberculosis, cancer and other fatal diseases 
are communicated by the use of contaminated meat. True 
reform always replaces an evil with something better. 

So in the matter of diet, there is a turning away from the 
artificial, from the second-hand to the real substance found 
in nature's great storehouse the Creator's choice for us, 
and that which is best suited to the building of good blood 
and healthy tissues. There is a rhyme that beautifully 
expresses this truth with its resultant tribute: 

"Eat life from life's fresh growing garden, 
Drink life from its myriad store, 

Give life, and its flow, 

E'er increasing, will go 
Again to your open door." 

Health reform, as any other true reform, is a matter of 
education, and must be progressive; vital principles are 
involved, in which are treasured up wisdom of the highest 
order for every seeker after health. 



28 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Various societies are being formed throughout the States 
for the purpose of studying the best means of providing for 
the table, foods which do not harbor pestilence and disease, 
and for studying the development of the culinary art in the 
home in harmony with right principles. Thus it is plainly 
seen that the minds of thinking people are being awakened 
to see the importance of exercising sound judgment and good 
common sense in the matter of the care and preservation of 
health. 

The following course of lessons is in no way intended as a 
complete guide to hygienic cookery. Of the great variety of 
ways in which the grains, fruits, nuts and vegetables may be 
prepared into dishes that are healthful and nourishing, only 
a few. of the most practical can be taken up in this course. 
One of the main objects is to give some of the general princi- 
ples essential to success in this work, followed by practical 
illustrations of methods used. 

For home and class work, this course consists of a series of 
twenty lessons, two lessons each week, each session occu- 
pying two hours. Eight pupils constitute a class, at which 
time practical work is done. Due recognition is given to the 
study of the nutritive value of foods, their digestibility, 
combinations, etc. ; also menu-making and the general princi- 
ples involved in the making of the same. 

The following suggestive course of lessons, may be modi- 
fied by the instructor according to convenience, to the occa- 
sion, or to the length of time given to class periods. A pre- 
vious study of the recipes and instructions following will help 
to make the work very simple and easily understood when 
the hour comes for class. 

SUGGESTIVE COURSE OF LESSONS 

LESSON 1. Cream of tomato soup, corn bread, nut and 
potato pie, prune whip. 

LESSON 2. Vegetable julienne soup, navy bean patties, 
stewed beets, pumpkin pie. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 29 

LESSON 3. Savory lentil roast, brown sauce, fruit soup, 
breaded tomato, whole-wheat sticks. 

LESSON 4. Baked macaroni (family style), nut and potato 
hash, date rolls, apple snow. 

LESSON 5. Potato stew with egg dumplings, boiled onions, 
cream of corn soup, cream rolls. 

LESSON 6. Vegetable salads, dressings, garnitures. 

LESSON 7. Scalloped eggplant, sago fruit mold, walnut 
lentil patties, tomato sauce. 

- LESSON 8. Invalid dietary gruels, eggnog, browned rice, 
drinks, service, cream rice pudding. 

LESSON 9. Baked dressing, macaroni and rice croquettes, 
cream sauce, lemon pie. 

LESSON 10. Vegetable gelatin orange, lemon, berry; fruit 
salads, sauces. 

LESSON 11. Spanish rice, hoe cake, creamed carrots, lemon 
snow, custard sauce. 

LESSON 12. Yeast breads, rolls, buns, etc., whole-wheat 
puffs. 

LESSON 13. Fresh fruit, canning, jelly, baked tomatoes, 
fruit crisps. 

LESSON 14. Family potato soup, stewed vegetable oyster, 
scalloped potato, walnut timbales, bread pudding. 

LESSON 15. Layer cake, jelly roll, vanilla wafers, frosting, 
ornamenting. 

LESSON 16. Steamed rice, cream noodles, loaf cake, Dutch 
apple cake, lemon sauce. 

LESSON 17. Corn nut pie, Duchess potato, potato cakes, 
potato en surprise, spinach, hot slaw. 

LESSON 18. Sterilized milk, yogurt, scalloped summer 
squash, stuffed bell peppers, blanc mange, strawberry flum- 
mery. 

LESSON 19. String beans, asparagus hollandaise, scalloped 
tomato, New England dinner, floating island. 

LESSON 20. Cream of lettuce, macaroni with olives, scal- 
loped beets, baked parsnips, prune pudding. 



30 FOOD AND COOKERY 

PREPARATION OF FOODS 

The manner of preparing our food has much to do with our 
usefulness in this life, and with the building of our charac- 
ters. The health of the family may be safeguarded by a 
careful well-ordered diet, and this subject should appeal to 
every thinking mother. As a science, cooking is one of the 
most essential in practical life, and more than this, it is one 
of the fine arts. Our aim should not be simply to arrange 
some concoction to appeal to a perverted appetite, without 
any consideration of its digestive qualities. Our cooks need 
education in making foods that nourish. Imperfect knowl- 
edge of cooking leads to diseases of every kind; and both 
children and adults suffer as a consequence. 

The object sought in cooking is twofold: First, to render 
the food more digestible; second, to develop its flavors, mak- 
ing it more palatable and inviting. No indifference should be 
manifested in the preparation of food. If the food eaten is 
not relished, the body will not be so well nourished. Food 
should be prepared in such a manner that it will be appetiz- 
ing as well as nourishing. 

In order to attain to this high ideal of cookery, true recog- 
nition must be given to two fundamental principles of suc- 
cessful cookery, which are simplicity and appetizing serving: 
First, aim to preserve or develop the natural flavors of the 
food under hand (do not cover them up) ; secondly, aim to 
satisfy the sense of sight and the sense of smell, as they have 
a direct bearing upon the digestion. Foods that are pleasing 
to the sense of sight and to the sense of smell, stimulate a 
liberal flow of digestive juices, while disagreeable sights and 
odors hinder the same. 

A glance at Plate I will show the foods which contain the 
highest per cent of nutritive value. Vegetables contain a 
small amount of nutriment. They are valuable, however, 
for their flavors and for the large quantity of organic fluid 
and mineral matter which they contain. Combined with 



FOOD AND COOKERY 31 

grains and nuts, they furnish the needed bulk to the food. 
The grains are a highly nutritious food, and with nuts and 
fruit, make a perfect and ideal diet. 

ESSENTIALS TO SUCCESS 

The prerequisite to success in this work is similar to that 
in any other kind of work viz., "Plan, then work your 
plan." Take the preparation of the first recipe given for 
whole-wheat puffs, for an example. 

The first step to be taken is to see that the fire is built in 
time, so the oven will be at the proper temperature when the 
batter is ready. Use only heavy iron gem-pans, which should 
be put in the oven to heat while the batter is in preparation. 
Have all the ingredients measured and the needed utensils 
all at hand, before starting to combine the articles for bread. 
This is very essential in all baking; especially in making 
aerated breads, cakes, etc. 

Another point that needs to be emphasized is the need of 
accurate measurements. There are some simple things which 
an experienced cook can make without taking the trouble to 
measure, but how of ten we hear the remark made of "good 
luck" or "bad luck" with a recipe. Now, there is no such 
thing as "luck," for the simple reason that every effect has 
its cause, and this is as true in cooking as in other kinds of 
work. If we have a good recipe and follow it exactly, using 
exact measurements, there is no reason why we should not 
get the same results each time. 

The ordinary kitchen cup, holding one-half pint, with 
divisions indicating the half, third and fourth parts of a cup- 
ful, is generally taken as the standard. Unless otherwise 
stated, a cup, tablespoon or teaspoon of liquid or dry mater- 
ials means a measure that is ' 'level full." In dry measure 
this is best accomplished by filling the measure full and run- 
ning the blade of a knife over the top with the edge outward 
to make it level. Care should be taken not to pack the 
ingredients: for this reason, weighing is always considered 
the safest, although not always as convenient as measuring. 



32 FOOD AND COOKERY 

It might be well to state here that there are many measur- 
ing cups on the market, sold as one-half-pint cups, that hold 
quite a little more than that amount. Care should be exer- 
cised in getting a cup measure which holds one-forth of a 
quart. If a larger one is used, allowance must be made. 

As a guide in measuring, the following table will be help- 
ful, and may be followed with good results: 

3 teaspoons - equal 1 tablespoon. 
2 tablespoons of sugar or liquid equal 1 ounce. 

16 tablespoons - equal 1 cup. 

4 cups - equal 1 quart. 
4 cups flour - - equal 1 pound. 
2 cups sugar and most liquids equal 1 pound. 

10 eggs - equal 1 pint. 

9 whites - - equal 1 cup. 

12 yolks (large) - equal 1 cup. 

FREE FATS 

The question of the use of "free fats" in cooking should 
receive the most careful attention. Foods that are deficient 
in fat usually require the addition of some kind of fat to 
make them palatable, but there is a great difference between 
supplying this lack by a moderate and sensible use of the 
same, and that of having the food "soaked in grease." The 
following instruction on the use of free fats in cooking, by a 
physician of long practical experience, gives some good 
reasons why rich, greasy and fried foods should be avoided, 
and their place supplied by dishes, the preparation of which 
has been governed by temperance, even in the use of nature's 
good things: 

"Fats are divided into two forms, free fats and emulsified 
fats. Examples of free fat are butter and oils, both animal 
and vegetable. Examples of emulsified fats are found in 
nearly all vegetables, especially in nuts and olives, and in 
milk and cream. 

"Emulsified fats are in proper form to take into the body 
as food, while free fats have to be emulsified in the alimen- 
tary canal in order to be assimilated. The less free fat, 



FOOD AND COOKERY 33 

therefore, that is taken in food, the better for the digestive 
organs. Free fats not only require emulsifying in the intes- 
tines, but they prevent the action of the digestive juices 
upon the other food elements, such as starch and albumen, 
and so hinder the digestive processes. This is especially true 
of fried foods, where each part of the food is surrounded by 
a layer of fat, thus keeping the digestive juices from acting 
on the other food elements." 

Whenever oil is called for in a recipe, unless otherwise 
stated, the refined cottonseed oil, crisco or kaola is generally 
used. 

The accompanying recipe for "vegetable butter" is now 
being used for cooking, and also for table use. The preva- 
lence of tuberculosis in dairy herds from which the public milk 
supply is derived, has encouraged many to try an article 
which is more free from the germs of disease. 

This fat being in a semi-emulsified form, renders it easily 
digested when eaten cold. Evidence of its emulsion is shown 
in the fact that the butter dish after using may be rinsed 
out in cold water. 

This butter does not return again to its original consistency 
in cooking as one would suppose; that is, it does not separ- 
ate if kept covered, unless superheated. If kept covered, it 
does not "melt" in hot weather, and is less greasy in cooked 
food than dairy butter, and when mixed with a food that is 
done, as for instance, if added to a soup that is done, it should 
be whipped up with some of the hot liquid, otherwise it will 
float on top in one piece. 

In making a roux for soup or for cream sauce, or choux 
paste for patties and croquettes, the vegetable - butter can 
be used in the same manner and in the same proportion 
as dairy butter. The recipes in this book have been so 
arranged that whenever butter is called for, either vegetable 
or dairy butter can be used as desired. Nothing but the 
best cottonseed oil obtainable should be used. 



34 FOOD AND COOKERY 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 
1. Vegetable Butter 

1 egff. 1 quart bottle salad oil (refined cottonseed oil). 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 2 teaspoons salt (level). 

Break the egg into a round-bottomed bowl and beat fairly 
well with Dover egg-beater; then pour in the oil gradually, 
beating meanwhile, adding the oil no faster than it can be 
taken up by the egg while beating. When half of the oil 
has been used, add the salt and lemon juice, then add the 
balance of the oil in like manner. Finish by beating thor- 
oughly, then put into a glass jar or bowl with cover. 

By keeping the butter covered when not using, it will keep 
sweet and not separate for ten days or more. Do not put in 
ice box; for after it has been chilled and then gets warm, it 
may separate. The only precaution is to exclude the air, 
then it will keep in hot weather on the pantry shelf. When 
eggs are not too high priced, an extra yolk added to the 
same amount will thin it a very little, and will add much to 
the color and flavor of the butter. The above contains about 
three and one-half cups of oil. A few drops of dandelion 
butter coloring, a pure vegetable extract, will make this 
butter look just like dairy butter, except it will not be so 
firm. 

2. Yogurt 

Yogurt tablets contain the bacillus Bulgaricus and the 
newly discovered germ, gluco-bacteria, which work together 
in combating disease-producing germs in the colon. These 
beneficent germs grow actively in milk at the temperature of 
the body, but grow much more rapidly at a temperature of 
about 115 degrees. 

In making buttermilk with these acid-forming ferments, it 
is necessary first of all to kill the other germs which are 
always found in milk. This is why it is necessary to sterilize 
the milk before making yogurt. Then again, yogurt tablets 
contain the active ferment in a latent form; thus it takes a 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 35 

few hours for them to develop actively. For rapid growth, 
it is necessary that the temperature of the milk should be 
maintained at about 115 degrees. At a lower temperature 
the bacillus Bulgaricus grows very slowly, and when below 
98 degrees it ceases to grow. 

Many fail in the attempt to make yogurt buttermilk 
because of their ignorance of the fact that this milk ferment 
requires a much higher temperature for growth than do the 
ordinary milk-souring ferments. Success in making good 
yogurt depends on closely observing the above principles, 
and if these precautions are heeded in the recipe following, 
the results will be very satisfactory: 

Starter: Heat one pint of milk to boiling point, then set 
into a pan of cold water to cool until it registers 115 degrees. 
Dissolve four yogurt tablets in a little cold milk, and add to 
the warm milk and mix well; then wrap well over top, and 
set in a warm place near a pail of hot water, or on top of 
same for from four to six hours, the object being not to let 
the temperature fall lower than 105 degrees and never below 
98 degrees. As soon as it gets thick, set it in a cold place, 
and in tw r enty-four hours or more you have your starter. It 
is of no account unless it has thickened. This starter will 
keep for days, but it is not good to drink, and it is not neces- 
sary to keep this starter after the first yogurt is made. 

Yogurt: Heat one quart of milk to boiling point, let cool 
to 115 degrees, same as above, then add three teaspoons of 
the yogurt starter. Set away in a warm place well covered 
as above for about six hours, until it has thickened. Then 
set in a cold place. When cold, beat it with an egg whip 
until smooth, and it is ready to drink. This should keep 
sweet for two or three days. The next time it is made, use 
this yogurt for starter, that is, three teaspoons yogurt to the 
quart of milk. 

3. Sterilized Milk 

Milk should not be boiled. Procure a thermometer at a 
hardware store and heat the milk in a double boiler until the 



36 FOOD AND COOKERY 

thermometer registers 160 degrees, and not over 180 degrees. 
Keep the milk at that temperature for thirty minutes; then 
remove the inner part of the double boiler and set into a pan 
of cold water to cool. In this way the milk is not chemically 
changed, as in boiling, and there is less danger of contract- 
ing disease than when used fresh. 

4. Table Butter 

Another good substitute for dairy butter is found 1 by the 
use of the following: 

2 cups kaola (cocoanut butter), or crisco. 3 teaspoons salt (level). 
3 tablespoons carrot juice. 

Grate one medium sized carrot after being scraped, put 
into cloth and express the juice. Mix the ingredients with 
heavy spoon, same as dairy butter; and put in ice box until 
it becomes firm. 

BREAD 

Bread is the most important article of diet, and deserves 
more attention than it receives. Considering the conveni- 
ences which exist everywhere and the wide-spread knowl- 
edge of breadmaking, it seems unnecessary and wrong to 
find poor bread on the table. Home-made bread requires 
care and attention; and then you have the real staff of life. 

Breads are divided into two classes: 1. Unfermented 
made light by the introduction of air into the dough or 
batter; 2. Fermented made light by a ferment, yeast be- 
ing usually employed. Space will not permit us to speak of 
the ill effects following the use of bicarbonate of soda and 
baking-powders in breadmaking; suffice it to say that they 
are harmful and unnecessary. "Soda causes inflammation 
of the stomach, and often poisons the entire system." Air 
may be incorporated into a batter by beating. The use of 
eggs will aid in the process; because the white of egg, on 
account of its viscous nature, readily catches air and helps 
convey it into the batter. The following recipe for whole- 
wheat puffs will help to illustrate these principles: 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 37 

UNFERMENTED BATTER BREADS 

5. Whole-wheat Puffs 

\Vz cups pastry flour, measured after being sifted once. 

V2 cup whole-wheat flour. 1V cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs, separated. 

Put the white flour and salt into mixing bowl, add the 
whole-wheat flour unsifted. Separate the eggs, add the 
milk and yolks to the flour, and stir until smooth with a wire 
batter whip. Beat the whites stiff, pour the batter gradu- 
ally into the beaten whites, folding it in by running a batter 
whip from the edge or side of the bowl down through the 
center and lifting it up so the batter will drop off into the 
bowl; repeat until it is thoroughly mixed, but do not stir. 
Remove the irons from the oven and set them on the edge of 
the stove; rub them with an oiled cloth or brush to prevent 
sticking. Pour the batter from a pitcher into the molds, 
filling them just barely full. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. Two dozen puffs. 

A few dried currants or seedless raisins, washed and dried 
in a towel, may be sprinkled into each mold just before put- 
ting them into the oven, if desired. 

6. Corn Bread 

1 cup cornmeal, 2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon crisco. 

1 cup boiling water. 2 eggs. 

Sift all the dry materials together into mixing bowl; 
sprinkle the crisco over meal; then pour the cup of boiling 
water in a slow stream onto the meal, stirring with a spoon 
as the water is being poured in. If these directions are 
followed, the meal will be scalded just enough to take up 
the cup of water, and will not be soft, neither sticky. If 
too thick, a tablespoon of cold water may be added. It 
should be so thick that it will pile lightly when dropped 
from a spoon. 

Beat the eggs separately, fold the yolks into the stiffly 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



38 FOOD AND COOKERY 

beaten whites, pour the cornmeal batter into the eggs, fold- 
ing it in with a batter whip, and with a large spoon remove 
from the bottom or sides any cornmeal adhering to it. Mix 
it lightly, yet thoroughly, and pour it into an oiled baking- 
pan, having the batter about one or one and one-half inches 
deep. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty 
minutes or more. 

7. Hoe Cake 

1 cup cornmeal. 2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup milk. 2 eggs, separated. 

Sift all the dry materials together into mixing bowl. Heat 
the milk in a sauce-pan, and when boiling hot, pour in a 
slow stream over the meal, stirring as it is being poured in, 
until the right thickness is reached (as it usually requires a 
scant cup of milk to make a smooth thick batter) , so it will 
pile nicely when dropped from spoon. If the batter is too 
thin, the cakes will spread when put on baking sheet, and 
will burn easily. 

Beat the eggs separately, fold the yolks into the stiffly 
beaten whites, then pour on the scalded meal, folding it into 
the eggs with a batter whip, then from the side of a large 
spoon drop it onto an oiled baking sheet in oblong shapes and 
bake on the top grate in a hot oven until a nice brown. 

By using one-fourth cup of cream, or its equivalent one 
tablespoon of oil or butter, only one egg need be used. 

8. Hot Cakes 

% cup coarse zwieback crumbs. 3 tablespoons flour. 

V4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup warm milk. 2 eggs. 

Heat the milk to about 115 degrees. Mix all the dry 
ingredients well, and pour the milk over them, and let stand 
ten minutes. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, and stir 
them into the crumb mixture. Beat the whites stiff; fold 
the crumb mixture into the stiffly beaten whites, and bake 
on an oiled soapstone griddle. 

9. Corn Cakes 

Take the mixture for hoe cake, and bake the same as the 
above recipe. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 39 

UNFERMENTED DOUGH BREADS 

The earliest forms of bread were "unleavened breads." 
This term has been applied to hard breads, such as the 
"passover cakes" of the Israelites, and other breads in the 
form of thin cakes, sticks, etc. These hard breads are 
without doubt the most wholesome, because they encourage 
thorough mastication; and being free from any chemical or 
ferment, they are very easily digested in the stomach. 

By dropping the following sticks or rolls into boiling 
water, and let them remain a few minutes until they come 
to the surface, then skim them out and bake as usual, it 
greatly improves their flavor. It also covers the entire sur- 
face with a glaze which gives them a very attractive appear- 
ance. 

10. Cream Rolls 

2 cups pastry flour. Va cup rich cream. 

Y2 teaspoon salt. V cup water. 

Sift the flour before measuring. Put the flour and salt 
into sifter and sift again into mixing bowl. Add the water 
to the cream and mix well; then pour the wetting onto the 
flour in a slow stream, stirring the flour quickly so as to get 
the moisture evenly blended. Work it into a dough for a 
few minutes on a slightly floured board. Roll out to about 
one-third inch in thickness, and cut into long strips about 
one-third inch wide. Roll them on a board and cut them 
into two and one-half- to three-inch lengths. Lay them in 
a baking-pan, leaving a little space between them, and bake 
in a medium oven until well done and a light brown. 

11. Whole-wheat Sticks 

1 cup sifted pastry flour. Vz cup whole-wheat flour. 

2 teaspoons sugar. Vz teaspoon salt. 

\Vz tablespoons oil. Vs cup cold water. 

Put the flour, sugar and salt into bowl, add the oil; rub the 
flour between the hands to distribute the oil evenly; then add 
the water and mix as for cream rolls; knead on a board for 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



40 FOOD AND COOKERY 

a minute and roll out into one-third inch in thickness. Cut 
it with a dull knife into long strips about one-third inch 
wide, then cut crosswise into sticks about three inches in 
length. Bake in a medium oven until well done and a light 
brown color. 

12. Fruit Crisps 

1% cups sifted pastry flour. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 2M> tablespoons oil. H cup water. 

-.-, cup ground sultana raisins or figs. 

Sift the flour, sugar and salt into a mixing bowl; add the 
oil, and rub it well into the flour; add the water, and mix as 
for whole-wheat sticks. Roll it out into a long thin sheet 
as for pie-crust. Have the raisins or figs previously washed 
and dried in a clean towel; then put through a fine mill, lay 
on a well-floured board, and roll out in a thin sheet so as to 
cover half of the dough; recover with the other half, and roll 
out quite thin, so it will be pressed well together. Cut it 
into squares, crescents or diamond shapes, prick them through 
with a fork, and bake in a very quick oven. Fruit sugars 
burn at a low degree of heat, so the crisps should bake only 
until the crust is baked. If the fruit is allowed to cook, it 
will harden. 

13. Date Rolls 

Make pastry from above recipe. Roll out to one-eighth 
inch thickness, cut in strips two and one-half inches wide, 
moisten back edge of strip of pastry, place stoned dates end 
to end in middle of strip, fold up front edge of pastry, then 
roll over until the back edge meets the front, and cut in 
three-inch lengths. Bake in moderate oven until light brown. 

14. Cocoanut Crisps 

1 cup desiccated cocoanut. 1 cup flour. 

1 tablespoon sugar. a little water. 

Roll and sift the cocoanut before measuring, put all 
ingredients together, add water a little at a time, to make 
very stiff dough. Roll with as little flour as possible until 
very thin, cut in desired shapes, and bake in quick oven. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 41 

15. Walnut Sticks 

\V-2 cups sifted pastry flour. Ys cup whole-wheat flour. 

% cup chopped walnut meats. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

iVz tablespoons oil. Yz teaspoon salt. % cup water. 

Sift the flour, sugar and salt into a mixing bowl, add the 
oil and the nut meats, mix as for whole-wheat sticks, and 
bake in a medium oven until they are about crisp and a very 
light brown color. 

FERMENTED BREADS 

Weight for weight, bread must be considered one of the 
most nutritious of foods. The fact that more than three- 
fifths of it consists of solid nutriment and less than two-fifths 
of water, gives it a special place in the list of foods, and 
there is no animal food and but few cooked vegetable foods 
that can be compared with it. 

In the study of the chemical composition of bread, we find 
that two-thirds of the volume of a good loaf of bread is made 
up of gas, and of the solid part, less than forty per cent 
consists of water. Of the chemical constituents necessary 
for proper nutrition, bread yields a large proportion of 
carbohydrates, a liberal amount of proteid and mineral matter, 
and a small amount of fat, making it one of the most 
nutritious and well-balanced articles of diet. 

"The common use of superfine white flour in breadmaking 
is neither healthful nor economical." While the white-flour 
products have a greater total nutritive value, they are really 
an impoverished food; for in rejecting the germ and the bran, 
the miller discards some of the most useful constituents of 
wheat. With the germ, proteid and fat are lost. And the 
bran being impregnated with mineral matter, when separated 
from the wheat, leaves the bread void of these substances 
which are so necessary for the building of bone, brain and 
nerves. To the natural taste, there is something lacking, 
something not satisfying, in the white bread; but which is 
found in that made from the whole grain. This leaves a 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS ) 



42 FOOD AND COOKERY 

craving which many attempt to satisfy with rich pastries, 
meat, spices and condiments. Fine-flour bread is also a 
frequent cause of constipation and other unhealthy conditions. 

In order to make good bread, it is necessary to have 
good flour. The strength of a flour is determined by the 
quantity of gluten it contains. Gluten is the chief form of 
the proteid of wheat. Its elastic qualities, when mixed with 
water and acted upon by yeast, allow the gas formed to 
expand without danger of escape. The best flour generally 
proves to be the most economical, for while it costs more 
than the inferior grades,, it is in reality cheaper, because a 
given quantity of good flour makes more and better bread 
than the same quantity of poor flour. The best bread flour 
is of a cream white color, and when a handful is taken and 
squeezed, it should not retain the imprint of the fingers, but 
should fall like dry sand. Ordinary pastry flour, when 
handled in this way, will retain its shape in the hand, remain- 
ing in one lump. 

Quick-rising bread, that is, bread which is brought out in 
about six or seven hours, requires more yeast than bread 
which is allowed to rise over night, but is generally more 
satisfactory; for the more times bread is allowed to rise, the 
lighter and finer grained it will be; but some of the wheat 
flavor will be destroyed. This is the reason that ordinary 
baker's bread is always lacking in that sweet, nutty wheat 
flavor, which so characterizes home-made bread, and which 
makes it so satisfying. The idea, therefore, to be kept 
before us in breadmaking is to produce an' article rich in 
nutritive elements, toothsome and easily digested. 

Fermented bread is usually made by mixing to a dough, 
flour, water, salt and yeast, a small amount of sugar being 
added to hasten fermentation. The dough is then kneaded 
until it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, 
the object being to incorporate air and to distribute the yeast 
uniformly. It is then covered and allowed to rise until it 
doubles its bulk and does not respond to the touch, or when 



FOOD AND COOKERY 43 

tapped sharply with the fingers, it gradually but stubbornly 
begins to sink down. 

At this stage, the bread is proofed, which is a very impor- 
tant consideration in order to have light, nice bread; and will 
require all the way from three to three and one-half hours, 
and it is best accomplished at a temperature ranging from 
75 to 85 degrees. It is then pressed down in the center, and 
worked together a little, turned over in the bowl, and allowed 
to rise again until about half its former bulk. This will take 
about three-quarters of an hour or more. It is then turned 
out on a lightly floured board, and kneaded a few minutes, to 
break the air bubbles and to distribute evenly the gas formed. 
Then it is molded into loaves, put into pans, and allowed to 
rise until it doubles its bulk, when it is ready for baking. 

Bread should never be allowed to rise until it begins to 
fall of itself. At this stage it has risen too much, and 
borders on sourness. There are three stages of fermentation; 
namely, alcoholic, acetous and putrefactive. Bread should 
be baked during the alcoholie stage. If fermentation is 
allowed to go on after the yeast has done its work, bacterial 
action begins which results in sour bread. 

It is very important to know when the bread is sufficiently 
light after it has been placed in the pans. It should never 
be allowed to rise to its limit before it is put into the oven; 
but should continue to rise for the first ten to twelve minutes 
after it has been put into the oven. It is better to bake the 
bread a little too soon, than to allow it to rise too much. If 
it rises too much, it will be coarse grained and tasteless. If 
the bread should in any way get too light in the pans, it may 
be molded over and allowed to rise again. 

To test the lightness of the dough in the pans, press the 
loaf gently with the finger, and if it responds quickly to the 
touch, it may be allowed to rise more. If it responds slowly, 
it should be put into the oven immediately. 

Whole-wheat or graham bread must not be allowed to go 
quite so far in the process of fermentation as white bread. 



44 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Because of the bulkiness of the whole grain, the gas escapes 
more easily than from that made with a strong gluten flour. 
Graham and whole-wheat bread should be watched closely 
during the different stages of development, as they rise and 
get light in less time than white bread. Where whole-wheat 
flour is made from good hard wheat, that is, wheat which is 
grown where the summers are short and not too hot, the 
best bread is made from the whole grain, using no white 
flour, or very little. The dough is a little harder to handle, 
but you have the sweet wheat flavor. The mineral substances 
contained in wheat, which are so essential to health, are then 
retained in the' bread, adding much to its flavor. 

The western wheat, also that grown farther south, is a 
soft wheat and does not of itself make good bread, but must 
be combined with a strong gluten flour. It is very often that 
graham or whole-wheat flour is made from this kind of 
wheat; then it can only be used in breadmaking in the pro- 
portion of one part graham or whole-wheat to two parts 
strong white-bread flour, or about these proportions. 

Bread is also made by setting a sponge at the beginning, 
making a batter of the water, yeast and flour, and letting it 
rise until the batter gets charged with the yeast, then adding 
any other ingredients, as fruit and shortening for fruit bread, 
the shortening for buns, or the cracked grain for coarse 
bread; and then working it all into a dough. Ordinary white 
bread, whole-wheat and graham, are often made by the same 
process. A sponge is sufficiently light when it appears 
frothy and is full of bubbles. The time required will vary 
with the quantity and quality of yeast used, and the tem- 
perature of the room where it is set to rise. 

As a general rule, with the best quality of bread flour, 
three measures of flour to one of water are required to make 
a dough of the proper consistency. For whole-wheat or 
graham bread, a little less flour is used to the same amount 
of liquid. Buns and fruit bread which must be of a softer 
dough, require still less flour, as may be seen later. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 45 

The most convenient yeast is that sold as compressed yeast. 
It should be used only when fresh, which may be determined 
by its light color and absence of dark streaks. When com- 
pressed yeast is not obtainable, very good bread is made 
from dried yeast, as in the following recipe: 

1 cake dried yeast. 2 cups potato water. 

% cup sugar. 

Drain the water from mashed potatoes at noon; and when 
it is cooled to about 100 degrees, add the sugar and yeast 
cake broken up; put in glass jar and set in a warm, place 
until next morning. Liquid should measure two cups. 

16. "Mother's Bread" 

Add one quart of warm water to the above yeast. The 
water should be so warm that after the yeast is added, the 
liquid has a temperature of about 85 degrees. Beat in six 
cups best bread flour, and let rise until light (about two 
hours) ; then add two tablespoons crisco or vegetable oil, 
two and one-half tablespoons salt, six cups graham flour, 
and about five and one-half more cups of white flour, or 
enough to make a dough that will knead well and not stick 
to the board. Knead ten minutes and put in an oiled pan to 
rise (which should take about three hours) . When light and 
about double its bulk, knock it down and work it well 
together; let rise again until about half its original bulk, 
then work together well, divide into loaves, and put in pans 
for baking. Read directions carefully for kneading, proof- 
ing and baking, as given in following recipe for white bread. 
In cold weather the flour should be warmed. 

17. Wheat Bread 

6 cups best bread flour. 1 pint water. 

Vs ounce compressed yeast. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Sift the flour into a mixing bowl and make a hollow in the 
middle; dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add the salt, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



46 FOOD AND COOKERY 

sugar and oil, and pour into the flour. Take out from the 
side a good handful of flour to be used on the board, draw in 
the flour with a large spoon and make it into a dough, turn 
out on a floured board. Rub off all the particles of dough 
sticking to the sides and bottom of the dish, and knead until 
it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, using 
as little flour as possible to keep the bread from sticking to 
the board. By keeping the bread in motion continuously, 
very little flour will be needed. The kneading of white bread 
will take about twenty minutes or more. Oil the bowl and 
drop bread in, turn it over in the bowl so it leaves the top 
oiled, which will help to keep a crust from drying on. Cover 
well and let it rise until it doubles its bulk and does riot 
respond to the touch, using the test given above. This will 
take about three hours or more, then knock it down in the 
center and work it together, turn it over in the bowl, and 
let it rise until it is about one-half more than its former 
bulk, then turn it out on a slightly floured board and work 
it together for a few minutes. Divide it into three pieces, 
knead each loaf into a hard ball, flatten down and roll the 
dough up into a hard roll, and drop it into an oiled bread tin. 
In molding the bread into loaves, it is very important that 
each loaf be well worked together. If the bread is put into 
pans in soft loaves, that is, soft because they were not 
worked enough, the bread will rise flat on top instead of 
rounded, and will be apt to fall when put into the oven. 
After being put into pans, brush over the top of each loaf 
with oil to keep a crust from drying on. 

Bread should be baked in a quick oven to begin with. The 
oven should not be so hot as to burn the outside of the loaf 
before the inside is cooked, but should be of such a tem- 
perature that the bread may rise for the first ten minutes 
or more, and then have sufficient crust to hold it up, when 
the fire should be closed up to hold a steady heat until the 
bread is done. For the small loaves, forty to forty-five 
minutes is generally sufficient; for the larger ones or those 
of ordinary size, one hour to an hour and a quarter. A well- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 47 

baked loaf may be lifted from the pan and placed upon the 
palm of the hand without burning it. This should always be 
the case when bread is well-baked and the moisture evap- 
orated. When done, remove from the pans and lay on the 
side on a wire rack to cool. If brushed over the top with 
warm water just after taking out of the oven, the crust of 
the bread will keep softer and it will give a nice color. 

18. Whole- wheat Bread 

3% cups white bread flour. 2 cups whole-wheat flour. 

1 pint water. M> ounce yeast. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Mix the dough the same as for white bread, only that it is 
not to be kneaded so long; work it enough to mix well, 
kneading it lightly, and put it into an oiled dish; cover, and 
finish the same as for white bread, only it needs a little 
closer watching, and must not be quite so light in the pans 
as white bread. The whole-wheat and graham flour used in 
these recipes are made from the western wheat mixed with 
a strong gluten white flour. 

19. Graham Bread 

Same as whole-wheat bread, except that graham flour is 
used instead of whole-wheat. 

20. Fruit Bread, Rolls, Buns 

5 cups bread flour. 1% cups water. '/2 ounce yeast. 

Vs cup sugar. V* cup oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

2 cups sultana raisins. 2 eggs. 

The eggs may be omitted if desired. Sift the flour, salt 
and sugar into a bowl, dissolve the yeast in the warm water 
(about 105 degrees) , add the beaten eggs, and pour it on one 
side of the flour in the bowl. Stir in enough flour to make a 
batter that will drop from a spoon, quite thick; cover, and 
let it rise until very light and full of bubbles (about one and 
a half to two hours) . Then add the oil and beat it into the 
sponge until no oil is visible, care being taken not to get the 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



48 FOOD AND COOKERY 

dry flour mixed with oil, for "yeast does not readily absorb 
greased flour." When the oil is worked into the sponge, 
add the raisins, previously scalded and warm. Draw in the 
flour and work it into a dough. Turn out on a well-floured 
board, and dust with flour to keep it from sticking to the 
hands; fold it over and work it together until well mixed 
about ten minutes or more, then cover and let it rise to full 
proof as for white bread, using same test for lightness. 
Then knock it down and work it well together, and let it rise 
again until it is about two-thirds its former bulk, then it is 
ready to be molded and put into pans. Finish the same as 
for white bread. 

The same dough may be made into buns or rolls, and if a 
finer grain is desired than this, the dough may be pounded 
back the second time, letting it rest a half hour before 
making it into buns. This dough must always be a soft 
dough. 

21. Graham Buns 

3 cups bread flour. iVfc cups graham flour. 

1% cups water. Vz ounce yeast. 

V2 cup oil. 2 teaspoons salt. 

Sift the white flour, salt and sugar into a mixing bowl, 
dissolve the yeast in the warm water, pour on one side of 
the white flour, and make a sponge as for fruit bread. 
When light and full of bubbles, add the oil and mix into the 
sponge by beating with a large spoon; add the graham flour, 
and mix all into a dough. 

Have the board well floured to begin with, as this must be 
a very soft dough. Turn out the dough, sprinkle it over 
with a very little flour to keep it from sticking to the hands. 
Pat it down with the hands, fold it over and work it 
together until it is well mixed, using just enough flour to 
keep it from sticking to the board. Return the dough to the 
bowl, then cover and let it rise until it is light, using the 
same test as for whole-wheat bread; then knock it down in 
the center, turn it over in the bowl, and let it rise until 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 49 

about one-third more than its former bulk, or for about 
twenty minutes. Then turn out on a floured board, work 
together very lightly, mold and roll out into buns about one 
ounce in weight each, lay quite close together in an oiled 
pan, and let them rise until they respond very weakly to 
the pressure of the finger, and bake in a quick oven. 

22. Bran Biscuit 

6 cups bread flour. 1% cups graham flour. 2V-2 cups bran. 

1% cups water. % cup scalded cream. 

Vs cup melted crisco or butter. 1 egg. % cup sugar 

M> ounce compressed yeast. 1% tablespoons salt. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add three cups 
white bread flour and one and one-half cups graham, and 
make a medium soft dough; let rise until, when tapped with 
fingers, it begins to sink down lightly (about one and one- 
half hours). Work it down well, cover, and let it rise again 
until about half again its original bulk, then add the warm 
cream, shortening, sugar, beaten eggs and salt. Work all 
into the dough until well blended, then add the remaining 
white flour and bran; mix thoroughly into a stiff dough, 
cover, and let rise for about an hour or more, using the 
above test for lightness; then work together, lay on board 
and roll out to a scant half-inch thickness. Cut with biscuit- 
cutter and lay in baking-pan, leaving a little space between 
each; let rise until nearly double its bulk, then bake in a 
good oven. 

23. Parker House Rolls with Milk 

2 cups scalded milk. % cup crisco. Vs cup sugar. 

3 teaspoons salt. 2 eggs. 5V6 cups best flour. 

Y2 ounce compressed yeast dissolved in Vi cup warm water. 

Cool the milk to about 105 degrees, add the dissolved yeast 
and beaten eggs, and beat in three cups of flour, making a 
smooth batter by beating for a few minutes. Cover, and let 
stand in a warm place until it is light and frothy, which will 
require about two hours. Then add the crisco, sugar and 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 
4 



50 FOOD AND COOKERY 

salt, and beat in thoroughly; add the balance of flour, and 
mix well. Turn out on floured board, fold it over and over 
until it is well mixed, then let rise same as for fruit bread. 
When light, divide the dough into one and one-half-ounce 
pieces. Then divide each piece into two, rolling them into 
small round buns and lay on floured board. When they are 
risen to nearly half again their original bulk, have a small 
roller about the size of a broom stick in circumference, and 
make a crease in the center of each, oil one half, fold the 
other half over it, and press together on the side where the 
crease has been made. Lay in oiled baking-pan, let rise 
until very light, then bake in a quick oven. 

24. Cut Zwieback 

Cut bread in slices about three-fourths of an inch thick, 
put in shallow baking-pan in single layers, and put in a very 
slow oven or a warming oven for three hours or more, until 
thoroughly dried. Then put into a moderate oven, and allow 
it to brown to a golden color through entire thickness. 
Bakers' bread makes very good zwieback. 

25. Pulled Zwieback 

Take fresh bread, break carefully, pulling into pieces 
instead of using pressure. The pieces should be about the 
size of a medium apple. Proceed to dry and bake same as 
for cut zwieback. 

SOUPS 

Soups are usually divided into two classes: 

1. Broths or thin soups, to which may be added cooked 
grains or vegetables cut in various shapes and sizes for 
garniture, and to give variety and flavor. While these thin 
soups are lacking in the nutriment to be found in those made 
of more solid foods, they are valuable, for the stimulating 
effect they have on the gastric juice, and when taken at the 
beginning of the meal and in small quantities, they aid in the 
digestion of the more solid foods. 

2. Those which usually have as their basis cooked vege- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 51 

tables, grains or legumes, forced through a strainer and 
diluted with the liquid in which they were cooked, or with 
milk or cream, or both. Like all other foods, soups require 
the action of the saliva for digestion, and when eaten slowly 
with some dry food, as sticks or croutons, are both appe- 
tizing and nourishing. 

26. Cream of Tomato Soup A 

1 cup tomato pulp. % cup cream. 

1 tablespoon flour. salt to taste. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Bring the tomato to 
a boil in another sauce-pan, thicken each slightly with flour 
braided smooth in cold water; then set on the edge of the 
stove and pour the tomato into the prepared cream, season 
to taste, strain again through a fine strainer, and serve. 
By thickening the cream and tomato slightly before mixing, 
the curdling, which is such a frequent cause of disappoint- 
ment in making this soup, is largely avoided. Canned cream 
may be added to the tomato, if desired, in the place of 
fresh cream, adding it unheated to the prepared tomato. 

27. Cream of Tomato Soup B 

1 cup tomato pulp. 1 scant tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

salt to taste. 

Heat the tomato to boiling point, as in the above recipe, 
thicken slightly as directed in same, to prevent the tomato 
from curdling the milk. Heat the milk separately; put the 
butter and flour in a sauce-pan on stove, and stir for a 
minute, add a little of the milk and stir smooth; add balance 
of the milk, boil up; pour the tomato gradually into the 
prepared cream, stirring briskly; salt to taste, strain through 
fine strainer, and serve. 

28. Cream of Corn Soup 

Vz cup corn pulp. 1% cups milk. 

% cup rich cream. 2 teaspoons flour. 

Grind the corn through a fine mill, put into a double 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



52 FOOD AND COOKERY 

boiler with the milk, and heat to boiling point; braid the 
flour smooth in cold milk or water, stir into the corn, and 
let it cook twenty minutes; mash through a strainer and 
finish with the cream; add salt to taste, and serve. 

29. Cream of Green Peas Soup 

V2 can green peas. % cup water. 

1 cup milk. 11> cup rich cream. 

Add the water to the peas, and heat it to the boiling point, 
then mash them through a colander; heat the milk and cream 
in a double boiler. Force the peas through a colander, add 
the hot milk and cream, season, and strain through a fine 
strainer. Fresh peas are far the best for this soup when in 
season. 

30. Family Potato Soup 

\Vz cups thinly sliced raw potato. iVz cups cold water. 

i/2 cup rich milk or cream. 1 teaspoon onion. 

1*4 teaspoons salt. chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Put the potato, butter, salt, onion and water to cook until 
the potato is well done; add the hot cream and stir well 
together, sprinkle in the parsley, and serve. 

31. Lima Bean Soup 

Wash one cup of Lima beans and put on the fire to cook 
with one teaspoon vegetable oil or butter and enough cold 
water to cook them well done; add salt when they are half 
done. When they are done, there should be plenty of liquid 
to cover them well. Mash through colander. Beat up one 
teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter with one cup hot milk; 
stir into the soup, mix well. Serve with croutons. Service 
for five. A small onion may be boiled in the beans and 
removed when done if desired. 

32. Vegetable Oyster Soup 

1 cup thinly sliced vegetable oyster. IM cups cold water. 

1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

*/2 tablespoon flour. 1 scant teaspoon salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



POOD AND COOKERY 53 

Wash and scrape small tender salsify and drop immedi- 
ately into cold water to keep them from turning dark. 
Shave them in just as thin slices as possible, and drop them 
immediately into water until you have the right amount. 
Drain and measure one and one-half cups cold water, add 
one-half teaspoon salt and one teaspoon of butter, and cook 
until thoroughly done and the liquid is reduced to one cup or 
less. Heat the milk; then take one teaspoon of the butter 
and the flour and stir it over fire for a moment, then add a 
little of the hot milk and stir until thick and smooth; add a 
little more milk and stir smooth to avoid lumps. Add bal- 
ance of milk and boil up; add one-half teaspoon salt and 
pour into the vegetable oyster; reheat and serve. The 
reason for adding cold water to fresh vegetables in soup, is 
to extract the flavor into the broth; hot water retains flavor 
in the vegetable. Two portions. 

When making cream soups from fresh vegetables, as 
lettuce, cauliflower, spinach, onion, etc., the vegetable is 
used simply as a flavor, the body of the soup being made from 
a mixture of potato, water and onion, and the vegetable 
added for flavor and garniture. Thus, by being able to 
make one of these soups, others can be made by substitut- 
ing different vegetables for flavor and change. As an illus- 
tration, we give the following: 

33. Cream of Lettuce Soup 

1 cup sliced raw potato. 1 cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 stalk celery. sprig parsley. 

1M> tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

% cup diced lettuce. Va cup rich milk. 

salt to taste. 

Put the potato, onion, celery, water and salt to cook and 
when the potato is about half done, add the lettuce and 
sprig of parsley, if at hand; let it boil rapidly for ten min- 
utes or more; then mash through a colander, adding the hot 
milk and butter as it goes through. Put again through a 
fine strainer, serve with croutons or small bits of shredded 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



54 FOOD AND COOKERY 

and wilted lettuce. Very green or outside leaves of lettuce 
are bitter, and should not be used for soup, but should be 
first removed. 

34. Tomato Bisque Soup 

1 cup tomato pulp. 1 cup water. 

1 cup bean broth. 2 teaspoons chopped onion. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. , bay leaf. 

1 tablespoon nut butter. pinch of thyme. 

sprig parsley. salt. 

Put the butter, parsley, thyme, bay leaf and onion in a 
sauce-pan and stir over the fire a few moments, add all the 
liquids and boil gently for fifteen minutes, dissolve the nut 
butter in a little water; add this nut cream, a dash of celery 
salt and salt to taste; boil up, strain, and serve. 

35. Vegetable Chowder 

V4 cup turnip cut in small dice. 1 1 cup carrot. 

V4 cup cabbage. 1 stalk celery. 2 tablespoons onion. 

V'2 cup potato, small piece of sweet bell pepper. 
lYs tablespoons browned flour. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

1% tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter, 
pinch of sage or thyme. 4 cups water. salt to taste. 

Put the coarse vegetables into a sauce-pan, together with 
the butter, flour, sage and salt. Cover and let simmer for 
a few minutes, stirring now and then. Add the cold water, 
potato and tomato and let cook until done. Finish with a 
little chopped parsley, and serve. 

36. Vegetable Julienne 

Vz cup potato. 14 cup carrot. Vi cup turnip. 1 stalk celery. 

2 tablespoons onion. Vz cup cauliflowerlets. 

1 small tomato. 2 cups cold water. 

2 cups bean broth or vegetable broth. 

2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter, chopped parsley. 

Cut all the vegetables except the cauliflowerlets into fine 
shreds of about three-fourth-inch lengths. Put all the vege- 
tables except the parsley into sauce-pan with the butter and 
let steam for a few minutes over the fire, stirring occasion- 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 55 

ally; add the tomato and all the liquids, salt to taste and 
boil until the vegetables are tender, add chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

37. Farmers' Favorite Soup 

% cup rich sour cream. % cup macaroni, raw. 

1 small onion. 1 stalk celery. % cup finely diced carrot. 

1 cup diced potato. chopped parsley. salt. 

Cook the cream down in skillet, stirring constantly until 
the oil separates and the albumen turns a light brown color 
(the degree of browning determines the flavor of the soup). 
Add the diced carrot, onion and celery and stir over the fire 
for a few minutes, but do not brown; add three cups cold 
water and the diced potato and salt and let cook until the 
vegetables are thoroughly done. Drop the macaroni into 
three cups of boiling water and cook until thoroughly done, 
add the macaroni water to the vegetable soup; then lay the 
macaroni on board and cut into small rings, drop into soup 
and boil up well, add chopped parsley, and serve. Service 
for six. 

38. Potage St. Germain 

1 cup sliced raw potato. Ys can green peas. 

V\ cup celery. 1 tablespoon onion. 2 cups water. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Add the sliced potato, celery, onion and salt to the water, 
and boil until the potatoes are well cooked. Add the peas, 
bring to a boil, mash up well with an egg-beater, and force 
through a fine strainer; season with the butter, and serve 
with croutons. 

39. Fruit Soup A 

1 cup blackberry or strawberry juice. 2 tablespoons sago. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup water. 

sugar to taste. 

Put the sago in dish and wash in cold water, pour off as 
much water as possible from dish; put into double boiler with 
one cup hot water and let steam until clear. Add the juices 
and sweeten to taste. Very nice served cold. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS) 



56 FOOD AND COOKERY 

40. Fruit Soup B 

1H cups berry juice. ip stewed raisins. 

6 cooked prunes. 3 tablespoons sago. 

sugar to taste. 2 cups water. 

Wash sago same as above and put to cook in two cups hot 
water until the sago is clear. Stone and quarter the prunes, 
mix all the ingredients and sweeten to taste. 

GRAINS, NUT FOODS, ENTREES 

In seeking to provide a balanced diet, a few suggestions 
may be helpful. In the first place, flesh foods contain a very 
high percentage of proteid matter, with no carbohydrates; 
thus, in a given quantity eaten, too much proteid is the 
inevitable result. This high percentage of proteid, as stated 
in the preceding chapter, is a heavy tax on the digestive 
organs. Therefore, it should not be our aim to bring the 
percentage of proteid up to that contained in meat; this 
would only tend to defeat one of the main objects of health 
reform, that of providing a balanced diet, of which proteid 
should constitute ten per cent of the number of calories per 
day, fats twenty, and carbohydrates seventy. 

The comparison between the body and the locomotive 
engine serves as an illustration for studying the fuel value 
of foods. While iron is essential to keep the engine in 
repairs, the greatest demand, however, will be for fuel with 
which to heat the boiler. So in the vital economy, proteid, 
like iron, is essential for the growth and repair of tissue and 
the body waste; but beyond this it is inferior to carbohy- 
drates and fats; and as different kinds of wood and coal are 
capable of giving off different degrees of heat, and also giving 
off that heat in longer or shorter periods of time, so different 
kinds of food-stuffs work in about the same way. Also 
different kinds of coal, after being burned, leave a residue 
of clinkers to be raked out of the furnace; so with the over- 
eating of proteid foods, there is an extra amount of work 
for the kidneys to rid the system of accumulated poisons. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS ) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 57 

Then we should remember that fresh vegetables are by no 
means the most nutritious food, for, as may be clearly seen, 
water enters largely into their composition. Some, in leaving 
off flesh foods, make a mistake in making vegetables, as 
roots and tubers, the principal articles of diet. These vege- 
tables, with grains and nuts, will give a well-balanced diet. 
The legumes are a highly nutritious food, and when properly 
prepared may be used in a variety of ways in making dishes 
that are wholesome and pleasing to the taste. They are, 
however, a heavy food, and for people leading sedentary 
lives, they should not be indulged too freely. 

The various nut foods on the market, composed chiefly of 
grains and nuts, contain the nutritive elements of food in a 
very concentrated form, and should not be eaten too freely, 
but should be combined with other foods. A few examples 
of how they may be made into appetizing dishes will be 
given in some of the following recipes. Other nut foods of 
a similar nature may be used in the place of the ones given, 
if desired. 

LEGUMES 

The most common representatives of this family which are 
used as foods are the various kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils. Taking the world over, legumes are, next to cereals, 
the most valuable and the most extensively used among 
vegetable foods. They are found in all climates and all 
countries. The lentil is one of the most ancient of food 
plants. It has been grown from early times in Asia and the 
Mediterranean countries. 

Many people with weak digestion often experience distress 
after eating boiled beans or peas. By removing the hulls 
in their preparation, this trouble is largely overcome, and in 
this manner they may be made into a variety of ways that 
are appetizing as well as nourishing. 

41. Stewed Lima Beans 

Pick the beans over, wash them thoroughly, and lift them 
out from the water to remove any small pieces of grit that 



55 FOOD AND COOKERY 

may be on the bottom of the kettle. Put them on the fire 
in cold water; a'dd one teaspoon of vegetable oil to each cup 
of beans, and let them boil gently (after boiling begins) 
until they are thoroughly done; salt should be added after 
they have boiled a half hour or so, to give them flavor. 

42. Baked Lima Beans 

Soak one cup of Lima beans over night, and in the morn- 
ing slip off the skins between the thumb and finger. Put 
them in a small baking-pan with one-half teaspoon salt and 
one teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter, and enough cold 
water to cover them. Put a pan over them and set them in 
the oven to cook, adding a little water as needed, so they do 
not cook down dry. When they are about done, remove the 
pan from the top, and let them brown nicely. Service for 
five persons. 

43. Browned Navy Bean Puree 

2 cups navy bean puree. 3 tablespoons rich cream. 

1 egg yolk. salt. 

Boil the beans the same as for stewed Lima beans; drain 
in a colander; saving the broth for soups or gravies. Mash 
the beans through colander, having them as dry as possible. 
Mix all ingredients, put in oiled baking-pan; brush over with 
a little thin cream or vegetable butter, and bake in a quick 
oven to a light brown color. Service for five persons. 

44. Ribbon Bean Roast 

Ys cup Lima beans. . Vz cup kidney beans. 

Vi cup thick cream. 1 egg yolk. salt. 

Cook the beans separately with a small piece of onion in 
each, and salt to taste; let them cook as dry as possible. 
Drain off the broth, should there be any, and press the 
beans through a colander dry. Add the yolk and cream to 
each mixture, salt to taste, place in alternate layers in brick- 
shaped tin, and bake in a moderate oven until heated through 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 59 

and a nice brown. Serve with cream tomato sauce or gravy. 
Service for five. 

45. Red Beans Spanish 

l l /2 cups red beans. 6 large whole or two cups stewed tomatoes. 

2 round tablespoons minced onion. 1 tablespoon oil. 

salt. 1 small clove garlic. */2 sweet bell pepper. 

Prepare the beans as for stewed Lima beans, put the oil, 
onion, sweet pepper and garlic on the stove in a small sauce- 
pan, and cook a few minutes, but do not brown the onion. 
Add this to the beans with salt, and cook until done; then 
have the ripe tomatoes peeled and quartered, add them to 
the cooked beans, and let them cook for thirty minutes after 
boiling begins, or longer. Season with celery salt, and dish 
up with a little chopped parsley on top. 

In making patties and croquettes of the various legumes 
and cereals, a choux paste serves as a means of holding the 
food together so it can be shaped and baked without adding 
bread crumbs, which have a tendency to cover up the delicate 
flavors in the various foods when cooked together; it also 
retains moisture and keeps the food from drying out while 
serving. 

46. Walnut Lentil Patties 

2 cups lentil puree. Ys cup chopped walnuts. 

\V-2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 3 tablespoons flour. 

Vs cup milk. 1 egg yolk. pinch of sage. 

salt to taste. 

Have the lentils boiled in salted water, same as for stewed 
Lima beans; drain well, and mash them through colander, 
having them as dry as possible. In case they should be too 
soft, let them dry out on the fire or in the oven for- a few 
minutes. 

Put the butter, onion and a sprinkle of sage into small 
sauce-pan, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do 
not let it brown; add the flour, and stir until it is thoroughly 
scalded, then add the hot milk and stir smooth; add the 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



60 FOOD AND COOKERY 

egg yolk and stir until thoroughly cooked and a thick paste. 
Salt to taste, then add the lentil puree and mix well. Fill an 
ice cream mold and turn out on lightly floured board; flatten 
with knife about three-fourths inch thick and mold into 
small round cakes, mark on top with a knife, brush over top 
of each with cream or milk, and bake on top grate of a quick 
oven to a light brown color. Eight portions. 

47. Navy Bean Patties 

Use two cups of bean puree instead of the lentils in the 
above recipe, and omit the walnuts. Mix with the above 
choux paste, and mold the same as lentil patties. Seven 
portions. 

48. Cutlets of Green Peas 

Open a can of peas, and bring to a boil; then drain as dry 
as possible, mash through a colander, and set them in the 
oven until they are hot through, so they will dry out a little. 
Make a choux paste the same as for lentil patties, add peas 
and mix well. Mold into small oblong shapes, mark on top 
with knife, brush over with cream and bake in a quick oven 
to a light brown. This mixture must needs be quite soft, 
and therefore a little hard to handle, but with a sprinkle of 
flour on the board, the cutlets can be molded nicely, and if 
not baked too long, but just browned lightly in a quick oven, 
they have a very delicate flavor, and are especially adapted 
for banquet or special dinner service. The above makes six 
portions. 

49. Macaroni and Rice Croquettes 

1 cup boiled rice, dry. 1 cup cooked macaroni. 

Make choux paste the same as for lentil patties, add the 
rice and chopped macaroni, also chopped parsley to taste. 
Wet an ice cream mold with milk, and fill with the above 
mixture, turn out on an oiled baking sheet, and brown in a 
quick oven. If desired, they may be molded in cork shapes, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 61 

flattened slightly with a knife, and baked, instead of using 
the mold. Six portions. 

50. Savory Lentil Roast 

Cook together one-half cup lentils and one-half cup beans 
with salt until thoroughly done; drain in colander, saving the 
broth for gravies or soups. Mash the legumes through 
colander, and use as follows: 

1 cup soaked stale bread (pressed out lightly). 
2 cups legume puree. 2 tablespoons chopped onion. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 
Vs cup coarsely chopped walnuts. 1 egg. 

salt, sage or thyme to taste. 

Put the onion, sage and butter in a small pan on the stove, 
and simmer for a minute or two; beat the egg, and mix all 
ingredients. Bake in greased pan; serve with brown sauce 
or tomato sauce. Seven portions. 

51. Lentil and Rice Loaf Country Style 

2 cups boiled rice. 1 cup lentil puree. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon onion. % cup chopped walnuts. 

sage and salt. 

Have the lentil puree and rice as dry as possible; put the 
butter, onion and sage into a small sauce-pan, and simmer 
for a minute. Mix all the ingredients together with a fork, 
salt to taste. Press lightly into a brick-shaped tin, brush 
over top with a little cream or vegetable butter, and bake 
about half an hour, until of a light brown color. For six. 

52. Nut and Potato Pie 

2 cups sliced raw potatoes. l a /2 cups cold water. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1^4 teaspoons salt. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 scant tablespoon flour. chopped parsley. 

nut food (if at hand). hard-boiled egg. crust. 

Add the sliced potato, onion and salt to the water, and 
cook until done; drain, and lay the sliced potato in an oiled 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



62 FOOD AND COOKERY 

baking-pan. Put the butter and flour into a small sauce-pan, 
and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add a little of 
the potato water and stir smooth. Add the rest of the 
liquor, boil up, and pour the sauce over the sliced potato. 
Lay a few slices of hard-boiled egg, and the same of nut 
cero, if on hand, over the potato, and sprinkle lightly with 
chopped parsley over all. Cover with thin pie-crust, brush 
over with milk, and bake to a nice brown. Service for four. 

53. Potato Stew Egg Dumplings 

2 cups raw potato cut in half-inch cubes. 2% cups cold water. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 2 large eggs. 

4 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

up flour (measured after being sifted once). 

l!4 teaspoons salt. 

Put one-half cup water in small sauce-pan, add two table- 
spoons butter and a little salt, and bring to a boil. When 
boiling hot, add two-thirds cup sifted flour all at once, and 
stir into a smooth paste; keep stirring over the fire for a 
minute until the flour is well scalded, then set on table. As 
soon as the scald is off the paste, break in one egg, and stir 
until the egg is all absorbed and the paste smooth, then add 
the other egg and treat in like manner. The batter should 
be perfectly smooth. 

Put the potato, onion, salt and two and one-fourth cups of 
water with one tablespoon of butter to cook in a covered 
vessel. While this is heating, put one tablespoon butter and 
one and one-half tablespoons flour in a small pan, and stir 
over the fire for a moment, then add a little of the water 
on the potato, and stir smooth; add more water, and stir to 
a smooth thin gravy; then pour it over the potato and bring 
to a boil. When the potato is about half cooked, and certain 
that it is seasoned to suit, drop the batter from a tablespoon 
into the boiling stew, the spoon being first dipped in the 
liquid; cover and boil up well, until the dumplings are pretty 
well risen, then let simmer for about fifteen minutes, or 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 63 

until the liquid is reduced to the right consistency to dish up 
nicely. For six persons. 

54. Cream Noodles 

2 eggs. % cup flour. V cup milk. salt to taste. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Beat one large egg slightly, add the flour, and mix well 
with a heavy spoon, turn out on a floured board, and knead a 
few minutes; divide into three pieces, roll out into thin 
sheets, have them well floured, and let them lie to dry out a 
little, then cut them into long strips about one and one-half 
inches in width, then cut crosswise into fine shreds. Have 
salted water boiling hot, sprinkle in the noodles; if they are 
put in all at once they will stick together. Let them cook 
fifteen minutes, drain, and return to the sauce-pan, cover 
and set on the edge of the stove, add the milk and butter; 
when all is hot, add one beaten egg, mix well, and do not let 
boil; but heat just enough to thicken, so it will dish up on 
the plate and not run; salt to taste. 

55. Baked Noodles au Gratin 

Boil the noodles same as in above recipe, drain well, add 
enough rich cream sauce to season, lay in oiled baking-pan, 
grate fresh bread crumbs over top, sprinkle with cream or 
butter, and press the crumbs into the cream to moisten them; 
bake to a nice golden brown. 

56. Baked Corn Nut Pie 

1 cup corn pulp. Vs cup light-colored zwieback crumbs. 

% cup rich milk. 3 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

] /4 cup cream. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 

1 egg. sprinkle of sage. Vs cup diced nutloaf. 

salt and celery salt to taste. 

Heat the milk to about 120 degrees, and pour over the 
crumbs; add two teaspoons of the butter; let stand ten 
minutes. Grind the corn through a fine mill, and add to the 
crumbs, also egg slightly beaten and one teaspoon salt, and 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS) 



64 FOOD AND COOKERY 

celery salt to taste; mix thoroughly. Put the onion, sage 
and one teaspoon butter in sauce-pan and stir for a few 
minutes until the onion is softened a little but not brown, add 
the cream and when it boils add the nutloaf, sprinkle with 
salt and let cook until the cream is mostly absorbed by the 
nut food; then fill a small baking-pan half full of the corn 
mixture, sprinkle over it the nutloaf evenly, then recover 
with the corn mixture. Bake in a medium oven until set and 
a nice brown. Let stand a few minutes, then cut in squares, 
and serve. 

57. Roast Nut Meat with Dressing 

Open a pound can of nut cero, or other nut food, split 
through center lengthwise, lay in an oiled pan, brush the top 
over with oil or vegetable butter, and put in the oven until a 
slight crust forms on the meat; then pour over a thin brown 
sauce, and continue to bake same for one hour, basting it 
now and then over top with the gravy. When done, lift out 
on board, slice, and serve with the following. 

58. Baked Dressing 

2 cups soaked stale bread. 2 tablespoons minced onion. 

2Va tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 1 egg. 

sage. iVz teaspoons salt, or more. 

Soak the stale bread in plenty of cold water until soft, pour 
into a colander and let drain; press lightly between the 
hands leaving it very soft. Put the onion, sage, parsley and 
butter. in a sauce-pan, and let simmer a few moments, but do 
not brown. Beat the egg lightly, and mix all the ingredients; 
put into oiled baking-pan, and bake until a nice brown and 
cooked through. To dish up, lay the nut cero on a carving 
board, put a spoonful of dressing on platter, lay a slice of 
nut cero on top, and pour a spoonful of brown gravy over all. 
Serve with sprig of parsley at one end. By adding small 
quantity of brown gravy to the bread in making dressing, 
the egg may be left out. For six persons. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 65 

59. Nut Cromeskies 

Y2 cup nutloaf. 2 tablespoons chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Vs cup tomato pulp. crust. 1 egg. 

V teaspoon salt. pinch of thyme. 

Put the onion, parsley, thyme and butter into a small pan 
to simmer a few moments, add the flour and mix well; pour 
in the tomato and stir smooth, then add the beaten egg and 
stir until all is thoroughly cooked and a thick paste. Mash 
the nutloaf with fork, and work into the hot mixture until 
all is well blended with salt to taste. 

Roll out plain pastry very thin; cut in strips about three 
inches wide. Take a tablespoon of the nut mixture, and roll 
it to about the size of the thumb, lay on end of strip, and 
fold the strip over it, making a roll; wet the edges of the 
pastry where they meet, and cut it off so it has the appear- 
ance of a cream roll. Lay them in a baking-pan, brush over 
with milk or cream, and bake to a nice brown. Serve with 
tomato sauce. Six portions. 

60. Baked Macaroni Family Style 

1 cup macaroni, raw. 1 cup tomato pulp. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon onion. sprinkle of sage or thyme. 

1 egg. salt to taste. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling 
salted water, and cook until thoroughly done; then wash and 
drain in colander. Put the butter, onion and little sage or 
thyme into sauce-pan, and stir over fire for a few minutes, 
but do not brown; add the tomato and bring to a boil, salt to 
taste; then pour the hot mixture slowly into the beaten egg, 
stirring it briskly as it is being poured in; add the cooked 
macaroni, and pour all into an oiled baking-pan and bake to 
a light brown. Service for five persons. 

61. Baked Macaroni and Olives 

Va cup uncooked macaroni. Ys cup chopped ripe olives. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

1 cup of water in which the macaroni was cooked. 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil. 2Vs tablespoons flour. 

salt and celery salt to taste. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 
5 



66 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths, drop into boil- 
ing salted water, and cook until it is well done. Put the oil 
in a small pan on the stove, and when hot, add the flour and 
stir until well browned, then add the onion and chopped 
olives. Let them cook a few minutes, then add one cup 
macaroni water and two tablespoons tomato; let it boil five 
minutes, have the macaroni well drained, and while hot put 
it into the gravy, turn into a baking-dish, grate a few fresh 
bread crumbs over the top, and with a spoon press them 
down onto the gravy, so they will become moistened through; 
bake until a nice brown. Service for four persons. 

62. Macaroni au Gratin 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and drop into boiling 
salted water, and let cook until well done. Pour into a 
colander and let it drain well, after which put it into a 
granite baking-pan, and pour over enough rich cream sauce 
to barely cover it. Mix it well, and grate some fresh bread 
crumbs on top to give it a good color. Sprinkle over a little 
thin cream, and with a large spoon press the crumbs down 
so they become softened by the liquid and will brown without 
burning. Bake in a medium oven about thirty to forty 
minutes or until a nice brown. 

63. Spanish Rice 

V4 cup uncooked rice. -:-, cup cold water. 

% cup tomato pulp. 2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon "diced onion. 1 teaspoon browned flour. 

1 tablespoon diced sweet bell pepper. 

sage, celery salt and salt to taste. 

Brown the rice in a frying-pan on the stove or in a hot 
oven until a very light brown; put into the inner part of a 
double boiler, add the cold water and one-half teaspoon salt, 
and boil on a good fire until the water is evaporated and the 
rice is dry, then set into the outer part of the boiler and steam. 
Put the onion, sweet pepper and butter on the fire and stir 
for a few moments; add the sage, browned flour and a little 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 67 

of the tomato; stir smooth, add the balance of the tomato 
and boil up well, salt to taste. Pour over the rice, mix well 
and let steam for twenty minutes or more, and serve. Four 
portions. 

64. Baked Rice Italienne 

V-2 cup rice, raw. V cup macaroni, raw. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 small clove garlic. 

2 tablespoons sweet bell pepper. 

\Vz tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

iVa cups tomato pulp. iVs cups water, salt, thyme. 

Put the rice into a frying-pan and brown over the fire or 
in a hot oven to a light golden brown, add one-half teaspoon 
salt and the water, and let cook down dry; set on edge of 
stove with cover on and let steam. Break the macaroni up 
very small, and put to cook in boiling salted water, cook 
until thoroughly done; then wash it and drain in colander. 
Put the sweet pepper, onion, garlic and thyme into a pan 
with the butter, and stir over fire for a few minutes, add the 
tomato and boil up well, salt to taste and pour over the rice, 
mix well. Put a layer of the rice tomato in a small baking- 
pan, sprinkle the macaroni evenly over same, season with 
small bits of vegetable butter or thick cream; then pour on 
the balance of the rice, and bake one-half hour or more. 
Service for five persons. 

65. Walnut Timbales 

2 cups stale white bread cut in small dice. % cup ground walnuts. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. l /4 cup tomato. 

sage and salt to taste. 

Beat the egg, add the milk, and pour over the bread; put 
the onion, sage and butter into small pan, and simmer for a 
few moments; add the tomato and boil up well. Mix all 
ingredients thoroughly, salt to taste. Oil five timbale molds, 
and divide the mixture between them, set in a pan of water 
and bake in oven until set. Serve with tomato or tomato 
cream sauce. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



68 FOOD AND COOKERY 

66. Corn Timbales 

"i cup canned corn ground through food mill. 1 cup milk. 

_' CL salt. celery salt and thyme to taste. 

Beat the eggs, mix all ingredients thoroughly, and bake 
same as walnut timbales, except that these must be baked 
with greater care; that is, they must be removed from the 
oven just as soon as the custard is set, otherwise they will 
be watery and their flavor ruined. Green corn is best, when 
in season. Serve with cream tomato sauce. Five portions. 

67. Walnut Roast 

Y2 cup chopped walnuts. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup zwieback crumbs. 2 teaspoons grated onion. 

1 egg. pinch of sage. salt to taste. 

Beat the egg, add the milk, and pour over the crumbs, let 
soak twenty minutes. Mix all ingredients, put in oiled 
brick-tin and bake until brown and cooked through. Egg 
may be left out if desired. 

68. Baked Spaghetti and Cornlet 

% cup spaghetti, raw. 1 cup corn pulp. 

2 tablespoons sweet bell pepper. 1 tablespoon onion. 

\V<2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1% tablespoons flour. % cup milk. 

salt to taste. 

Cook the spaghetti in boiling salted water until well done; 
having broken it into half -inch lengths. Grind corn through 
food mill; put the onion, sweet pepper and butter together 
in sauce-pan, and stir over fire for a minute; add the flour, 
and stir. Then add a little of the milk, and beat smooth; 
add balance of milk, salt to taste, and let boil up. Put a 
layer of the spaghetti in a small baking-pan, then a layer of 
the corn; pour half of the cream sauce over it, working it 
down into the food. Put another layer of spaghetti and corn 
as before, then the cream sauce on top. Sprinkle over with 
fresh bread crumbs, moisten them with a little rich cream or 
butter, and bake until thoroughly done and a nice brown. 
Five portions. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 69 

69. New England Dinner 

4 medium-sized potatoes. 4 small turnips. 

3 carrots. 6 small onions. Vz small cabbage. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

2 l /2 teaspoons salt. 

Quarter the peeled turnips and carrots, add the onions 
whole, put in sauce-pan with the butter or oil, salt and 
enough water to cover them, and bring to a boil. Parboil 
the cabbage; drain and add to the boiling vegetables above, 
also the potatoes cut in quarters. Boil all together until 
thoroughly done. If all the vegetables are poured into a 
baking-pan when cooked and set in a medium oven for fifteen 
minutes, the flavor of the vegetables will be improved. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

70. Brown Sauce A 

2 tablespoons crisco or vegetable oil. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon onion. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

1% cups vegetable broth or potato water, salt. 

Put the oil in small frying-pan, and when hot, add the 
flour and keep stirring until well browned; then add the 
onion and stir for a few minutes; add a little of the liquid 
and stir smooth, add the balance of liquid and tomato and 
boil up well, salt to taste, strain and serve. 

Brown Sauce B 

Cook down one-half cup cream, sweet or sour; stir until the 
oil separates and the albumen turns a light brown color, then 
add one tablespoon chopped onion and stir for a few minutes; 
then add flour, which has been previously browned in oven to 
take up the oil thus made, and dilute with vegetable broth or 
potato water and finish as in the preceding recipe. 

71. Country Gravy 

Use same proportions of oil, flour and onion as in either of 
the foregoing recipes; then use one and one-half cups milk 
instead of the potato water, only the flour is not to be 
browned quite so much when milk is used. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



70 FOOD AND COOKERY 

72. Olive Sauce 

Add eight chopped ripe olives to the onion, and make the 
same as brown sauce. 

73. Cream Sauce 

l"cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

I ablespoons flour. 

Stir the butter and flour together in sauce-pan over the fire, 
add a small portion of the hot milk, and stir smooth; add 
remaining milk and let boil up, salt to taste and serve. 

74. Nut Sauce 

Dissolve two tablespoons nut butter in a little hot milk 
and stir into the above cream sauce. 

75. Tomato Sauce 

1 cup tomato pulp. 2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

\V-2 tablespoons light browned flour. 
1 teaspoon chopped onion. salt and celery salt to taste. 

Put the butter in .a small stew-pan on the fire, add the 
onion, and stir a. few minutes, but do not brown; add the 
browned flour and tomato, stir smooth, and let boil up. 
Season with salt and celery salt, and strain through a fine 
strainer. 

76. Tomato Cream Sauce 

1 cup tomato pulp. % cup rich cream. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

2 tablespoons flour, salt to taste. 

Heat the butter and flour in a small sauce-pan for a few 
moments, add one-third cup of tomato, and stir until thick 
and smooth; add balance of tomato and boil up. Salt to 
taste, stir into cream, and serve. 

77. Hollandaise Sauce 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoon flour. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 2 egg yolks. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. . salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 71 

Heat the cream. Put butter and flour in sauce-pan, and 
stir over the fire for a moment. Add a little of the cream, 
and stir smooth; add balance of the cream, and boil up. 
Beat the yolks and lemon juice, add a little of the hot cream, 
and beat into the yolks; then pour the yolk mixture into the 
hot cream, and stir for a few minutes, salt to taste and serve. 

78. Brazil Nut Sauce 

5 Brazil nuts, ground fine. 4 tablespoons flour. 

lYz cups potato water or milk. 

Brown the flour in a frying-pan on top of the stove; when 
it is of a light golden color, add the nuts, and stir through 
the flour for five minutes; add half the liquid and stir smooth; 
add the balance of the water, and let it cook ten minutes. 
Salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables may be divided into two classes: 

1. The coarse or fibrous vegetables, comprising the roots, 
tubers, bulbs, stems and leaves. 

2. The finer vegetables, as tomatoes, squash, corn, green 
peas, shelled beans, etc. 

Vegetables, like all starchy foods, should be put to cook in 
boiling water, the object being to soften the cellulose as well 
as to swell and burst the starch grains. While there is 
scarcely any other food more universally used by rich and 
poor alike in making up a part of their daily bill of fare, yet 
how often the vegetable is spoiled in cooking. Vegetables 
should always be cooked until thoroughly done. Served in 
a half-cooked condition as is so often the case, they are un- 
palatable and indigestible; while on the other hand, coarse 
vegetables should be cooked in plenty of boiling water, and 
should be removed from the fire when done, because longer 
cooking makes them insipid in taste, and if cooked in too 
little water they turn a dark color. Salt should be added the 
last half hour of the cooking, to give flavor. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



72 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Green vegetables, as peas and string beans, when young 
and tender, should be cooked in just enough water to cook 
them well done and preserve their flavor. To retain the 
green color in the new vegetables, the cover must be left off 
while cooking, and they should cook steadily after they are 
put on, and not allowed to stop cooking or simmering until 
they are done. 

Young, tender vegetables, as lettuce, tomatoes, water- 
cress, etc., served in the uncooked state, are valuable for 
the water and potash salts they contain, also for the stimu- 
lating effect they have on the appetite. 

79. New Peas 

Shell the peas as soon after picking them as possible, drop 
into cold water, and skim off any dry leaves or imperfect 
ones that come to the top; then dip them out of the water 
with the hands so as to leave any grit there may be in them 
on the bottom of the dish; drop them into boiling water, 
enough to cover them if tender, add salt, and let them cook 
until well done and the liquid reduced to one-third its original 
quantity. If desired, they may be thickened slightly with 
flour braided smooth in cold water, and a little cream added 
just before serving. 

80. String Beans 

String beans should be picked while they are young and 
tender. Break them between the hands so as to remove any 
stringy fiber, also the ends. Put two teaspoons of vegetable 
oil into a sauce-pan on the stove, and when quite hot add one 
pint of string beans which have previously been washed; 
stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add enough boiling 
water to cover them; add salt to season and let them boil 
quite rapidly until well done. If more water is added, it 
should be boiling hot. 

81. New Asparagus 

Put the stalks in a deep pan of water and wash well, that 
sand and grit may sink to the bottom; change the water 

(USE 'LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 73 

and lift them out, tie them in bundles of about three por- 
tions each; lay on a board and trim off the root stems, leav- 
ing the stalks about four inches in length; drop them into 
boiling water salted, and cook till tender, then set the sauce- 
pan on the table until ready to serve; lift out and drain, lay 
on a platter, cut, and remove the strings and send to the 
table. Serve with rich cream sauce or hollandaise sauce. 

82. Asparagus Tips and New Peas 

Cut the tender part of cooked new asparagus into one-inch 
lengths, cook the peas separately, and when done add enough 
rich cream to season them well. When they come to a boil, 
thicken slightly with a little flour braided smooth in cold 
milk or water; add the asparagus tips and shake together to 
mix well and not break them up. 

83. Stewed Tomato 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes and let remain a 
few seconds, then drain; remove the skin and the stem with 
the hard green part adhering to it, and cut into quarters. 
Put into a sauce-pan with about one teaspoon vegetable 
butter or more to each cup of tomatoes, and salt to taste. 
Boil up well and serve. 

84. Breaded Tomato 

Cut stale bread into one-half inch cubes, and brown in 
the oven until crisp all through. Drop them into the boiling 
stewed tomatoes and serve. 

85. Baked Tomato 

Select medium-sized solid tomatoes, peel them, and with 
the point of a knife cut out a little of the hard part of the 
stem end; lay them close together in a baking-pan, sprinkle 
with salt and sugar, and put a speck of vegetable or dairy 
butter in each cavity; then bake until done, but not broken. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



74 FOOD AND COOKERY 

86. Baked Stuffed Tomato 

Peel the tomatoes same as for baked tomato; cut a hole 
in the stem end, in diameter about the size of a nickel; 
scoop out like the appearance of a cored apple, but do not 
hollow out the whole tomato. Sprinkle with salt and sugar, 
and fill with the following: 

V* cup nutloaf. V\ cup ripe tomato. 

V& cup soaked bread (pressed out), sage, onion, 
salt to taste. 

Mash all these ingredients together with a silver fork, and 
fill the tomatoes, having them heaped up a little. Set them 
close together in baking-pan and bake same as the above 
recipe. 

87. Scalloped Tomato 

Trim off the very brown crust of stale bread; cut into one- 
fourth-inch dice, or larger; lay in oiled baking-pan and bake 
until they are a light brown, stirring them as they brown. 
Use one cup toasted bread cubes to one and one-half cups 
stewed tomato and one tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter, 
a sprinkle of sugar, and salt to taste. 

Put one-half cup of croutons in bottom of oiled baking- 
dish, pour over these one and one-half cups of tomatoes 
seasoned; sprinkle the remaining half cup of croutons over 
the top; press them down with spoon so they are all sub- 
merged; put the butter over top, and bake to a nice brown. 

88. Summer Squash 

When young and tender, summer squash need only to be 
washed and quartered. Steam until tender, press between 
two colanders, or in cheese-cloth until quite dry. Mash and 
season with salt and cream. When the squash is older, it 
must be peeled and have the seeds removed before cooking. 

89. Scalloped Summer Squash 

2 cups cooked summer squash. :; t cup milk. 

2 cups stale bread cut in small dice. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 egg. salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOO> AND COOKERY 75 

Cook the squash in salted water or steam until done, drain 
well and mash. Trim off the brown crust from stale white 
bread, and cut the white part into small dice. Beat the egg, 
add the milk and a little salt, and pour over the bread, letting 
it soak ten minutes. Add the squash and butter to the soaked 
bread, mix lightly and lay in oiled baking-pan; sprinkle a 
little cream or butter over top, and bake until thoroughly 
done and a nice brown. 

90. Scalloped Eggplant 

Use one medium large eggplant (two cups after being 
cooked) . Peel the eggplant, quarter and slice one-half inch 
thick, then drop into boiling salted water and cook until 
done; drain well and mash up. Use the same proportions of 
diced bread, milk and egg as for summer squash, No. 89. 
Mix and bake same as for scalloped squash. 

91. Breaded Eggplant 

Peel medium small eggplant, cut in two lengthwise; then 
cut each half into quarters or thirds, lengthwise, according 
to size of vegetable. Drop into boiling salted water, and 
cook until slightly underdone, drain. Beat up one egg with 
half cup milk or more; dip eggplant first in flour, then in the 
egg and milk, then in finely rolled zwieback crumbs. Lay in 
oiled baking-pan, brush over with a little vegetable butter or 
the milk mixture used. Bake in medium oven until thor- 
oughly done and a nice brown. Pan may be covered if oven 
is hot, and then cover removed to brown, before serving. 

92. Corn on Cob 

Add a few slices of lemon or a small quantity of lemon 
juice to the water for corn, bring to boil, put in the ears of 
corn, or add enough milk to make the liquid quite milky; 
boil up well, and then set on edge of stove to draw for twenty 
minutes. Salt, if added, should be put in after the corn is 
cooked, as it toughens the kernels and turns them red. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



76 FOOD AND COOKERY 

93. Green Corn Saute 

Put one-half cup of rich cream into an oiled frying-pan, 
with a teaspoon of chopped onion if desired; let cook down 
until it nearly separates, then add one cup corn cut off the 
cob with salt, toss in pan over fire until thoroughly heated 
through, and serve. 

94. Baked Cream Corn 

1 cup corn pulp. --.>, cup rich milk. 

1 egg. % cup light-colored zwieback crumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. a little celery salt. 

Warm the milk to about 120 degrees, pour it over the 
crumbs and let them soak. Have the corn ground through a 
fine mill, mix all the ingredients, put into an oiled baking- 
pan, put a teaspoon of butter or cream over the top to give 
it a nice color, and bake until set and a nice brown. 

95. Cauliflower au Gratin 

Remove all the green leaves from the cauliflower, and 
divide into bouquets or pieces about the size of a large hen's 
egg. Wash well and drop into boiling salted water, and 
cook until tender; care should be taken not to cook it too 
long, or it will break up. When done, drain, and lay the 
pieces in an oiled baking-pan; pour over it enough cream 
sauce to nearly cover it, then grate a few fresh bread crumbs 
over the top and press them down with a spoon so they 
become moistened with the cream sauce; sprinkle a little 
milk or cream over the top, and bake until a light brown. 

96. Cauliflower Bouchees 

Prepare the cauliflower same as above, into bouquets suit- 
able for one portion each; boil in salted water until done but 
not too soft; lift them out and lay on platter to drain. Roll 
out pie-paste quite thin, cut in squares about four inches each 
way, lay a bouquet of the cooked vegetable on each piece, 
add a little vegetable butter, bring all four corners up and 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 77 

fasten them together at top by brushing tips with water; 
lay in baking-pan and bake in a quick oven. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

97. Stewed Salsify or Vegetable Oyster 

Wash salsify, then take them one at a time and scrape 
them, dropping them immediately into cold water to keep 
them from turning a dark color. When thus prepared, split 
with knife through the thick part only, then cut crosswise 
into one-half-inch lengths or longer. Put two cups vegetable 
oyster in sauce-pan with hot water to cover, and salt to taste; 
let boil gently until done and the water reduced to one cupful. 
Put two teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan 
with one-half tablespoon flour and stir until heated; then add 
small quantity of the liquid and stir smooth, add balance of 
liquid and boil up. Pour over the vegetable and let simmer 
for twenty minutes or more. Two tablespoons rich cream 
added to the sauce gives rich flavor. 

98. Scalloped Vegetable Oyster 

Prepare the vegetable as in preceding recipe, slice very 
thin, and cook until tender. Put layers of oysters in baking- 
pan, dredging each layer with flour. To each pint of vege- 
table thus prepared, heat one cup of milk to boiling, beat in 
enough vegetable or .dairy butter, and salt to season; pour 
this over the vegetable, and bake to a nice brown. 

99. Cream Carrots 

Wash and scrape young carrots, slice very thin; put in 
covered sauce-pan with just enough water to cover them; 
add a little vegetable or dairy butter and salt, and let simmer 
until the liquor is reduced to about one-fourth. Add a little 
rich cream or cream sauce and shake together; reheat and 
serve. 

100. Carrots Egg Sauce 

Add chopped hard-boiled eggs to the above cream carrots. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



78 FOOD AND COOKERY 

101. Stewed Carrots 

Wash and scrape small carrots, cut in two lengthwise, then 
cut crosswise into fairly thick slices. Take two cups carrots, 
add water to cover and salt to taste. Let boil gently until 
carrots are well done and the liquid reduced to one cupful. 
Take two teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter, put in sauce- 
pan with one-half tablespoon flour, stir over the fire for a 
few minutes, add small quantity of the liquid of the carrots 
and stir smooth, add balance of liquid and boil up, pour over 
carrots and let simmer for twenty minutes. Two tablespoons 
thick cream added to the roux in making the sauce gives 
them a fine rich flavor. 

102. Carrots and Peas 

Use recipe for stewed carrots, adding equal quantities of 
green peas and carrots. 

103. Stewed Beets 

Scrub small beets without breaking the skin; do not trim 
the roots, or 'the juice will run out. Boil until tender, drain, 
cover with cold water, and push off the skins with the hands. 
Cut each beet into eighths lengthwise, put two tablespoons 
vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan with two tablespoons 
flour, cook over fire for a few minutes; add one-fourth cup 
cold water and stir smooth; pour on three-fourths cup boil- 
ing water, and stir until it boils up well. Add two table- 
spoons lemon juice and salt to taste; add the beets, reheat, 
and let them stand a little while before serving. A few 
chopped onions may be added to the roux in making the 
sauce, if desired. 

104. Buttered Beets 

Cook the beets same as above; and slice them thin. Put 
them in sauce-pan with salt and enough vegetable or dairy 
butter to season; add a little lemon juice, reheat, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 79 

105. Scalloped Beets 

Add enough rich cream sauce to sliced boiled beets to 
moisten them, and lay in baking-pan, grate fresh crumbs 
over top, moistening them with a little milk or cream. Put 
small bits of vegetable or dairy butter on top, and brown in 
the oven. 

106. Stewed Turnips 

Pare young turnips; and cut them into quarters or eighths. 
Put them into sauce-pan with water to barely cover them; 
add salt and let simmer until done and the water mostly 
absorbed. Add a little rich cream or cream sauce, shake 
together, reheat, and serve. 

107. Baked Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips; cut them lengthwise into slices 
about one-fourth inch thick. Put them to boil in just enough 
water to cover and salt to season. When tender, remove 
from sauce-pan, and lay them close together in an oiled bak- 
ing-pan; pour over them enough rich cream sauce to about 
half cover them; bake to a nice brown. 

108. Spinach 

Pick the greens over carefully, wash in several waters to 
remove grit. If the greens are very tender, lift them out 
of the water and drain well; put them in sauce-pan with a 
little salt and vegetable or dairy butter to season, adding no 
water; cover and cook until done, turning the greens over in 
pan now and then. When greens are more matured, cook 
them in deep water with the cover off; when done, drain and 
chop them; add vegetable or dairy butter and salt to taste. 
Reheat, serve with quartered lemon, of hard-boiled egg, or 
both. 

109. Cream Spinach 

Boil the spinach in salted water as in above recipe, drain 
and chop fine. Put two tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



80 FOOD AND COOKERY 

in sauce-pan on stove, add two tablespoons flour and stir for 
a few minutes; then add one scant cup hot rich milk or cream; 
adding one-third cup first and stirring smooth; boil up, salt 
to taste and add chopped spinach. Reheat, serve with 
quartered hard-boiled egg if desired. Other greens may be 
used instead of spinach. 

110. Boiled Onions 

Remove outer skins from one dozen small white onions; 
put to cook in just enough water to make the sauce for them. 
Put one and one-half tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter 
in sauce-pan, add two tablespoons flour, stir over fire for a 
minute. Add one-fourth cup cold water and stir until smooth ; 
then add the onion water to make the sauce of the desired 
thickness, season with salt; pour over the onions, reheat, 
and serve. Salt should be added while cooking. A little 
rich cream added last improves them. 

111. Cream Onions 

Prepare and cook onions as in preceding recipe, drain and 
add rich cream or cream sauce; reheat, and serve. 

112. Stuffed Bell Peppers 

6 medium-sized bell peppers. V4 cup stewed tomato. 

\Vz cups soaked bread (pressed out). 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 3 tablespoons browned flour. 

1M> tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 

2 tablespoons chopped onion. sage and salt. 

Split four peppers through lengthwise, remove the seeds 
and stem, and drop them in boiling salted water for three 
minutes; drain. Cut up two whole peppers into small dice 
and put into sauce-pan with the onion, parsley, sage and 
butter, and cook over the fire for a few minutes. Add the 
flour and stir smooth. Add the tomato and beaten egg 
and stir until thick and smooth; add the soaked bread 
and salt to taste; mix well. Fill the halves of peppers 
slightly rounded, lay in oiled baking-pan, pour over them 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 81 

a thin brown gravy or tomato juice and bake in a quick oven. 
The moisture in pan will keep the vegetable from scorching 
underneath, as it burns very easily. Eight portions. 

113. Stewed Cabbage 

Trim one small cabbage, turn into boiling salted water 
(cover off), adding one small onion if desired. When cab- 
bage is tender, take out onion; drain cabbage. Put one and 
one-half tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan, 
add cabbage, add three tablespoons rich cream, stir, reheat 
well, and serve. 

114. Hot Slaw 

Trim and cut one medium-sized cabbage into fine shreds, 
drop into boiling salted water and cook until done; drain. 
Put one-half cup rich cream into small vessel and bring to 
boil. Beat one egg, add three tablespoons lemon juice; then 
add the boiling cream, stir over fire until slightly thickened, 
then remove from fire and add two tablespoons sugar and 
salt to taste. Add the cabbage, reheat, and serve. 

115. Browned Potato 

Boil medium-sized peeled potatoes in salted water until 
half done; drain and lay in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, brush over each potato with vegetable oil and cook 
until nicely browned and thoroughly done. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

116. Roasted Potato 

Choose medium-sized potatoes; peel them and lay in bak- 
ing-pan, sprinkle with a little salt and dredge with flour; 
brush them over the top with an oiled brush, and pour on 
water so the potatoes are nearly covered; set in the oven, 
and bake about one hour and a quarter or more. The liquid 
should cook down just enough to leave a thin gravy to pour 
over the potato on dishing it up. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 

6 



82 FOOD AND COOKERY 

117. Scalloped Potato 

Slice peeled raw potatoes thin; -put a layer of sliced 
potatoes in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle with salt and flour; 
repeat the process until the pan is about three-fourths full. 
Pour over the potatoes enough milk to cover them. Put 
small bits of vegetable or dairy butter on top, and bake until 
thoroughly done. 

118. Kentucky Potato 

Add finely chopped onion and parsley to each layer of the 
above scalloped potatoes; bake same as the above recipe. 
Water can be used in place of the milk, if desired, using a 
little more of the butter than when milk is used. 

119. Potato Duchess 

2 cups hot mashed potatoes. 1 egg yolk. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

salt. 

Boil the peeled potatoes, drain and mash through a potato 
ricer, and set on edge of stove. Add the butter and beaten 
yolk; salt to taste, and mix well. Put in pastry bag with 
star tube, and press out on oiled pan in large rose shapes, or 
lay on board and form into diamond or leaf shapes. Brush 
over with cream or milk; bake in quick oven. 

120. Potato en Surprise 

Put the above potato mixture in bag, and make round 
potato borders on oiled baking-sheet, leaving a hollow in the 
center; fill this cavity with nicely seasoned green peas or 
spinach; recover with the potato; brush over with cream, 
and bake same as the above. 

121. Roasted Sweet Potato 

Steam or boil sweet potatoes until skins can be scraped off 
easily; lay in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle over salt; then brush 
over each potato with vegetable oil, and bake in oven until 
done and a nice brown. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS ) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 83 

122. Glazed Sweet Potato 

Boil sweet potatoes until done, peel and cut into quarters 
lengthwise, if not too large. Lay them close together in 
oiled baking-pan, dust with salt to season, then sprinkle 
sugar lightly over all. Brush over with vegetable oil, and 
brown nicely and evenly. 

123. Mashed Sweet Potato 

Peel the potatoes, steam or drop in boiling water until done, 
drain, mash and season with rich cream or butter and salt. 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

Salads, composed chiefly of green tender vegetables or 
fruits and nuts, and served with a dressing, are valuable as 
a means of supplying fat. They are also valuable for their 
acids and mineral salts, and being made into a variety of 
dishes that are palatable and attractive looking, serve as an 
appetizer or*relish. 

124. Mayonnaise Dressing 

yolk of 1 egg. Ws tablespoons or more lemon juice. 

1 cup olive or salad oil. Vs teaspoon salt. 

Beat the yolk, add a half teaspoon lemon juice; beat well 
and add the oil drop by drop to begin with, then increase as 
it gets started, adding now and then a little lemon juice 
to thin the dressing to the proper consistency. Ingredients 
should all be cold. 

125. Boiled Cream Dressing 

Vs cup cream. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon cornstarch. salt. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler, rub the starch smooth 
in a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling cream; cover 
and let cook ten minutes. Beat the egg and add to it the 
lemon juice, mix well, and pour all at once into the prepared 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



84 FOOD AND COOKERY 

cream. Stir with egg whip constantly until of the desired 
thickness; then set into pan of cold water, beat in the butter, 
salt to taste, and let cool. 

126. French Dressing 

H teaspoon salt. 3 tablespoons olive or cottonseed oil. 

Ys teaspoon onion juice. 1 scant tablespoon lemon juice. 

Dissolve the salt in the oil with spoon; add the ingredients 
in the order given and beat well with spoon to emulsify the 
liquids. Use immediately. 

127. Cream Dressing 

V2 cup thick cream. 3 tablespoons lemon juice or more. 

1 tablespoon sugar. salt. 

Whip cream until quite thick, add sugar and salt, then 
lemon juice. 

SALADS 

128. Lettuce and Tomato 

Arrange lettuce leaves on a plate. Have a ripe tomato 
peeled and cooled, lay on the lettuce, run a sharp knife 
across the middle of the tomato, cutting it nearly in two, 
then crosswise, so the four quarters will fall back and yet 
hold together underneath. Drop a spoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing in the center of the tomato, and serve. 

129. Poinsettia Tomato 

Select small ripe tomato; wash and wipe with towel. Take 
sharp-pointed knife and cut through the skin of tomato from 
the point of the stem end back to the flower end; then start 
at the same point again and cut back, leaving the peel 
between the incisions in the shape of poinsettia leaves. The 
tomato skin should be divided in about six or eight leaves. 
Run the blade of a pen knife under each leaf and pull it back, 
until all the leaves lie back on plate and tomato peeled in 
center. Cut the tomato as in above recipe, and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 85 

130. Stuffed Tomato 

Pour boiling water on ripe tomatoes, then pour it off 
immediately and replace with cold water. Remove skins; 
take medium small tomatoes, hollow them out carefully, and 
refill with finely-diced cucumber and celery seasoned with 
grated onion and mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

131. Tomato en Surprise 

Scald and peel tomato, cut off a liberal slice from the 
blossom end of tomato, which must be preserved to cover 
again. Hollow out part of the center of tomato and turn 
upsidedown in dish to drain. Cut asparagus tips into half- 
inch lengths, season with mayonnaise, and refill the cavity in 
tomato, recover with the tomato slice, and serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

132. Potato Salad 

iVa cups finely diced boiled potatoes. hard-boiled egg. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. parsley. 

Have the potato and egg cut into small dice, mix all the 
dry ingredients well, and season with plenty of mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

133. Coleslaw 

Cabbage should be crisp; cut through lengthwise, then cut 
each half through the same way, shred very fine; season 
with grated or chopped onion and salt, and dilute with cream 
dressing or mayonnaise. 

134. Beet and Egg 

-:; cup diced boiled beets. 1 hard-boiled egg diced. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

135. Combination 

sliced tomato. sliced green onion, 

sliced cucumber. lettuce. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



86 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Mix all in salad bowl and set on ice. Just before serving, 
pour over the vegetable enough French dressing to season. 
A little sweet bell pepper diced fine may be added, if desired. 

136. Nut and Celery Salad 

1 j cup diced, nutloaf. 1 -j cup diced celery. 

Put diced nut food in oven in an oiled pan, and brown 
lightly, stirring often; add to diced celery. Season with very 
little chopped onion and mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

137. Macedoine Salad 

V& cup diced boiled potatoes. V* cup diced boiled carrots. 

V-i cup diced boiled turnips. J /4 cup cooked green peas. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

138. Bean Salad 

Vz cup cold boiled beans. Vz cup diced celery. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. K cup diced lettuce. 

hard-boiled egg. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

139. Egg Salad 

Dice hard-boiled eggs, season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing; serve on lettuce leaf, sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. 

140. Water Lily 

Cut a hard-boiled egg through lengthwise, mash one-half 
the yolk through a fine strainer onto a saucer. Put the other 
half yoVk into a dish and mash up with fork, add enough 
boiled dressing to season well. Cut the white of half an egg 
lengthwise so. as to make five petals, arrange these on small 
plate of lettuce; put the seasoned yolk in center, and sprinkle 
the crumbed half yolk lightly over all. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 87 

141. Cucumber Salad 

-.-) cup sliced cucumber. Vs cup thinly sliced boiled potatoes. 

2 teaspoons chopped sweet bell peppers. 

French dressing. 

Peel and slice the cucumbers very thin, put in ice water 
for half an hour, then drain and wring out in cheesecloth. 
Mix all ingredients, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

142. Sweet Potato Salad 

1 cup diced boiled sweet potatoes. 2 stalks crisp celery. 

1 teaspoon each of chopped onion, sweet bell pepper and chopped parsley. 

Mix all ingredients and season with French dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaf. 

143. String Bean Salad 

Use canned string beans, drain well, and season with 
chopped onion diluted with French dressing or boiled cream 
dressing. 

FRUIT SALADS AND SAUCES 
144. Fruit Sauce 

% cup orange or pineapple juice. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

V-2 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 
3 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon -cornstarch. 

Put the juices, butter and sugar together on stove, and 
bring to a boil. Thicken with the starch diluted in cold 
water; then pour it slowly into the beaten egg, stirring 
meanwhile. Keep stirring over the fire until of the desired 
thickness, but do not boil; set in a pan of cold water to cool. 

145. Cream Mayonnaise 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. \V-2 teaspoons sugar. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons thick cream. salt. 

Add sugar and salt to lemon juice, put on stove to heat; 
beat egg light, add hot lemon juice, stirring briskly; put on 
stove again and keep stirring constantly until smooth and 
quite thick. Let cool, then add cream. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



88 FOOD AND COOKERY 

146. Lemon Sauce 

1 cup \vater. juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

l \i cup sugar. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. V* teaspoon salt. 

Bring the water and sugar to a boil, stir in the cornstarch 
(rubbed smooth in cold water), let cook a few minutes; then 
add the lemon, butter and salt, and serve. 

147. Stuffed Date Salad 

Remove pits from well-washed dates, and refill each with 
a half walnut meat, press together, put into a salad bowl, 
and dilute with lemon juice. Serve on lettuce leaf with a 
tablespoon of lemon sauce poured over. 

148. Fruit Basket 

Select medium-sized well-colored oranges, hold the orange 
between the thumb and first finger, letting the side of the 
orange rest on the table, while with a small-pointed sharp 
knife start in the center of the orange and run the blade 
point first about two inches into the center of the orange, 
then again in such a manner that when followed all the way 
round the orange will part in two halves, leaving the edge 
ruffled with small points of peel like the teeth of a coarse 
saw. Run the point of a knife around each half near the 
peel, then with a teaspoon dip out the fruit in one piece. 
Cut the orange center into small cubes, to which add equal 
quantities of diced bananas and pineapple and a few straw- 
berries. Dilute with fruit sauce; fill the orange shells, having 
them well rounded with the fruit. Serve on a white plate 
with two or three small orange leaves or lettuce leaf 
for garniture. 

149. Fruit and Nuts 

H cup diced oranges. ' _ cup diced bananas. 

Vz cup diced pineapple. chopped walnuts. 

Mix the fruits and season with fruit sauce, dish up on a 
lettuce leaf with chopped nuts sprinkled over top. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 89 

150. Crown Prince Salad 

Line a small plate with crisp lettuce; take three slices of 
orange and dispose around the side of dish; fill in with sliced 
banana and ripe strawberries. Pipe whipped cream on top, 
and place one or two red cherries on top. 

151. Fruit Salad 

Cut equal proportions of orange, pineapple, banana and 
mellow apple in medium small dice, season with fruit sauce; 
serve on lettuce leaf. A few ripe strawberries in season 
improves the combination. 

152. Waldorf Salad 

% cup finely diced apples. 2 cup diced celery. 

V-2 lernon. chopped walnuts. 

Mix the lemon with the diced apples first, to keep them 
from turning dark. When ready to serve, pour off as much 
lemon juice as possible from the apples. Mix the apples and 
celery, add cream mayonnaise to season. Serve on lettuce 
with chopped walnuts sprinkled on top of each order. 

153. German Apple Salad 

Select small fine-grained apples; core and pare, leaving 
the skin in shape of ring near the stem end of apple. 
Remove some of the inner portion of apple, being careful 
not to break the shell. Fill the cavity with equal quantities 
of finely diced celery and apple seasoned with cream mayon- 
naise. Put small lettuce funnel in top, drop into this a 
teaspoon of dressing, serve on apple leaves or lettuce leaf. 

154. Raisin Salad 

l /2 cup seeded raisins sliced. % cup finely diced apple. 

Prepare raisins first, then apples; mix, and season with 
cream mayonnaise; serve on lettuce leaf. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



90 FOOD AND COOKERY 

DESSERTS 

The most wholesome desserts are those furnished us by 
nature, and which require no preparation, as fruits, either 
fresh, dried or cooked, and nuts. 

Fruits and grains combined make nice desserts, and may be 
prepared in a variety of ways. By the use of vegetable 
gelatin (agar-agar), fruit and fruit juices may be molded 
into attractive-looking desserts that are toothsome and invit- 
ing. Vegetable gelatin goes much further than animal 
gelatin, and its vegetable origin guarantees absolute freedom 
from unwholesome and diseased products. Being free from 
any flavor of its own, it requires much less flavoring material, 
and "there is nothing about it to suggest hoofs and horns." 

The body requires a certain amount of sugar to keep it in 
working condition. To meet this demand, nature has made 
provision in the fruits or fruit sugars, honey, etc. There 
are some people, however, who cannot eat fruit; for such it 
may be well to take sugar in some form. But as a rule, far 
too much sugar is ordinarily used in food. "Sweet breads, 
sweet cakes . . . perpetuate indigestion and make dyspep- 
tics." However, when people have been accustomed to the 
use of these things freely, sound judgment should be exer- 
cised in providing suitable dishes to take the place of the 
more harmful ones, ever remembering that "diet reform 
must be progressive." The free use of milk and sugar is 
especially harmful, and should be avoided. Their place should 
be supplied as far as possible by preparations of fruits, and 
a variety of grains served in an appetizing manner. 

"Rich cakes," the ingredients of which consist principally 
of butter, sugar, milk and eggs, are proverbial for the dissi- 
pating influence they have on the system, in weakening the 
blood, and lessening the power to resist disease. For those 
who desire a simple cake occasionally, the following recipes 
have been prepared; and if followed carefully, will bring out 
material that is both light and tender, and of attractive 
appearance, without the "gross" combination above men- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 91 

tioned. The following recipes for cake, being free from any 
chemical, should be baked a little more slowly than those in 
which soda or baking-powder is used. A moderate oven for 
layer, and a slow oven for a loaf, cake will bring these cakes 
out very light and porous. 

155. Sago Fruit Mold 

% cup blackberry juice. V& cup water. 

Ys cup sago. ' 14 cup sugar. 

Wash the sago and have it well drained, bring the liquid 
and sugar to the boiling point in a double boiler. Add sago 
to the hot liquid and stir well; cover and let steam until the 
sago is transparent, then turn into wetted molds and let 
cool. When cold and set, turn out on sauce-dish, and serve 
with cream or crushed fruit sauce. 

156. Banana Tapioca Pudding 

Va cup tapioca. U4 cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 thin slice lemon. vanilla flavor. 

3 well-ripened bananas. a few grains salt. 

Soak the tapioca for one hour or more, drain off the water, 
if any, put into a double boiler, pour over it one and one- 
fourth cups of boiling water, add sliced lemon and salt, and 
let it steam until transparent. Have the bananas sliced 
quite thin; add the sugar and vanilla and let stand one-half 
hour. When the tapioca is cold, ad'd the bananas, mix well, 
but avoid breaking them up, and serve with cream. Other 
fruits may be used in place of bananas. 

157. Strawberry Whip 

1 cup strawberries. white of 1 egg. 

V2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Choose well-ripened strawberries, wash them and remove 
the stems, put all the ingredients into a bowl; then beat with 
a wire egg whip until light and fluffy, which will take twenty 
minutes or more. Pile lightly on a dish, and pour a border 
of crushed fruit or red fruit juice unsweetened around the 
whip on each dish. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



92 FOOD AND COOKERY 

158. Pressed Fruit Pudding 

canned blackberries or strawberries. granose biscuit. 

sugar. 

Lay the biscuit in baking-pan in slow oven until thoroughly 
dried out, but not browned. Pour the berries in colander; 
lay a layer of biscuit in bottom of brick-shaped tin; dip 
enough of the juice with spoon over biscuit to moisten them, 
sprinkle lightly with sugar, then cover with a layer of berries 
about a half inch deep; then repeat as before, having the 
berries on top. Set the pudding inside a larger pan, then 
put a pan of equal size as that in which the pudding is in on 
top of pudding with weight; let stand and press for several 
hours, or over night. When ready to serve, cut in squares 
and serve a teaspoon of whipped cream on top. 

159. Prune Pudding 

Soak dried prunes over night. Cook them for two or three 
hours with a few slices of lemon added to give them flavor. 
Drain and save the juice separately; put the prunes through 
a colander to remove the pits, sweeten with sugar, if needed, 
and flavor with vanilla. Trim the crust off thinly from a 
loaf of fruit bread, and cut into slices about one-half inch 
thick. Line a granite baking-pan with the bread, pour over 
enough juice to soak up the bread, cover with the prune pulp 
about one-half inch deep; repeat the process, leaving the 
prune pulp for the top; set into oven until it gets just barely 
heated through, so it will set; cool and cut into squares, and 
serve with a teaspoon of whipped cream on top. 

160. Prune Whip 

Vz cup prune pulp. whites of two eggs. 

% cup sugar or less. few drops of vanilla. 

Prepare prunes same'as for prune pudding; beat the whites 
stiff and dry, add sugar and vanilla, and beat again; then 
fold in the prune pulp. Serve on sauce-dish with a teaspoon 
of whipped cream on top. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 93 

161. Apple Snow 

2 tart apples (% cup after being cooked). whites of 2 eggs. 

V* cup sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Steam or boil the apples with just enough water to cook 
them soft, mash through fine strainer; add sugar and lemon 
juice, and let cool. Beat the whites stiff and dry; fold in 
the apples; serve on small dish with a half teaspoon of red 
jelly on top. Four portions. 

162. Cream Rice Pudding 

% cup uncooked rice. 2 cups milk. 

% cup rich cream or 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

3 tablespoons sugar. vanilla flavor. 

small amount grated lemon rind. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, add the milk and set in a warm 
oven, stirring it down occasionally; the stirring is what gives 
it a nice creamy consistency; when the rice is nearly done, 
then add the sugar, lemon rind, cream or butter and vanilla 
flavor and keep stirring until the rice rises from the bottom 
and looks creamy, and is thoroughly done; then remove from 
oven, sprinkle lightly with sugar, and when partly cool, 
brown on top grate in a good oven. A few seedless raisins 
added in cooking is nice. For five. 

163. Apple and Raisin Pudding 

Sprinkle the bottom of oiled baking-dish with layer of 
rolled zwieback about one-fourth inch deep; then lay a layer 
of sliced tart apples, sprinkle over the grated rind of half a 
lemon (for small pudding), add sugar to taste; then sprinkle 
over small layer of washed sultana raisins, add a little vege- 
table or dairy butter; then add another thin layer of crumbs 
and apple. Sugar the top to season, add small bits of vege- 
table or dairy butter and bake with a pan over the top until 
about half done, then remove pan and finish to a nice brown. 

164. Lemon Snow 

% cup water. Ys cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

white of 1 egg. pinch of salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



94 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Heat the water and sugar to boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
(rubbed smooth in a little cold water), let boil a few min- 
utes; then add pinch of salt and lemon juice, mix well, and 
pour it in a stream into the beaten white of egg, beating as 
it runs in. Pour into wetted molds, let cool, then turn out 
on dish, and serve with cream or the following custard sauce. 
Five portions. 

165. Custard Sauce 

1 egg yolk. % cup milk. 

2 teaspoons sugar. few drops vanilla. salt. 

Heat the milk, sugar and a few grains salt in a double 
boiler; when hot, stir a little of it into the yolk and mix 
well, then pour the yolk mixture into the hot milk and con- 
tinue stirring until it thickens slightly, this will take only a 
few moments. As soon as the custard is sufficiently cooked 
(when it sticks lightly onto a silver spoon when dipped into 
it), remove it, and set dish in pan of cold water. Add 
vanilla flavor. 

166. Blanc Mange 

1 cup rich milk. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

1 tablespoon sugar. white of 1 egg. 

few grains salt. vanilla. 

Put milk in double boiler, and when boiling hot, add sugar 
and salt, and stir in the cornstarch (rubbed smooth in a little 
cold milk), cover and let cook fifteen minutes. Beat the 
white of egg stiff, then pour the hot mixture into the beaten 
white same as for lemon snow, adding a few drops of vanilla. 
Turn into wetted moulds, and serve with cream or custard 
sauce. 

167. Strawberry Flummery 

Use recipe for blanc mange, when cold, dish up in glasses 
with crushed strawberries poured over. 

168. Cream Tapioca 

V6 cup pearl tapioca. 2V6 cups milk. 

J /3 cup sugar. 2 eggs, separated. rind of half a lemon. 

salt. lemon or vanilla flavor. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 95 

Soak the tapioca one hour in water to cover, drain and add 
to milk and cook in double boiler until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. Add half of the sugar to the milk and half to the 
yolks slightly beaten and salt; pour the hot mixture slowly 
onto the yolks, mix well; return to double boiler and cook 
until it thickens. Remove from the fire and add white of 
eggs beaten stiff, flavor and chill. . 

169. Floating Island 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

1 egg. few drops vanilla. salt. 

Heat the milk, and when boiling hot, pour a little of it into 
the beaten yolk, stirring well; then pour the yolk mixture 
into the milk,, and stir over the fire for a moment, until it 
begins to thicken a little, and the egg sticks in a thin coat 
onto a silver spoon when dipped into it. Add a few drops of 
vanilla, pour into sauce-dishes, and let cool. 

Beat the white stiff, add one teaspoon sugar and lemon 
flavor, and beat again. Have a pan of boiling water, drop a 
large tablespoon of the beaten white into the boiling water, 
let cook a minute, then turn it over; lift out with skimmer 
and lay on the prepared custard in center of dish. Put a 
tiny bit of red jelly on top of the white, and serve. 

170. Dutch Apple Pudding 

Peel medium-sized apples and cut them into eighths, 
remove the seeds, and roll the pieces in powdered sugar. 
Take the cake mixture for walnut loaf cake (omit the wal- 
nuts) ; pour in baking-pan, and press the apples down in the 
batter in rows a little distance apart. Bake same as for 
cake; cut in squares when cool, and serve with lemon sauce. 

171. Bread Pudding 

iVz cup stale bread cubes. 2 cups milk. 

1 large egg. Vi cup sugar. few grains salt. 

vegetable or dairy butter. vanilla flavor. 

Spread the bread thinly with the butter; cut bread into 
small dice and put into baking-pan. Beat the egg and sugar, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



96 FOOD AND COOKERY 

add a few grains of salt, the vanilla and the milk ; mix well. 
Pour over the bread, and let stand for an hour; then bake 
until set. A few seedless raisins added makes a nice com- 
bination. 

172. Vegetable Gelatin 

Put one-ounce package of agar-agar to soak in warm 
water for twenty minutes"; drain well, and put into a kettle, 
to which add one quart of boiling water. Let it boil for 
about ten minutes after boiling begins, or until clear. Strain 
through cheesecloth or strainer, and it is ready for use. One 
ounce will solidify three quarts of liquid, inclusive of the 
water in which the gelatin is cooked. 

173. Orange Jelly 

1V4 cups orange juice. % cup water. 

% cup sugar. scant % cup lemon juice. 

1 cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all the cold ingredients, add the vegetable jelly, mix 
well; pour into wetted molds immediately, and let set. 
When cold, turn out, and serve with a little red fruit juice 
around each mold. 

174. Lemon Jelly 

V-2 cup lemon juice. % cup sugar. 

1 cup water. % cup vegetable jelly. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and lemon juice; add jelly, 
and mix well. Pour into wetted molds same as orange jelly. 

175. Berry Mold 

l l /2 cups strawberry or blackberry juice. Vn cup lemon juice. 
Va cup sugar. 1 cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all ingredients and mold immediately. 

PIES 

176. Plain Pastry 

\Vz cups pastry flour. Vz cup crisco. 

'_ teaspoon salt. 4 tablespoons water. 

Sift the flour and salt into mixing bowl; cut crisco into 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 97 

flour with fork; fingertips may be used to finish blending 
materials. Add the water slowly, and mix through dry 
ingredients. Form lightly and quickly with hand into dough. 
Use light motion in handling rolling-pin and roll from center 
outward. One large pie. 

177. Beaten Oil Crust 

2 cups pastry flour. 1 scant half cup oil. 

Vs cup cold water. V& teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt into a mixing_bowl, add half of the 
water to the oil, and beat until it thickens, making a present 
emulsion; beat in the remaining water, and when mixed well, 
pour all at once on the flour; draw in the flour from the sides 
of the bowl with a large spoon, turn out on a floured board, 
and work together, handling as little as possible. 

178. Flake Pastry 

2 cups pastry flour. % cup crisco. 

Vz teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 egg. 2V2 tablespoons water. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl, cut in crisco with fork 
same as for plain pastry; beat egg, add lemon juice and 
water. Mix same as for plain pastry, using the egg mixture 
for the wetting. 

179. Crust Shells 

Roll out either of the above pastries to cover pie-tin, press 
well down into tin; then press off surplus edge around the 
rim; prick with fork on bottom and sides to keep the crust 
from blistering. Bake in good oven to a light brown. 

180. Apple Pie 

Roll out and line a pie-tin with crust, sprinkle a little flour 
in the bottom, mixed with a little sugar. Fill the plate with 
sliced or chopped tart apples, rounding it up a little; dust 
with flour. Add one teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter to 
each pie; sprinkle over about one-half cup of sugar or less, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 

7 



98 FOOD AND COOKERY 

according to the tartness of the apple and the size of the pie. 
Run a wet brush around the edge of the crust. Roll out a 
top crust, perforate with fork or knife, lay on top and press 
edges together, trim, and mark by pressing the teeth of a 
table fork down on rim of crust all the way around. Brush 
over with cream or egg yolk and milk, and bake in medium 
oven. 

181. Prune Pie 

Remove the stones from cooked prunes slightly sweetened; 
roll out bottom crust same as for apple pie; add the stoned 
prunes, one tablespoon lemon juice, one teaspoon vegetable 
or dairy butter, and one-fourth cup sugar or more, cover 
with top crust, and bake same as apple pie. 

182. Strawberry Pie A 

Wash and stem ripe strawberries; roll them in powdered 
sugar, and fill a crust shell; cover with whipped cream; cut 
and serve. 

183. Strawberry Pie B 

Fill a crust shell with strawberry whip, as given in recipe 
No. 157; cut and serve. 

184. Raisin Pie 

1% cups seedless sultana raisins. 2 cups water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. Vx cup sugar. 

Soak the raisins over night, drain; add the water and bring 
to a boil. Sift the sugar and starch together thoroughly and 
add to the raisins and let boil for a few minutes; add pinch 
of salt and let cool. Line a pie-tin with crust, add raisins, 
lemon juice and butter, cover with top crust and bake same 
as for apple pie. One large pie. 

185. Pumpkin Pie 

lYt cups canned pumpkin. 1 cup milk. 

1 egg. Vs cup sugar. 2 tablespoons molasses. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter or a little cream. 

vanilla flavoring if desired. 

% teaspoon salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 99 

Beat the egg; add the molasses, salt, cream or butter, and 
the sugar (mixed with the flour) ; beat well. Add the pump- 
kin and mix well, then stir in the milk and a little flavoring; 
and when thoroughly mixed, pour into a pie-tin which has 
been lined with pie crust, and bake until set. If one table- 
spoon cornstarch is sifted with the sugar, the egg may be 
omitted, if desired. One large pie. 

186. Pumpkin Pie Without Milk 

Ws cups pumpkin. 2 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour. Vs teaspoon salt. 

% cup water. little vanilla flavor if desired. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Beat the eggs, mix all the ingredients thoroughly; lastly, 
stir in the water, mix well, and pour into a crust-lined pie- 
tin, and bake same as the above. 

187. Lemon Pie 

1 large cup sugar. 1% cups water. 

4 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 egg. rind of 1 lemon. 

3 tablespoons lemon juice. V teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

Sift the sugar and starch together into a granite sauce- 
pan; pour the water boiling over these while stirring, and 
let boil until thick and clear. Separate the yolk from the 
white, beat the yolk, and stir a little of the hot mixture 
into the yolk; then stir the yolk into the hot mixture, stirring 
briskly; add the lemon rind, butter, salt and lemon juice. 
Pour into a crust shell. Make a meringue of the beaten 
white of egg, two tablespoons sugar, and a few drops lemon 
flavor; spread over pie and brown lightly. 

188. Cream Pie 

2 cups rich milk. Vs cup sugar. 

4 tablespoons flour. 2 eggs. few grains salt, 
vanilla flavor. 

Sift the flour and sugar together into a sauce-pan; when 
the milk is boiling hot, pour it over these while stirring; 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



100 FOOD AND COOKERY 

return it to double boiler and let cook for ten minutes, or 
until thick. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, and stir into 
them a little of the hot mixture; then stir the yolks into the 
hot mixture and let cook a few minutes; add salt and vanilla, 
beat well, and pour into crust shell. Make a meringue of the 
whites and two tablespoons sugar, and brown lightly same 
as for lemon pie. 

189. Fruit Tarts 

Use flake pastry, roll out thin, and cut with large-sized 
cutter or bowl, fit into muffin pans, prick with fork, and 
bake to nice brown. Cook down apple, peach or quince 
sauce in oven; when of a nice consistency, let cool, and fill 
the tart shells, slightly rounding; serve on small plate. 

CAKES 

General Rules 

1. Sift the flour once, before measuring. 

2. Line the bottom of tins with manila paper, or oil the tins 
and dust them lightly with flour; turn them over and tap 
them against the flour board to shake out all surplus flour. 

3. Use accurate measurements. 

4. Have the oven heated and the drafts closed. 

5. Remove the cake from the oven as soon as it is done 
(longer cooking dries it out). To test it: when about done, 
touch gently with the finger, if it does not respond to a light 
pressure of the finger, close the oven gently, and let bake 
until there is a slight spring in the crust when pressed gently 
with the finger. Leave the cake in tins for ten minutes after 
taking them out of the oven. 

190. Layer Cake 

4 eggs. -'.! cup sugar. 

1% cups sifted pastry flour. 1 tablespoon water. 

1 tablespoon melted crisco. pinch of salt. 

lemon or vanilla flavor. 

Break the eggs (whole) into a round-bottomed mixing 
bowl (three- or four-quart size), add the water and sugar 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 101 

and set the bowl into a shallow pan of hot water on stove, 
and beat continuously and briskly until the eggs are quite 
light and frothy and blood warm; then set the bowl on table, 
and beat until cold and so light that the batter will pile 
slightly when it drops from batter whip. Add the flavoring, 
then sprinkle the sifted flour over the surface and fold in 
lightly with large spoon; sprinkle over the crisco and mix 
lightly; then pour into two paper-lined or oiled tins, and bake 
in a medium oven for ten to twelve minutes. 

191. Plain Loaf Cake 

Oil sides, and line the bottom of brick-shaped tin (bread 
tin) with paper, and fill half or two-thirds full of layer-cake 
mixture, bake in medium slow oven; when done, remove the 
paper from bottom and serve. 

192. Walnut Loaf Cake 

2 eggs separated. scant % cup sifted pastry flour. 

1 teaspoon melted crisco. Vs teaspoon lemon juice. 

Vz cup sugar. lemon or vanilla flavor. 

pinch of salt. J /4 cup chopped walnuts. 

Add the flavor and a few grains salt to yolks, and beat 
with Dover beater until light and lemon colored; add the 
crisco and one-fourth cup sugar, mix with spoon, add enough 
of the flour to make a medium-thin batter. Beat the whites 
stiff and dry, sprinkle in the remaining one-fourth cup sugar 
and the lemon juice, and beat a few hard strokes; then pour 
the yolk batter into the beaten whites, and fold it in by run- 
ning a large spoon down the side of the bowl through the 
center and lift it up, letting the batter drop back into the 
bowl; repeat until blended, but do not stir. Sprinkle the 
balance of flour over batter, add the walnuts and fold in 
lightly; when blended, pour into oiled brick-shaped tin, and 
bake in medium slow oven for twenty to thirty minutes. 
Floured seedless raisins may be substituted in the place of 
walnuts, or it may be baked plain, if desired. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



102 FOOD AND COOKERY 

193. Jelly Roll 

Line a baking-pan with manila paper; take layer-cake 
mixture, spread on paper about one-half inch deep, and bake 
on the top grate in a quick oven. Lay a sheet of manila 
paper on table, sprinkle lightly with sugar; then as soon as 
the cake is done, turn bottomside up upon the sugared paper, 
and carefully remove the paper from bottom of cake. Spread 
cake with red jelly, then take hold of the edge of the paper 
with fingers and roll the cake into a roll with the sugared 
paper around to hold it together until cold. 

194. Lady Fingers 

1 cup sifted flour. Vz cup sugar. 

3 yolks. 3 whole eggs. lemon flavor, 

pinch salt. ^ 

Put the eggs and sugar into a round-bottomed bowl and 
set in a shallow pan of hot water on edge of stove and beat 
until the mixture is light and foamy and a blood warm; then 
remove from the fire and beat until cold and thick. This 
mixture must be very light, and so thick that it will pile 
nicely when it drops from the batter whip. Add the flavor, 
then sift the flour again over the mixture and fold in lightly 
with large spoon. Put into bag with lady-finger-tube and 
press out on a paper-lined baking-pan about one and one-half 
inches in length, and about the size of a pencil or crayon in 
circumference, leaving a little space between each. Dust 
over thickly with powdered sugar and bake on the top grate 
of a quick oven to a light brown color, then remove from 
oven. When they are cooled, turn paper upside down on 
table, wet the paper with cold water on the bottom side then 
turn rightside up again; then remove cakes and stick them 
together. 

195. Vanilla Wafers 

1 egg. % cup sugar. 

M> cup refined cottonseed oil. \Vz cups flour. 

Yz teaspoon or more vanilla. pinch of salt. 

Break the egg into a small round-bottomed bowl; beat with 
Dover egg-beater until fairly light, then pour the oil in slow 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 103 

stream into the egg, beating meanwhile, this emulsifies the 
oil. Then add the sugar and beat until creamy, then fold in 
the one and one-half cups sifted pastry flour, using a table- 
spoon; turn out on well-floured board, roll out gently into a 
fourth-inch thickness, cut with small biscuit cutter, lay in 
baking-pan, and bake on top grate of quick oven until a light 
brown color. 

196. Boiled Frosting 

1 cup sugar. % cup water, 

whites of 2 eggs. flavor. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and continue to stir until 
it boils; then let boil undisturbed until a long hair-like thread 
will hang from the spoon when dipped in the syrup and lifted; 
then pour it in a slow stream on the beaten whites, beating 
as it is poured in; add flavor and beat until light and creamy 
and cold enough to spread on cake. 

197. Plain Icing 

Add confectioner's sugar (powdered sugar) to small amount 
of light-colored fruit juice, pineapple, pear and lemon, or 
lemon juice diluted with a little water; stir in enough sifted 
sugar to form consistency to spread easily on cake. This 
icing will not dry out as quickly as boiled icing, and it forms a 
crust over surface very readily. 

198. Ornamental Frosting 

Put the whites of two eggs into bowl and beat them stiff 
and dry. The success of the frosting depends entirely on 
the steady, brisk whipping between the additions of sugar. 
Add one tablespoon sifted confectioner's sugar, and whip for 
three minutes; then add another tablespoon of sugar and 
whip as before. After the third spoonful has been added, 
add one-fourth teaspoon lemon juice and whip briskly again, 
always bearing in mind that the success of the frosting 
depends on the whipping rather than the amount of sugar 
used. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



104 FOOD AND COOKERY 

When the frosting is of a consistency to spread nicely; 
cover the cake and let harden a little. Keep the bowl covered 
with a cloth wrung out of water to prevent a crust from 
drying on, and thus clog the pastry tube. Put a small amount 
of frosting in pastry bag; or a small paper funnel, and put 
on all lettering, etc. ; a little more sugar may need to be 
added for making the leaves and roses for decoration. 

199. Strawberry Filling 

1 cup crushed strawberries. Vz cup heavy cream, 

sugar to taste. 

Whip the cream and fold in the sweetened and crushed 
berries, spread between cakes. 

200. Orange Filling 

1 large well-colored orange. 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 egg. salt. 

Grate the orange and press out juice, and of lemon also; 
put into cup and add enough water to make the cup full. 
Sift the flour and sugar together, add to the egg beaten 
slightly, and enough of the liquid to stir smooth, add pinch 
of salt and balance of liquid and put on the fire and stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; then let cool and spread between 
layers. 

201. Lemon Filling 

juice and rind of 1 large lemon. 1 cup powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. pinch of salt. 

Beat eggs, add juice and rind of lemon and sugar; stir over 
fire until it thickens, let cool and spread between layers. 



TOASTS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 

Toasts are especially nice for breakfast. They are a light 
food, yet appetizing and nourishing. 

202. Strawberry Toast 

Bring fresh strawberries to boiling point with enough 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 105 

sugar to sweeten. When done, dip a piece of zwieback into 
juice to soften a little, lay the toast on a platter and cover 
well with strawberries, pour a spoonful of juice over all, and 
serve. The juice may be thickened a little with cornstarch, 
if desired, before dishing up. 

203. Cream Toast 

Moisten zwieback in hot cream; lay on platter; pour a 
spoonful more of cream over it, and serve. 

204. Prune Toast 

Rub well-cooked prunes through fine colander, add enough 
of the prune juice to make it of the consistency to spread on 
toast and not run off; reheat, and dip a slice of zwieback in 
hot milk or prune juice to soften, lay on platter, and cover 
with the prune pulp. 

205. Cream Peas on Toast 

% cup green pea pulp. V<. cup thin cream, 

salt to taste. 

Bring peas to boil, drain off liquor; mash the peas through 
colander, having them separate from the liquid in which they 
were heated, add the hot cream and salt to taste. Reheat; 
dip a piece of zwieback in milk to soften, lay on a platter, 
and cover with cream peas, which should be thick enough 
not to run off. 

206. Walnut Lentils on Toast 

% cup lentil puree. Vz cup or more thin cream. 

V\ cup ground walnuts. salt to taste. 

Cook lentils well done, drain and mash through colander, 
moisten with the hot cream, salt to taste, add walnuts; 
reheat, and dish up as cream peas on toast. 

207. Sultana Toast 

Dip toasted triscuit in hot cream, lay on platter; cover 
with large spoonful of stewed raisins, and place a spoonful of 
whipped cream on top. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



106 FOOD AND COOKERY 

208. Tomato Toast 

Dip a slice of zwieback in hot milk or tomato juice, lay on 
platter, and cover with a spoonful of cream tomato sauce. 

209. Nut and Potato Hash 

2 cups small diced cold boiled potatoes. Ya cup hot milk. 

1 ' :.' tablespoons chopped onion. Ya cup diced nut cero. 

lYa tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour, salt. 

sprinkle sage. 

Put one tablespoon of butter, the onion, sage and browned 
flour in small sauce-pan, and stir over the fire for a moment, 
add a small quantity of the milk and stir smooth, add the 
balance of the milk and boil up; salt to taste and add the nut 
food to gravy. Sprinkle the potatoes with a little salt; then 
pour over them the hot mixture and mix lightly; put in oiled 
baking-pan, sprinkle a little cream or one-half tablespoon 
vegetable butter over top, and bake to a light brown color. 
Vegetable stock or hot water may be used instead of milk if 
desired, adding a little rich cream to the roux. 

210. Scrambled Egg with New Tomato 

Scald and peel two medium-sized ripe tomatoes. Cut them 
into quarters, put on stove in small covered sauce-pan, add a 
little salt and bring to good boil, turn them into a colander 
and drain off the juice; then add one teaspoon vegetable or 
dairy butter and reheat. Have skillet oiled; when hot, break 
in two eggs, stir quickly so they will cook evenly; when they 
are soft cooked, add the tomatoes, mix lightly, and serve 
immediately. 

211. Steamed Rice 

lYa cups cold water. V cup rice. 

1 - teaspoon salt. 

Wash the rice in several waters, put into the inner cup of 
double boiler, add salt and water, and put on stove, bringing 
to a boil; let it continue to boil slowly until the water is 
reduced so the rice is dry; then set it into the outer boiler 
and let steam forty minutes. If a double boiler is not at 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 107 

hand; let the rice cook down as above, and set on the back 
of the stove to dry out, having the sauce-pan well covered. 

212. Browned Rice 

Vz cup of rice. lYs cups cold water. 

Vz teaspoon salt. 

Brown the rice in a small pan on the top of the stove or in 
a hot oven, stirring so it will not burn, until a light golden 
brown; put into the inner part of a double boiler, add the 
water and salt and set on the stove, let boil until the rice 
appears dry and the liquid is all evaporated; then set into the 
outer boiler to steam thirty minutes to one hour. 

213. Mashed Potato Cakes 

Take the Duchess potato mixture, No. 119; roll out with 
knife into small round cakes, mark on top with knife, lay in 
oiled baking-pan, brush over with cream and bake on the top 
grate in a hot oven to a nice brown. 

214. Creamed Potato 

2 cups chopped cold boiled potatoes. salt. 

1 cup cream, or 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy 

butter added to 1 cup milk. 

Put the cream, or milk and butter, on the fire, and when it 
comes to a boil, add the potatoes with salt to taste, let them 
simmer, stirring now and then until they are creamy and 
begin to thicken; then put them on the top grate of a medium 
oven to brown lightly. 

215. Stuffed Baked Potato 

Bake medium-sized smooth potatoes; when done, cut them 
in two lengthwise, remove the mealy potato with spoon, 
season with cream and salt; refill the shell with potato mix- 
ture, brush over with cream and lightly brown in quick oven. 
Serve immediately. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



108 FOOD AND COOKERY 

SANDWICHES 

In a family where lunches have to be put up, it is a very 
important matter to know how these lunches may be pre- 
pared in a wholesome manner. So often persons have serious 
indigestion from partaking of a picnic dinner. With care 
and study a lunch may be just as wholesome and appetizing 
as any meal eaten at home. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

Use fresh bread, slice thin and evenly, spread scant with 
butter, then spread filling on one side of bread, and place 
othei 4 piece over, cut in desired size and style. 

216. Nut and Jelly 

Add chopped walnuts to jelly and spread on buttered bread. 

217. Nut Butter and Olive 

Dissolve the nut butter with cold water to thick cream; 
add chopped olives; serve leaf of lettuce and mayonnaise 
between slices, if desired. 

218. Nut and Tomato 

Mash equal parts of nuttolene and tomato to a paste with 
fork, season. Serve with lettuce leaf and mayonnaise. 

219. Egg Sandwich 

Chop hard-boiled eggs very fine, season with mayonnaise, 
and serve with lettuce leaf. 

220. Bean Sandwich 

Spread bean puree on buttered bread, using lettuce and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

221. Lettuce and Tomato 

Peel tomatoes, slice thin, and serve with mayonnaise. 

222. Egg and Tomato 

Scramble eggs soft, add equal quantity of stewed, drained 
tomatoes; mix well, let cool, and use. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 109 

223. Date and Nut 

Grind walnuts and dates through mill; season with lemon 
juice. 

224. Honey and Nut 

Use one-half cup honey, one tablespoon lemon juice; add 
chopped walnuts to make stiff paste. 

225. Raisin Sandwich 

Chop one-half cup seeded raisins and one-half cup walnuts 
very fine; add one and one-half tablespoons mayonnaise and 
a half teaspoon lemon juice. Mix into paste, and spread on 
thinly buttered bread. 

226. Nut and Fruit 

Grind equal parts of steamed dried figs and seeded raisins 
together through mill, or chop fine; add enough chopped 
walnuts to spread nicely on bread, season with lemon juice. 

227. Lentil Sandwich 

Slice cold lentil roast into thin slices (No. 50). Lay on 
buttered bread, serve with lettuce leaf and mayonnaise 
between slices. 

228. Tartar Sandwich 

Chop the following green vegetables fine: green onion, 
cucumber, sweet bell pepper, lettuce and a little tomato; 
put in cheesecloth and press out water, season with mayon- 
naise. Lay lettuce on one slice of buttered bread, and spread 
over a layer of the vegetable. Use immediately. 

INVALID DIETARY 

While the greater part of this work has been devoted to 
the contriving of meals usual in the average household and 
under ordinary circumstances, yet we must know how to 
supply the needs of the weak or suffering. A few recipes 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



110 FOOD AND COOKERY 

will be given under this head for liquid foods, which may 
often be used where the more solid foods cannot be retained 
or assimilated. 

Food for the sick should be such as will furnish the most 
nourishment with the least tax upon the digestive organs. 
While it should generally be of a simple nature, it should be 
cooked with the greatest care and served in the most inviting 
manner. 

The temperature of the food will also have a marked 
influence on digestion; therefore it should be a rule to have 
hot foods served hot, and cold foods served cold. 

The tray should be covered with spotless linen, should be 
carefully laid, and should not have the appearance of being 
over-crowded. 

The breakfast tray especially should be made as attractive 
as possible. A few bright flowers will make it look cherry 
and inviting. While many of the foregoing recipes may be 
used for the sick, as toasts, fruits, breads, soups, etc., 
the following will come under a special head, as liquid foods. 

229. Barley Water 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash the barley and let it soak for an hour in cold water. 
Wash and change the water, adding fresh water. Set on 
stove and let boil until it is reduced to one cup liquid. Serve 
plain or season with a little cream, if desired. 

230. Rice Water 

2 tablespoons rice. 2 cups cold water. 

few grains salt. cream or milk, if desired. 

Wash the rice and put into the cold water, heat gradually 
to the boiling point, and let it continue to cook until the rice 
is soft. Strain, reheat the rice water, add a little milk or 
cream, if desired. 

231. Oatmeal Gruel 

3 tablespoons oatmeal. 2 cups boiling water. 

a few grains salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 111 

Stir the oatmeal into the boiling water, and let it boil until 
it begins to thicken slightly, then set into a double boiler and 
let it cook two hours or more. Strain through a fine strainer 
and dilute it with a little hot water if it is too thick. Reheat 
and season with cream if desirable. A gruel should be so 
thin that it will pour nicely from a spoon. 

232. Cornmeal Gruel 

3 tablespoons cornmeal. 2 cups water, 

few grains salt. 

Prepare the same as oatmeal gruel. 

233. Gluten Gruel 

1 cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons gluten meal, 

few grains salt. 

Sift the gluten slowly into the boiling water, stirring 
briskly to avoid having it form into lumps. Let it boil until 
of the desired thickness. A little cream may be added before 
serving, if desirable. 

234. Flaxseed Tea 

V\ cup flaxseed. 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Wash the flaxseed in cold water, drain well. Add boiling 
water, and let boil gently for one hour. Strain, add lemon 
juice and a little sugar, if desired, and serve. 

235. Hot Malted Milk 

1 heaping tablespoon malted milk. 1 cup water, 

few grains salt, if desired. 

First add a little warm water to malted milk to make a 
smooth paste; add boiling water, beat well, and serve. 

236. Fruit Eggnogg 

One egg separately, one-third cup fruit juice, the amount 
of sugar needed will vary according to the acidity of the 
fruit. Orange eggnogg will require about one tablespoon 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



112 FOOD AND COOKERY 

sugar. Other juices, as grape, berry or prune, will require 
very little sugar, if any. A teaspoon of lemon juice should 
be added to the latter juices. Beat the white stiff with a 
Dover egg-beater, and take out one tablespoon of the whites 
to be kept for a garniture for the top of the glass. Beat the 
yolk and stir in the fruit juice and sugar. Mix well, then 
stir all into the beaten white, pour into a glass, and serve 
with the tablespoon of beaten white on top. 

237. Dry Eggnogg 

One egg, separately, beat the white stiff; add one table- 
spoon of rich raspberry or blackberry juice to one-half tea- 
spoon of beaten yolk; mix thoroughly; cut and fold into the 
beaten white of egg. Serve in glass. 

238. Cream Eggnogg 

Vz cup thin cream. 1 egg. 

4 or 5 drops vanilla. sprinkle of sugar. 

Beat the egg separately, add the cream, sugar, and vanilla 
to the yolk; then pour the mixture into the beaten white, mix 
well, and serve in glass with a spoonful of beaten white on 
top. 

239. Lemon Albumen 

white of 1 egg. 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 

chipped ice. Vs glass water. 

Put the white of egg and a little chipped ice into glass, 
beat well with fork to break and coagulate the egg; add 
lemon juice and water, mix well, and serve. 

240. Albumenized Milk 

Shake together in well-corked bottle or jar, one pint of 
cold fresh milk and the beaten whites of two eggs. Serve 
immediately. 

241. Curdled Egg 

Put a raw egg into a dish that will hold one pint of water; 
when the water in tea kettle boils, pour the dishful over the 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 113 

egg; that is, one pint of boiling water. Let stand on table 
uncovered for seven minutes, then remove and serve. 

It is a very common error to serve the sick with fresh- 
made toast of bread which has been quickly browned on both 
sides and served hot. This makes the bread practically as 
indigestible as fresh-baked bread. Zwieback may be heated, 
served dry or moistened with hot milk or water, and being 
thoroughly dextrinized, it is very easily digested and assimi- 
lated. 

Eggs, when cooked and served to the sick, should as a rule 
always be soft cooked, poached or soft boiled, curdled or 
scrambled with a little milk. 

FRUIT ICES AND CREAMS 

Fruit ices, when eaten at proper times, may be used by 
most people, and in hot weather they are cooling and refresh- 
ing. The mixture of large quantities of milk and sugar, 
used in the manufacture of ice creams, makes a bad combina- 
tion. Large quantities of milk and sugar taken together 
clog the system. Fruit ices and ice cream are often recom- 
mended by physicians for particular cases. The following 
suggestions on the uses of ices and ice cream by a physician 
of long practical experience, will be a help to the nurse or 
mother: 

"Fruit ice is a very useful article of food for those who 
are suffering with a gastritis where there is an absence of 
hydrochloric acid. It has the effect of reducing the inflamma- 
tory condition, and at the same time supplies the patient 
with nutrition. It is not a good plan to take fruit ice in con- 
nection with a large meal, as it lowers the temperature of 
the stomach, and the latter cannot perform its functions 
until it has reached its normal temperature again. 

"Ice cream is a useful article of food for a person who is 
suffering with gastric ulcer and inflammation of the stomach, 
due to excess of hydrochloric acid, as it is both nutritious and 
cooling to the stomach. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 

8 



114 FOOD AND COOKERY 

"The combination of sugar and milk does not seem to do 
any particular damage under these conditions, for the large 
amount of hydrochloric acid seems to neutralize any evil 
effects. It is not a useful article of food for an individual 
with a normal stomach. The materials used should be of the 
best quality, for frequently we have severe ptomain poison- 
ing from eating an inferior quality of ice cream." 

242. Grape Fruit Ice 

~:i cup grape fruit juice. V-2 cup water. 

Vs cup sugar or more. 

Add the sugar to the water and bring to a boil; when cool, 
add the grape fruit juice and freeze, using about one part 
salt to three or four parts ice. Too much salt will make a 
coarse-grained ice. The beaten white of an egg may be 
added, if desired. 

243. Lemon Ice 

Vt cup lemon juice. -.-; cup boiling water. 

Vk cup sugar or more. 

Make the same as grape fruit ice. 

244. Strawberry Ice 

2 cups strawberries. 2 cup sugar or more. 

Ys cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash and remove the stems from well-colored ripe berries. 
Put them into a bowl, sprinkle over the sugar, cover and let 
stand one hour, then mash them well, add the water and 
press through a fine strainer or cheesecloth to express as 
much juice as possible, add the lemon juice, and freeze. 

245. Apricot Ice 

1 cup stewed apricot pulp. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

*4 cup water. sweeten to taste. 

Stew the apricots with enough sugar to sweeten, when 
cool mash through a fine colander, add lemon juice and water, 
and freeze. A little more sugar may be required. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 115 

246. Ice Cream 

1 cup rich cream. . 6 drops vanilla. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Mix ingredients and freeze the same as fruit ice. 

CANNING, PRESERVING 

The great secret of canning lies in complete sterilization. 
All fruits and vegetables, as well as the water we drink and 
the air we breathe, are teeming with minute forms of life 
called bacteria or molds or germs. These germs are the sole 
cause of decomposition or rotting, and are the only cause of 
spoilage we have to deal with in canning. 

The exclusion of air from canned articles is not necessary, 
provided the air is sterile and free from germs. 

FRUITS 

Fruits are usually slightly acid, and in general do not sup- 
port bacterial growth, but are more commonly fermented by 
yeasts. In order to retain the natural flavor of the fruit, 
little sugar should be used, and the fruit should be cooked 
only long enough to insure its preservation. 

The fruit should be perfectly sound and not overripe. It 
should always be assorted; ripe fruit and hard fruit should 
never be cooked in the same jar. 

All stewpans, strainers, glass jars and tops should be put 
on in cold water, heated to the boiling point, and then boiled 
for ten minutes before using. The quantity of sugar used 
will vary with the kind of fruit used, and somewhat with the 
locality in which it is grown. The following proportion is 
taken as an average, more or less sugar may be used as the 
case may require: 

247. Syrups 

Apricots 2 2 quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Peaches 2J 3 quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Pears 3 3| quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Plums 1 1 quarts water to each quart of sugar. 

{USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



110 FOOD AND COOKERY 

HOME CANNING 

248. Apricots 

Select large underripe fruit. Peel and stone the fruit; 
pack into glass jars; bring the syrup to boil; pour through 
funnel onto the fruit until jar is full, put on rubber ring, and 
screw the covers on loosely. Set the jars into a wash boiler 
with a false bottom in it to keep the jars from resting on 
the bottom of the boiler. Pour tepid water into the boiler 
until the jars are about two-thirds immersed in it. Heat 
gradually to the boiling point, and let boil for ten minutes 
after boiling begins, counting the time from the moment the 
steam issues out from under the cover of the boiler. After 
ten minutes boiling, remove the cover, take the jars out one 
at a time, handling them with a dry cloth, and out of the 
way of a draft; screw the covers on tight, invert, and let 
stand in this position until cold. By boiling the syrup pre- 
viously to filling them, the jars need not be refilled after 
cooking, unless cooked too long. Great care should be taken 
not to cook the fruit too long, as it shrinks up and loses its 
natural flavor and appearance. Apricots are nice canned 
whole; they become quite highly flavored from the pits 
contained in them. 

249. Peaches 

Peel and cut peaches into halves, removing the stones, 
except a few that may be put into each jar for flavor, if 
desired. Pack the fruit into jars, and finish the same as for 
apricots. 

250. Pears 

Peel and cut the fruit into halves. Remove the seeds, etc., 
and proceed in the same way as for peaches, except they 
must be boiled about twenty minutes instead of ten minutes. 

251. Plums 

Wash and peel the plums, saving out the small ones and 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY - 117 

the peel for jelly. Pack the fruit into jars and finish the 
same as apricots. 

252. Open Kettle Method 

Bring syrup to boil and drop in only enough fruit at a time 
for one or two jars, let come to good boil; syrup should barely 
cover the fruit. Then dip glass jar out of boiling water 
having rubber ring on, and set into a small hot pan; insert 
funnel, and use large spoon; dip the fruit up by halves, drop- 
ping them into jar; lastly fill to brim with boiling syrup, 
screw hot cover on tightly, invert and let stand until cold. 

253. Strawberries 

Wash and stem the berries, place in large pan, pour over 
them the needed sugar, and let stand one hour; then put on 
fire, adding no water, and when they boil up well, fill into 
hot jars and finish same as above. 

254. Canned Tomatoes 

Select only sound ripe tomatoes, dip them in boiling water 
for a few moments; remove the skins; halve them and place 
in an open kettle; add salt at the rate of one level teaspoon 
to the quart. Bring slowly to boil, and cook until tomatoes 
are thoroughly cooked through. Remove one jar at a time 
from boiling water, place a rubber around the neck and fill 
with boiling hot tomatoes; take the top of the jar from the 
boiling water, being careful not to touch the inside with the 
fingers, screw it on tightly. Invert, and let stand in that 
position until cold. 

255. Jelly (Satsuma Plum) 

To each fifteen pounds plums and peel add about two quarts 
cold water, and set on the stove; care being taken not to 
burn them. When they are thoroughly done, pour into a bag 
or cloth, and hang up to drip. To each quart of juice thus 
made add one quart of sugar and bring to boil; skim, and let 
it continue to boil for thirty minutes, if only one quart of 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



118 FOOD AND COOKERY 

juice; forty minutes, if one gallon; and about fifty minutes 
to one hour for five to ten gallons. Take glasses out of hot 
water and fill, let them stand forty-eight hours, then pour 
over them enough hot parafine to cover. 

If plums are picked just after a rain or heavy dew; they 
will contain much more water than otherwise; then they will 
require less water, and it is always safest to boil a small 
quantity as a test before making a large amount of jelly. 

256. Cranberry Jelly 

1 quart cranberries. 1 pint water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Pick berries over, wash and drain well. Add one pint 
water to berries and let boil eight minutes after boiling 
begins; mash through colander, add sugar and bring to boil, 
skim, let boil gently for four or five minutes; then pour into 
hot glasses or jars. When set, pour hot parafine over top of 
each glass. 

COMBINATIONS AND MENU-MAKING 

The art of planning and combining foods is one of no small 
importance to the housewife or cook. The very best foods 
may be combined or served in such combinations as to bring 
distress to the digestive organs, and produce weakness 
instead of strength. 

Because human beings differ so much and their needs are 
so varied, it is impossible to lay down any set of rules on 
diet for all alike. But there are general principles by which 
everyone may be guided in matters of diet, and which, if 
heeded, can accomplish more for the individual or family, in 
maintaining a healthy condition of the body, than all the 
doctors' prescriptions. It is therefore important for those 
who have to plan for the family, to have a working knowledge 
of the principles which guide and direct in making out a bal- 
anced menu. 

In the first place, there should not be a great variety at 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 119 

any one meal. Several articles of food at the same meal 
work up fermentation, and the food does not nourish the 
system. 

While perhaps all cannot eat the same foods (and it might 
be well always to plan so there can be some individual choice 
in the matter of foods to be eaten), yet a very common error, 
and one that is so often committed with none but the best 
intentions, is that of loading the table down with every 
possible variety of food. True, the same dishes prepared in 
the same way should not appear on the table meal after meal, 
and day after day. The food should be varied, and the cook 
should plan to have different foods served in different ways, 

so as to have the table always looking fresh and inviting. 



A great variety at one meal encourages overeating, bring- 
ing distress and feebleness in its train. Overtaxation of the 
digestive organs is a bad form of dissipation, and is said to 
be the cause of more disease, directly or indirectly, than is 
caused by all kinds of alcoholic dissipation combined, the 
latter very often due to the former. 

While the cook cannot be held responsible for the course of 
individuals in these matters, yet it is within his power to 
plan the meal in such a manner as to encourage right habits; 
and being guided by sound principles, he can make the work 
educational in character. 

Then again, it is not well to eat fruit and vegetables at the 
same meal. Fresh fruits are very easily digested, a sweet 
apple being digested in the stomach in from one hour to one 
hour and a half, while many of the coarser foods require from 
three to four hours or more for their digestion. When these 
are taken together, the fruits, mixed with other foods, are 
kept in the stomach for such a long period of time that they 
ferment, and the formation of vinegar and alcohol is the 
result. 

Acid fruits and coarse vegetables, as roots and tubers, are 
an especially bad combination. Many people, who think a 
certain food does not agree with them, often learn that the 



120 FOOD AND COOKERY 

trouble is not with the food, but with the combination in 
which it has been taken. The finer vegetables, known as the 
fruity vegetables, as squash, tomatoes, peas, corn, etc., can 
be used by most people where fruit dessert or fresh fruit is 
served. These principles should be taken into consideration 
in all our planning. 

Grains, fruits and nuts are a good combination; also grains 
or cereals, vegetables and nuts. It might be well to say that 
while grains and fruits are a good combination, it should be 
remembered that to pour acid fruits over rice, bread or any 
starchy food to soften it, not only hinders the flow of saliva, 
but the acid of the fruit so neutralizes the saliva as to hinder 
the digestion of the food in the stomach. If starchy foods 
be thoroughly masticated first, and the fruit eaten at the 
close of the meal, then the food will be in a condition to be 
easily acted upon by the digestive juices. 

The free use of milk and sugar taken together clogs the 
system and should be avoided. Milk and acid fruits are a 
bad combination, and should not be taken together. 

Then there should be a simplicity about the preparation of 
food, a nicety that will appeal to the finer instincts of people. 
Complex mixtures and highly seasoned foods ought to be an 
insult to one with a healthy, normal stomach. 

Nature has provided an abundance of natural flavors in the 
different foods, which do not irritate the delicate organs of 
digestion, but which have a pleasing effect. Food should be 
prepared and served in an appetizing manner, and should 
appeal to the sense of sight, as well as to that of taste. 

In making out a well-balanced menu, there is need to con- 
sider, not only the properties of the food, but its adaption to 
the eater. Food can be eaten freely by persons engaged in 
physical labor which must be avoided by those whose work is 
chiefly mental. Then again, we should always plan so that, 
as far as combination is concerned, we shall set before people 
foods that combine well together. Suppose, for instance, 
we serve vegetable soup first; most people will partake of it 



FOOD AND COOKERY 121 

when it is set before them. Then we have already started 
them on a vegetable dinner; now, should we. have a fruit 
salad or fruit dessert, with perhaps other coarse vegetables, 
it is very apparent that there is a lack of judgment on the 
part of the one responsible. Such mistakes can be avoided 
without inconvenience when making out the plans, by putting 
a cream of peas or tomato or other like soup, instead of the 
vegetable, whenever fruit is taken into the combination. 

While it is true that people need not partake of everything 
before them, yet there are some things most people will use, 
and this should always be taken into consideration when 
making out the plans. We should always plan so that the 
soup, the relishes and the dessert, if any, shall harmonize as 
far as combination is concerned; and if fruit, as fruit salad, 
or fruit dessert, is used, there should be at least one of the 
finer vegetables, as tomatoes, squash, corn, etc., to choose 
from. At another time, when fruit is omitted from the 
menu, we may plan a good vegetable dinner, in which any of 
the coarser vegetables may be combined with some dish in 
the form of grains, legumes or nut food. 

In seeking to supply foods that will give proper nourish- 
ment to the body, we should avoid the extremes in both 
directions; on the one hand, that which tends toward an 
impoverished diet, and on the other hand, that which brings 
into one meal too many heavy, highly concentrated foods. 
Fresh vegetables, especially the coarse vegetables, contain a 
large proportion of water in their composition. These vege- 
tables of themselves would fail of supplying the proper 
nutrition to the body, but when served with the more solid 
foods, as grains, legumes, nuts, or nut foods, they furnish 
bulk to the food, and are rich in mineral matter. Perhaps 
one of the more solid foods, rich in nutritive value, together 
with other vegetables prepared in a simple manner, would 
give variety and ample choice for most people. 

The following suggestive menus will help to illustrate the 
working out of some of these principles: 



122 FOOD AND COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

BARTLET PEARS STEWED PRUNES 

TOASTED WHEAT FLAKES 

SCRAMBLED EGG WITH NEW TOMATO CORN BREAE- 

CREAM BUTTER HONEY 

CEREAL COFFEE 



DINNER 

LETTUCE CREAM OF CORN OLIVES 

SAVORY LENTIL ROAST CRANBERRY JELLY 

BAKED POTATOES BROWN SAUCE STEWED TOMATOES 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD APPLE PIE 



LUNCHEON 

SLICED PEACHES STRAWBERRIES 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

CREAM ROLLS PULLED ZWIEBACK 

NECTAR CEREAL COFFEE 




123 



BAKED APPLE CANTALOUPE 

BOILED RICE NUT AND POTATO HASH 

WHOLE-WHEAT PUFFS 
CREAM BUTTER CEREAL COFFEE 



DINNER 

.LETTUCE AND TOMATO COTTAGE CHEESE 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER 

MIXED NUTS WAX BEANS 

FRUIT BREAD 

WATERMELON CREAM RICE PUDDING 



LUNCHEON 

STEWED PRUNES BLACKBERRIES 

CREAM TOAST PUFFED WHEAT BERRIES 

ORANGES FRUIT CRISPS 

YOGURT CEREAL COFFEE 



124 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



INDEX TO RECIPES 

The numbers refer to the recipe and not to the page. 



Unfermented Baiter-breads 37 

6 Corn Bread 
9 Corn Cakes 

7 Hoo Cake 

8 Hot Cakes 

5 Puffs, Whole-wheat 
Unfermented Dough-breads 39 

10 Cream Rolls 

14 Cocoanut Crisps 
13 Date Rolls 

12 Fruit Crisps 

15 Walnut Sticks 

11 Whole-wheat Sticks 
Fermented Breads 41 

22 Bran Biscuit 

20 Fruit Bread, Buns 
19 Graham Bread 

21 Graham Buns 

16 Mother's Bread 

23 Parkerhouse Rolls with 

Milk 

17 White Bread 

18 Whole- wheat Bread 

24 Zwieback, Cut 

25 Zwieback, Pulled 

Cakes 100 

193 Jelly Roll 

190 Layer Cake 

191 Loaf Cake, Plain 

192 Loaf Cake, Walnut 

194 Lady Fingers 

195 Vanilla Wafers 
Canning: 115 

247 Syrups 

248 Apricots 

249 Peaches 

250 Pears 

251 Plums 

252 Open Kettle Method 

253 Strawberries 

254 Tomatoes 



Desserts 90 

161 Apple Snow 

163 Apple and Raisin Pudding 

156 Banana Tapioca 

166 Blanc Mange 

175 Blackberry Mold Jelly 

171 Bread Pudding 

162 Cream Rice Pudding 

168 Cream Tapioca 
165 Custard Sauce 

170 Dutch Apple Pudding 

169 Floating Island 

173 Jelly, Orange 

174 Jelly, Lemon 
IT." Jelly, Berry 

164 Lemon Snow 

158 Pressed Fruit Pudding 

159 Prune Pudding 

160 Prune Whip 

155 Sago Fruit Mold 

167 Strawberry Flummery 

157 Strawberry Whip 
1T2 Vegetable Gelatin 
Frostings, Fillings, Sauces 103 

196 Boiled Frosting 

198 Ornamental Frosting 

197 Plain Icing 
201 'Lemon Filling 
200 Orange Filling 

199 Strawberry Filling 
144 Fruit Sauce 

165 Custard Sauce 
146 Lemon Sauce 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 56 

41 Beans, Stewed Lima 

42 Beans, Baked Lima 

43 Bean Puree, Browned 

44 Bean Ribbon, Roast 
47 Bean Patties, Xavy 

45 Beans Spanish, Red 
56 Corn Nut Pie 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



125 



59 Cromeskies, Xut 

66 Corn Timbales 

48 Cutlets of Green Peas 
38 Dressing, Baked 

50 Lentil Roast, Savory 

31 Lentil and Rice Loaf, 
Country Style 

49 Macaroni and Rice 

(Croquettes) 

02 Macaroni au Gratin 

60 Macaroni, Family Style 

61 Macaroni with Olives 
55 Noodles au Gratin 
54 Noodles, Cream 

69 New England Dinner 
57 Nut Meat, Roast 

208 Nut and Potato Hash 

52 Nut and Potato Pie 

46 Patties, Lentil 

47 Patties, Navy Bean 

53 Potato Stew, Egg Dump- 

lings 

211 Rice, Steamed 

212 Rice, Browned 

63 Rice, Spanish 

64 Rice, Baked Italienne 
57 Roast, Nut Meat 

44 Roast, Ribbon Bean 

50 noast, Savory Lentil 

67 Roast, Walnut 

68 Spaghetti and Cornlet 
63 Spanish Rice 

46 Walnut Lentil Patties 

67 Walnut Roast 

i;5 Walnut Timbales 

Gravies and Sauces Of) 

70 Brown Sauce 

7s Brazil Nut Sauce 

71 Country Gravy 

73 Cream Sauce 
165 Custard Sauce 

77 Hollandaise Sauce 

146 Lemon Sauce 

74 Nut Sauce 

72 Olive Sauce 



75 Tomato Sauce 

76 Tomato Cream Sauce 
Ices, Fruit, Ice Cream ....118 

245 Apricot Ice 

242 Grape Fruit Ice 

24:1 Lemon Ice 

244 Strawberry Ice 

246 Ice Cream 

Invalid Dietary 109 

240 Albumenized Milk 

229 Barley Water 

232 Cornmeal Gruel 

241 Curdled Egg 

238 Eggnogg, Cream 
237 Eggnogg, Dry 
236 Eggnogg, Fruit 

234 Flaxseed Tea 

233 Gluten Gruel 

239 Lemon Albumen 

235 Malted Milk Hot 
231 Oatmeal Gruel 

230 Rice Water 

Jelly Making 117 

255 Plum Jelly 

256 Cranberry Jelly 
Miscellaneous Recipes 84 

3 Sterilized Milk 

1 Vegetable Butter 

4 Table Butter 

2 Yogurt 

Pies, Crusts 9fi 

176 Plain Pastry 

177 Beaten Oil Crust 
17s Flake Pastry 

17!" Crust Shells 

ISO Apple Pie 

188 Cream Pie 

189 Fruit Tart 
ls7 Lemon Pie 
1M Prune Pie 
is." Pumpkin Pie 

186 Pumpkin Pie without 

Milk 

184 Raisin Pie 

ls2 Strawberry Pie A 



126 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



183 Strawberry Pie B 

Salads and Dressings 83 

127 Cream Dressing 

125 Boiled Dressing 

126 French Dressing 

124 Mayonnaise Dressing 

138 Bean Salad 

134 Beet and Egg 
133 Coleslaw 

135 Combination Salad 

141 Cucumber Salad 

139 Egg Salad 

1.28 Lettuce and Tomato 

137 Macedoine Salad 

136 Nut and Celery 

129 Poinsettia Tomato 
132 Potato Salad 

130 Stuffed Tomato 

143 String Bean 

142 Sweet Potato Salad 

131 Tomato en Surprise 

140 Water Lily Salad 
Salads and Sauces, Fruit . . .8? 

144 Fruit Sauce 
14H Lemon Sauce 

145 Cream Mayonnaise 

150 Crown Prince 
'48 Fruit Basket 
149 Fruit and Nuts 

151 Fruit Salad 

153 German Apple Salad 

K,4 Raisin Salad 

147 Stuffed Date Salad 

152 Waldorf Salad 

Sandwiches 108 

220 Bean Sanawich 

"23 Date and Nut 

219 Egg Sandwich 

222 Egg and Tomato 

224 Honey and Nut 

"21 Lettuce and Tomato 

227 Lentil Sandwich 

216 Nut and Jelly 

217 Nut Butter and Olive 

218 Nut and Tomato 



226 Nut and Fruit 

22." Raisin Sandwich 

228 Tartar Sandwich 

Soups .(' 

21: Cream of Tomato A 

27 Cream of Tomato B 

28 Cream of Corn 

2 :i Cream of Green Peas 

33 Cream of Lettuce 

:]0 Family Potato S 

::7 Farmers' Favorite 

39 Fruit Soup A 

40 Fruit Soup B 

::i Lima Bean Soup 

38 Potage St. Germain 

:!4 Tomato Bisque 

'12 Vegetable Oyster .Soup 

35 Vegetable Chowder 

36 Vegetable Julienne 
T:>ast.s and Breakfast Dishr- 

104 

2".~> Cream Peas on Toast 

203 Cream Toast 

214 Cream P->tar> 

21.1 Mashed Potato Cakes 

209 Nut and Potato Hash 
2114 Prune Toast 

211 Rice, Steamed 

212 Rice, Browned 

215 Stuffed Baked Potato 

207 Sultana Toast 
202 Strawberry Toast 

210 Scrambled Egg with To- 

mato 

208 Tomato Toast 

206 Walnut Lentils on Toast 

Vegetables 71 

N! Asparagus, New 

^2 Asparagus Tips and Peas 
Beans, String 

103 Beets, Stewed 

104 Beets, Buttered 

105 Beets, Scalloped 

112 Bell Peppers, Stuffed 

:.") Cauliflower au Gratin 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



127 



96 Cauliflower Bouchees 

113 Cabbage, Stewed 
99 Carrots, Cream 

100 Carrots, Egg Sauce 

101 Carrots, Stewed 

102 Carrots and Peas 

94 Corn, Cream Baked 

92 Corn on Cob 

93 Corn Saute, Green 
<.tO Eggplant, Scalloped 
91 Eggplant, Breaded 

114 Hot Slaw 

110 Onions, Boiled 

111 Onions, Cream 
107 Parsnips, Baked 

79 Peas, New 

112 Peppers, Baked Bell 

115 Potatoes, Browned 

116 Potatoes, Roasted 

117 Potatoes, Scalloped 
lls Potatoes, Kentucky 



119 Potato Duchess 

120 Potato en Surprise 

121 Sweet Potato, Roasted 

122 Sweet Potato, Glazed 

123 Sweet Potato, Mashed 

88 Summer Squash, Mashed 

89 Summer Squash, Scal- 

loped 

108 Spinach 

109 Spinach, Cream 

97 Salsify, Stewed 

98 Salsify, Scalloped 
106 Turnips, Stewed 

S3 Tomato, Stewed 

84 Tomato, Breaded 

85 Tomato, Baked 

86 Tomato, Stuffed Baked 

87 Tomato, Scalloped 

97 Vegetable Oyster. Stewed 

9S Vegetable Oyster, Scal- 
loped 



TX 






h\ 



Fboo 



A1S(J> 




TMIRD 
EDITION 




ANDBRliyON 




jtMm^k 




CopyiightN". 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



I 



>> vvw*'2 



I FOOD AND I 
i COOKERY 



HAND BOOK FOR TEACHERS AND 
PUPILS FOR USE IN COOKING 
CLASSES AND DEMONSTRATIONS 



THIRD REVISED 
EDITION 

BY 



H. S. ANDERSON l 

INSTRUCTOR IN COOKING IN THE COLLEGE OF J 
MEDICAL EVANGELISTS AT LOMA LINDA. CALIF. | 
_- ^ J 

1915 i 

THE COLLEGE PRESS I 

LOMA LINDA, CALIFORNIA \ 



 ^ * i* 






Copyright 1915 by The College Press 
Loma Linda, California 



FEB --8 1915 

'CI,A391622 



PREFACE 



o 



Jl 



HE author of the present work, having been for several 
-*- years employed as cook in many of the leading hotels 
and clubs of some of the largest cities of the Middle West 
>^ and Pacific Coast, as well as being for the past five years 

> connected with the Loma Linda Sanitarium, is well prepared 

to speak of the subject here discussed. His position as ex- 
perimental cook and teacher of cooking in the Nurses' Train- 
ing School has also shown the importance of getting out 
something that may serve as a guide to teachers in present- 
ing this subject before classes. Hence the present work 
is largely designed to serve as a manual for those who may 
be called upon to teach the subject in sanitariums and other 
educational institutions. With this idea in view, a complete 
list of twenty lessons, so arranged as to cover in an outline 
way all the more important points of the subject, constitute 
a valuable feature of the book. 

The second edition having been all sold, and many warm 
commendations received for it, the publishers have felt 
encouraged to issue this thoroughly revised and enlarged 
edition, with the hope that it may be of assistance to those 
who are struggling to bring the teaching of this subject in 
our sanitariums and elsewhere into full accord with sound 
principles. 

The Publishers. 



CONTENTS 



Introduction - _ _ _ _ Page 

Foods, Their Uses in the Body - - - 17 

Food Values - - - - - - 20 

Food Economy ------ 24 

Suggestive Course of Lessons - - - 28 

preparation of food ----- 30 

Essentials to Success - - - - - 31 

Free Fats ------ 32 

Bread - - - - - - - 36 

Unfermented Batter Breads - - - 37 

Unfermented Dough Breads - - - - 39 

Fermented Breads ----- 41 

Cakes - - - - - - - 100 

Canning ------- 115 

Combinations, Menu-making - . - _ ng 

Desserts ------ 90 

Frostings, Fillings - - - - - 103 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees - - - .56 

Gravies and Sauces - - - - - 69 

Invalid Dietary ----- 109 

Ices and Ice Cream. - - - - - 113 

Miscellaneous Recipes _ - - _ 34 

Pies, Crusts, Etc. - - - - - 96 

Salads and Dressings, Vegetable - - 83 

Salads and Sauces, Fruit - - - - 87 

Sandwiches ------ 108 

Soups - - - -- - -50 

Toasts and Breakfast Dishes - . - - 104 

Vegetables - - - - - - 71 

Jelly Making ------ 117 

Suggestive Menus ------ 122 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



FOODS, THEIR USES IN THE BODY 

"' I '0 care for the body, by providing for it food that is 

' relishable and strengthening, is one of the first duties 
of the householder, " We all have in the beginning a certain 
vital force from which to draw. To know how to husband it 
properly is the most essential thing in preserving health. 

By taking food into the body, the system is nourished and 
built up. Disease results if this food is improper in quantity, 
or poor in quality, or if it is poorly prepared for assimilation. 
There is a constant breaking down of the tissues of the body; 
every thought of the mind, every movement of a muscle, 
involves waste, and this waste is repaired from our food. It 
is highly important, then, that everyone should be able to 
choose those foods which best supply the elements needed to 
make good blood, which in turn imparts life and strength to 
nerve, muscle and tissue. 

Grains contain the food elements most evenly distributed. 
Wheat is considered a perfect food, and the representative 
of all foods, containing properties which so nearly represent 
the constituent parts of the body structure, as to indicate a 
special providence in providing it for the human race. Grains 
are very nutritious, and when cooked under a high degree of 
heat, as in baking, they are easily digested and assimilated. 
When they are cooked by the process of boiling or steaming, 
they require several hours cooking in order to render them 
digestible. 

In the olive, as in the various nuts, we find nature's store- 
house of fats. These, when properly prepared, supply the 
place of animal oil and fats. 

Fruits are used, not so much with a view of supplying 
nutrients, as for other purposes; the organic acids and essen- 

(17) 



18 FOOD AND COOKERY 

tial oils, with the easily digestible form in which the nutrients 
are present, are factors which give fruits a high value in the 
dietary. These acids and essential oils impart palatibility to 
the food, and assist functionally in the digestive process. 

Figs and prunes contain chemical compounds that are laxa- 
tive in character. 

In our study of the purposes which the various food ele- 
ments serve in the vital economy, and of the foods best 
adapted to the accomplishment of these purposes, valuable 
help is given us in a practical knowledge of the composition 
of the various food materials, which enables us to arrive at 
an idea of the real value of the food in question ( Plate I ) . 

In speaking of food, we understand something which is 
capable, upon being taken into the body, of either repairing 
its waste or furnishing it with material from which to pro- 
duce heat and muscular work. This brings to view the two 
main functions of food in the body. By the former function, 
food provides for the conservation of the material of the 
body; by the latter, conservation of bodily energy is main- 
tained. Substances which are unable to help in the one or 
the other of these directions, cannot be called food. Ex- 
amples of such non-foods are to be found in extractives of 
meat, tea, coffee, spices, etc. 

All foods are made up of one or more of three distinct 
classes of organic compounds, known as proteid or albumin- 
ous substances, carbohydrates and fats and different inor- 
ganic salts. These substances are spoken of as the "nutri- 
tive constituents" of food, and may be separated into four 
divisions:  

1. The proteid, or nitrogenous substances, are represented 
in the food by the casein in milk, the curd of the milk being 
very highly nitrogenous; the gluten of the wheat; the albu- 
men in the white of egg, which is the purest form of proteid; 
the legumen in peas and beans; and the myosin of lean meat. 

2. The carbohydrates are represented by the starches and 
sugars in the various foods. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 19 

3. Fats, as olive oil, butter, the oil eaten in the olive, in 
nuts, and to some extent in most articles of diet. 

4. The inorganic substances, as water and mineral matters. 
The chief office of proteid matter is to provide for the 

growth and repair of the material of the body. The carbo- 
hydrates and fats furnish the fuel for the body. They yield 
the heat that keeps it warm and the energy that enables it 
to work. The mineral matters are required by the body for 
the building of the bones and the teeth. 

The changes which food undergoes in the body are essen- 
tially changes due to oxidation. Latent heat is just as surely 
found in the food we use as in wood and coal. They are both 
waiting to be oxidized, that they may be converted into heat 
and energy. 

The latent energy in different foods has been determined 
by their oxidation, outside the body, in the apparatus known 
as the bomb calorimeter. ''The amount of heat given off in 
the oxidation of a given quantity of any material is called its 
'heat combustion,' and is taken as a measure of its latent 
and potential energy." The calorie is the unit measure or 
standard of heat production, and means the amount of heat 
necessary to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water 
1 degree C, or about one pint of water 4 degrees F. Care- 
ful observation by Atwater, Rubner, Chittenden and others, 
has shown that the heat value of one gram of each of the 
three chief nutritive constituents of food, when taken into 
the tissues, is as follows:  

1 gram ^ of proteid yields 4 calories. 

1 gram of carbohydrates yields 4 calories. 

1 gram of fat yields 8.9 calories. 

Bulletin No. 142, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

As the ounce is made the standard or unit in calculating 
weight, so the calorie is the standard of heat production. By 
the figures in the column at the right-hand side of chart 
(Plate I) are represented the total amount of calories, or 

1.  28.3 grams equal 1 ounce. 



20 FOOD AND COOKERY 

food units, contained in one pound of each of the various 
foods under consideration. The building material proteid 
is represented by the red color, and the carbohydrates by the 
green, etc. 

The vital part of all tissue is proteid. Without proteid, the 
body would waste away, for the wear and tear of tissue must 
be made good. Though there is no article of diet, except 
sugar and pure fat, into which proteid matter does not enter 
to a greater or less degree, yet there are foods which contain 
an unusually high per cent of proteid, known as proteid foods. 
These are peas, beans, lentils, nuts, eggs and meat. 

The fact that proteid matter is an essential element for 
the growth and repair of the body tissues, has a tendency to 
lead people to beheve that they might be benefited by the 
consumption of large quantities of proteid foods; when the 
fact is, the body can use only a limited amount for the devel- 
opment and repair of tissues. Although proteid matter is 
capable of yielding a certain amount of heat on oxidation, it 
is inferior for this purpose to carbohydrates and fats; be- 
cause, on being burned in the body, it yields certain deleteri- 
ous products, which throw upon the liver and kidneys an un- 
necessary amount of labor that overtaxes them and lays 
them Hable to attacks of disease. Many of the ailments so 
prevalent to-day, as rheumatism, gout, gastro-intestinal dis- 
turbances, indigestion and liver troubles, have been found to 
be closely associated with the habitual overeating of proteid 
foods. 

There is wisdom in a diet that shall provide an abun- 
dance of carbohydrates and fats, proteid being added only in 
sufficient amounts to meet the needs of the body for nitro- 
gen, for the development of fresh muscle-fibers, etc. Care- 
ful experiments have demonstrated that the body is best sus- 
tained in health, and its strength and endurance promoted, 
by a diet which contains a proportion of one ounce of proteid 
matter to from eight to twelve ounces of carbohydrates and 
fats. 

A study of the composition of the various foods will enable 



0,i^. 



nic 



Food Values 

Nitrogenous PROTEID Tissue-forming Substances 

faRBOHYDRATES) u,.^ .c 

Non-nitrogenous < FATS ( neat and L 

Inorganic Salts - - Mineral Matters, Water 



nergy 



Total 
Food 
Units 
per lb. 




Entire WheaT 



Oatmeal 



Cornmeal 



Barley pearUd 



Rice 



ini^ 



Lentils 



-Wx 



ZwiehaclT" 



Graham Crackei~ 



IK 




Peanuts" 



Almonds" 



"U'ainuts 



x: 



Olive Oil 



1675 

\mi 

1730 

1() 

lft30 

1*550 

IG05 

ir,55 

1620 

Itj65 

1970 

ly.55 

1205 

2560 

.3o:;ii 

:!2S5 

4220 

3605 

325 

720 

1250 

460 

450 

290 

240 

UXI 

141 Ml 

1475 
1615 
3S.5 



215 
110 



Butter 




Grapes 



Apples 



Oranges 



PgselKj-s 



dried 



arr 



Figs 
Dates ~~ 

Grcop. Peas 



Corn 
Suuash ~ 



JBSL 



"TT 



n 



FOOD AND COOKERY 21 

us to see the wise provision made for man in the diet 
appointed for him in the beginning. Man, in adding to his 
diet fleshmeats, with their exceedingly high percentage of 
proteid, besides other objectionable features connected with 
their use, finds himself grappling with a problem whose only 
solution is to be found in a study of cause and effect. 

In the diet appointed in the beginning, man was guarded 
in this respect, for in nature we find the various food ele- 
ments better balanced to meet the needs of the body. The 
numerous exhaustive works of to-day, written on the subject 
of diet and the needs of the body, are designed to fill a long- 
felt want. They are the response of thinking men to a 
world's great need. To meet this great need, God has sent 
us a message of health reform which comprehends man's 
complete restoration, physically and spiritually. 

A quotation from ''Ministry of Healing" gives a key to the 
divinely appointed plan: *'In His written word and in the 
great book of nature, He has revealed the principles of life. 
It is our work to obtain a knowledge of these principles, and 
by obedience to cooperate with Him in restoring health to the 
body as well as to the soul." Page 115. 

The accompanying diagram (Fig. 1) will help to bring 
before our minds the Bible picture of our original home, and 
the tender care of the Creator over His erring children, in 
giving them light and hope through all the different phases 
of their rebellion and apostasy; and it shows that He is actu- 
ally leading them back step by step to Eden restored. He 
who created man and understands his needs, appointed 
Adam his food, as it is written, "Behold, I have given you 
every herb yielding seed, and every tree in which is the 
fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for food." 
Gen. 1: 29, A.R.V. After the fall, when the ground was 
cursed for man's sake, the herb of the field was added to his 
diet. Gen. 3: 18. 

Then we are brought down to the time of the flood, when, 
all vegetation being destroyed by water, God permitted man 






V) 

lU 

5tS2 

< D lU t- 



i. 



"0 

C h p iO 



'^^c 







""^-v,":^^'^ 



bj 
E 



^V^ 



c^ 












(22) 



rOOD AND COOKERY 23 

to eat flesh. Next we find the chosen people in the land of 
Egypt, where they were in heavy bondage, after which the 
Lord brought them out with a strong hand and by an out- 
stretched arm, to make them the depositaries of His holy law, 
and through them it was designed that all the world should 
come to a knowledge of the true God. Their health was 
jealously guarded, and they were given a fleshless diet. God 
desired to make them His peculiar treasure above all people; 
but they cried for flesh, so He permitted them to eat clean 
flesh. Deut. 14: 3-20. 

Then we come down to the end of the Jewish dispensation, 
at the time when the gospel was preached to the Gentiles, 
saying, "Ye are the temple of God." "There shall in no 
wise enter into it anything that is unclean." Rev. 21: 27. 

In ancient time, the distinction made between things clean 
and things unclean was no arbitrary distinction, for the 
things prohibited were unwholesome. Even so now, the use 
of injurious foods defile the body, planting the seeds of dis- 
ease and corruption in the system, thus laying the founda- 
tion for sickness and premature death. 

To the chosen people of God, the laws relating to both 
physical and spiritual well-being were made plain, and on 
condition of obedience. He assured them: "The Lord will 
take away from thee all sickness." Deut. 7: 15. "Ye 
shall serve the Lord your God, and He shall bless thy bread 
and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the 
midst of thee." Ex. 23: 25. 

These promises are for us to-day. The same principle 
which directed in giving these sanitary laws and regulations 
in times of old, and which has been the foundation in every 
true reform to the present time, is no less powerful to-day, 
and is summed up in these words: "Whether therefore ye 
eat, or drinj^, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of 
God." 1 Cor. 10: 31. This principle, if heeded, will guide 
in all matters of diet, as in every act of life. It will pre- 
serve us from intemperance in all its varied forms. "Every 



24 FOOD AND COOKERY 

practice which destroys the physical, mental or spiritual 
energies, is sin. The laws of nature, as truly as the pre- 
cepts of the decalogue, are divine; and only in obedience to 
them can health be recovered and preserved." 

There is great need to-day of that education that not 
merely teaches right methods in the treatment of the sick, 
but which encourages right habits of living, and spreads a 
knowledge of right principles. The desire of God for every 
human being is expressed in these words: ''Beloved, I wish 
above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, 
even as thy soul prospereth." 3 John 2. Every "Thou 
shalt not," whether in physical or moral law, implies a 
promise. If we obey it, blessing will attend our steps, and 
we shall know the meaning of the promise of God to His 
people, which says, "I am the Lord that healeth thee." 
Ex. 15: 26. 

FOOD ECONOMY 

"Economy is not saving, but wisely spending."  Ruskin. 

When we have ascertained that a food is rich in nutritive 
constituents, and that it is of a nature to be easily digested 
in the stomach, we have still to find whether the nutriment 
it yields is obtained at a reasonable cost. When one realizes 
that the market price of a food is no indication of its real 
money value, the practical importance of such a test is more 
convincingly felt, because in the market one usually pays 
for flavor and rarity, not for nutritive qualities. To the 
working classes, who spend on an average fifty per cent of 
their wages for food supply, such knowledge is of special 
value. By a study of the chemical analysis of various foods 
bought for a particular sum, this test may be applied with- 
out difficulty (Fig. 2). 

It will be seen that for energy (calories), grains lead the 
way. As, for instance, we find on comparison that twenty 
cents spent for round steak obtains food to the value of 1432 
units; twenty cents invested in eggs buys 635 units; the same 
for striped bass obtains 400 units; twenty cents worth of 





 




1"^ 








1^ 








1 = 








N 








o 








o 






J 


o 






< 








P fe Q g 


o 
o 


 ^ 






Sl-.n 




^ ^ ^^ 5 


o. 




CD 

o 


CLQ_- 




=^.S fi . 


00 








i 




<On Q O ^ C^ u. 

<i. z: ^ ^ 


'O 




1  


s 




o 
o 




r 
< 


1  cc z 


CD 










o 


 


o 






o 


1 


^ 


II 




o 


 


o 


1 1 


^ r, ^ 


1 


o 


. I 1 


^ P 


/ P o 




lO 


1 








5 1 "^ 


^<3 


o 


III! 












1 o 


QiuQ 


o 
o 


1 1 1 1 1 


f^ 


-E 


1 


J 


r n F 

i J A i A 


/ > 


^ijij 


dJ 


IJJ 


i i - 


g^l 




^^ 


M 


 


21 






tS 






o 


CO 


M csJ 




TiO ^ 1 


IM 


z: 




O 




^ 
Kl 


to 


Q 




HO 




(SJ 




Q9 


2 ir- CO ]1 ^O ^ 


OJo"^ ^ 






q; 


xn 




J o J .'^ 


Pl3 c. 


^lO --lUZO^-- 


<r rr" <0 


Articl 

A^ PURCHA.SI 




0^8 



(25) 



26 FOOD AND COOKERY 

oysters at fifty cents per quart, yields only 184 units; while 
twenty cents worth of wheat flour buys 9570 units, and in 
the form of good, well-baked bread, ready for use, 4560 
units. In the matter of protein, the legumes come first, 
while most of the grains contain protein in a very liberal 
proportion. 

When the flesh of animals is used as food, there is great 
danger of having an excess of proteid material. Besides 
being of a stimulating character, it contains no carbohydrate 
to offset the large per cent of proteid. One advantage in 
using food of vegetable origin, is that in their growth vege- 
tables secrete no poisons; whereas, in all animals the very 
process of life consists in the breaking down of tissues and 
the formation of various poisons. These poisons are in the 
flesh when the animal is killed, and no amount of cooking 
can remove them. Thus, by taking our food in the vege- 
table form, we avoid burdening the system with such a 
quantity of harmful substances, which must be eliminated 
from the system only at a great sacrifice to the vital organs. 

Again, it should be remembered that while animal products 
all contain a share of the nutritive constituents necessary 
for our existence, because the animal has taken sustenance 
from the vegetable or mineral kingdoms, nevertheless, the 
meats have had their electrical energy expended in physical 
and mental dissipation by the animal itself, thereby leaving 
but little generative quality for the consumer. 

Many people seem to be under the impression that bodily 
strength and health are dependent upon the use of flesh- 
meats. A quotation again from "Ministry of Healing" 
throws much light on this question, and points out in a 
simple manner the advantage  to be had in a simple and 
natural diet above that of a more complex nature: 

"It is a mistake to suppose that muscular strength 
depends on the use of animal food. The needs of the system 
can be better supplied, and more vigorous health can be 
enjoyed, without its use. The grains, with fruits, nuts and 



FOOD AND COOKERY 27 

vegetables, contain all the nutritive properties necessary to 
make good blood. These elements are not so well or so 
fully supplied by a flesh diet. Had the use of flesh been 
essential to. health and strength, animal food would have 
been included in the diet appointed to man in the beginning. 

"When the use of flesh food is discontinued, there is often 
a sense of weakness, a lack of vigor. Many urge this as 
evidence that flesh food is essential; but it is because foods 
of this class are stimulating  because they fever the blood 
and excite the nerves, that they are so missed. Some will 
find it as difficult to leave off flesh-eating as it is for the 
drunkard to give up his dram; but they will be the better 
for the change. 

"When flesh food is discarded, its place should be supplied 
with a variety of grains, nuts, vegetables and fruits, that 
will be both nourishing and appetizing." Page 316. 

It would seem that the use of fleshmeats must be doubly 
objectionable now, since disease in animals is so rapidly 
increasing. Those who use flesh food little know what they 
are eating. Tuberculosis, cancer and other fatal diseases 
are communicated by the use of contaminated meat. True 
reform always replaces an evil with something better. 

So in the matter of diet, there is a turning away from the 
artificial, from the second-hand to the real substance found 
in nature's great storehouse  the Creator's choice for us, 
and that which is best suited to the building of good blood 
and healthy tissues. There is a rhyme that beautifully 
expresses this truth with its resultant tribute:  

"Eat life from life's fresh growing garden, 
Drink life from its myriad store. 

Give life, and its flow. 

E'er increasing, will go 
Again to your open door." 

Health reform, as any other true reform, is a matter of 

education, and must be progressive; vital principles are 

involved, in which are treasured up wisdom of the highest 
order for every seeker after health. 



28 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Various societies are being formed throughout the States 
for the purpose of studying the best means of providing for 
the table, foods which do not harbor pestilence and disease, 
and for studying the development of the culinary art in the 
home in harmony with right principles. Thus it is plainly 
seen that the minds of thinking people are being awakened 
to see the importance of exercising sound judgment and good 
common sense in the matter of the care and preservation of 
health. 

The following course of lessons is in no Way intended as a 
complete guide to hygienic cookery. Of the great variety of 
ways in which the grains, fruits, nuts and vegetables may be 
prepared into dishes that are healthful and nourishing, only 
a few of the most practical can be taken up in this course. 
One of the main objects is to give some of the general princi- 
ples essential to success in this work, followed by practical 
illustrations of methods used. 

For home and class work, this course consists of a series of 
twenty lessons, two lessons each week, each session occu- 
pying two hours. Eight pupils constitute a class, at which 
time practical work is done. Due recognition is given to the 
study of the nutritive value of foods, their digestibility, 
combinations, etc. ; also menu-making and the general princi- 
ples involved in the making of the same. 

The following suggestive course of lessons, may be modi- 
fied by the instructor according to convenience, to the occa- 
sion, or to the length of time given to class periods. A pre- 
vious study of the recipes and instructions following will help 
to make the work very simple and easily understood when 
the hour comes for class. 

SUGGESTIVE COURSE OF LESSONS 

Lesson 1.  Cream of tomato soup, corn bread, nut and 
potato pie, prune whip. 

Lesson 2. Vegetable julienne soup, navy bean patties, 
stewed beets, pumpkin pie. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 29 

Lesson 3.  Savory lentil roast, brown sauce, fruit soup, 
breaded tomato, whole-wheat sticks. 

Lesson 4.  Baked macaroni (family style), nut and potato 
hash, date rolls, apple snow. 

Lesson 5.  Potato stew with egg dumplings, boiled onions, 
cream of corn soup, cream rolls. 

Lesson 6.  Vegetable salads, dressings, garnitures. 

Lesson 7.  Scalloped eggplant, sago fruit mold, walnut 
lentil patties, tomato sauce. 

Lesson 8.  Invalid dietary  gruels, eggnog, browned rice, 
drinks, service, cream rice pudding. 

Lesson 9.  Baked dressing, macaroni and rice croquettes, 
cream sauce, lemon pie. 

Lesson 10.  Vegetable gelatin  orange, lemon, berry; fruit 
salads, sauces. 

Lesson 11.  Spanish rice, hoe cake, creamed carrots, lemon 
snow, custard sauce. 

Lesson 12.  Yeast breads, rolls, buns, etc., whole-wheat 
puffs. 

Lesson 13.  Fresh fruit, canning, jelly, baked tomatoes, 
fruit crisps. 

Lesson 14.  Family potato soup, stewed vegetable oyster, 
scalloped potato, walnut timbales, bread pudding. 

Lesson 15.  Layer cake, jelly roll, vanilla wafers, frosting, 
ornamenting. 

Lesson 16.  Steamed rice, cream noodles, loaf cake, Dutch 
apple cake, lemon sauce. 

Lesson 17.  Corn nut pie, Duchess potato, potato cakes, 
potato en surprise, spinach, hot slaw. 

Lesson 18.  Sterilized milk, yogurt, scalloped summer 
squash, stuffed bell peppers, blanc mange, strawberry flum- 
mery. 

Lesson 19.  String beans, asparagus hollandaise, scalloped 
tomato, New England dinner, floating island. 

Lesson 20.  Cream of lettuce, macaroni with olives, scal- 
loped beets, baked parsnips, prune pudding. 



30 FOOD AND COOKERY 

PREPARATION OF FOODS 

The manner of preparing our food has much to do with our 
usefulness in this life, and with the building of our charac- 
ters. The health of the family may be safeguarded by a 
careful well-ordered diet, and this subject should appeal to 
every thinking mother. As a science, cooking is one of the 
most essential in practical life, and more than this, it is one 
of the fine arts. Our aim should not be simply to arrange 
some concoction to appeal to a perverted appetite, without 
any consideration of its digestive qualities. Our cooks need 
education in making foods that nourish. Imperfect knowl- 
edge of cooking leads to diseases of every kind; and both 
children and adults suffer as a consequence. 

The object sought in cooking is twofold: First, to render 
the food more digestible; second, to develop its flavors, mak- 
ing it more palatable and inviting. No indifference should be 
manifested in the preparation of food. If the food eaten is 
not relished, the body will not be so well nourished. Food 
should be prepared in such a manner that it will be appetiz- 
ing as well as nourishing. 

In order to attain to this high ideal of cookery, true recog- 
nition must be given to two fundamental principles of suc- 
cessful cookery, which are simplicity and appetizing serving: 
First, aim to preserve or develop the natural flavors of the 
food under hand (do not cover them up) ; secondly, aim to 
satisfy the sense of sight and the sense of smell, as they have 
a direct bearing upon the digestion. Foods that are pleasing 
to the sense of sight and to the sense of smell, stimulate a 
liberal flow of digestive juices, while disagreeable sights and 
odors hinder the same. 

A glance at Plate I will show the foods which contain the 
highest per cent of nutritive value. Vegetables contain a 
small amount of nutriment. They are valuable, however, 
for their flavors and for the large quantity of organic fluid 
and mineral matter which thev contain. Combined with 



FOOD AND COOKERY 31 

grains and nuts, they furnish the needed bulk to the food. 
The grains are a highly nutritious food, and with nuts and 
fruit, make a perfect and ideal diet. 

ESSENTIALS TO SUCCESS 

The prerequisite to success in this work is similar to that 
in any other kind of work viz., *Tlan, then work your 
plan." Take the preparation of the first recipe given for 
whole-wheat puffs, for an example. 

The first step to be taken is to see that the fire is built in 
time, so the oven will be at the proper temperature when the 
batter is ready. Use only heavy iron gem-pans, which should 
be put in the oven to heat while the batter is. in preparation. 
Have all the ingredients measured and the needed utensils 
all at hand, before starting to combine the articles for bread. 
This is very essential in all baking; especially in making 
aerated breads, cakes, etc. 

Another point that needs to be emphasized is the need of 
accurate measurements. There are some simple things which 
an experienced cook can make without taking the trouble to 
measure, but how of ten we hear the remark made of "good 
luck" or "bad luck" with a recipe. Now, there is no such 
thing as "luck," for the simple reason that every effect has 
its cause, and this is as true in cooking as in other kinds of 
work. If we have a good recipe and follow it exactly, using 
exact measurements, there is no reason why we should not 
get the same results each time. 

The ordinary kitchen cup, holding one-half pint, with 
divisions indicating the half, third and fourth parts of a cup- 
ful, is generally taken as the standard. Unless otherwise 
stated, a cup, tablespoon or teaspoon of Hquid or dry mater- 
ials means a measure that is ''level full.'" In dry measure 
this is best accomplished by filling the measure full and run- 
ning the blade of a knife over the top with the edge outward 
to make it level. Care should be taken not to pack the 
ingredients: for this reason, weighing is always considered 
the safest, although not always as convenient as measuring. 



32 FOOD AND COOKERY 

It might be well to state here that there are many measur- 
ing cups on the market, sold as one-half-pint cups, that hold 
quite a little more than that amount. Care should be exer- 
cised in getting a cup measure which holds one-forth of a 
quart. If a larger one is used, allowance must be made. 

As a guide in measuring, the following table will be help- 
ful, and may be followed with good results:  

3 teaspoons - - - - equal 1 tablespoon. 
2 tablespoons of sugar or liquid equal 1 ounce. 

16 tablespoons _ _ _ equal 1 cup. 

4 cups ----- equal 1 quart. 
4 cups flour - - - - equal 1 pound. 
2 cups sugar and most liquids equal 1 pound. 

10 eggs ----- equal 1 pint. 

9 whites ----- equal 1 cup. 

12 yolks (large) - - - equal 1 cup. 

FREE FATS 

The question of the use of "free fats" in cooking should 
receive the most careful attention. Foods that are deficient 
in fat usually require the addition of some kind of fat to 
make them palatable, but there is a great difference between 
supplying this lack by a moderate and sensible use of the 
same, and that of having the food ''soaked in grease." The 
following instruction on the use of free fats in cooking, by a 
physician of long practical experience, gives som.e good 
reasons why rich, greasy and fried foods should be avoided, 
and their place supplied by dishes, the preparation of which 
has been governed by temperance, even in the use of nature's 
good things:  

"Fats are divided into two forms, free fats and emulsified 
fats. Examples of free fat are butter and oils, both animal 
and vegetable. Examples of emulsified fats are found in 
nearly all vegetables, especially in nuts and olives, and in 
milk and cream. 

"Emulsified fats are in proper form to take into the body 
as food, while free fats have to be emulsified in the alimen- 
tary canal in order to be assimilated. The less free fat. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 33 

therefore, that is taken in food, the better for the digestive 
organs. Free fats not only require emulsifying in the intes- 
tines, but they prevent the action of the digestive juices 
upon the other food elements, such as starch and albumen, 
and so hinder the digestive processes. This is especially true 
of fried foods, where each part of the food is surrounded by 
a layer of fat, thus keeping the digestive juices from acting 
on the other food elements." 

Whenever oil is called for in a recipe, unless otherwise 
stated, the refined cottonseed oil, crisco or kaola is generally 
used. 

The accompanying recipe for "vegetable butter" is now 
being used for cooking, and also for table use. The preva- 
lence of tuberculosis in dairy herds from which the public milk 
supply is derived, has encouraged many to try an article 
which is more free from the germs of disease. 

This fat being in a semi-emulsified form, renders it easily 
digested when eaten cold. Evidence of its emulsion is shown 
in the fact that the butter dish after using may be rinsed 
out in cold water. 

This butter does not return again to its original consistency 
in cooking as one would suppose; that is, it does not separ- 
ate if kept covered, unless superheated. If kept covered, it 
does not "melt" in hot weather, and is less greasy in cooked 
food than dairy butter, and when mixed with a food that is 
done, as for instance, if added to a soup that is done, it should 
be whipped up with some of the hot liquid, otherwise it will 
float on top in one piece. 

In making a roux for soup or for cream sauce, or choux 
paste for patties and croquettes, the vegetable butter can 
be used in the same manner and in the same proportion 
as dairy butter. The recipes in this book have been so 
arranged that whenever butter is called for, either vegetable 
or dairy butter can be used as desired. Nothing but the 
best cottonseed oil obtainable should be used. 



34 FOOD AND COOKERY 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 
1. Vegetable Butter 

1 egg-. 1 quart bottle salad oil (refined cottonseed oil). 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 2 teaspoons salt (level). 

Break the egg into a round-bottomed bowl and beat fairly 
well with Dover egg-beater; then pour in the oil gradually, 
beating meanwhile, adding the oil no faster than it can be 
taken up by the egg while beating. When half of the oil 
has been used, add the salt and lemon juice, then add the 
balance of the oil in like manner, ' Finish by beating thor- 
oughly, then put into a glass jar or bowl with cover. 

By keeping the butter covered when not using, it will keep 
sweet and not separate for ten days or more. Do not put in 
ice box; for after it has been chilled and then gets warm, it 
may separate. The only precaution is to exclude the air, 
then it will keep in hot weather on the pantry shelf. When 
eggs are not too high priced, an extra yolk added to the 
same amount will thin it a very little, and will add much to 
the color and flavor of the butter. The above contains about 
three and one-half cups of oil. A few drops of dandelion 
butter coloring, a pure vegetable extract, will make this 
butter look just like dairy butter, except it will not be so 
firm. 

2. Yogurt 

Yogurt tablets contain the bacillus Bulgaricus and the 
newly discovered germ, gluco-bacteria, which work together 
in combating disease-producing germs in the colon. These 
beneficent germs grow actively in milk at the temperature of 
the body, but grow much more rapidly at a temperature of 
about 115 degrees. 

In making buttermilk with these acid-forming ferments, it 
is necessary first of all to kill the other germs which are 
always found in milk. This is why it is necessary to sterilize 
the milk before making yogurt. Then again, yogurt tablets 
contain the active ferment in a latent form; thus it takes a 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 35 

few hours for them to develop actively. For rapid growth, 
it is necessary that the temperature of the milk should be 
maintained at about 115 degrees. At a lower temperature 
the bacillus Bulgaricus grows very slowly, and when below 
98 degrees it ceases to grow. 

Many fail in the attempt to make yogurt buttermilk 
because of their ignorance of the fact that this milk ferment 
requires a much higher temperature for growth than do the 
ordinary milk-souring ferments. Success in making good 
yogurt depends on closely observing the above principles, 
and if these precautions are heeded in the recipe following, 
the results will be very satisfactory:  

Starter: Heat one pint of milk to boiling point, then set 
into a pan of cold water to cool until it registers 115 degrees. 
Dissolve four yogurt tablets in a little cold milk, and add to 
the warm milk and mix well; then wrap well over top, and 
set in a warm place near a pail of hot water, or on top of 
same for from four to six hours, the object being not to let 
the temperature fall lower than 105 degrees and never below 
98 degrees. As soon as it gets thick, set it in a cold place, 
and in twenty-four hours or more you have your starter. It 
is of no account unless it has thickened. This starter will 
keep for days, but it is not good to drink, and it is not neces- 
sary to keep this starter after the first yogurt is made. 

Yogurt: Heat one quart of milk to boiling point, let cool 
to 115 degrees, same as above, then add three teaspoons of 
the yogurt starter. Set away in a warm place well covered 
as above for about six hours, until it has thickened. Then 
set in a cold place. When cold, beat it with an egg whip 
until smooth, and it is ready to drink. This should keep 
sweet for two or three days. The next time it is made, use 
this yogurt for starter, that is, three teaspoons yogurt to the 
quart of milk. 

3. Sterilized Milk 

Milk should not be boiled. Procure a thermometer at a 
hardware store and heat the milk in a double boiler until the 



36 FOOD AND COOKERY 

thermometer registers 160 degrees, and not over 180 degrees. 
Keep the milk at that temperature for thirty minutes; then 
remove the inner part of the double boiler and set into a pan 
of cold water to cool. In this way the milk is not chemically 
changed, as in boiling, and there is less danger of contract- 
ing disease than when used fresh. 

4. Table Butter 

Another good substitute for dairy butter is found by the 
use of the following:  

2 cups kaola (cocoanut butter), or crisco. 3 teaspoons salt (level). 
3 tablespoons carrot juice. 

Grate one medium sized carrot after being scraped, put 
into cloth and express the juice. Mix the ingredients with 
heavy spoon, same as dairy butter; and put in ice box until 
it becomes firm. 

BREAD 

Bread is the most important article of diet, and deserves 
more attention than it receives. Considering the conveni- 
ences which exist everywhere and the wide-spread knowl- 
edge of breadmaking, it seems unnecessary and wrong to 
find poor bread on the table. Home-made bread requires 
care and attention; and then you have the real staff of life. 

Breads are divided into two classes: 1. Unfermented  
made light by the introduction of air into the dough or 
batter; 2. Fermented  made light by a ferment, yeast be- 
ing usually employed. Space will not permit us to speak of 
the ill effects following the use of bicarbonate of soda and 
baking-powders in breadmaking; suffice it to say that they 
are harmful and unnecessary. "Soda causes inflammation 
of the stomach, and often poisons the entire system." Air 
may be incorporated into a batter by beating. The use of 
eggs will aid in the process; because the white of egg, on 
account of its viscous nature, readily catches air and helps 
convey it into the batter. The following recipe for whole- 
wheat puffs will help to illustrate these principles:  
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



rOOD AND COOKERY 37 

UNFERMENTED BATTER BREADS 

5. Whole-wheat Puffs 

IV2 cups pastry flour, measured after being- sifted once. 

1/2 cup whole-wheat flour. IV2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs, separated. 

Put the white flour and salt into mixing bowl, add the 
whole-wheat flour unsifted. Separate the eggs, add the 
milk and yolks to the flour, and stir until smooth with a wire 
batter whip. Beat the whites stiff, pour the batter gradu- 
ally into the beaten whites, folding it in by running a batter 
whip from the edge or side of the bowl down through the 
center and lifting it up so the batter will drop off into the 
bowl; repeat until it is thoroughly mixed, but do not stir. 
Remove the irons from the oven and set them on the edge of 
the stove; rub them with an oiled cloth or brush to prevent 
sticking. Pour the batter from a pitcher into the molds, 
filling them just barely full. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. Two dozen puffs. 

A few dried currants or seedless raisins, washed and dried 
in a towel, may be sprinkled into each mold just before put- 
ting them into the oven, if desired. 

6. Corn Bread 

1 cup cornmeal, 2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon sug-ar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon crisco. 

1 cup boiling: water. 2 egg's. 

Sift all the dry materials together into mixing bowl; 
sprinkle the crisco over meal; then pour the cup of boiling 
water in a sloiv stream onto the meal, stirring with a spoon 
as the water is being poured in. If these directions are 
followed, the meal will be scalded just enough to take up 
the cup of water, and will not be soft, neither sticky. If 
too thick, a tablespoon of cold water may be added. It 
should be so thick that it will pile lightly when dropped 
from a spoon. 

Beat the eggs separately, fold the yolks into the stiffly 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



38 FOOD AND COOKERY 

beaten whites, pour the cornmeal batter into the egg's, fold- 
ing it in with a batter whip, and with a large spoon remove 
from the bottom or sides any cornmeal adhering to it. Mix 
it lightly, j^et thoroughly, and pour it into an oiled baking- 
pan, having the batter about one or one and one-half inches 
deep. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty 
minutes or more. 

7. Hoe Cake 

1 cup cornmeal. 2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup milk. 2 eggs, separated. 

Sift all the dry materials together into mixing bowl. Heat 
the milk in a sauce-pan, and when boiling hot, pour in a 
slow stream over the meal, stirring as it is being poured in, 
until the right thickness is reached (as it usually requires a 
scant cup of milk to make a smooth thick batter) , so it will 
pile nicely when dropped from spoon. If the batter is too 
thin, the cakes will spread when put on baking sheet, and 
will burn easily. 

Beat the eggs separately, fold the yolks into the stiffly 
beaten whites, then pour on the scalded meal, folding it into 
the eggs with a batter whip, then from the side of a large 
spoon drop it onto an oiled baking sheet in oblong shapes and 
bake on the top grate in a hot oven until a nice brown. 

By using one-fourth cup of cream, or its equivalent  one 
tablespoon of oil or butter, only one egg need be used. 

8. Hot Cakes 

% cup coarse zwieback crumbs. 3 tablespoons flour. 

V4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup warm milk. 2 eggs. 
Heat the milk to about 115 degrees. Mix all the dry 
ingredients well, and pour the milk over them, and let stand 
ten minutes. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, and stir 
them into the crumb mixture. Beat the whites stiff; fold 
the crumb mixture into the stiffly beaten whites, and bake 
on an oiled soapstone griddle. 

9. Corn Cakes 

Take the mixture for hoe cake, and bake the same as the 
above recipe. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 39 

UNFERMENTED DOUGH BREADS 

The earliest forms of bread were "unleavened breads." 
This term has been applied to hard breads, such as the 
"passover cakes" of the Israelites, and other breads in the 
form of thin cakes, sticks, etc. These hard breads are 
without doubt the most wholesome, because they encourage 
thorough mastication; and being free from any chemical or 
ferment, they are very easily digested in the stomach. 

By dropping the following sticks or rolls into boiling 
water, and let them remain a few minutes until they come 
to the surface, then skim them -out and bake as usual, it 
greatly improves their flavor. It also covers the entire sur- 
face with a glaze which gives them a very attractive appear- 
ance. 

10. Cream Rolls 

2 cups pastry flour. % cup rich cream. 

V2 teaspoon salt. K cup water. 

Sift the jiouT before measuring. Put the flour and salt 
into sifter and sift again into mixing bowl. Add the water 
to the cream and mix well; then pour the wetting onto the 
flour in a slow stream, stirring the flour quickly so as to get 
the moisture evenly blended. Work it into a dough for a 
few minutes on a slightly floured board. Roll out to about 
one-third inch in thickness, and cut into long strips about 
one-third inch wide. Roll them on a board and cut them 
into two and one-half- to three-inch lengths. Lay them in 
a baking-pan, leaving a little space between them, and bake 
in a medium oven until well done and a light brown. 

11. Whole-wheat Sticks 

1 cup sifted pastry flour.  V2 cup whole-wheat flour. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 2 teaspoon salt. 

11/2 tablespoons oil. Mi cup cold water. 

Put the flour, sugar and salt into bowl, add the oil; rub the 
flour between the hands to distribute the oil evenly; then add 
the water and mix as for cream rolls; knead on a board for 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



40 FOOD AND COOKERY 

a minute and roll out into one-third inch in thickness. Cut 
it with a dull knife into long strips about one-third inch 
wide, then cut crosswise into sticks about three inches in 
length. Bake in a medium oven until well done and a light 
brown color. 

12. Fruit Crisps 

1% cups sifted pastry flour. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 2V2 tablespoons oil. Vs cup water. 

% cup ground sultana raisins or figs. 

Sift the flour, sugar and salt into a mixing bowl; add the 

oil, and rub it well into the flour; add the water, and mix as 

for whole-wheat sticks. Roll it out into a long thin sheet 

as for pie-crust. Have the raisins or figs previously washed 

and dried in a clean towel; then put through a fine mill, lay 

on a well-floured board, and roll out in a thin sheet so as to 

cover half of the dough; recover with the other half, and roll 

out quite thin, so it will be pressed well together. Cut it 

into squares, crescents or diamond shapes, prick them through 

with a fork, and bake in a very quick oven. Fruit sugars 

burn at a low degree of heat, so the crisps should bake only 

until the crust is baked. If the fruit is allowed to cook, it 

will harden. 

13. Date Rolls 

Make pastry from above recipe. Roll out to one-eighth 
inch thickness, cut in strips two and one-half inches wide, 
moisten back edge of strip of pastry, place stoned dates end 
to end in middle of strip, fold up front edge of pastry, then 
roll over until the back edge meets the front, and cut in 
three-inch lengths. Bake in moderate oven until light brown. 

14. Cocoanut Crisps 

1 cup desiccated cocoanut.  1 cup flour. 

1 tablespoon sugar. a little water. 

Roll and sift the cocoanut before measuring, put all 
ingredients together, add water a little at a time, to make 
very stiff dough. Roll with as little flour as possible until 
very thin, cut in desired shapes, and bake in quick oven. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 41 

15. Walnut Sticks 

IV2 cups sifted pastry flour. V2 cup whole-wheat flour. 

Vs cup chopped walnut meats. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

IV^ tablespoons oil. V2 teaspoon salt. V2 cup water. 

Sift the flour, sugar and salt into a mixing bowl, add the 
oil and the nut meats, mix as for whole-wheat sticks, and 
bake in a medium oven until they are about crisp and a very- 
light brown color. 

FERMENTED BREADS 

Weight for weight, bread must be considered one of the 
most nutritious of foods. The fact that more than three- 
fifths of it consists of solid nutriment and less than two-fifths 
of water, gives it a special place in the fist of foods, and 
there is no animal food and but few cooked vegetable foods 
that can be compared with it. 

In the study of the chemical composition of bread, we find 
that two-thirds of the volume of a good loaf of bread is made 
up of gas, and of the solid part, less than forty per cent 
consists of water. Of the chemical constituents necessary 
for proper nutrition, bread yields a large proportion of 
carbohydrates, a liberal amount of proteid and mineral matter, 
and a small amount of fat, making it one of the most 
nutritious and well-balanced articles of diet. 

''The common use of superfine white flour in breadmaking 
is neither healthful nor economical." While the white-flour 
products have a greater total nutritive value, they are really 
an impoverished food; for in rejecting the germ and the bran, 
the miller discards some of the most useful constituents of 
wheat. With the germ, proteid and fat are lost. And the 
bran being impregnated with mineral matter, when separated 
from the wheat, leaves the bread void of these substances 
which are so necessary for the building of bone, brain and 
nerves. To the natural taste, there is something lacking, 
something not satisfying, in the white bread; but which is 
found in that made from the whole grain. This leaves a 
(use level measurements for all ingredients) 



42 FOOD AND COOKERY 

craving which many attempt to satisfy with rich pastries, 
meat, spices and condiments. Fine-flour bread is also a 
frequent cause of constipation and other unhealthy conditions. 

In order to make good bread, it is necessary to have 
good flour. The strength of a flour is determined by the 
quantity of gluten it contains. Gluten is the chief form of 
the proteid of wheat. Its elastic qualities, when mixed with 
water and acted upon by yeast, allow the gas formed to 
expand without danger of escape. The best flour generally 
proves to be the most economical, for while it costs more 
than the inferior grades, it is in reality cheaper, because a 
given quantity of good flour makes more and better bread 
than the same quantity of poor flour. The best bread flour 
is of a cream white color, and when a handful is taken and 
squeezed, it should not retain the imprint of the fingers, but 
should fall like dry sand. Ordinary pastry flour, when 
handled in this way, will retain its shape in the hand, remain- 
ing in one lump. 

Quick-rising bread, that is, bread which is brought out in 
about six or seven hours, requires more yeast than bread 
which is allowed to rise over night, but is generally more 
satisfactory; for the more times bread is allowed to rise, the 
lighter and finer grained it will be; but some of the wheat 
flavor will be destroyed. This is the reason that ordinary 
baker's bread is always lacking in that sweet, nutty wheat 
flavor, which so characterizes home-made bread, and which 
makes it so satisfying. The idea, therefore, to be kept 
before us in breadmaking is to produce an article rich in 
nutritive elements, toothsome and easily digested. 

Fermented bread is usually made by mixing to a dough, 
flour, water, salt and yeast, a small amount of sugar being 
added to hasten fermentation. The dough is then kneaded 
until it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, 
the object being to incorporate air and to distribute the yeast 
uniformly. It is then covered and allowed to rise until it 
doubles its bulk and does not respond to the touch, or when 



FOOD AND COOKERY 43 

tapped sharply with the fingers, it gradually but stubbornly 
begins to sink down. 

At this stage, the bread is proofed, which is a very impor- 
tant consideration in order to have light, nice bread; and will 
require all the way from three to three and one-half hours, 
and it is best accomplished at a temperature ranging from 
75 to 85 degrees. It is then pressed down in the center, and 
worked together a little, turned over in the bowl, and allowed 
to rise again until about half its former bulk. This will take 
about three-quarters of an hour or more. It is then turned 
out on a lightly floured board, and kneaded a few minutes, to 
break the air bubbles and to distribute evenly the gas formed. 
Then it is molded into loaves, put into pans, and allowed to 
rise until it doubles its bulk, when it is ready for baking. 

Bread should never be allowed to rise until it begins to 
fall of itself. At this stage it has risen too much, and 
borders on sourness. There are three stages of fermentation; 
namely, alcoholic, acetous and putrefactive. Bread should 
be baked during the alcoholic stage. If fermentation is 
allowed to go on after the yeast has done its work, bacterial 
action begins which results in sour bread. 

It is very important to know when the bread is sufficiently 
light after it has been placed in the pans. It should never 
be allowed to rise to its limit before it is put into the oven; 
but should continue to rise for the first ten to twelve minutes 
after it has been put into the oven. It is better to bake the 
bread a little too soon, than to allow it to rise too much. If 
it rises too much, it will be coarse grained and tasteless. If 
the bread should in any way get too light in the pans, it may 
be molded over and allowed to rise again. 

To test the lightness of the dough in the pans, press the 
loaf gently with the finger, and if it responds quickly to the 
touch, it may be allowed to rise more. If it responds slowly, 
it should be put into the oven immediately. 

Whole-wheat or graham bread must not be allowed to go 
quite so far in the process of fermentation as white bread. 



44 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Because of the bulkiness of the whole grain, the gas escapes 
more easily than from that made with a strong gluten flour. 
Graham and whole-wheat bread should be watched closely 
during the different stages of development, as they rise and 
get light in less time than white bread. Where whole-wheat 
flour is made from good hard wheat, that is, wheat which is 
grown where the summers are short and not too hot, the 
best bread is made from the whole grain, using no white 
flour, or very little. The dough is a httle harder to handle, 
but you have the sweet wheat flavor. The mineral substances 
contained in wheat, which are so essential to health, are then 
retained in the bread, adding much to its flavor. 

The western wheat, also that grown farther south, is a 
soft wheat and does not of itself make good bread, but must 
be combined with a strong gluten flour. It is very often that 
graham or whole-wheat flour is made from this kind of 
wheat; then it can only be used in breadmakirig in the pro- 
portion of one part graham or whole-wheat to two parts 
strong white-bread flour, or about these proportions. 

Bread is also made by setting a sponge at the beginning, 
making a batter of the water, yeast and flour, and letting it 
rise until the batter gets charged with the yeast, then adding 
any other ingredients, as fruit and shortening for fruit bread, 
the shortening for buns, or the cracked grain for coarse 
bread; and then working it all into a dough. Ordinary white 
bread, whole-wheat and graham, are often made by the same 
process. A sponge is sufficiently light when it appears 
frothy and is full of bubbles. The time required will vary 
with the quantity and quality of yeast used, and the tem- 
perature of the room where it is set to rise. 

As a general rule, with the^ best quality of bread flour, 
three measures of flour to one of water are required to make 
a dough of the proper consistency. For whole-wheat or 
graham bread, a little less flour is used to the same amount 
of liquid. Buns and fruit bread which must be of a softer 
dough, require still less flour, as may be seen later. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 45 

The most convenient yeast is that sold as compressed yeast. 
It should be used only when fresh, which may be determined 
by its light color and absence of dark streaks. When com- 
pressed yeast is not obtainable, very good bread is made 
from dried yeast, as in the following recipe:  

1 cake dried yeast. 2 cups potato water. 

% cup sugar. 

Drain the water from mashed potatoes at noon; and when 
it is cooled to about 100 degrees, add the sugar and yeast 
cake broken up; put in glass jar and set in a ivarm place 
until next morning. Liquid should measure two cups. 

16. "Mother's Bread" 

Add one quart of warm water to the above yeast. The 
water should be so warm that after the yeast is added, the 
liquid has a temperature of about 85 degrees. Beat in six 
cups best bread flour, and let rise until light (about two 
hours) ; then add two tablespoons crisco or vegetable oil, 
two and one-half tablespoons salt, six cups graham flour, 
and about five and one-half more cups of white flour, or 
enough to make a dough that will knead well and not stick 
to the board. Knead ten minutes and put in an oiled pan to 
rise (which should take about three hours) . When light and 
about double its bulk, knock it down and work it well 
together; let rise again until about half its original bulk, 
then work together well, divide into loaves, and put in pans 
for baking. Read directions carefully for kneading, proof- 
ing and baking, as given in following recipe for white bread. 
In cold weather the flour should be warmed. 

17. Wheat Bread 

6 cups best bread flour. 1 pint water. 

V2 ounce compressed yeast. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Sift the flour into a mixing bowl and make a hollow in the 
middle; dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add the salt, 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



46 FOOD AND COOKERY 

sugar and oil, and pour into the flour. Take out from the 
side a good handful of flour to be used on the board, draw in 
the flour with a large spoon and make it into a dough, turn 
out on a floured board. Rub off all the particles of dough 
sticking to the sides and bottom of the dish, and knead until 
it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, using 
as little flour as possible to keep the bread from sticking to 
the board. By keeping the bread in motion continuously, 
very little flour will be needed. The kneading of white bread 
will take about twenty minutes or more. Oil the bowl and 
drop bread in, turn it over in the bowl so it leaves the top 
oiled, which will help to keep a crust from drying on. Cover 
well and let it rise until it doubles its bulk and does not 
respond to the touch, using the test given above. This will 
take about three hours or more, then knock it down in the 
center and work it together, turn it over in the bowl, and 
let it rise until it is about one-half more than its former 
bulk, then turn it out on a slightly floured board and work 
it together for a few minutes. Divide it into three pieces, 
knead each loaf into a hard ball, flatten down and roll the 
dough up into a hard roll, and drop it into an oiled bread tin. 
In molding the bread into loaves, it is very important that 
each loaf be well worked together. If the bread is put into 
pans in soft loaves, that is, soft because they were not 
worked enough, the bread will rise flat on top instead of 
rounded, and will be apt to fall when put into the oven. 
After being put into pans, brush over the top of each loaf 
with oil to keep a crust from drying on. 

Bread should be baked in a quick oven to begin with. The 
oven should not be so hot as to burn the outside of the loaf 
before the inside is cooked, but should be of such a tem- 
perature that the bread may rise for the first ten minutes 
or more, and then have sufficient crust to hold it up, when 
the fire should be closed up to hold a steady heat until the 
bread is done. For the small loaves, forty to forty-five 
minutes is generally suflficient; for the larger ones or those 
of ordinary size, one hour to an hour and a quarter. A well- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 47 

baked loaf may be lifted from the pan and placed upon the 
palm of the hand without burning it. This should always be 
the case when bread is well-baked and the moisture evap- 
orated. When done, remove from the pans and lay on the 
side on a wire rack to cool. If brushed over the top with 
warm water just after taking out of the oven, the crust of 
the bread will keep softer and it will give a nice color. 

18. Whole- wheat Bread 

2>y'2 cups white bread flour. 2 cups whole-wheat flour. 

1 pint water. V-i ounce yeast. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Mix the dough the same as for white bread, only that it is 
not to be kneaded so long; work it enough to mix well, 
kneading it lightly, and put it into an oiled dish; cover, and 
finish the same as for white bread, only it needs a little 
closer watcjiing, and must not be quite so light in the pans 
as white bread. The whole-wheat and graham flour used in 
these recipes are made from the western wheat mixed with 
a strong gluten white flour. 

19. Graham Bread 

Same as whole-wheat bread, except that graham flour is 
used instead of whole-wheat. 

20. Fruit Bread, Rolls, Buns 

5 cups bread flour. 1% cups water. '72 ounce yeast. 

% cup sugar. Vi cup oil. 1 tablespoon salt. 

2 cups sultana raisins. 2 eggs. 

The eggs may be omitted if desired. Sift the flour, salt 
and sugar into a bowl, dissolve the yeast in the warm water 
(about 105 degrees), add the beaten eggs, and pour it on one 
side of the flour in the bowl. Stir in enough flour to make a 
batter that will drop from a spoon, quite thick; cover, and 
let it rise until very light and full of bubbles (about one and 
a half to two hours) . Then add the oil and beat it into the 
sponge until no oil is visible, care being taken not to get the 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



48 FOOD AND COOKERY 

dry flour mixed with oil, for "yeast does not readily absorb 
greased flour," When the oil is worked into the sponge, 
add the raisins, previously scalded and warm. Draw in the 
flour and work it into a dough. Turn out on a well-floured 
board, and dust with flour to keep it from sticking to the 
hands; fold it over and work it together until well mixed  
about ten minutes or more, then cover and let it rise to full 
proof as for white bread, using same test for lightness. 
Then knock it down and work it well together, and let it rise 
again until it is about two-thirds its former bulk, then it is 
ready to be molded and put into pans. Finish the same as 
for white bread. 

The same dough may be made into buns or rolls, and if a 
finer grain is desired than this, the dough may be pounded 
back the second time, letting it rest a half hour before 
making it into buns. This dough must always be a soft 
dough. 

21. Graham Buns 

3 cups bread flour. IV2 cups graham flour. 

1% cups water. V> ounce yeast. 

V2 cup oil. 2 teaspoons salt. 

Sift the white flour, salt and sugar into a mixing bowl, 
dissolve the yeast in the warm water, pour on one side of 
the white flour, and make a sponge as for fruit bread. 
When light and full of bubbles, add the oil and mix into the 
sponge by beating with a large spoon; add the graham flour, 
and mix all into a dough. 

Have the board well floured to begin with, as this must be 
a very soft dough. Turn out the dough, sprinkle it over 
with a very little flour to keep it from sticking to the hands. 
Pat it down with the hands, fold it over and work it 
together until it is well mixed, using just enough flour to 
keep it from sticking to the board. Return the dough to the 
bowl, then cover and let it rise until it is light, using the 
same test as for whole-wheat bread; then knock it down in 
the center, turn it over in the bowl, and let it rise until 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 49 

about one-third more than its former bulk, or for about 
twenty minutes. Then turn out on a floured board, work 
tog-ether very lightly, mold and roll out into buns about one 
ounce in weight each, lay quite close together in an oiled 
pan, and let them rise until they respond very weakly to 
the pressure of the finger, and bake in a quick oven. 

22. Bran Biscuit 

6 cups bread flour. IV2 cups graham flour. 2V2 cups bran. 

IV2, cups water. % cup scalded cream. 

% cup melted crisco or butter. 1 egg. % cup sugar 

V2 ounce compressed yeast. IV2 tablespoons salt. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add three cups 
white bread flour and one and one-half cups graham, and 
make a medium soft dough; let rise until, when tapped with 
fingers, it begins to sink down lightly (about one and one- 
half hours). Work it down well, cover, and let it rise again 
until about half again its original bulk, then add the warm 
cream, shortening, sugar, beaten eggs and salt. Work all 
into the dough until well blended, then add the remaining 
white flour and bran; mix thoroughly into a stiff dough, 
cover, and let rise for about an hour or more, using the 
above test for lightness; then work together, lay on board 
and roll out to a scant half-inch thickness. Cut with biscuit- 
cutter and lay in baking-pan, leaving a little space between 
each; let rise until nearly double its bulk, then bake in a 
good oven. 

23. Parker House Rolls with Milk 

2 cups scalded milk. % cup cri.sco. Vs cup sugar. 

3 teaspoons salt. 2 eggs. 5V2 cups best flour. 

V2 ounce compressed yeast dissolved in Vi cup warm water. 

Cool the milk to about 105 degrees, add the dissolved yeast 
and beaten eggs, and beat in three cups of flour, making a 
smooth batter by beating for a few minutes. Cover, and let 
stand in a warm place until it is light and frothy, which will 
require about two hours. Then add the crisco, sugar and 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



50 FOOD AND COOKERY 

salt, and beat in thoroughly; add the balance of flour, and 
mix well. Turn out on floured board, fold it over and over 
until it is well mixed, then let rise same as for fruit bread. 
When light, divide the dough into one and one-half-ounce 
pieces. Then divide each piece into two, rolling them into 
small round buns and lay on floured board. When they are 
risen to nearly half again their original bulk, have a small 
roller about the size of a broom stick, in circumference, and 
make a crease in the center of each, oil one half, fold the 
other half over it, and press together on the side where the 
crease has been made. Lay in oiled baking-pan, let rise 
until very light, then bake in a quick oven. 

24. Cut Zwieback 

Cut bread in slices about three-fourths of an inch thick, 
put in shallow baking-pan in single layers, and put in a very 
slow oven or a warming oven for three hours or more, until 
thoroughly dried. Then put into a moderate oven, and allow 
it to brown to a golden color through entire thickness. 
Bakers' bread makes very good zwieback. 

25. Pulled Zwieback 

Take fresh bread, break carefully, pulling into pieces 
instead of using pressure. The pieces should be about the 
size of a medium apple. Proceed to dry and bake same as 
for cut zwieback. 

SOUPS 

Soups are usually divided into two classes:  

1. Broths or thin soups, to which may be added cooked 
grains or vegetables cut in various shapes and sizes for 
garniture, and to give variety and flavor. While these thin 
soups are lacking in the nutriment to be found in those made 
of more solid foods, they are valuable, for the stimulating 
eff^ect they have on the gastric juice, and when taken at the 
beginning of the meal and in small quantities, they aid in the 
digestion of the more solid foods. 

2. Those which usually have as their basis cooked vege- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 51 

tables, grains or legumes, forced through a strainer and 
diluted with the liquid in which they were cooked, or with 
milk or cream, or both. Like all other foods, soups require 
the action of the saliva for digestion, and when eaten slowly 
with some dry food, as sticks or croutons, are both appe- 
tizing and nourishing. 

26. Cream of Tomato Soup A 

1 cup tomato pulp. % cup cream. 

1 tablespoon flour. salt to taste. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Bring the tomato to 
a boil in another sauce-pan, thicken each slightly with flour 
braided smooth in cold water; then set on the edge of the 
stove and pour the tomato into the prepared cream, season 
to taste, strain again through a fine strainer, and serve. 
By thickening the cream and tomato slightly before mixing, 
the curdling, which is such a frequent cause of disappoint- 
ment in making this soup, is largely avoided. Canned cream 
may be added to the tomato, if desired, in the place of 
fresh cream, adding it unheated to the prepared tomato. 

27. Cream of Tomato Soup B 

1 cup tomato pulp. 1 scant tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

salt to taste. 

Heat the tomato to boiling point, as in the above recipe, 
thicken slightly as directed in same, to prevent the tomato 
from curdling the milk. Heat the milk separately; put the 
butter and flour in a sauce-pan on stove, and stir for a 
minute, add a little of the milk and stir smooth; add balance 
of the milk, boil up; pour the tomato gradually into the 
prepared cream, stirring briskly; salt to taste, strain through 
fine strainer, and serve. 

28. Cream of Corn Soup 

Vo cup corn pulp. IVj cups milk, 

% cup rich cream. 2 teaspoons flour. 

Grind the corn through a fine mill, put into a double 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



53 FOOD AND COOKERY 

boiler with the milk, and heat to boiling point; braid the 
flour smooth in cold milk or water, stir into the corn, and 
let it cook twenty minutes; mash through a strainer and 
finish with the cream; add salt to taste, and serve. 

29. Cream of Green Peas Soup 

Va can green peas. % cup water. 

1 cup milk. Vi> cup rich cream. 

Add the water to the peas, and heat it to the boiling point, 
then mash them through a colander; heat the milk and cream 
in a double boiler. Force the peas through a colander, add 
the hot milk and cream, season, and strain through a fine 
strainer. Fresh peas are far the best for this soup when in 
season. 

30. Family Potato Soup 

IV^ cups thinly sliced raw potato. 1% cups cold water. 

2 cup rich milk or cream. 1 teaspoon onion. 

11/4 teaspoons salt. chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Put the potato, butter, salt, onion and water to cook until 
the potato is well done; add the hot cream and stir well 
together, sprinkle in the parsley, and serve. 

31. Lima Bean Soup 

Wash one cup of Lima beans and put on the fire to cook 
with one teaspoon vegetable oil or butter and enough cold 
water to cook them well done; add salt when they are half 
done. When they are done, there should be plenty of liquid 
to cover them well. Mash through colander. Beat up one 
teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter with one cup hot milk; 
stir into the soup, mix well. Serve with croutons. Service 
for five. A small onion may be boiled in the beans and 
removed when done if desired. 



32. Vegetable Oyster Soup 

.' sliced vegetable oyster. lli> cups 1 

milk. 2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy b 
! tablespoon flour. 1 scant teaspoon sa 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



1 cup thinly sliced vegetable oyster. lli> cups cold water. 

1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

V2 tablespoon flour. 1 scant teaspoon salt. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 53 

Wash and scrape small tender salsify and drop immedi- 
ately into cold water to keep them from turning dark. 
Shave them in just as thin slices as possible, and drop them 
immediately into water until you have the right amount. 
Drain and measure one and one-half cups cold water, add 
one-half teaspoon salt and one teaspoon of butter, and cook 
until thoroughlj^ done and the liquid is reduced to one cup or 
less. Heat the milk; then take one teaspoon of the butter 
and the flour and stir it over fire for a moment, then add a 
little of the hot milk and stir until thick and smooth; add a 
little more milk and stir smooth to avoid lumps. Add bal- 
ance of milk and boil up; add one-half teaspoon salt and 
pour into the vegetable oyster; reheat and serve. The 
reason for adding cold water to fresh vegetables in soup, is 
to extract the flavor into the broth; hot water retains flavor 
in the vegetable. Two portions. 

When making cream soups from fresh vegetables, as 
lettuce, cauliflower, spinach, onion, etc., the vegetable is 
used simply as a flavor, the body of the soup being made from 
a mixture of potato, water and onion, and the vegetable 
added for flavor and garniture. Thus, by being able to 
make one of these soups, others can be made by substitut- 
ing different vegetables for flavor and change. As an illus- 
tration, we give the following:  

33. Cream of Lettuce Soup 

1 cup sliced raw potato. 1 cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 stalk celery. sprig parsley. 

\V2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

% cup diced lettuce. V2 cup rich milk. 

salt to taste. 

Put the potato, onion, celery, water and salt to cook and 
when the potato is about half done, add the lettuce and 
sprig of parsley, if at hand; let it boil rapidly for ten min- 
utes or more; then mash through a colander, adding the hot 
milk and butter as it goes through. Put again through a 
fine strainer, serve with croutons or small bits of shredded 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



54 FOOD AND COOKERY 

and wilted lettuce. Very green or outside leaves of lettuce 
are bitter, and should not be used for soup, but should be 
first removed. 

34. Tomato Bisque Soup 

1 cup tomato pulp. 1 cup water. 

1 cup bean broth. 2 teaspoons chopped onion. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. bay leaf. 

1 tablespoon nut butter. pinch of thyme. 

sprig parsley. salt. 

Put the butter, parsley, thyme, bay leaf and onion in a 
sauce-pan and stir over the fire a few moments, add all the 
liquids and boil gently for fifteen minutes, dissolve the nut 
butter in a little water; add this nut cream, a dash of celery 
salt and salt to taste; boil up, strain, and serve. 

35. Vegetable Chowder 

% cup turnip cut in small dice. Vi ct:p carrot. 

Vi cup cabbage. 1 stalk celsry. 2 tablespoons onion. 

% cup potato, sinall piece of sweet bell pepper. 
IV2 tablespoons browned flour. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

1% tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter, 
pinch of sage or thyme. 4 cups water. salt to taste. 

Put the coarse vegetables into a sauce-pan, together with 
the butter, flour, sage and salt. Cover and let simmer for 
a few minutes, stirring now and then. Add the cold water, 
potato and tomato and let cook until done. Finish with a 
little chopped parsley, and serve. 

36. Vegetable Julienne 

Vs cvip potato. 14 cup carrot. !4 cup turnip. 1 stalk celery. 

2 tablespoons onion. V2 cup cauliflowerlets. 

1 small tomato. 2 ci:ps cold water. 

2 cups bean broth or vegetable broth. 
2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter, chopped parsley. 

Cut all the vegetables except the cauliflowerlets into fine 
shreds of about three-fourth-inch lengths. Put all the vege- 
tables except the parsley into sauce-pan with the butter and 
let steam for a few minutes over the fire, stirring occasion- 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 55 

ally; add the tomato and all the liquids, salt to taste and 
boil until the vegetables are tender, add chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

37. Farmers' Favorite Soup 

% cup rich sour cream. 1/3 cup macaroni, raw. 

1 small onion. 1 stalk celery. Vi cup finely diced carrot. 

1 cup diced potato. chopped parsley. salt. 

Cook the cream down in skillet, stirring constantly until 
the oil separates* and the albumen turns a light brown color 
(the degree of browning determines the flavor of the soup) . 
Add the diced carrot, onion and celery and stir over the fire 
for a few minutes, but do not brown; add three cups cold 
water and the diced potato and salt and let cook until the 
vegetables are thoroughly done. Drop the macaroni into 
three cups of boiling water and cook until thoroughly done, 
add the macaroni water to the vegetable soup; then lay the 
macaroni on board and cut into small rings, drop into soup 
and boil up well, add chopped parsley, and serve. Service 
for six. 

38. Potage St. Germain 

1 cup .sliced raw potato. Vs can green peas. 

Vi cup celery. 1 tablespoon onion. 2 cups water. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Add the sliced potato, celery, onion and salt to the water, 
and boil until the potatoes are well cooked. Add the peas, 
bring to a boil, mash up well with an egg-beater, and force 
through a fine strainer; season with the butter, and serve 
with croutons. 

39. Fruit Soup A 

1 cup blackberry or strawberry juice. 2 tablespoons sago. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup water. 

sugar to taste. 

Put the sago in dish and wash in cold water, pour off as 
much water as possible from dish ; put into double boiler with 
one cup hot water and let steam until clear. Add the juices 
and sweeten to taste. Very nice served cold. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients) 



56 FOOD AND COOKERY 

40. Fruit Soup B 

IH cups berry juice. Va cup stewed raisins. 

6 cooked prunes. 3 tablespoons sago. 

sugar to taste. 2 cups water. 

Wash sago same as above and put to cook in two cups hot 
water until the sago is clear. Stone and quarter the prunes, 
mix all the ingredients and sweeten to taste. 

GRAINS, NUT FOODS, ENTREES 

In seeking to provide a balanced diet, a few suggestions 
may be helpful. In the first place, flesh foods contain a very 
high percentage of proteid matter, with no carbohydrates; 
thus, in a given quantity eaten, too much proteid is the 
inevitable result. This high percentage of proteid, as stated 
in the preceding chapter, is a heavy tax on the digestive 
organs. Therefore, it should not be our aim to bring the 
percentage of proteid up to that contained in meat; this 
would only tend to defeat one of the main objects of health 
reform,  that of providing a balanced diet, of which proteid 
should constitute ten per cent of the number of calories per 
day, fats twenty, and carbohydrates seventy. 

The comparison between the body and the locomotive 
engine serves as an illustration for studying the fuel value 
of foods. While iron is essential to keep the engine in 
repairs, the greatest demand, however, will be for fuel with 
which to heat the boiler. So in the vital economy, proteid, 
like iron, is essential for the growth and repair of tissue and 
the body waste; but beyond this it is inferior to carbohy- 
drates and fats; and as difl^erent kinds of wood and coal are 
capable of giving off different degrees of heat, and also giving 
off that heat in longer or shorter periods of time, so different 
kinds of food-stuffs work in about the same way. Also 
different kinds of coal, after being burned, leave a residue 
of clinkers to be raked out of the furnace; so with the over- 
eating of proteid foods, there is an extra amount of work 
for the kidneys to rid the system of accumulated poisons. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 57 

Then we should remember that fresh vegetables are by no 
means the most nutritious food, for, as may be clearly seen, 
water enters largely into their composition. Some, in leaving 
off flesh foods, make a mistake in making vegetables, as 
roots and tubers, the principal articles of diet. These vege- 
tables, with grains and nuts, will give a well-balanced diet. 
The legumes are a highly nutritious food, and when properly 
prepared may be used in a variety of ways in making dishes 
that are wholesome and pleasing to the taste. They are, 
however, a heavy food, and for people leading sedentary 
lives, they should not be indulged too freely. 

The various nut foods on the market, composed chiefly of 
grains and nuts, contain the nutritive elements of food in a 
very concentrated form, and should not be eaten too freely, 
but .should be combined with other foods. A few examples 
of how they may be made into appetizing dishes will be 
given in some of the following recipes. Other nut foods of 
a similar nature may be used in the place of the ones given, 
if desired. 

LEGUMES 

The most common representatives of this family which are 
used as foods are the various kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils. Taking the world over, legumes are, next to cereals, 
the most valuable and the most extensively used among 
vegetable foods. They are found in all climates and all 
countries. The lentil is one of the most ancient of food 
plants. It has been grown from early times in Asia and the 
Mediterranean countries. 

Many people with weak digestion often experience distress 
after eating boiled beans or peas. By removing the hulls 
in their preparation, this trouble is largely overcome, and in 
this manner they may be made into a variety of ways that 
are appetizing as well as nourishing. 

41. Stewed Lima Beans 

Pick the beans over, wash them thoroughly, and hft them 
out from the water to remove any small pieces of grit that 



58 FOOD AND COOKERY 

may be on the bottom of the kettle. Put them on the fire 
in cold water; add one teaspoon of vegetable oil to each cup 
of beans, and let them boil gently (after boiling begins) 
until they are thoroughly done; salt should be added after 
they have boiled a half hour or so, to give them flavor. 

42. Baked Lima Beans 

Soak one cup of Lima beans over night, and in the morn- 
ing slip off the skins between the thumb and finger. Put 
them in a small baking-pan with one-half teaspoon salt and 
one teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter, and enough cold 
water to cover them. Put a pan over them and set them in 
the oven to cook, adding a little water as needed, so they do 
not cook down dry. When they are about done, remove the 
pan from the top, and let them brown nicely. Service for 
five persons. 

43. Browned Navy Bean Puree 

2 cups navy bean puree. 3 tablespoons rich cream. 

1 egg yolk. salt. 

Boil the beans the same as for stewed Lima beans; drain 
in a colander; saving the broth for soups or gravies. Mash 
the beans through colander, having them as dry as possible. 
Mix all ingredients, put in oiled baking-pan; brush over with 
a little thin cream or vegetable butter, and bake in a quick 
oven to a light brown color. Service for five persons. 

44. Ribbon Bean Roast 

V2 cup Lima beans. l:> cup kidney beans. 

Vi cup thick ci'eam. 1 egg yolk. salt. 

Cook the beans separately with a small piece of onion in 
each, and salt to taste; let them cook as dry as possible. 
Drain off the broth, should there be any, and press the 
beans through a colander dry. Add the yolk and cream to 
each mixture, salt to taste, place in alternate layers in brick- 
shaped tin, and bake in a moderate oven until heated through 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 59 

and a nice brown. Serve with cream tomato sauce or gravy. 
Service for five. 

45. Red Beans Spanish 

IV^ cups red beans. 6 large whole or two cups stewed tomatoes. 

2 round tablespoons minced onion. 1 tablespoon oil. 

salt. 1 small clove garlic. M> sweet bell pepper. 

Prepare the beans as for stewed Lima beans, put the oil, 
onion, sweet pepper and garlic on the stove in a small sauce- 
pan, and cook a few minutes, but do not brown the onion. 
Add this to the beans with salt, and cook until done; then 
have the ripe tomatoes peeled and quartered, add them to 
the cooked beans, and let them cook for thirty minutes after 
bpiling begins, or longer. Season with celery salt, and dish 
up with a little chopped parsley on top. 

In making patties and croquettes of the various legumes 
and cereals, a choux paste serves as a means of holding the 
food together so it can be shaped and baked without adding 
bread crumbs, which have a tendency to cover up the delicate 
flavors in the various foods when cooked together; it also 
retains moisture and keeps the food from drying out while 
serving. 

46. Walnut Lentil Patties 

2 cups lentil puree. Vs cup chopped walnuts. 

11/2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 3 tablespoons fiour. 

Vs cup milk. 1 egg yolk. pinch of sage. 

salt to taste. 

Have the lentils boiled in salted water, same as for stewed 
Lima beans; drain well, and mash them through colander, 
having them as dry as possible. In case they should be too 
soft, let them dry out on the fire or in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Put the butter, onion and a sprinkle of sage into small 

sauce-pan, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do 

not let it brown; add the flour, and stir until it is thoroughly 

scalded, then add the hot milk and stir smooth; add the 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



60 FOOD AND COOKERY 

egg yolk and stir until thoroughly cooked and a thick paste. 
Salt to taste, then add the lentil puree and mix well. Fill an 
ice cream mold and turn out on lightly floured board; flatten 
with knife about three-fourths inch thick and mold into 
small round cakes, mark on top with a knife, brush over top 
of each with cream or milk, and bakq, on top grate of a quick 
oven to a light brown color. Eight portions. 

47. Navy Bean Patties ' 

Use two cups of bean puree instead of the lentils in the 
above recipe, and omit the walnuts. Mix with the above 
choux paste, and mold the same as lentil patties. Seven 
portions. 

48. Cutlets of Green Peas 

Open a can of peas, and bring to a boil; then drain as dry 
as possible, mash through a colander, and set them in the 
oven until they are hot through, so they will dry out a little. 
Make a choux paste the same as for lentil patties, add peas 
and mix well. Mold into small oblong shapes, mark on top 
with knife, brush over with cream and bake in a quick oven 
to a light brown. This mixture must needs be quite soft, 
and therefore a little hard to handle, but with a sprinkle of 
flour on the board, the cutlets can be molded nicely, and if 
not baked too long, but just browned lightly in a quick oven, 
they have a very delicate flavor, and are especially adapted 
for banquet or special dinner service. The above makes six 
portions. 

49. Macaroni and Rice Croquettes 

1 cup boiled rice, dry. 1 cup cooked macaroni. 

Make choux paste the same as for lentil patties, add the 
rice and chopped macaroni, als chopped parsley to taste. 
Wet an ice cream mold with milk, and fill with the above 
mixture, turn out on an oiled baking sheet, and brown in a 
quick oven. If desired, they may be molded in cork shapes, 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 61 

flattened slightly with a knife, and baked, instead of using 
the mold. Six portions. 

50. Savory Lentil Roast 

Cook together one-half cup lentils and one-half cup beans 
with salt until thoroughly done; drain in colander, saving the 
broth for gravies or soups. Mash the legumes through 
colander, and use as follows:  

1 cup soaked stale bread (pressed out lightly). 

2 cups legume puree. 2 tablespoons chopped onion. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

Vs cup coarsely chopped walnuts. 1 egg. 

salt, sage or thyme to taste. 

Put the onion, sage and butter in a small pan on the stove, 
and simmer for a minute or two; beat the egg, and mix all 
ingredients. Bake in greased pan; serve with brown sauce 
or tomato sauce. Seven portions. 

51. Lentil and Rice Loaf Country Style 

2 cups boiled rice. 1 cup lentil puree. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon onion. % cup chopped walnuts. 

sage and salt. 

Have the lentil puree and rice as dry as possible; put the 
butter, onion and sage into a small sauce-pan, and simmer 
for a minute. Mix all the ingredients together with a fork, 
salt to taste. Press lightly into a brick-shaped tin, brush 
over top with a little cream or vegetable butter, and bake 
about half an hour, until of a light brown color. For six. 

52. Nut and Potato Pie 

2 cups .sliced raw potatoes. 1% cups cold water. 

1 tablespoon onion. iVi teaspoons salt. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 scant tablespoon flour. chopped parsley. 

nut food (if at hand). hard-boiled egg. crust. 

Add the sliced potato, onion and salt to the water, and 
cook until done; drain, and lay the sliced potato in an oiled 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



62 FOOD AND COOKERY 

baking-pan. Put the butter and flour into a small sauce-pan, 
and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add a little of 
the potato water and stir smooth. Add the rest of the 
liquor, boil up, and pour the sauce over the sliced potato. 
Lay a few slices of hard-boiled egg, and the same of nut 
cero, if on hand, over the potato, and sprinkle lightly with 
chopped parsley over all. Cover with thin pie-crust, brush 
over with milk, and bake to a nice brown. Service for four, 

53. Potato Stew Egg Dumplings 

2 cups raw potato cut in half-inch cubes. 2% cups cold water. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 2 large egrgs. 

4 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

% cup flour (measured after being sifted once). 

l'/4 teaspoons salt. 

Put one-half cup water in small sauce-pan, add two table- 
spoons butter and a little salt, and bring to a boil. When 
boiling hot, add two-thirds cup sifted flour all at once, and 
stir into a smooth paste; keep stirring over the fire for a 
minute until the flour is well scalded, then set on table. As 
soon as the scald is off the paste, break in one egg, and stir 
until the egg is all absorbed and the paste smooth, then add 
the other egg and treat in like manner. The batter should 
be perfectly smooth. 

Put the potato, onion, salt and two and one-fourth cups of 
water with one tablespoon of butter to cook in a covered 
vessel. While this is heating, put one tablespoon butter and 
one and one-half tablespoons flour in a small pan, and stir 
over the fire for a moment, then add a little of the water 
on the potato, and stir smooth; add more water, and stir to 
a smooth thin gravy; then pour it over the potato and bring 
to a boil. When the potato is about half cooked, and certain 
that it is seasoned to suit, drop the batter from a tablespoon 
into the boiling stew, the spoon being first dipped in the 
liquid; cover and boil up well, until the dumplings are pretty 
well risen, then let simmer for about fifteen minutes, or 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 63 

until the liquid is reduced to the right consistency to dish up 
nicel}^ For six persons. 

54. Cream Noodles 

2 eggs. % cup flour. M cup milk. salt to taste. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Beat one large egg slightly, add the flour, and mix well 
with a heavy spoon, turn out on a floured board, and knead a 
few minutes; divide into three pieces, roll out into thin 
sheets, have them well floured, and let them lie to dry out a 
little, then cut them into long strips about one and one-half 
inches in width, then cut crosswise into fine shreds. Have 
salted water boiling hot, sprinkle in the noodles; if they are 
put in all at once they will stick together. Let them cook 
fifteen minutes, drain, and return to the sauce-pan, cover 
and set on the edge of the stove, add the milk and butter; 
when all is hot, add one beaten egg, mix well, and do not let 
boil; but heat just enough to thicken, so it will dish up on 
the plate and not run; salt to taste. 

55. Baked Noodles au Gratin 

Boil the noodles same as in above recipe, drain well, add 
enough rich cream sauce to season, lay in oiled baking-pan, 
grate fresh bread crumbs over top, sprinkle with cream or 
butter, and press the crumbs into the cream to moisten them; 
bake to a nice golden brown. 

56. Baked Corn Nut Pie 

1 cup corn pulp. M^ cup light-colored zwieback crumbs. 

% cup rich milk. 3 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

M cup cream. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 

1 egg. sprinkle of sage. Va cup diced nutloaf . 

salt and celery salt to taste. 

Heat the milk to about 120 degrees, and pour over the 
crumbs; add two teaspoons of the butter; let stand ten 
minutes. Grind the corn through a fine mill, and add to the 
crumbs, also egg slightly beaten and one teaspoon salt, and 

(use level measurements for all ingredients) 



64 FOOD AND COOKERY 

celery salt to taste; mix thoroughly. Put the onion, sage 
and one teaspoon butter in sauce-pan and stir for a few 
minutes until the onion is softened a httle but not brown, add 
the cream and when it boils add the nutloaf, sprinkle with 
salt and let cook until the cream is mostly absorbed by the 
nut food; then fill a small baking-pan half full of the corn 
mixture, sprinkle over it the nutloaf evenly, then recover 
with the corn mixture. Bake in a medium oven until set and 
a nice brown. Let stand a few minutes, then cut in squares, 
and serve. 

57. Roast Nut Meat with Dressing 

Open a pound can of nut cero, or other nut food, split 
through center lengthwise, lay in an oiled pan, brush the top 
over with oil or vegetable butter, and put in the oven until a 
slight crust forms on the meat; then pour over a thin brown 
sauce, and continue to bake same for one hour, basting it 
now and then over top with the gravy. When done, lift out 
on board, slice, and serve with the following. 

58. Baked Dressing 

2 cups soaked stale bread. 2 tablespoons minced onion. 

2^/2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 1 egg. 

sage. IV2 teaspoons salt, or more. 

Soak the stale bread in plenty of cold water until soft, pour 
into a colander and let drain; press lightly between the 
hands leaving it very soft. Put the onion, sage, parsley and 
butter in a sauce-pan, and let simmer a few moments, but do 
not brown. Beat the eg^ lightly, and mix all the ingredients; 
put into oiled baking-pan, and bake until a nice brown and 
cooked through. To dish up, lay the nut cero on a carving 
board, put a spoonful of dressing on platter, lay a shce of 
nut cero on top, and pour a spoonful of brown gravy over all. 
Serve with sprig of parsley at one end. By adding small 
quantity of brown gravy to the bread in making dressing, 
the egg may be left out. For six persons. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 65 

59. Nut Cromeskies 

V2 cup nutloaf. 2 tablespoons chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

% cup tomato pulp. crust. 1 egg. 

Vi teaspoon salt. pinch of thyme. 

Put the onion, parsley, thyme and butter into a small pan 
to simmer a few moments, add the flour and mix well; pour 
in the tomato and stir smooth, then add the beaten egg and 
stir until all is thoroughly cooked and a thick paste. Mash 
the nutloaf with fork, and work into the hot mixture until 
all is well blended with salt to taste. 

Roll out plain pastry very thin; cut in strips about three 
inches wide. Take a tablespoon of the nut mixture, and roll 
it to about the size of the thumb, lay on end of strip, and 
fold the strip over it, making a roll; wet the edges of the 
pastry where they meet, and cut it off so it has the appear- 
ance of a cream roll. Lay them in a baking-pan, brush over 
with milk or cream, and bake to a nice brown. Serve with 
tomato sauce. Six portions. 

60. Baked Macaroni Family Style 

1 cup inacaroni, raw. 1 cup tomato pulp. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon onion. sprinkle of sage or thyme. 

1 egg. salt to taste. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling 
salted water, and cook until thoroughly done; then wash and 
drain in colander. Put the butter, onion and little sage or 
thyme into sauce-pan, and stir over fire for a few minutes, 
but do not brown; add the tomato and bring to a boil, salt to 
taste; then pour the hot mixture slowly into the beaten egg, 
stirring it briskly as it is being poured in; add the cooked 
macaroni, and pour all into an oiled baking-pan and bake to 
a light brown. Service for five persons. 

61. Baked Macaroni and Olives 

V2 cup uncooked macaroni. Va cup chopped ripe olives. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

1 cup of water in which the macaroni was cooked. 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil. 2V2 tablespoons flour. ^ 

salt and celery salt to taste. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



66 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths, drop into boil- 
ing salted water, and cook until it is well done. Put the oil 
in a small pan on the stove, and when hot, add the flour and 
stir until well browned, then add the onion and chopped 
olives. Let them cook a few minutes, then add one cup 
macaroni water and two tablespoons tomato; let it boil five 
minutes, have the macaroni well drained, and while hot put 
it into the gravy, turn into a baking-dish, grate a few fresh 
bread crumbs over the top, and with a spoon press them 
down onto the gravy, so they will become moistened through; 
bake until a nice brown. Service for four persons. 

62. Macaroni au Gratin 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and drop into boiling 
salted water, and let cook until well done. Pour into a 
colander and let it drain well, after which put it into a 
granite baking-pan, and pour over enough rich cream sauce 
to barely cover it. Mix it well, and grate some fresh bread 
crumbs on top to give it a good color. Sprinkle over a little 
thin cream, and with a large spoon press the crumbs down 
so they become softened by the liquid and will brown without 
burning. Bake in a medium oven about thirty to forty 
minutes or until a nice brown. 

63. Spanish Rice 

Vi cup uncooked rice. -M cup cold watei". 

% cup tomato pulp. 2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon diced onion. 1 teaspoon browned i^our. 

1 tablespoon diced sweet bell pepper. 

sage, celery salt and salt to taste. 

Brown the rice in a frying-pan on the stove or in a hot 
oven until a very light hrown; put into the inner part of a 
double boiler, add the cold water and one-half teaspoon salt, 
and boil on a good fire until the water is evaporated and the 
rice is dry, then set into the outer part of the boiler and steam. 
Put the onion, sweet pepper and butter on the fire and stir 
for a few moments; add the sage, browned flour and a little 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 67 

of the tomato; stir smooth, add the balance of the tomato 
and boil up well, salt to taste. Pour over the rice, mix well 
and let steam for twenty minutes or more, and serve. Four 
portions. 

64. Baked Rice Italienne 

V2 cup rice, raw. 14 cup macaroni, raw. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 small clove garlic. 

2 tablespoons sweet bell pepper. 

IV2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

IV2 cups tomato pulp. 1% cups water, .salt, thyme. 

Put the rice into a frying-pan and brown over the fire or 
in a hot oven to a light golden brown, add one-half teaspoon 
salt a^nd the water, and let cook down dry; set on edge of 
stove with cover on and let steam. Break the macaroni up 
very small, and put to cook in boiling salted water, cook 
until thoroughly done; then wash it and drain in colander. 
Put the sweet pepper, onion, garlic and thyme into a pan 
with the butter, and stir over fire for a few minutes, add the 
tomato and boil up well, salt to taste and pour over the rice, 
mix well. Put a layer of the rice tomato in a small baking- 
pan, sprinkle the macaroni evenly over same, season with 
small bits of vegetable butter or thick cream; then pour on 
the balance of the rice, and bake one-half hour or more. 
Service for five persons. 

65. Walnut Timbales 

2 cups stale white bread cut in small dice. Vs cup ground walnuts. 

1 tablespoon onion. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 cup milk. 1 e^Q. Vi cup tomato. 

sage and salt to taste. 

Beat the egg, add the milk, and pour over the bread; put 
the onion, sage and butter into small pan, and simmer for a 
few moments; add the tomato and boil up well. Mix all 
ingredients thoroughly, salt to taste. Oil five timbale molds, 
and divide the mixture between them, set in a pan of water 
and bake in oven until set. Serve with tomato or tomato 
cream sauce. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



68 FOOD AND COOKERY 

66. Corn Timbales 

% cup canned corn ground through food mill. 1 cup milk. 

2 egg.s. salt. celery salt and thyme to taste. 

Beat the eggs, mix all ingredients thoroughly, and bake 
same as walnut timbales, except that these must be baked 
with greater care; that is, they must be removed from the 
oven just as soon as the custard is set, otherwise they will 
be watery and their flavor ruined. Green corn is best, when 
in season. Serve with cream tomato sauce. Five portions. 

67. Walnut Roast 

V2 cup chopped walnuts. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup zwieback crumbs. 2 teaspoons grated onion. 

1 egg. pinch of sage. salt to taste. 

Beat the egg, add the milk, and pour over the crumbs, let 
soak twenty minutes. Mix all ingredients, put in oiled 
brick-tin and bake until brown and cooked through. Egg 
may be left out if desired. 

68. Baked Spaghetti and Cornlet 

% cup spaghetti, raw. 1 cup corn pulp. 

2 tablespoons sweet bell pepper. 1 tablespoon onion. 

IV2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

W2 tablespoons flour. % cup milk. 

salt to taste. 

Cook the spaghetti in boihng salted water until well done; 
having broken it into half-inch lengths. Grind corn through 
food mill; put the onion, sweet pepper and butter together 
in sauce-pan, and stir over fire for a minute; add the flour, 
and stir. Then add a little of the milk, and beat smooth; 
add balance of milk, salt to taste, and let boil up. Put a 
layer of the spaghetti in a small baking-pan, then a layer of 
the corn; pour half of the cream sauce over it, working it 
down into the food. Put another layer of spaghetti and corn 
as before, then the cream sauce on top. Sprinkle over with 
fresh bread crumbs, moisten them with a little rich cream or 
butter, and bake until thoroughly done and a nice brown. 
Five portions. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 69 

69. New England Dinner 

4 mediuin-sized potatoes. 4 small turnips. 

3 carrots. 6 small onions. V2 small cabbage. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

2V-) tea.spoons salt. 

Quarter the peeled turnips and carrots, add the onions 

whole, put in sauce-pan with the butter or oil, salt and 

enough water to cover them, and bring to a boil. Parboil 

the cabbage; drain and add to the boiling vegetables above, 

also the potatoes cut in quarters. Boil all together until 

thoroughly done. If all the vegetables are poured into a 

baking-pan when cooked and set in a medium oven for fifteen 

minutes, the flavor of the vegetables will be improved. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

70. Brown Sauce A 

2 tablespoons crisco or vegetable oil. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon onion. 2 tablespoons tomato. 

iVn cups vegetable broth or potato water, salt. 

Put the oil in small frying-pan, and when hot, add the 

flour and keep stirring until well browned; then add the 

onion and stir for a few minutes; add a little of the liquid 

and stir smooth, add the balance of liquid and tomato and 

boil up well, salt to taste, strain and serve. 

Brown Sauce B 

Cook down one-half cup cream, sweet or sour; stir until the 
oil separates and the albumen turns a light brown color, then 
add one tablespoon chopped onion and stir for a few minutes; 
then add flour, which has been previously browned in oven to 
take up the oil thus made, and dilute with vegetable broth or 
potato water and finish as in the preceding recipe. 

71. Country Gravy 

Use same proportions of oil, flour and onion as in either of 
the foregoing recipes; then use one and one-half cups milk 
instead of the potato water, only the flour is not to be 
browned quite so much when milk is used. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



70 FOOD AND COOKERY 

72. Olive Sauce 

Add eight chopped ripe olives to the onion, and make the 
same as brown sauce. 

73. Cream Sauce 

1 cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1% tablespoons flour. 

Stir the butter and flour together in sauce-pan over the fire, 

add a small portion of the hot milk, and stir smooth; add 

remaining milk and let boil up, salt to taste and serve, 

74. Nut Sauce 

Dissolve two tablespoons nut butter in a little hot milk 
and stir into the above cream sauce. 

75. Tomato Sauce 

1 cup tomato pulp. 2 teaspoons vegetable or dairj- butter. 

W2 tablespoons light browned flour. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. salt and celery salt to taste. 

Put the butter in a small stew-pan on the fire, add the 

onion, and stir a few minutes, but do not brown; add the 

browned flour and tomato, stir smooth, and let boil up. 

Season with salt and celery salt, and strain through a fine 

strainer. 

76. Tomato Cream Sauce 

1 cup tomato pulp. M? cup rich cream. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

2 tablespoons flour, salt to taste. 

Heat the butter and flour in a small sauce-pan for a few 
moments, add one-third cup of tomato, and stir until thick 
and smooth; add balance of tomato and boil up. Salt to 
taste, stir into cream, and serve. 

77. Hollandaise Sauce 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoon flour. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 2 egg yolks. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. salt. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 71 

Heat the cream. Put butter and flour in sauce-pan, and 
stir over the fire for a moment. Add a Httle of the cream, 
and stir smooth; add balance of the cream, and boil up. 
Beat the yolks and lemon juice, add a little of the hot cream, 
and beat into the yolks; then pour the yolk mixture into the 
hot cream, and stir for a few minutes, salt to taste and serve. 

78. Brazil Nut Sauce 

5 Brazil nuts, ground fine. 4 tablespoons flour. 

IV^ cups potato water or milk. 

Brown the flour in a frying-pan on top of the stove; when 
it is of a light golden color, add the nuts, and stir through 
the flour for five minutes; add half the liquid and stir smooth; 
add the balance of the water, and let it cook ten minutes. 
Salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables may be divided into two classes:  

1. The coarse or fibrous vegetables, comprising the roots, 
tubers, bulbs, stems and leaves. 

2. The finer vegetables, as tomatoes, squash, corn, green 
peas, shelled beans, etc. 

Vegetables, like all starchy foods, should be put to cook in 
boiling water, the object being to soften the cellulose as well 
as to swell and burst the starch grains. While there is 
scarcely any other food more universally used by rich and 
poor alike in making up a part of their daily bill of fare, yet 
how often the vegetable is spoiled in cooking. Vegetables 
should always be cooked until thoroughly done. Served in 
a half-cooked condition as is so often the case, they are un- 
palatable and indigestible; while on the other hand, coarse 
vegetables should be cooked in plenty of boiling water, and 
should be removed from the fire when done, because longer 
cooking makes them insipid in taste, and if cooked in too 
little water they turn a dark color. Salt should be added the 
last half hour of the cooking, to give flavor. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



72 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Green vegetables, as peas and string beans, v/hen young 
and tender, should be cooked in just enough water to cook 
them well done and preserve their flavor. To retain the 
green color in the new vegetables, the cover must be left off 
while cooking, and they should cook steadily after they are 
put on, and not allowed to stop cooking or simmering until 
they are done. 

Young, tender vegetables, as lettuce, tomatoes, water- 
cress, etc., served in the uncooked stale, are valuable for 
the water and potash salts they contain, also for the stimu- 
lating effect they have on the appetite. 

79. New Peas 

Shell the peas as soon after picking them as possible, drop 
into cold water, and skim off any dry leaves or imperfect 
ones that come to the top; then dip them out of the water 
with the hands so as to leave any grit there may be in them 
on the bottom of the dish; drop them into boiling water, 
enough to cover them if tender, add salt, and let them cook 
until well done and the liquid reduced to one-third its original 
quantity. If desired, they may be thickened slightly with 
flour braided smooth in cold water, and a little cream added 
just before serving. 

80. String Beans 

String beans should be picked while they are young and 
tender. Break them between the hands so as to remove any 
stringy fiber, also the ends. Put two teaspoons of vegetable 
oil into a sauce-pan on the stove, and when quite hot add one 
pint of string beans which have previously been washed; 
stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add enough boiling 
water to cover them; add salt to season and let them boil 
quite rapidly until well done. If more water is added, it 
should be boiling hot. 

81. New Asparagus 

Put the stalks in a deep pan of water and wash well, that 
sand and grit may sink to the bottom; change the water 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 73 

and lift them out, tie them in bundles of about three por- 
tions each ; lay on a board and trim off the root stems, leav- 
ing the stalks about four inches in length; drop them into 
boiling water salted, and cook till tender, then set the sauce- 
pan on the table until ready to serve; lift out and drain, lay 
on a platter, cut, and remove the strings and send to the 
table. Serve v/ith rich cream sauce or hollandaise sauce. 

82. Asparagus Tips and New Peas 

Cut the tender part of cooked new asparagus into one-inch 
lengths, cook the peas separately, and when done add enough 
rich cream to season them well. When they come to a boil, 
thicken slightly with a little flour braided smooth in cold 
milk or water; add the asparagus tips and shake together to 
mix well and not break them up. 

83. Stewed Tomato 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes and let remain a 
few seconds, then drain; remove the skin and the stem with 
the hard green part adhering to it, and cut into quarters. 
Put into a sauce-pan with about one teaspoon vegetable 
butter or more to each cup of tomatoes, and salt to taste. 
Boil up well and serve. 

84. Breaded Tomato 

Cut stale bread into one-half inch cubes,' and brown in 
the oven until crisp all through. Drop them into the boiling 
stewed tomatoes and serve. 

85. Baked Tomato 

Select medium-sized solid tomatoes, peel them, and with 
the point of a knife cut out a little of the hard part of the 
stem end; lay them close together in a baking-pan, sprinkle 
with salt and sugar, and put a speck of vegetable or dairy 
butter in each cavity; then bake until done, but not broken. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



74 FOOD AND COOKERY 

86. Baked Stuffed Tomato 

Peel the tomatoes same as for baked tomato; cut a hole 
in the stem end, in diameter about the size of a nickel; 
scoop out like the appearance of a cored apple, but do not 
hollow out the whole tomato. Sprinkle with salt and sugar, 
and fill with the following:  

Vi cup nntloaf. % cup ripe tomato. 

Vs cup soaked bread (pressed out), sage, onion, 
salt to taste. 

Mash all these ingredients together with a silver fork, and 
fill the tomatoes, having them heaped up a little. Set them 
close together in baking-pan and bake same as the above 
recipe. 

87. Scalloped Tomato 

Trim off the very brown crust of stale bread; cut into one- 
fourth-inch dice, or larger; lay in oiled baking-pan and bake 
until they are a light brown, stirring them as they brown. 
Use one cup toasted bread cubes to one and one-half cups 
stewed tomato and one tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter, 
a sprinkle of sugar, and salt to taste. 

Put one-half cup of croutons in bottom of oiled baking- 
dish, pour over these one and one-half cups of tomatoes 
seasoned; sprinkle the remaining half cup of croutons over 
the top; press them down with spoon so they are all sub- 
merged; put the butter over top, and bake to a nice brown. 

88. Summer Squash 

When young and tender, summer squash need only to be 
washed and quartered. Steam until tender, press between 
two colanders, or in cheese-cloth until quite dry. Mash and 
season with salt and cream. When the squash is older, it 
must be peeled and have the seeds removed before cooking. 

89. Scalloped Summer Squash 

2 cups cooked summer squash. % cup milk. 

2 cups stale bread cut in small dice. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 egg-. salt. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 75 

Cook the squash in salted water or steam until done, drain 
well and mash. Trim off the brown crust from stale white 
bread, and cut the white part into small dice. Beat the egg, 
add the milk and a Httle salt, and pour over the bread, letting 
it soak ten minutes. Add the squash and butter to the soaked 
bread, mix lightly and lay in oiled baking-pan; sprinkle a 
little cream or butter over top, and bake until thoroughly 
done and a nice brown. 

90. Scalloped Eggplant 

Use one medium large eggplant (two cups after being 
cooked). Peel the eggplant, quarter and slice one-half inch 
thick, then drop into boiling salted water and cook until 
done; drain well and mash up. Use the same proportions of 
diced bread, milk and egg as for summer squash,  No. 89. 
Mix and bake same as for scalloped squash. 

91. Breaded Eggplant 

Peel medium small eggplant, cut in two lengthwise; then 
cut each half into quarters or thirds, lengthwise, according 
to size of vegetable. Drop into boiling salted water, and 
cook until slightly underdone, drain. Beat up one egg with 
half cup milk or more; dip eggplant first in flour, then in the 
egg and milk, then in finely rolled zwieback crum.bs. Lay in 
oiled baking-pan, brush over with a little vegetable butter or 
the milk mixture used. Bake in medium oven until thor- 
oughly done and a nice brown. Pan may be covered if oven 
is hot, and then cover removed to brown, before serving. 

92. Corn on Cob 

Add a few slices of lemon or a small quantity of lemon 
juice to the water for corn, bring to boil, put in the ears of 
corn, or add enough milk to make the liquid quite milky; 
boil up well, and then set on edge of stove to draw for twenty 
minutes. Salt, if added, should be put in after the corn is 
cooked, as it toughens the kernels and turns them red. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



76 FOOD AND COOKERY 

93. Green Corn Saute 

Put one-half cup of rich cream into an oiled frying-pan, 
with a teaspoon of chopped onion if desired; let cook down 
until it nearly separates, then add one cup corn cut off the 
cob with salt, toss in pan over fire until thoroughly heated 
through, and serve. 

94. Baked Cream Corn 

1 cup corn pulp. % cup rich milk. 

1 eg-g. % cup light-colored zwieback crumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. a little celery salt. 

Warm the milk to about 120 degrees, pour it over the 
crumbs and let them soak. Have the corn ground through a 
fine mill, mix all the ingredients, put into an oiled baking- 
pan, put a teaspoon of butter or cream over the top to give 
it a nice color, and bake until set and a nice brown. 

95. Cauliflower au Gratin 

Remove all the green leaves from the cauliflower, and 
divide into bouquets or pieces about the size of a large hen's 
egg. Wash well and drop into boiling salted water, and 
cook until tender; care should be taken not to cook it too 
long, or it will break up. When done, drain, and lay the 
pieces in an oiled baking-pan; pour over it enough cream 
sauce to nearly cover it, then grate a few fresh bread crumbs 
over the top and press them down with a spoon so they 
become moistened with the cream sauce; sprinkle a little 
milk or cream over the top, and bake until a light brown. 

96. Cauliflower Bouchees 

Prepare the cauliflower same as above, into bouquets suit- 
able for one portion each; boil in salted water until done but 
not too soft; lift them out and lay on platter to drain. Roll 
out pie-paste quite thin, cut in squares about four inches each 
way, lay a bouquet of the cooked vegetable on each piece, 
add a little vegetable butter, bring all four corners up and 
(use level measurements for all ingredients) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 77 

fasten them together at top by brushing tips with water; 
lay in baking-pan and bake in a quick oven. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

97. Stewed Salsify or Vegetable Oyster 

Wash salsify, then take them one at a time and scrape 
them, dropping them immediately into cold water to keep 
them from turning a dark color. When thus prepared, split 
with knife through the thick part only, then cut crosswise 
into one-half-inch lengths or longer. Put two cups vegetable 
oyster in sauce-pan with hot water to cover, and salt to taste; 
let boil gently until done and the water reduced to one cupful. 
Put two teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan 
with one-half tablespoon flour and stir until heated; then add 
small quantity of the liquid and stir smooth, add balance of 
liquid and boil up. Pour over the vegetable and let simmer 
for twenty minutes or more. Two tablespoons rich cream 
added to the sauce gives rich flavor. 

98. Scalloped Vegetable Oyster 

Prepare the vegetable as in preceding recipe, slice very 
thin, and cook until tender. Put layers of oysters in baking- 
pan, dredging each layer with flour. To each pint of vege- 
table thus prepared, heat one cup of milk to boiling, beat in 
enough vegetable or dairy butter, and salt to season; pour 
this over the vegetable, and bake to a nice brown. 

99. Cream Carrots 

Wash and scrape young carrots, slice very thin; put in 
covered sauce-pan with just enough water to cover them; 
add a little vegetable or dairy butter and salt, and let simmer 
until the liquor is reduced to about one-fourth. Add a httle 
rich cream or cream sauce and shake together; reheat and 
serve. 

100. Carrots Egg Sauce 
Add chopped hard-boiled eggs to the above cream carrots. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



78 FOOD AND COOKERY 

101. Stewed Carrots 

Wash and scrape small carrots, cut in two lengthwise, then 
cut crosswise into fairly thick slices. Take two cups carrots, 
add water to cover and salt to taste. Let boil gently until 
carrots are well done and the liquid reduced to one cupful. 
Take two teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter, put in sauce- 
pan with one-half tablespoon flour, stir over the fire for a 
few minutes, add small quantity of the liquid of the carrots 
and stir smooth, add balance of liquid and boil up, pour over 
carrots and let simmer for twenty minutes. Two tablespoons 
thick cream added to the roux in making the sauce gives 
them a fine rich flavor. 

102. Carrots and Peas 

Use recipe for stewed carrots, adding equal quantities of 
green peas and carrots. 

103. Stewed Beets 

Scrub small beets without breaking the skin; do not trim 
the roots, or the juice will run out. Boil until tender, drain, 
cover with cold water, and push off the skins with the hands. 
Cut each beet into eighths lengthwise, put two tablespoons 
vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan with two tablespoons 
flour, cook over fire for a few minutes; add one-fourth cup 
cold water and stir smooth; pour on three-fourths cup boil- 
ing water, and stir until it boils up well. Add two table- 
spoons lemon juice and salt to taste; add the beets, reheat, 
and let them stand a little while before serving. A few 
chopped onions may be added to the roux in making the 
sauce, if desired. 

104. Buttered Beets 

Cook the beets same as above; and slice them thin. Put 
them in sauce-pan with salt and enough vegetable or dairy 
butter to season; add a little lemon juice, reheat, and serve. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 79 

105. Scalloped Beets 

Add enough rich cream sauce to sliced boiled beets to 
moisten them, and lay in baking-pan, grate fresh crumbs 
over top, moistening them with a little milk or cream. Put 
small bits of vegetable or dairy butter on top, and brown in 
the oven. 

106. Stewed Turnips 

Pare young turnips; and cut them into quarters or eighths. 
Put them into sauce-pan with water to barely cover them; 
add salt and let simmer until done and the water mostly 
absorbed. Add a little rich cream or cream sauce, shake 
together, reheat, and serve. 

107. Baked Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips; cut them lengthwise into slices 
about one-fourth inch thick. Put them to boil in just enough 
water to cover and salt to season. When tender, remove 
from sauce-pan, and lay them close together in an oiled bak- 
ing-pan; pour over them enough rich cream sauce to about 
half cover them; bake to a nice brown. 

108. Spinach 

Pick the greens over carefully, wash in several waters to 
remove grit. If the greens are very tender, lift them out 
of the v/ater and drain well; put them in sauce-pan with a 
little salt and vegetable or dairy butter to season, adding no 
water; cover and cook until done, turning the greens over in 
pan now and then. When greens are more matured, cook 
them in deep water with the cover off; when done, drain and 
chop them; add vegetable or dairy butter and salt to taste. 
Reheat, serve with quartered lemon, or hard-boiled ^^g, or 
both. 

109. Cream Spinach 

Boil the spinach in salted water as in above recipe, drain 
and chop fine. Put two tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



80 FOOD AND COOKERY 

in sauce-pan on stove, add two tablespoons flour and stir for 
a few minutes; then add one scant cup hot rich milk or cream; 
adding one-third cup first and stirring smooth; boil up, salt 
to taste and add chopped spinach. Reheat, serve with 
quartered hard-boiled egg if desired. Othe-r greens may be 
used instead of spinach. 

110. Boiled Onions 

Remove outer skins from one dozen small white onions; 
put to cook in just enough water to make the sauce for them. 
Put one and one-half tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter 
in sauce-pan, add two tablespoons flour, stir over fire for a 
minute. Add one-fourth cup cold water and stir until smooth; 
then add the onion water to make the sauce of the desired 
thickness, season with salt; pour over the onions, reheat, ' 
and serve. Salt should be added while cooking. A little 
rich oream added last improves them. 

111. Cream Onions 

Prepare and cook onions as in preceding recipe, drain and 
add rich cream or cream sauce; reheat, and serve. 

112. Stuffed Bell Peppers 

6 medium-sized bell peppers. V4 cup stewed tomato. 

iy2 cups soaked bread (pressed out). 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 3 tablespoons browned flour. 

IV2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 

2 tablespoons chopped onion. sage and salt. 

Split four peppers through lengthwise, remove the seeds 
and stem, and drop them in boiling salted water for three 
minutes; drain. Cut up two whole peppers into small dice 
and put into sauce-pan with the onion, parsley, sage and 
butter, and cook over the fire for a few minutes. Add the 
flour and stir smooth. Add the tomato and beaten egg 
and stir until thick and smooth; add the soaked bread 
and salt to taste; mix well. Fill the halves of peppers 
slightly rounded, lay in oiled baking-pan, pour over them 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 81 

a thin brown gravy or tomato juice and bake in a quick oven. 
The moisture in pan will keep the vegetable from scorching 
underneath, as it burns very easily. Eight portions. 

113. Stewed Cabbage 

Trim one small cabbage, turn into boiling salted water 
(cover off), adding one small onion if desired. When cab- 
bage is tender, take out onion; drain cabbage. Put one and 
one-half tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter in sauce-pan, 
add cabbage, add three tablespoons rich cream, stir, reheat 
well, and serve. 

114. Hot Slaw 

Trim and cut one medium-sized cabbage into fine shreds, 
drop into boiling salted water and cook until done; drain. 
Put one-half cup rich cream into small vessel and bring to 
boil. Beat one egg, add three tablespoons lemon juice; then 
add the boiling cream, stir over fire until slightly thickened, 
then remove from fire and add two tablespoons sugar and 
salt to taste. Add the cabbage, reheat, and serve. 

115. Browned Potato 

Boil medium-sized peeled potatoes in salted water until 
half done; drain and lay in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, brush over each potato with vegetable oil and cook 
until nicely browned and thoroughly done. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

116. Roasted Potato 

Choose medium-sized potatoes; peel them and lay in bak- 
ing-pan, sprinkle with a little salt and dredge with flour; 
brush them over the top with an oiled brush, and pour on 
water so the potatoes are nearly covered; set in the oven, 
and bake about one hour and a quarter or more. The Hquid 
should cook down just enough to leave a thin gravy to pour 
over the potato on dishing it up. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients) 
6 



82 FOOD AND COOKERY 

117. Scalloped Potato 

Slice peeled raw potatoes thin; put a layer of sliced 
potatoes in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle with salt and flour; 
repeat the process until the pan is about three-fourths full. 
Pour over the potatoes enough milk to cover them. Put 
small bits of vegetable or dairy butter on top, and bake until 
thoroughly done. 

118. Kentucky Potato 

Add finely chopped onion and parsley to each layer of the 
above scalloped potatoes; bake same as the above recipe. 
Water can be used in place of the milk, if desired, using a 
little more of the butter than when milk is used. 

119. Potato Duchess 

2 cups hot mashed potatoes. 1 egg yolk. 

1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

salt. 

Boil the peeled potatoes, drain and mash through a potato 
ricer, and set on edge of stove. Add the butter and beaten 
yolk; salt to taste, and mix well. Put in pastry bag with 
star tube, and press out on oiled pan in large rose shapes, or 
lay on board and form into diamond or leaf shapes. Brush 
over with cream or milk; bake in quick oven. 

120. Potato en Surprise 

Put the above potato mixture in bag, and make round 
potato borders on oiled baking-sheet, leaving a hollow in the 
center; fill this cavity with nicely seasoned green peas or 
spinach; recover with the potato; brush over with cream, 
and bake same as the above. 

121. Roasted Sweet Potato 

Steam or boil sweet potatoes until skins can be scraped off 
easily; lay in oiled baking-pan, sprinkle over salt; then brush 
over each potato with vegetable oil, and bake in oven until 
done and a nice brown. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 83 

122. Glazed Sweet Potato 

Boil sweet potatoes until done, peel and cut into quarters 
lengthwise, if not too large. Lay them close together in 
oiled baking-pan, dust with salt to season, then sprinkle 
sugar lightly over all. Brush over with vegetable oil, and 
brown nicely and evenly. 

123. Mashed Sweet Potato 

Peel the potatoes, steam or drop in boiling water until done, 
drain, mash and season with rich cream or butter and salt. 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

Salads, composed chiefly of green tender vegetables or 
fruits and nuts, and served with a dressing, are valuable as 
a means of supplying fat. They are also valuable for their 
acids and mineral salts, and being made into a variety of 
dishes that are palatable and attractive looking, serve as an 
appetizer or relish. 

124. Mayonnaise Dressing 

yolk of 1 egg. IM; tablespoons or more lemon juice. 

1 cup olive or salad oil. Vs teaspoon salt. 

Beat the yolk, add a half teaspoon lemon juice; beat well 
and add the oil drop by drop to begin with, then increase as 
it gets started, adding now and then a little lemon juice 
to thin the dressing to the proper consistency. Ingredients 
should all be cold. 

125. Boiled Cream Dressing 

Vs cup creain. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon cornstarch. salt. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler, rub the starch smooth 
in a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling cream; cover 
and let cook ten minutes. Beat the egg and add to it the 
lemon juice, mix well, and pour all at once into the prepared 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



84 FOOD AND COOKERY 

cream. Stir with egg whip constantly until of the desired 
thickness; then set into pan of cold water, beat in the butter, 
salt to taste, and let cool. 

126. French Dressing 

V4 teaspoon salt. 3 tablespoons olive or cottonseed oil. 

V2 teaspoon onion juice. 1 scant tablespoon lemon juice. 

Dissolve the salt in the oil with spoon; add the ingredients 

in the order given and beat well with spoon to emulsify the 

liquids. Use immediately. 

127. Cream Dressing 

V2 cup thick cream. 3 tablespoons lemon juice or more. 

1 tablespoon sugar. salt. 

Whip cream until quite thick, add sugar and salt, then 

lemon juice. 

SALADS 

128. Lettuce and Tomato 

Arrange lettuce leaves on a plate. Have a ripe tomato 
peeled and cooled, lay on the lettuce, run a sharp knife 
across the middle of the tomato, cutting it nearly in two, 
then crosswise, so the four quarters will fall back and yet 
hold together underneath. Drop a spoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing in the center of the tomato, and serve. 

129. Poinsettia Tomato 

Select small ripe tomato; wash and wipe with towel. Take 
sharp-pointed knife and cut through the skin of tomato from 
the point of the stem end back to the flower end; then start 
at the same point again and cut back, leaving the peel 
between the incisions in the shape of poinsettia leaves. The 
tomato skin should be divided in about six or eight leaves. 
Run the blade of a pen knife under each leaf and pull it back, 
until all the leaves he back on plate and tomato peeled in 
center. Cut the tomato as in above recipe, and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 85 

130. Stuffed Tomato 

Pour boiling water on ripe tomatoes, then pour it off 
immediately and replace with cold water. Remove skins; 
take medium small tomatoes, hollow them out carefully, and 
refill with finely-diced cucumber and celery seasoned with 
grated onion and mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

131. Tomato en Surprise 

Scald and peel tomato, cut off a liberal slice from the 
blossom end of tomato, which must be preserved to cover 
again. Hollow out part of the center of tomato and turn 
upsidedown in dish to drain. Cut asparagus tips into half- 
inch lengths, season with mayonnaise, and refill the cavity in 
tomato, recover with the tomato slice, and serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

132. Potato Salad 

IV2 cups finely diced boiled potatoes. hard-boiled egg. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. parsley. 

Have the potato and egg cut into small dice, mix all the 
dry ingredients well, and season with plenty of mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

133. Coleslaw 

Cabbage should be crisp; cut through lengthwise, then cut 
each half through the same way, shred very fine; season 
with grated or chopped onion and salt, and dilute with cream 
dressing or mayonnaise. 

134. Beet and Egg 

% cup diced boiled beets. 1 hard-boiled egg diced. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

135. Combination 

sliced tomato. sliced green onion, 

sliced cucumber. lettuce. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



86 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Mix all in salad bowl and set on ice. Just before serving, 
pour over the vegetable enough French dressing to season. 
A little sw^eet bell pepper diced fine may be added, if desired. . 

136. Nut and Celery Salad 

V2 cup diced nutloaf. Vi cup diced celery. 

Put diced nut food in oven in an oiled pan, and brown 
lightly, stirring often; add to diced celery. Season with very 
little chopped onion and mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

137. Macedoine Salad 

y2 cup diced boiled potatoes. Vi cup diced boiled carrots. 

V4: cup diced boiled turnips. Vi cup cooked green peas. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

138. Bean Salad 

V2 cup cold boiled beans. V2 cup diced celery. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. % cup diced lettuce. 

hard-boiled egg. 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. 

139. Egg Salad 

Dice hard-boiled eggs, season with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing; serve on lettuce leaf, sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. 

140. Water Lily 

Cut a hard-boiled egg through lengthwise, mash one-half 
the yolk through a fine strainer onto a saucer. Put the other 
half yolk into a dish and mash up with fork, add enough 
boiled dressing to season well. Cut the white of half an egg 
lengthwise so as to make five petals, arrange these on small 
plate of lettuce; put the seasoned yolk in center, and sprinkle 
the crumbed half yolk hghtly over all. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 87 

141. Cucumber Salad 

% cup sliced cucumber. Vs cup thinly sliced boiled potatoes. 

2 teaspoons chopped sweet bell peppers. 

French dressing'. 

Peel and slice the cucumbers very thin, put in ice water 

for half an hour, then drain and wring out in cheesecloth. 

Mix all ingredients, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

142. Sweet Potato Salad 

1 cup diced boiled sweet potatoes. 2 stalks crisp celery. 

1 teaspoon each of chopped onion, sweet bsll pepper and chopped parsley. 

Mix all ingredients and season with French dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaf. 

143. String Bean Salad 

Use canned string beans, drain well, and season with 
chopped onion diluted with French dressing or boiled cream 
dressing. 

FRUIT SALADS AND SAUCES 
144. Fruit Sauce 

Vs cup orange or pineapple juice. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

V2 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. 1 egg. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 tea.spoon cornstarch. 

Put the juices, butter and sugar together on stove, and 
bring to a boil. Thicken with the starch diluted in cold 
water; then pour it slowly into the beaten egg, stirring 
meanwhile. Keep stirring over the fire until of the desired 
thickness, but do not boil; set in a pan of cold water to cool. 

145. Cream Mayonnaise 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. iVa teaspoons sugar. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons thick cream. salt. 

Add sugar and salt to lemon juice, put on stove to heat; 
beat egg light, add hot lemon juice, stirring briskly; put on 
stove again and keep stirring constantly until smooth and 
quite thick. Let cool, then add cream. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



88 FOOD AND COOKERY 

146. Lemon Sauce 

1 cup water. juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

V2 cup .sugar. 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

] tablespoon cornstarch. Vh teaspoon salt. 

Bring the water and sugar to a boil, stir in the cornstarch 
(rubbed smooth in cold water), let cook a few minutes; then 
add the lemon, butter and salt, and serve. 

147. Stuffed Date Salad 

Remove pits from well-washed dates, and refill each with 
a half walnut meat, press together, put into a salad bowl, 
and dilute with lemon juice. Serve on lettuce leaf with a 
tablespoon of lemon sauce poured over. 

148. Fruit Basket 

Select medium-sized well-colored oranges, hold the orange 
between the thumb and first finger, letting the side of the 
orange rest on the table, while with a small-pointed sharp 
knife start in the center of the orange and run the blade 
point first about two inches into the center of the orange, 
then again in such a manner that when followed all the way 
round the orange will part in two halves, leaving the edge 
ruffled with small points of peel like the teeth of a coarse 
saw. Run the point of a knife around each half near the 
peel, then with a teaspoon dip out the fruit in one piece. 
Cut the orange center into small cubes, to which add equal 
quantities of diced bananas and pineapple and a few straw- 
berries. Dilute with fruit sauce; fill the orange shells, having 
them well rounded with the fruit. Serve on a white plate 
with two or three small orange leaves or lettuce leaf 
for garniture. 

149. Fruit and Nuts 

'^^ cup diced oranges. V2 cup diced bananas. 

V2 cup diced pineapple. chopped walnuts. 

Mix the fruits and season with fruit sauce, dish up on a 
lettuce leaf with chopped nuts sprinkled over top. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 89 

150. Crown Prince Salad 

Line a small plate with crisp lettuce; take three slices of 
orange and dispose around the side of dish; fill in with sliced 
banana and ripe strawberries. Pipe whipped cream on top, 
and place one or two red cherries on top. 

151. Fruit Salad 

Cut equal proportions of orange, pineapple, banana and 
mellow apple in medium small dice, season with fruit sauce; 
serve on lettuce leaf. A few ripe strawberries in season 
improves the combination. 

152. Waldorf Salad 

% cup finely diced apples. 2 cup diced celery. 

V2 lemon. chopped walnuts. 

Mix the lemon with the diced apples first, to keep them 
from turning dark. When ready to serve, pour off as much 
lemon juice as possible from the apples. Mix the apples and 
celery, add cream mayonnaise to season. Serve on lettuce 
with chopped walnuts sprinkled on top of each order. 

153. German Apple Salad 

Select small fine-grained apples; core and pare, leaving 
the skin in shape of ring near the stem end of apple. 
Remove some of the inner portion of apple, being careful 
not to break the shell. Fill the cavity with equal quantities 
of finely diced celery and apple seasoned with cream mayon- 
naise. Put small lettuce funnel in top, drop into this a 
teaspoon of dressing, serve on apple leaves or lettuce leaf. 

154. Raisin Salad 

V2 cup seeded raisins sliced. % cup finely diced apple. 

Prepare raisins first, then apples; mix, and season with 
cream mayonnaise; serve on lettuce leaf. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



90 FOOD AND COOKERY 

DESSERTS 

The most wholesome desserts are those furnished us by 
nature, and which require no preparation, as fruits, either 
fresh, dried or cooked, and nuts. 

Fruits and grains combined make nice desserts, and may be 
prepared in a variety of ways. By the use of vegetable 
gelatin (agar-agar), fruit and fruit juices may be molded 
into attractive-looking desserts that are toothsome and invit- 
ing. Vegetable gelatin goes much further than animal 
gelatin, and its vegetable origin guarantees absolute freedom 
from unwholesome and diseased products. Being free from 
any flavor of its own, it requires much less flavoring material, 
and "there is nothing about it to suggest hoofs and horns." 

The body requires a certain amount of sugar to keep it in 
working condition. To meet this demand, nature has made 
provision in the fruits or fruit sugars, honey, etc. There 
are some people, however, who cannot eat fruit; for such it 
may be well to take sugar in some form. But as a rule, far 
too much sugar is ordinarily used in food. "Sweet breads, 
sweet cakes . . . perpetuate indigestion and make dyspep- 
tics." However, when people have been accustomed to the 
use of these things freely, sound judgment should be exer- 
cised in providing suitable dishes to take the place of the 
more harmful ones, ever remembering that "diet reform 
must be progressive." The free use of milk and sugar is 
especially harmful, and should be avoided. Their place should 
be supplied as far as possible by preparations of fruits, and 
a variety of grains served in an appetizing manner. 

"Rich cakes," the ingredients of which consist principally 
of butter, sugar, milk and eggs, are proverbial for the dissi- 
pating influence they have on the system, in weakening the 
blood, and lessening the power to resist disease. For those 
who desire a simple cake occasionally, the following recipes 
have been prepared; and if followed carefully, will bring out 
material that is both light and tender, and of attractive 
appearance, without the "gross" combination above men- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 91 

tioned. The following recipes for cake, being free from any 
chemical, should be baked a little more slowly than those in 
which soda or baking-powder is used. A moderate oven for 
layer, and a slow oven for a loaf, cake will bring these cakes 
out very light and porous. 

155. Sago Fruit Mold 

% cup blackberry juice. Vs cup water. 

Vs cup sago. Vi cup sugar. 

Wash the sago and have it well drained, bring the liquid 

and sugar to the boiling point in a double boiler. Add sago 

to the hot liquid and stir well; cover and let steam until the 

sago is transparent, then turn into wetted molds and let 

cool. When cold and set, turn out on sauce-dish, and serve 

with cream or crushed fruit sauce. 

156. Banana Tapioca Pudding 

Vs cup tapioca. IM cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 thin slice lemon. vanilla flavor. 

3 well-ripened bananas. a few grains salt. 

Soak the tapioca for one hour or more, drain off the water, 
if any, put into a double boiler, pour over it one and one- 
fourth cups of boiling water, add sliced lemon and salt, and 
let it steam until transparent. Have the bananas sliced 
quite thin; add the sugar and vanilla and let stand one-half 
hour. When the tapioca is cold, add the bananas, mix well, 
but avoid breaking them up, and serve with cream. Other 
fruits may be used in place of bananas. 

157. Strawberry Whip 

1 cup strawberries. white of 1 qsS- 

2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Choose well-ripened strawberries, wash them and remove 

the stems, put all the ingredients into a bowl; then beat with 

a wire egg whip until light and fluffy, which will take twenty 

minutes or more. Pile lightly on a dish, and pour a border 

of crushed fruit or red fruit juice unsweetened around the 

whip on each dish. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



92 FOOD AND COOKERY 

158. Pressed Fruit Pudding 

canned blackberries or strawberries. granose biscuit. 

sugar. 

Lay the biscuit in baking-pan in slow oven until thoroughly 
dried out, but not browned. Pour the berries in colander; 
lay a layer of biscuit in bottom of brick-shaped tin; dip. 
enough of the juice with spoon over biscuit to moisten them, 
sprinkle lightly with sugar, then cover with a layer of berries 
about a half inch deep; then repeat as before, having the 
berries on top. Set the pudding inside a larger pan, then 
put a pan of equal size as that in which the pudding is in on 
top of pudding with weight; let stand and press for several 
hours, or over night. When ready to serve, cut in squares 
and serve a teaspoon of whipped cream on top. 

159. Prune Pudding 

Soak dried prunes over night. Cook them for two or three 
hours with a few slices of lemon added to give them flavor. 
Drain and save the juice separately; put the prunes through 
a colander to remove the pits, sweeten with sugar, if needed, 
and flavor with vanilla. Trim the crust off" thinly from a 
loaf of fruit bread, and cut into slices about one-half inch 
thick. Line a granite baking-pan with the bread, pour over 
enough juice to soak up the bread, cover with the prune pulp 
about one-half inch deep; repeat the process, leaving the 
prune pulp for the top; set into oven until it gets just barely 
heated through, so it will set; cool and cut into squares, and 
serve with a teaspoon of whipped cream on top. 

160. Prune Whip 

V2 cup prune pulp. whites of two eggs. 

H cup sugar or less. few drops of vanilla. 

Prepare prunes same as for prune pudding; beat the whites 
stiff and dry, add sugar and vanilla, and beat again; then 
fold in the prune pulp. Serve on sauce-dish with a teaspoon 
of whipped cream on top. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 93 

161. Apple Snow 

2 tart apples (-;^ cup after being cooked). whites of 2 eggs. 

V-i cup sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Steam or boil the apples with just enough water to cook 

them soft, mash through fine strainer; add sugar and lemon 

juice, and let cool. Beat the whites stiff and dry; fold in 

the apples; serve on small dish with a half teaspoon of red 

jelly on top. Four portions. 

162. Cream Rice Pudding 

Vi cup uncooked rice. 2 cups milk. 

Vi cup rich cream or 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

3 tablespoons sugar. vanilla flavor. 

small amount grated lemon rind. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, add the milk and set in a warm 
oven, stirring it down occasionally; the stirring is what gives 
it a nice creamy consistency; when the rice is nearly done, 
then add the sugar, lemon rind, cream or butter and vanilla 
flavor and keep stirring until the rice rises from the bottom 
and looks creamy, and is thoroughly done; then remove from 
oven, sprinkle lightly with sugar, and when partly cool, 
brown on top grate in a good oven. A few seedless raisins 
added in cooking is nice. For five. 

163. Apple and Raisin Pudding 

Sprinkle the bottom of oiled baking-dish with layer of 
rolled zwieback about one-fourth inch deep; then lay a layer 
of shced tart apples, sprinkle over the grated rind of half a 
lemon (for small pudding) , add sugar to taste; then sprinkle 
over small layer of washed sultana raisins, add a little vege- 
table or dairy butter; then add another thin layer of crumbs 
and apple. Sugar the top to season, add small bits of vege- 
table or dairy butter and bake with a pan over the top until 
about half done, then remove pan and finish to a nice brown. 

164. Lemon Snow 

% cup water. Vs cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

white of 1 egg. pinch of salt. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



94 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Heat the water and sugar to boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
(rubbed smooth in a Httle cold water), let boil a few min- 
utes; then add pinch of salt and lemon juice, mix well, and 
pour it in a stream into the beaten white of egg, beating as 
it runs in. Pour into wetted molds, let cool, then turn out 
on dish, and serve with cream or the following custard sauce. 
Five portions. 

165. Custard Sauce 

1 egg- yolk. % cup milk. 

2 teaspoons sugar. few drops vanilla. salt. 

Heat the milk, sugar and a few grains salt in a double 
boiler; when hot, stir a Httle of it into the yolk and mix 
well, then pour the yolk mixture into the hot milk and con- 
tinue stirring until it thickens sHghtly, this will take only a 
few moments. As soon as the custard is sufficiently cooked 
(when it sticks lightly onto a silver spoon when dipped into 
it), remove it, and set dish in pan of cold water. Add 
vanilla flavor. 

166. Blanc Mange 

1 cup rich milk. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

1 tablespoon sugar. white of 1 e^^. 

few grains salt. vanilla. 

Put milk in double boiler, and when boiling hot, add sugar 
and salt, and stir in the cornstarch (rubbed smooth in a little 
cold milk), cover and let cook fifteen minutes. Beat the 
white of egg stiff, then pour the hot mixture into the beaten 
white same as for lemon snow, adding a few drops of vanilla. 
Turn into wetted moulds, and serve with cream or custard 
sauce. 

167. Strawberry Flummery 

Use recipe for blanc mange, when cold, dish up in glasses 
with crushed strawberries poured over. 



168. Cream Tapioca 



M\ cup pearl tapioca. 21/2 cups milk. 

Vs cup sugar. 2 eg-gs, separated. rind of half a lemon. 

salt. lemon or vanilla flavor. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 95 

Soak the tapioca one hour in water to cover, drain and add 
to milk and cook in double boiler until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. Add half of the sugar to the milk and half to the 
yolks slightly beaten and salt; pour the hot mixture slowly 
onto the yolks, mix well; return to double boiler and cook 
until it thickens. Remove from the fire and add white of 
eggs beaten stiff, flavor and chill. 

169. Floating Island 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

1 eg-g-. few drops vanilla. salt. 

Heat the milk, and when boiling hot, pour a little of it into 
the beaten yolk, stirring well; then pour the yolk mixture 
into the milk, and stir over the fire for a moment, until it 
begins to thicken a little, and the egg sticks in a thin coat 
onto a silver spoon when dipped into it. Add a few drops of 
vanilla, pour into sauce-dishes, and let cool. 

Beat the white stiff, add one teaspoon sugar and lemon 
flavor, and beat again. Have a pan of boiling water, drop a 
large tablespoon of the beaten white into the boiling water, 
let cook a minute, then turn it over; lift out with skimmer 
and lay on the prepared custard in center of dish. Put a 
tiny bit of red jelly on top of the white, and serve. 

170. Dutch Apple Pudding 

Peel medium-sized apples and ciit them into eighths, 
remove the seeds, and roll the pieces in powdered sugar. 
Take the cake mixture for walnut loaf cake (omit the wal- 
nuts) ; pour in baking-pan, and press the apples down in the 
batter in rows a little distance apart. Bake same as for 
cake; cut in squares when cool, and serve with lemon sauce. 

171. Bread Pudding 

1% cup stale bread cubes. 2 cups milk. 

1 large egg. Vi cup sugar. few grains salt. 

vegetable or dairj' butter. vanilla flavor. 

Spread the bread thinly with the butter; cut bread into 
small dice and put into baking-pan. Beat the egg and sugar, 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



96 FOOD AND COOKERY 

add a few grains of salt, the vanilla and the milk; mix well. 
Pour over the bread, and let stand for an hour; then bake 
until set. A few seedless raisins added makes a nice g?m- 
bination. 

172. Vegetable Gelatin 

Put one-ounce package of agar-agar to soak in warm 
water for twenty minutes; drain well, and put into a kettle, 
to which add one quart of boiling water. Let it boil for 
about ten minutes after boiling begins, or until clear. Strain 
through cheesecloth or strainer, and it is ready for use. One 
ounce will solidify three quarts of liquid, inclusive of the 
water in which the gelatin is cooked. 

173. Orange Jelly 

iVi ctips orange juice. Vs cup water. 

Vi cup sugar. scant Vs cup lemon juice. 

1 cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all the cold ingredients, add the vegetable jelly, mix 
well; pour into wetted molds immediately, and let set. 
When cold, turn out, and serve with a little red fruit juice 
around each mold. 

174. Lemon Jelly 

V2 cup lemon juice. % cup sugar. 

1 cup water. % cup vegetable jelly. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and lemon juice; add jelly, 
and mix well. Pour into wetted molds same as orange jelly. 

175. Berry Mold 

1^4 cups strawberry or blackberry juice. Va cup lemon juice. 
V2 cup sugar. 1 cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all ingredients and mold immediately. 

PIES 

176. Plain Pastry 

IV2 cups pastry flour. V2 cup crisco. 

2 teaspoon salt. 4 tablespoons water. 

Sift the flour and salt into mixing bowl; cut crisco into 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 97 

flour with fork; fingertips may be used to finish blending 
materials. Add the water slowly, and mix through dry 
ingredients. Form lightly and quickly with hand into dough. 
Use light motion in handling rolling-pin and roll from centei^ 
outward. One large pie. 

177. Beaten Oil Crust 

2 cups pastry floui\ 1 scant half cup oil. 

Vs cup cold water. V2 teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl, add half of the 
water to the oil, and beat until it thickens, making a present 
emulsion; beat in the remaining water, and when mixed well, 
pour all at once on the flour; draw in the flour from the sides 
of the bowl with a large spoon, turn out on a floured board, 
and work together, handling as little as possible, 

178. Flake Pastry 

2 cups pastry flotir. % cup ciisco. 

V2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 egg. 2% tablespoons water. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl, cut in crisco with fork 
same as for plain pastry; beat egg, add lemon juice and 
water. Mix same as for plain pastry, using the egg mixture 
for the wetting. 

179. Crust Shells 

Roll out either of the above pastries to cover pie-tin, press 
well down into tin; then press off surplus edge around the 
rim; prick with fork on bottom and sides to keep the crust 
from blistering. Bake in good oven to a light brown. 

180. Apple Pie 

Roll out and line a pie-tin with crust, sprinkle a little flour 
in the bottom, mixed with a little sugar. Fill the plate with 
sliced or chopped tart apples, rounding it up a httle; dust 
with flour. Add one teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter to 
each pie; sprinkle over about one-half cup of sugar or less, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 
7 



98 FOOD AND COOKERY 

according to the tartness of the apple and the size of the pie. 
Run a wet brush around the edge of the crust. Roll out a 
top crust, perforate with fork or knife, lay on top and press 
edges together, trim, and mark by pressing the teeth of a 
table fork down on rim of crust all the way around. Brush 
over with cream or egg yolk and milk, and bake in medium 
oven. 

181. Prune Pie 

Remove the stones from cooked prunes slightly sweetened; 
roll out bottom crust same as for apple pie; add the stoned 
prunes, one tablespoon lemon juice, one teaspoon vegetable 
or dairy butter, and one-fourth cup sugar or more, cover 
with top crust, and bake same as apple pie. 

182. Strawberry Pie A 

Wash and stem ripe strawberries; roll them in powdered 
sugar, and fill a crust shell; cover with whipped cream; cut 
and serve. 

183. Strawberry Pie B 

Fill a crust shell with strawberry whip, as given in recipe 
No. 157; cut and serve. 

184. Raisin Pie 

1% cups seedless sultana raisins. 2 cups water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. Va cup sugar. 

Soak the raisins over night, drain; add the water and bring 
to a boil. Sift the sugar and starch together thoroughly and 
add to the raisins and let boil for a few minutes; add pinch 
of salt and let cool. Line a pie-tin with crust, add raisins, 
lemon juice and butter, cover with top crust and bake same 
as for apple pie. One large pie. 

185. Pumpkin Pie 

iV-i cups canned pumpkin. 1 cup milk. 

1 egg. % cup sugar. 2 tablespoons molasses. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter or a little cream. 

vanilla flavoring if desired. 

Vh teaspoon salt. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 99 

Beat the egg; add the molasses, salt, cream or butter, and 
the sugar (mixed with the flour) ; beat well. Add the pump- 
kin and mix well, then stir in the milk and a little flavoring; 
and when thoroughly mixed, pour into a pie-tin which has 
been lined with pie crust, and bake until set. If one table- 
spoon cornstarch is sifted with the sugar, the egg, may be 
omitted, if desired. One large pie. 

186. Pumpkin Pie Without Milk 

Wz cups pumpkin. 2 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour. Vs teaspoon salt. 

% cup water. little vanilla flavor if desired. 

1 teaspoon vegetable or dairy butter. 

Beat the eggs, mix all the ingredients thoroughly; lastly, 
stir in the water, mix well, and pour into a crust-lined pie- 
tin, and bake same as the above. 

187. Lemon Pie 

1 large cup sugar. 1% cups water. 

4 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 qsS- rind of 1 lemon. 

3 tablespoons lemon juice. Vi teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

Sift the sugar and starch together into a granite sauce- 
pan; pour the water boiling over these while stirring, and 
let boil until thick and clear. Separate the yolk from the 
white, beat the yolk, and stir a little of the hot mixture 
into the yolk; then stir the yolk into the hot mixture, stirring 
briskly; add the lemon rind, butter, salt and lemon juice. 
Pour into a crust shell. Make a meringue of the beaten 
white of egg, two tablespoons sugar, and a few drops lemon 
flavor; spread over pie and brown lightly. 

188. Cream Pie 

2 cups rich milk. % cup sugar. 

4 tablespoons flour. 2 eggs. few grains salt, 
vanilla flavor. 

Sift the flour and sugar together into a sauce-pan; when 
the milk is boiling hot, pour it over these while stirring; 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



100 FOOD AND COOKERY 

return it to double boiler and let cook for ten minutes, or 
until thick. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, and stir into 
them a little of the hot mixture; then stir the yolks into the 
hot mixture and let cook a few minutes; add salt and vanilla, 
beat well, and pour into crust shell. Make a meringue of the 
whites and two tablespoons sugar, and brown lightly same 
as for lemon pie. 

189. Fruit Tarts 

Use flake pastry, roll out thin, and cut with large-sized 
cutter or bowl, fit into muffin pans, prick v/ith fork, and 
bake to nice brown. Cook down apple, peach or quince 
sauce in oven; when of a nice consistency, let cool, and fill 
the tart shells, slightly rounding; serve on small plate. 

CAKES 
General Rules 

1. Sift the flour once, before measuring. 

2. Line the bottom of tins with manila paper, or oil the tins 
and dust them lightly with flour; turn them over and tap 
them against the flour board to shake out all surplus flour. 

3. Use accurate measurements. 

4. Have the oven heated and the drafts closed. 

5. Remove the cake from the oven as soon as it is done 
(longer cooking dries it out). To test it: when about done, 
touch gently with the finger, if it does not respond to a light 
pressure of the finger, close the oven gently, and let bake 
until there is a slight spring in the crust when pressed gently 
with the finger. Leave the cake in tins for ten minutes after 
taking them out of the oven. 

190. Layer Cake 

4 eggs. % cup sugar. 

1V4 cups sifted pastry flour. 1 tablespoon water. 

1 tablespoon melted crisco. pinch of .salt. 

lemon or vanilla flavor. 

Break the eggs (whole) into a round-bottomed mixing 
bowl (three- or four-quart size), add the water and sugar 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 101 

and set the bowl into a shallow pan of hot water on stove, 
and beat continuously and briskly until the eggs are quite 
light and frothy and blood warm; then set the bowl on table, 
and beat until cold and so light that the batter will pile 
sHghtly when it drops from batter whip. Add the flavoring, 
then sprinkle the sifted flour over the surface and fold in 
lightly with large spoon; sprinkle over the crisco and mix 
lightly; then pour into two paper-lined or oiled tins, and bake 
in a medium oven for ten to twelve minutes. 

191. Plain Loaf Cake 

Oil sides, and line the bottom of brick-shaped tin (bread 
tin) with paper, and fill half or two-thirds full of layer-cake 
mixture, bake in medium slow oven; when done, remove the 
paper from bottom and serve. 

192. Walnut Loaf Cake 

2 eg-gs separated. scant % cup sifted pastry flour. 

1 teaspoon melted crisco. V2 teaspoon lemon juice. 

V2 cup sugar. lemon or vanilla flavor. 

pinch of salt. V-i cup chopped walnuts. 

Add the flavor and a few grains salt to yolks, and beat 
with Dover beater until light and lemon colored; add the 
crisco and one-fourth cup sugar, mix with spoon, add enough 
of the flour to make a medium-thin batter. Beat the whites 
stiff and dry, sprinkle in the remaining one-fourth cup sugar 
and the lemon juice, and beat a few hard strokes; then pour 
the yolk batter into the beaten whites, and fold it in by run- 
ning a large spoon down the side of the bowl through the 
center and lift it up, letting the batter drop back into the 
bowl; repeat until blended, but do not stir. Sprinkle the 
balance of flour over batter, add the walnuts and fold in 
lightly; when blended, pour into oiled brick-shaped tin, and 
bake in medium slow oven for twenty to thirty minutes. 
Floured seedless raisins may be substituted in the place of 
walnuts, or it may be baked plain, if desired. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



102 FOOD AND COOKERY 

193. Jelly Roll 

Line a baking-pan with manila paper; take layer-cake 
mixture, spread on paper about one-half inch deep, and bake 
on the top grate in a quick oven. Lay a sheet of manila 
paper on table, sprinkle lightly with sugar; then as soon as 
the cake is done, turn bottomside up upon the sugared paper, 
and carefully remove the paper from bottom of cake. Spread 
cake with red jelly, then take hold of the edge of the paper 
with fingers and roll the cake into a roll with the sugared 
paper around to hold it together until cold. 

194. Lady Fingers 

1 cup sifted flour. 14 cup sugar. 

3 yolks. 3 whole eggs. lemon flavor. 

pinch salt. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a round-bottomed bowl and 

set in a shallow pan of hot water on edge of stove and beat 

until the mixture is light and foamy and a blood warm; then 

remove from the fire and beat until cold and thick. This 

mixture must be very light, and so thick that it will pile 

nicely when it drops from the batter whip. Add the flavor, 

then sift the flour again over the mixture and fold in lightly 

with large spoon. Put into bag with lady-finger-tube and 

press out on a paper-lined baking-pan about one and one-half 

inches in length, and about the size of a pencil or crayon in 

circumference, leaving a little space between each. Dust 

over thickly with powdered sugar and bake on the top grate 

of a quick oven to a light brown color, then remove from 

oven. When they are cooled, turn paper upside down on 

table, wet the paper with cold water on the bottom side then 

turn rightside up again; then remove cakes and stick them 

together. 

195. Vanilla Wafers 

1 egg. Vs cup sugar. 

Vs cup refined cottonseed oil. 1% cups flour. 

V^ teaspoon or more vanilla. pinch of salt. 

Break the egg into a small round-bottomed bowl; beat with 
Dover egg-beater until fairly light, then pour the oil in slow 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 103 

stream into the egg, beating meanwhile, this emulsifies the 
oil. Then add the sugar and beat until creamy, then fold in 
the one and one-half cups sifted pastry flour, using a table- 
spoon; turn out on ivell-floured board, roll out gently into a 
fourth-inch thickness, cut with small biscuit cutter, lay in 
baking-pan, and bake on top grate of quick oven until a light 
brown color. 

196. Boiled Frosting 

1 cup sugar. % cup water. 

whites of 2 eggs. flavor. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and continue to stir until 
it boils; then let boil undisturbed until a long hair-like thread 
will hang from the spoon when dipped in the syrup and lifted; 
then pour it in a slow stream on the beaten whites, beating 
as it is poured in; add flavor and beat until light and creamy 
and cold enough to spread on cake. 

197. Plain Icing 

Add confectioner's sugar (powdered sugar) to small amount 
of light-colored fruit juice,  pineapple, pear and lemon, or 
lemon juice diluted with a little water; stir in enough sifted 
sugar to form consistency to spread easily on cake. This 
icing will not dry out as quickly as boiled icing, and it forms a 
crust over surface very readily. 

198. Ornamental Frosting 

Put the whites of two eggs into bowl and beat them stiff 
and dry. The success of the frosting depends entirely on 
the steady, brisk whipping between the additions of sugar. 
Add one tablespoon sifted confectioner's sugar, and whip for 
three minutes; then add another tablespoon of sugar and 
whip as before. After the third spoonful has been added, 
add one-fourth teaspoon lemon juice arfd whip briskly again, 
always bearing in mind that the success of the frosting 
depends on the whipping rather than the amount of sugar 
used. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



104 FOOD AND COOKERY 

When the frosting is of a consistency to spread nicely; 
cover the cake and let harden a little. Keep the bowl covered 
with a cloth wrung out of water to prevent a crust from 
drying on, and thus clog the pastry tube. Put a small amount 
of frosting in pastry bag; or a small paper funnel, and put 
on all lettering, etc. ; a little more sugar may need to be 
added for making the leaves and roses for decoration. 

199. Strawberry Filling 

1 cup crushed strawberries. V2 cup heavy cream, 

sug-ar to taste. 

Whip the cream and fold in the sweetened and crushed 

berries, spread between cakes. 

200. Orange Filling 

1 large well-colored orange. 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 egg. salt. 

Grate the orange and press out juice, and of lemon also; 
put into cup and add enough water to make the cup full. 
Sift the flour and sugar together, add to the egg beaten 
slightly, and enough of the hquid to stir smooth, add pinch 
of salt and balance of liquid and put on the fire and stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; then let cool and spread between 
layers. 

201. Lemon Filling 

juice and rind of 1 lajge lemon. 1 cup powdered .sugar. 

2 eggs. pinch of salt. 

Beat eggs, add juice and rind of lemon and sugar; stir over 
fire until it thickens, let cool and spread between layers. 



TOASTS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 

Toasts are especially nice for breakfast. They are a light 
food, yet appetizing and nourishing. 

202. Strawberry Toast 

Bring fresh strawberries to boiling point with enough 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 105 

sugar to sweeten. When done, dip a piece of zwieback into 
juice to soften a little, lay the toast on a platter and cover 
well with strawberries, pour a spoonful of juice over all, and 
serve. The juice may be thickened a Httle with cornstarch, 
if desired, before dishing up. 

203. Cream Toast 

Moisten zwieback in hot cream; lay on platter; pour a 
spoonful more of cream over it, and serve. 

204. Prune Toast 

Rub well-cooked prunes through fine colander, add enough 
of the prune juice to make it of the consistency to spread on 
toast and not run off; reheat, and dip a slice of zwieback in 
hot milk or prune juice to soften, lay on platter, and cover 
with the prune pulp. 

205. Cream Peas on Toast 

% cup green pea pulp. i/- cup thin cream, 

salt to taste. 

Bring peas to boil, drain off liquor; mash the peas through 

colander, having them separate from the liquid in which they 

were heated, add the hot cream and salt to taste. Reheat; 

dip a piece of zwieback in milk to soften, lay on a platter, 

and cover with cream peas, which should be thick enough 

not to run off. 

206. Walnut Lentils on Toast 

% cup lentil puree. V2 cup or more thin cream. 

Vi cup ground walnuts. salt to taste. 

Cook lentils well done, drain and mash through colander, 
moisten with the hot cream, salt to taste, add walnuts; 
reheat, and dish up as cream peas on toast. 

207. Sultana Toast 

Dip toasted triscuit in hot cream, lay on platter; cover 
with large spoonful of stewed raisins, and place a spoonful of 
whipped cream on top. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



106 FOOD AND COOKERY 

208. Tomato Toast 

Dip a slice of zwieback in hot milk or tomato juice, lay on 
platter, and cover with a spoonful of cream tomato sauce. 

209. Nut and Potato Hash 

2 cups small diced cold boiled potatoes. V2 cup hot inilk. 

IV2 tablespoons chopped onion. V2 cup diced nut cero. 

IV2 tablespoons vegetable or dairy butter. 

1 tablespoon light browned flour, salt. 

sprinkle sage. 

Put one tablespoon of butter, the onion, sage and browned 
flour in small sauce-pan, and stir over the fire for a moment, 
add a small quantity of the milk and stir smooth, add the 
balance of the milk and boil up; salt to taste and add the nut 
food to gravy. Sprinkle the potatoes with a little salt; then 
pour over them the hot mixture and mix lightly; put in oiled 
baking-pan, sprinkle a little cream or one-half tablespoon 
vegetable butter over top, and bake to a light brown color. 
Vegetable stock or hot water may be used instead of milk if 
desired, adding a little rich cream to the roux. 

210. Scrambled Egg with New Tomato 

Scald and peel two medium-sized ripe tomatoes. Cut them 
into quarters, put on stove in small covered sauce-pan, add a 
little salt and bring to good boil, turn them into a colander 
and drain oflF the juice; then add one teaspoon vegetable or 
dairy butter and reheat. Have skillet oiled; when hot, break 
in two eggs, stir quickly so they will cook evenly; when they 
are soft cooked, add the tomatoes, mix lightly, and serve 
immediately. 

211. Steamed Rice 

VA cups cold water. % cup rice. 

%' teaspoon salt. 

Wash the rice in several waters, put into the inner cup of 

double boiler, add salt and water, and put on stove, bringing 

to a boil; let it continue to boil slowly until the water is 

reduced so the rice is dry; then set it into the outer boiler 

and let steam forty minutes. If a double boiler is not at 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 107 

hand; let the rice cook down as above, and set on the back 
of the stove to dry out, having the sauce-pan well covered. 

212. Browned Rice 

1/2 cup of rice. 11/^ cups cold water. 

% teaspoon .salt. 

Brown the rice in a small pan on the top of the stove or in 
a hot oven, stirring so it will not burn, until a light golden 
brown; put into the inner part of a double boiler, add the 
water and salt and set on the stove, let boil until the rice 
appears dry and the liquid is all evaporated; then set into the 
outer boiler to steam thirty minutes to one hour. 

213. Mashed Potato Cakes 

Take the Duchess potato mixture. No. 119; roll out with 
knife into small round cakes, mark on top with knife, lay in 
oiled baking-pan, brush over with cream and bake on the top 
grate in a hot oven to a nice brown. 

214. Creamed Potato 

2 cups chopped cold boiled potatoes. salt. 

1 cup cream, or 1 tablespoon vegetable or dairy 

butter added to 1 cup milk. 

Put the cream, or milk and butter, on the fire, and when it 
comes to a boil, add the potatoes with salt to taste, let them 
simmer, stirring now and then until they are creamy and 
begin to thicken; then put them on the top grate of a medium 
oven to brown lightly. 

215. Stuffed Baked Potato 

Bake medium-sized smooth potatoes; when done, cut them 
in two lengthwise, remove the mealy potato with spoon, 
season with cream and salt; refill the shell with potato mix- 
ture, brush over with cream and lightly brown in quick oven. 
Serve immediately. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



108 FOOD AND COOKERY 

SAND\A/'ICHES 

In a family where lunches have to be put up, it is a very 
important matter to know how these lunches may be pre- 
pared in a wholesome manner. So often persons have serious 
indigestion from partaking of a picnic dinner. With care 
and study a lunch may be just as wholesome and appetizing 
as any meal eaten at home. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

Use fresh bread, shce thin and evenly, spread scant with 
butter, then spread filling on one side of bread, and place 
other piece over, cut in desired size and style. 

216. Nut and Jelly 

Add chopped walnuts to jelly and spread on buttered bread. 

217. Nut Butter and Olive 

Dissolve the nut butter with cold water to thick cream; 
add chopped olives; serve leaf of lettuce and mayonnaise 
between slices, if desired. 

218. Nut and Tomato 

Mash equal parts of nuttolene and tomato to a paste with 
fork, season. Serve with lettuce leaf and mayonnaise. 

219. Egg Sandwich 

Chop hard-boiled eggs very fine, season with mayonnaise, 
and serve with lettuce leaf. 

220. Bean Sandwich 

Spread bean puree on buttered bread, using lettuce and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

221. Lettuce and Tomato 

Peel tomatoes, shce thin, and serve with mayonnaise, 

222. Egg and Tomato 

Scramble eggs soft, add equal quantity of stewed, drained 
tomatoes; mix well, let cool, and use. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 109 

223 Date and Nut 

Grind walnuts and dates through mill; season with lemon 
juice. 

224. Honey and Nut 

Use one-half cup honey, one tablespoon lemon juice; add 
chopped walnuts to make stiff paste. 

225. Raisin Sandwich 

Chop one-half cup seeded raisins and one-half cup walnuts 
very fine; add one and one-half tablespoons mayonnaise and 
a half teaspoon lemon juice. Mix into paste, and spread on 
thinly buttered bread. 

226. Nut and Fruit 

Grind equal parts of steamed dried figs and seeded raisins 
together through mill, or chop fine; add enough chopped 
walnuts to spread nicely on bread, season with lemon juice. 

227. Lentil Sandwich 

Slice cold lentil roast into thin slices (No. 50). Lay on 
buttered bread, serve with lettuce leaf and mayonnaise 
between slices. 

228. Tartar Sandwich 

Chop the following green vegetables fine: green onion, 
cucumber, sweet bell pepper, lettuce and a little tomato; 
put in cheesecloth and press out water, season with mayon- 
naise. Lay lettuce on one slice of buttered bread, and spread 
over a layer of the vegetable. Use immediately. 

INVALID DIETARY 

While the greater part of this work has been devoted to 
the contriving of meals usual in the average household and 
under ordinary circumstances, yet we must know how to 
supply the needs of the weak or suffering. A few recipes 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



no FOOD AND COOKERY 

will be given under this head for liquid foods, which may 
often be used where the more solid foods cannot be retained 
or assimilated. 

Food for the sick should be such as will furnish the most 
nourishment with the least tax upon the digestive organs. 
While it should generally be of a simple nature, it should be 
cooked with the greatest care and served in the most inviting 
manner. 

The temperature of the food will also have a marked 
influence on digestion; therefore it should be a rule to have 
hot foods served hot, and cold foods served cold. 

The tray should be covered with spotless linen, should be 
carefully laid, and should not have the appearance of being 
over-crowded. 

The breakfast tray especially should be made as attractive 
as possible. A few bright flowers will make it look cherry 
and inviting. While many of the foregoing recipes may be 
used for the sick,  as toasts, fruits,  breads, soups, etc.,  
the following will come under a special head, as liquid foods. 

229. Barley Water 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash the barley and let it soak for an hour in cold water. 
Wash and change the water, adding fresh water. Set on 
stove and let boil until it is reduced to one cup liquid. Serve 
plain or season with a little cream, if desired, 

230. Rice Water 

2 tablespoons rice. 2 cups cold water.. 

iew grains salt. cream or milk, if desired. 

Wash the rice and put into the cold water, heat gradually 
to the boiling point, and let it continue to cook until the rice 
is soft. Strain, reheat the rice water, add a little milk or 
cream, if desired. 

231. Oatmeal Gruel 

3 tablespoons oatmeal. 2 cups boiling water. 

a few grains salt. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 111 

Stir the oatmeal iuto the boihng water, and let it boil until 
it begins to thicken sHghtly, then set into a double boiler and 
let it cook two hours or more. Strain through a fine strainer 
and dilute it with a little hot water if it is too thick. Reheat 
and season with cream if desirable. A gruel should be so 
thin that it will pour nicely from a spoon. 

232. Cornmeal Gruel 

3 tablespoons cornmeal. 2 cups water, 

few grains salt. 

Prepare the same as oatmeal gruel. 

233. Gluten Gruel 

1 cup boiling- water. 2 tablespoons gluten meal, 

few grains salt. 

Sift the gluten slowly into the boiling water, stirring 

briskly to avoid having it form into lumps. Let it boil until 

of the desired thickness. A little cream may be added before 

serving, if desirable. 

234. Flaxseed Tea 

1/4 cup flaxseed. 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Wash the flaxseed in cold water, drain well. Add boiling 
water, and let boil gently for one hour. Strain, add lemon 
juice and a little sugar, if desired, and serve. 

235. Hot Malted Milk 

1 heaping tablespoon malted milk. 1 cup water, 

few grains salt, if desired. 

First add a little warm water to malted milk to make a 
smooth paste; add boiling water, beat well, and serve. 

236. Fruit Eggnogg 

One egg separately, one-third cup fruit juice, the amount 
of sugar needed will vary according to the acidity of the 
fruit. Orange eggnogg will require about one tablespoon 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



112 FOOD AND COOKERY 

sugar. Other juices, as grape, berry or prune, will require 
very little sugar, if any. A teaspoon of lemon juice should 
be added to the latter juices. Beat the white stiff with a 
Dover egg-beater, and take out one tablespoon of the whites 
to be kept for a garniture for the top of the glass. Beat the 
yolk and stir in the fruit juice and sugar. Mix well, then 
stir all into the beaten white, pour into a glass, and serve 
with the tablespoon of beaten white on top. 

237. Dry Eggnogg 

One egg, separately, beat the white stiff; add one table- 
spoon of rich raspberry or blackberry juice to one-half tea- 
spoon of beaten yolk; mix thoroughly; cut and fold into the 
beaten white of egg. Serve in glass. 

238. Cream Eggnogg 

V2 cup thin cream. 1 egg. 

4 or 5 drops vanilla. sprinkle of sugar. 

Beat the egg separately, add the cream, sugar, and vanilla 
to the yolk; then pour the mixture into the beaten white, mix 
well, and serve in glass with a spoonful of beaten white on 
top. 

239. Lemon Albumen 

white of 1 eg'g. 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 

chipped ice. Vs glass water. 

Put the white of egg and a little chipped ice into glass, 
beat well v/ith fork to break and coagulate the egg; add 
lemon juice and water, mix well, and serve. 

240. Albumenized Milk 

Shake together in well-corked bottle or jar, one pint of 
cold fresh milk and the beaten whites of two eggs. Serve 
immediately. 

241. Curdled Egg 

Put a raw egg into a dish that will hold one pint of water; 
when the water in tea kettle boils, pour the dishful over the 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 113 

egg; that is, one pint of boiling water. Let stand on table 
uncovered for seven minutes, then remove and serve. 

It is a very common error to serve the sick with fresh- 
made toast of bread which has been quickly browned on both 
sides and served hot. This makes the bread practically as 
indigestible as fresh-baked bread. Zwieback may be heated, 
served dry or moistened with hot milk or water, and being 
thoroughly dextrinized, it is very easily digested and assimi- 
lated. 

Eggs, when cooked and served to the sick, should as a rule 
always be soft cooked, poached or soft boiled, curdled or 
scrambled with a little m.ilk. 

FRUIT ICES AND CREAMS 

Fruit ices, when eaten at proper times, may be used by 
most people, and in hot weather they are cooling and refresh- 
ing. The mixture of large quantities of milk and sugar, 
used in the manufacture of ice creams, makes a bad combina- 
tion. Large quantities of milk and sugar taken together 
clog the system. Fruit ices and ice cream are often recom- 
mended by physicians for particular cases. The following 
suggestions on the uses of ices and ice cream by a physician 
of long practical experience, will be a help to the nurse or 
mother:  

"Fruit ice is a very useful article of food for those who 
are suffering with a gastritis where there is an absence of 
hydrochloric acid. It has the effect of reducing the inflamma- 
tory condition, and at the same time supplies the patieUt 
with nutrition. It is not a good plan to take fruit ice in coh- 
nection with a large meal, as it lowers the temperature of 
the stomach, and the latter cannot perform its functions 
until it has reached its normal temperature again. 

"Ice cream is a useful article of food for a person who is 
suffering with gastric ulcer and inflammation of the stomach, 
due to excess of hydrochloric acid, as it is both nutritious and 
cooling to the stomach. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 
8 



114 FOOD AND COOKERY 

''The combination of sugar and milk does not seem to do 
any particular damage under these conditions, for the large 
amount of hydrochloric acid seems to neutralize any evil 
effects. It is not a useful article of food for an individual 
with a normal stomach. The materials used should be of the 
best quality, for frequently we have severe ptomain poison- 
ing from eating an inferior quality of ice cream." 

242. Grape Fruit Ice 

% cup grape fruit juice. V2 cup water. 

Vs cup sugar or more. 

Add the sugar to the water and bring to a boil; when cool, 
add the grape fruit juice and freeze, using about one part 
salt to three or four parts ice. Too much salt will make a 
coarse-grained ice. The beaten white of an egg may be 
added, if desired. 

243. Lemon Ice 

Vi cup lemon juice. % cup boiling water. 

Vs cup sugar or more. 

Make the same as grape fruit ice. 

244. Strawberry Ice 

2 cups strawberries. VL> cup sugar or more. 

V2 cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash and remove the stems from well-colored ripe berries. 
Put them into a bowl, sprinkle over the sugar, cover and let 
stand one hour, then mash them well, add the water and 
press through a fine strainer or cheesecloth to express as 
much juice as possible, add the lemon juice, and freeze. 

245. Apricot Ice 

1 cup stewed apricot pulp. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

V4 cup water. sweeten to taste. 

Stew the apricots with enough sugar to sweeten, when 

cool mash through a fine colander, add lemon juice and water, 

and freeze. A little more sugar may be required. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 115 

246. Ice Cream 

1 cup rich cream. 6 drops vanilla. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Mix ingredients and freeze the same as fruit ice. 

CANNING, PRESERVING 

The great secret of canning Hes in complete sterilization. 
All fruits and vegetables, as well as the water we drink and 
the air we breathe, are teeming with minute forms of life 
called bacteria or molds or germs. These germs are the sole 
cause of decomposition or rotting, and are the only cause of 
spoilage we have to deal with in canning. 

The exclusion of air from canned articles is not necessary, 
provided the air is sterile and free from germs. 

FRUITS 

Fruits are usually slightly acid, and in general do not sup- 
port bacterial growth, but are more commonly fermented by 
yeasts. In order to retain the natural flavor of the fruit, 
little sugar should be used, and the fruit should be cooked 
only long enough to insure its preservation. 

The fruit should be perfectly sound and not overripe. It 
should always be assorted; ripe fruit and hard fruit should 
never be cooked in the same jar. 

All stewpans, strainers, glass jars and tops should be put 
on in cold water, heated to the boiling point, and then boiled 
for ten minutes before using. The quantity of sugar used 
will vary with the kind of fruit used, and somewhat with the 
locality in which it is grown. The following proportion is 
taken as an average, more or less sugar may be used as the 
case may require:  

247. Syrups 

Apricots 2  2J quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Peaches 2|  3 quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Pears 3  3J quarts water to each quart of sugar. 
Plums 1  IJ quarts water to each quart of sugar. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



lit FOOD AND COOKERY 

HOME CANNING 

248. Apricots 

Select large underripe fruit. Peel and stone the fruit; 
pack into glass jars; bring the syrup to boil; pour through 
funnel onto the fruit until jar is full, put on rubber ring, and 
screw the covers on loosely. Set the jars into a wash boiler 
with a false bottom in it to keep the jars from resting on 
the bottom of the boiler. Pour tepid water into the boiler 
until the jars are about two-thirds immersed in it. Heat 
gradually to the boiling point, and let boil for ten minutes 
after boiling begins, counting the time from the moment the 
steam issues out from under the cover of the boiler. After 
ten minutes boiling, remove the cover, take the jars out one 
at a time, handling them with a dry cloth, and out of the 
way of a draft; screw the covers on tight, invert, and let 
stand in this position until cold. By boiling the syrup pre- 
viously to filling them, the jars need not be refilled after 
cooking, unless cooked too long. Great care should be taken 
not to cook the fruit too long, as it shrinks up and loses its 
natural flavor and appearance. Apricots are nice canned 
whole; they become quite highly flavored from the pits 
contained in them. i 

249. Peaches 

Peel and cut peaches into halves, removing the stones, 
except a few that may be put into each jar for flavor, if 
desired. Pack the fruit into jars, and finish the same as for 
apricots. 

250. Pears 

Peel and cut the fruit into halves. Remove the seeds, etc., 
and proceed in the same way as for peaches, except they 
must be boiled about twenty minutes instead of ten minutes. 

251. Plums 

Wash and peel the plums, saving out the small ones and 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 117 

the peel for jelly. Pack the fruit into jars and finish the 
same as apricots. 

252. Open Kettle Method 

Bring sj^rup to boil and drop in only enough fruit at a time 
for one or two jars, let come to good boil; syrup should barely 
cover the fruit. Then dip glass jar out of boiling water 
having rubber ring on, and set into a small hot pan; insert 
funnel, and use large spoon; dip the fruit up by halves, drop- 
ping them into jar; lastly fill to brim with boiling syrup, 
screw hot cover on tightly, invert and let stand until cold. 

253. Strawberries 

Wash and stem the berries, place in large pan, pour over 
them the needed sugar, and let stand one hour; then put on 
fire, adding no water, and when they boil up v;ell, fill into 
hot jars and finish same as above. 

254. Canned Tomatoes 

Select only sound rips tomatoes, dip them in boiling water 
for a few moments; remove the skins; .halve them and place 
in an open kettle; add salt at the rate of one level teaspoon 
to the quart. Bring slowly to boil, and cook until tomatoes 
are thoroughly cooked through. Remove one jar at a time 
from boiling water, place a rubber around the neck and fill 
with boiling hot tomatoes; take the top of the jar from the 
boiling water, being careful not to touch the inside with the 
fingers, screw it on tightly. Invert, and let stand in that 
position until cold. 

255. Jelly (Satsuma Plum) 

To each fifteen pounds plums and peel add about two quarts 
cold water, and set on the stove, care being taken not to 
burn them. When they are thoroughly done, pour into a bag 
or cloth, and hang up to drip. To each quart of juice thus 
made add one quart of sugar and bring to boil; skim, and let 
it continue to boil for thirty minutes, if only one quart of 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



118 FOOD AND COOKERY 

juice; forty minutes, if one gallon; and about fifty minutes 
to one hour for five to ten gallons. Take glasses out of hot 
water and fill, let them stand forty-eight hours, then pour 
over them enough hot parafine to cover. 

If plums are picked just after a rain or heavy dew; they 
will contain much more water than otherwise; then they v^ill 
require less water, and it is always safest to boil a small 
quantity as a test before making a large amount of jelly. 

256. Cranberry Jelly 

1 quart cranberries. 1 pint water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Pick berries over, wash and drain well. Add one pint 
water to berries and let boil eight minutes after boiling 
begins; mash through colander, add sugar and bring to boil, 
skim, let boil gently for four or five minutes; then pour into 
hot glasses or jars. When set, pour hot parafine over top of 
each glass.' 

COMBINATIONS AND MENU-MAKING 

The art of planning and combining foods is one of no small 
importance to the housewife or cook. The very best foods 
may be combined or served in such combinations as to bring 
distress to the digestive organs, and produce weakness 
instead of strength. 

Because human beings differ so much and their needs are 
so varied, it is impossible to lay down any set of rules on 
diet for all alike. But there are general principles by which 
everyone may be guided in matters of diet, and which, if 
heeded, can accomplish more for the individual or family, in 
maintaining a healthy condition of the body, than all the 
doctors' prescriptions. It is therefore important for those 
who have to plan for the family, to have a working knowledge 
of the principles which guide and direct in making out a bal- 
anced menu. 

In the first place, there should not be a great variety at 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 119 

any one meal. Several articles of food at the same meal 
work up fermentation, and the food does not nourish the 
system. 

While perhaps all cannot eat the same foods (and it might 
be well always to plan so there can be some individual choice 
in the matter of foods to be eaten), yet a very common error, 
and one that is so often committed with none but the best 
intentions, is that of loading the table down with every 
possible variety of food. True, the same dishes prepared in 
the same way should not appear on the table meal after meal, 
and day after day. The food should be varied, and the cook 
should plan to have different foods served in different ways, 
so as to have the table always looking fresh and inviting, 

A great variety at one meal encourages overeating, bring- 
ing distress and feebleness in its train. Overtaxation of the 
digestive organs is a bad form of dissipation, and is said to 
be the cause of more disease, direi-tly or indirectly, than is 
caused by all kinds of alcoholic dissipation combined, the 
latter very often due to the former. 

While the cook cannot be held responsible for the course of 
individuals in these matters, yet it is within his power to 
plan the meal in such a manner as to encourage right habits; 
and being guided by sound principles, he can make the work 
educational in character. 

Then again, it is not well to edit fruit and vegetables at the 
same meal. Fresh fruits are very easily digested, a sweet 
apple being digested in the stomach in from one hour to one 
hour and a half, while many of the coarser foods require from 
three to four hours or more for their digestion. When these 
are taken together, the fruits, mixed with other foods, are 
kept in the stomach for such a long period of time that they 
ferment, and the formation of vinegar and alcohol is the 
result. 

Acid fruits and coarse vegetables, as roots and tubers, are 
an especially bad combination. Many people, who think a 
certain food does not agree with them, often learn that the 



120 FOOD AND COOKERY 

trouble is not with the food, but with the combination in 
which it has been taken. The finer vegetables, known as the 
fruity vegetables, as squash, tomatoes, peas, corn, etc., can 
be used by most people where fruit dessert or fresh fruit is 
served. These principles should be taken into consideration 
in all our planning. -*  . - , . 

Grains, fruits and nuts are a good combination; also grains 
or cereals, vegetables and nuts. It might be well to say that 
while grains and fruits are a good combination, it should be 
remembered that to pour acid fruits over rice, bread or any 
starchy food to soften it, not onlj^ hinders the flow of saliva, 
but the acid of the fruit so neutralizes the saliva as to hinder 
the digestion of the food in the stomach. If starchy foods 
be thoroughly masticated first, and the fruit eaten at the 
close of the meal, then the food will be in a condition to be 
easily acted upon by the digestive juices. 

The free use of milk and sugar taken together clogs the 
system and should be avoided. Milk and acid fruits are a 
bad combination, and should not be taken together. 

Then there should be a simplicity about the preparation of 
food, a nicety that will appeal to the finer instincts of people. 
Complex mixtures and highly seasoned foods ought to be an 
insult to one with a healthy, normal stomach. 

Nature has provided an abundance of natural flavors in the 
different foods, which do not irritate the delicate organs of 
digestion, but which have a pleasing effect. Food should be 
prepared and served in an appetizing manner, and should 
appeal to the sense of sight, as well as to that of taste. 

In making out a well-balanced menu, there is need to con- 
sider, not only the properties of the food, but its adaption to 
the eater. Food can be eaten freely by persons engaged in 
physical labor which must be avoided by those whose work is 
chiefly mental. Then again, we should always plan so that, 
as far as combination is concerned, we shall set before people 
foods that combine well together. Suppose, for instance, 
we serve vegetable soup first; most people will partake of it 



FOOD AND COOKERY 121 

when it is set before them. Then we have already started 
them on a vegetable dinner; now, should we have a fruit 
salad or fruit dessert, with perhaps other coarse vegetables, 
it is very apparent that there is a lack of judgment on the 
part of the one responsible. Such mistakes can be avoided 
without inconvenience when making out the plans, by putting 
a cream of peas or tomato or other like soup, instead of the 
vegetable, whenever fruit is taken into the combination. 

While it is true that people need not partake of everything 
before them, yet there are some things most people will use, 
and this should always be taken into consideration when 
making out the plans. We should always plan so that the 
soup, the relishes and the dessert, if any, shall harmonize as 
far as combination is concerned; and if fruit, as fruit salad, 
or fruit dessert, is used, there should be at least one of the 
finer vegetables, as tomatoes, squash, corn, etc., to choose 
from. At another time, when fruit is omitted from the 
menu, we may plan a good vegetable dinner, in which any of 
the coarser vegetables may be combined with some dish in 
the form of grains, legumes or nut food. 

In seeking to supply foods that will give proper nourish- 
ment to the body, we should avoid the extremes in both 
directions; on the one hand, that which tends toward an 
impoverished diet, and on the other hand, that which brings 
into one meal too many heavy, highly concentrated foods. 
Fresh vegetables, especially the coarse vegetables, contain a 
large proportion of water in their composition. These vege- 
tables of themselves would fail of supplying the proper 
nutrition to the body, but when served with the more solid 
foods, as grains, legumes, nuts, or nut foods, they furnish 
bulk to the food, and are rich in mineral matter. Perhaps 
one of the more solid foods, rich in nutritive value, together 
with other vegetables prepared in a simple manner, would 
give variety and ample choice for most people. 

The following suggestive menus will help to illustrate the 
working out of some of these principles:  



122 FOOD AND COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

Bartlet Pears Stewed Prunes 

Toasted Wheat Flakes 

Scrambled Egg with New Tomato Corn Bread 

Cream Butter Honey 

Cereal Coffee 



DINNER 

Lettuce Cream of Corn Olives 

Savory Lentil Roast Cranberry Jelly 

Baked Potatoes Brown Sauce Stewed Tomatoes 

Whole-wheat Bread Apple Pie 



LUNCHEON 

Sliced Peaches Strawberries 

Fruit Sandwiches 

Cream Rolls Pulled Zwieback 

Nectar Cereal Coffee 



FOOD AND COOKERY 123 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apple Cantaloupe 

Boiled Rice Nut and Potato Hash 

Whole-wheat Puffs 

Cream Butter Cereal Coffee 



DINNER 

Lettuce and Tomato Cottage Cheese 

New England Dinner 

Mixed Nuts Wax Beans 

Fruit Bread 

Watermelon Cream Rice Pudding 



LUNCHEON 

Stewed Prunes Blackberries 

Cream Toast Puffed Wheat Berries 

Oranges Fruit Crisps 

Yogurt Cereal Coffee 



124 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



INDEX TO RECIPES 

The numbers refer to the recipe and not to the page. 



Unfermented Batter-breads 37 

6 Corn Bread 
9 Corn Cakes 

7 Iloa Cake 

8 Hot Cakes . 

5 Puffs, Whole-wheat 
Unfermented Dough-breads 39 

10 Cream Rolls 

14 Cocoanut Crisps 
13 Date Rolls 

12 Fruit Crisps 

15 Walnut Sticks 

11 Whole-wheat Sticks 
Fermented Breads 41 

22 Bran Biscuit 

20 Fruit Bread, Buns 
19 Graham Bread 

21 Graham Buns 
IG Mother's Bread 

23 Parkerhouse Rolls with 

Milk 

17 White Bread 

IS Whole-wheat Bread 

24 Zwieback, Cut 

25 Zwieback, Pulled 

Cakes 100 

193 Jelly Roll 

190 Layer Cake 

191 Loaf Cake, Plain 

192 Loaf Cake, Walnut 

194 Lady Fingers 

195 Vanilla Wafers 
Canning: 115 

247 Syrups 

248 Apricots 

249 Peaches 

250 Pears 

251 Plums 

252 Open Kettle Method 

253 Strawberries 

254 Tomatoes 



Desserts 90 

161 Apple Snow 

163 Apple and Raisin Pudding 

156 Banana Tapioca 

166 Blanc Mange 

175 Blackberry Mold Jelly 

171 Bread Pudding 

162 Cream Rice Pudding 

168 Cream Tapioca 
165 Custard Sauce 

170 Dutch Apple Pudding 

169 Floating Island 

173 Jelly, Orange 

174 Jelly, Lemon 

175 Jelly, Berry 

164 Lemon Snow 

158 Pressed Fruit Pudding 

159 Prune Pudding 

160 Prune Whip 

155 Sago Fruit Mold 

167 Strawberrj^ Flummery 

157 Strawberry Whip 

172 Vegetable Gelatin 
Frostingrs, Fillings, Sauces 103 

196 Boiled Frosting 

19S Ornamental Frosting 

197 Plain Icing 
201 Lemon Filling 
200 Orange Filling 
199 Strawberry Filling 
144 Fruit Sauce 

165 Custard Sauce 
1.46 Lemon Sauce 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 56 

41 Beans, Stewed Lima 

42 Beans, Baked Lima 

43 Bean Puree, Browned 

44 Bean Ribbon, Roast 
47 Bean Patties, Navy 

45 Beans Spanish, Red 
56 Corn Nut Pie 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



125 



59 


Cromeskies, Nut 


7 5 


Tomato Sauce 




66 


Corn Timbales 


76 


Tomato Cream Sauce 




48 


Cutlets of Green Peas 


Ices, 


Fruit, lee Cream ... 


IVi 


58 


Dressing, Baked 


245 


Apricot Ice 




50 


Lentil Roast, Savory 


242 


Grape Fruit Ice 




51 


Lentil and Rice Loaf, 


243 


Lemon Ice 






Country Style 


244 


Strawberry Ice 




49 


Macaroni and Rice 


246 


Ice Cream 






(Croquettes) 


Inva 


lid Dietary 


KM) 


62 


Macaroni au Gratin 


240 


Albumenized Milk 




60 


Macaroni, Family Style 


229 


Barley Water 




61 


Macaroni with Olives 


232 


Cornmeal Gruel 




55 


Noodles au Gratin 


241 


Curdled Egg 




54 


Noodles, Cream 


238 


Eggnogg, Cream 




69 


New England Dinner 


237 


Eggnogg, Dry 




57 


Nut Meat, Roast 


236 


Eggnogg, Fruit 




208 


Nut and Potato Hash 


234 


Flaxseed Tea 




52 


Nut and Potato Pie 


233 


Gluten Gruel 




46 


Patties, Lentil 


239 


Lemon Albumen 




47 


Patties, Navy Bean 


235 


Malted Milk Hot 




53 


Potato Stew, Egg Dump- 


231 


Oatmeal Gruel 






lings 


230 


Rice Water 




211 


Rice, Steamed 


Jelly 


Making: 


117 


212 


Rice, Browned 


255 


Plum Jelly 




63 


Rice, Spanish 


256 


Cranberry Jelly 




64 


Rice, Baked Italienne 


Misc 


ellaneous Recipes . . . 


. .:^4 


57 


Roast, Nut Meat 


3 


Sterilized Milk 




44 


Roast, Ribbon Bean 


1 


Vegetable Butter 




50 


Koast, Savory Lentil 


4 


Table Butter 




67 


Roast, "Walnut 


2 


Yogurt 




68 


Spaghetti and Cornlet 


Pies, 


, Crusts 


. .m 


63 


Spanish Rice 


176 


Plain Pastry 




46 


Walnut Lentil Patties 


177 


Beaten Oil Crust 




67 


Walnut Roast 


178 


Flake Pastry 




65 


Walnut Timbales 


179 


Crust Shells 




(Jravies and Sauces 69 


ISO 


Apple Pie 




70 


Brown Sauce 


ISS 


Cream Pie 




78 


Brazil Nut Sauce 


189 


Fruit Tart 




71 


Country Gravy 


187 


Lemon Pie 




73 


Cream Sauce 


181 


Prune Pie 




165 


Custard Sauce 


185 


Pumpkin Pie 




77 


Hollandaise Sauce 


186 


Pumpkin Pie without 


146 


Lemon Sauce 




Milk 




74 


Nut Sauce 


184 


Raisin Pie 




72 


Olive Sauce 


1 8 2 


Strawberry Pie A 





126 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



183 Strawberry Pie B 

Salads and Dressing's 83 

127 Cream Dressing 

125 Boiled Dressing 

126 French Dressing 

124 Mayonnaise Dressing 
13S Bean Salad 

134 Beet and Egg 
133 Coleslaw 

135 Combination Salad 

141 Cucumber Salad 

139 Egg Salad 

125 Lettuce and Tomato 
137 Macedoine Salad 

136 Nut and Celery 

129 Poinsettia Tomato 
132 Potato Salad 

130 Stuffed Tomato 

143 String Bean 

142 Sweet Potato Salad 

131 Tomato en Surprise 

140 Water Lily Salad 
Salads and Sauces, Fruit . . .87 

144 Fruit Sauce 

146 Lemon Sauce 

145 Cream Mayonnaise 

150 Crown Prince 
""48 Fruit Basket 
149 Fruit and Nuts 

151 Fruit Salad 

153 German Apple Salad 

154 Raisin Salad 

147 Stuffed Date Salad 

152 Waldorf Salad 

Sandwiches 108 

220 Bean Sandwich 

'23 Date and Nut 

219 Egg Sandwich 

222 Egg and Tomato 

224 Honey and Nut 

5^21 Lettuce and Tomato 

227 Lentil Sandwich 

216 Nut and Jelly 

217 Nut Butter and Olive 

218 Nut and Tomato 



226 Nut and Fruit 

225 Raisin Sandwich 

228 Tartar Sandwich 

Soups 50 

26 Cream of Tomato A 

27 Cream of Tomato B 

28 Cream of Corn 

29 Cream of Green Peas 

33 Cream of Lettuce 

30 Family Potato Soup 

37 Farmers' Favorite 
39 Fruit Soup A 

4 Fruit Soup B 

31 Lima Bean Soup 

38 Potage St. Germain 

34 Tomato Bisque 

32 Vegetable Oyster Soup 

35 Vegetable Chowder 

36 Vegetable Julienne 
Toasts and Breakfast Dishes . 

104 

205 Cream Peas on Toast 
2 03 Cream Toast 

214 Cream Potato 

213 Mashed Potato Cakes 

20 9 Nut and Potato Hash 

2 04 Prune Toast 

211 Rice, Steamed 

212 Rice. Browned 

215 Stuffed Baked Potato 

207 Sultana Toast 
202 Strawberry Toast 

210 Scrambled Egg with To- 
mato 

208 Tomato Toast 

206 Walnut Lentils on Toast 
Vegretables 71 

81 Asparagus, New 

82 Asparagus Tips and Pea.- 
SO Beans, String 

103 Beets, Stewed 

104 Beets, Buttered 

105 Beets, Scalloped 

112 Bell Peppers, Stuffed 

95 Cauliflower au Gratin 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



127 



9(i 


Cauliflower Bouchees 


119 


113 


Cabbage, Stewed 


120 


99 


Carrots, Cream. 


121 


100 


Carrots, Egg Sauce 


122 


101 


Carrots, Stewed 


123 


102 


Carrots and Peas 


88 


9 4 


Corn, Cream Baked 


89 


92 


Corn on Cob 




93 


Corn Saute, Green 


108 


90 


Eggplant, Scalloped 


109 


91 


Eggplant, Breaded 


97 


lit 


Hot Slaw 


98 


110 


Onions, Boiled 


106 


111 


Onions, Cream 


8 3 


107 


Parsnips. Baked 


S4 


79 


Peas, New 


85 


112 


Peppers, Baked Bell 


86 


115 


Potatoes, Browned 


87 


116 


Potatoes, Roasted 


97 


117 


Potatoes, Scalloped 


98 


lis 


Potatoes, Kentucky 





Potato Duchess 

Potato en Surprise 

Sweet Potato, Roasted 

Sweet Potato, Glazed 

Sweet Potato, Mashed 

Summer Squash, Mashed 

Summer Squash, Scal- 
loped 

Spinach 

Spinach, Cream 

Salsify, Stewed 

Salsify, Scalloped 

Turnips, Stewed 

Tomato, Stewed 

Toinato, Breaded 

Tomato, Baked 

Tomato, Stuffed Baked 

Tomato, Scalloped 

Vegetable Oyster. Stewed 

Vegetable Oyster. Scal- 
loped 



^'Hi^: ?Bi'-l^l'M''M^t^l''^d^fs^K^mSW'''^ 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




