TX 728 



Copy 1 



iQIS 



WHAT 



m CHILDREN 

TO DAT 




LLOYD ADAMS ^OBLE, Publisher. NEWYORK 



EN'S 





WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 



How to Prepare the Menus 



By 
ELIZABETH C OLSON 

Author of 
The Child Housekeeper," "Letters to Children," etc., etc. 




Copyright, 1915, by LloyJ AJams Noble 



LLOYD ADAMS NOBLE, Publisher 
31 West 15th Street New York 



I 




O 



*£<** 



0* 




f\T)d if ttyou dost buy tt}\$ boo((, 
Be sure tl?at tl?ou dost it) it lool^, 
f\r)d read it o'er — tl?ei) tl?ou u/ilt $ay, 
Jl?y fflopey is pot tf?rou/i) au/ay. 



/*i> Old F^by/ne. 



)GI.A416737 



Q£C -61915 




Mv Cfnlbren's: Cable ftulea 



In silence I must take my seat, 
And give God thanks before I eat; 
Must for my food in patience wait 
Till I am asked to hand my plate. 
I must not scold, nor whine, nor pout, 
Nor move my chair or plate about; 
With knife, or fork, or anything, 
I must not play; nor must I sing. 
I must not talk about my food, 
Nor fret if I don't think it good. 
I must not cry for this or that, 
Nor murmur if my meat is fat. 
My mouth with food I must not crowd, 
Nor while I'm eating speak aloud; 
Must turn my head to cough or sneeze, 
And when I ask, say, "If you please." 
The tablecloth I must not spoil, 
Nor with my food my fingers soil ; 
Must keep my seat when I have done, 
Nor 'round the table sport or run. 
When told to rise, then I must put 
My chair away with noiseless foot, 
And lift my heart to God above 
In praise for all His wondrous love. 



W&X Mv Cijtlbren Uobe to Cat 

During the Spring 



iHenu JSo. 1 

Coddled Eggs 
Buttered Toast 



Stewed Pie Plant 



Jflernt J2o. 2 

Chicken Soup with Rice 

Celery Sandwiches 



Butter Cups 



Tapioca Cream 



jftlcnu Mo. 3 

Stuffed Potatoes Scraped Beef Sandwiches 

Stewed Strawberries Carrie's Cookies 

jffltnu Mo. 4 

Chicken Custard 

Pulled Bread 
Milk in Glasses Ginger Cookies 

iWenu Mo. 5 



Creamed Ribbons 
Orange Juice 



Toasted Brown Bread 
Currant Bunnies 



An orange cut up and spread out on a plate 

Is all very well for occasions of state, 

But to make a small hole and to suck till it 's done, 

With both hands to squeeze it, is much better fun. 

E. V. Lucas 




Wfat Mv Cfjtibren Hobe to <£at 

During the Spring 



iHtnu Mo. 6 

Asparagus, on Buttered Toast 



Junket 



Strawberry Jelly 



Jam 



Stewed Cherries 



JWenu Mo. 7 

Birds' Nests 
Bread and Butter 

Menu Mo. 8 

Clam Broth' 
Pilot Biscuit 



Carrie's Cookies 



Gingerbread 



Currant Bunnies 



Stewed Strawberries 



iHcnu Mo. 

Asparagus Soup in Cups 
Brownies 

Maple_Sugar Sandwiches 

Jflenu Mo. 10 

Cream Toast 
Educators 



Buttercups 



One thing each time, and that done well, 
Is a very good rule, as many can tell : 
Moments are useless, trifled away ; 
So work while you work, and play while you play. 




€ 
/ 



1 



Wfyat Mv Cfnlbren Hobe to Cat 

During the Summer 




Raspberries 



Iced Orange Juice 



Apple Heaps 



Zwieback 



Frozen Custard 



Jttenu J?o. I 

Fresh Peas 

Cream Sauce 

jfflenu Jto. 2 
Chinese Rice 
Party Butter 

Jflenu i?o. 3 

Shirred Eggs 

Brown Bread Toast 

Jfflenu J?o. 4 

Yellow Milk, with Straws 

Jflenu J?o. 5 

Broiled Bacon 

Lettuce Sandwiches 



Bread and Sugar 



Cookie Boys 



Crackers 



Jam 



Snakey Cakics 



'I must not throw upon the floor 
The crust I cannot eat, 
For many little hungry ones 
Would think it quite a treat." 




o 



Wfat Mv Ctylbren Hotoe to Cat 

During the Su??imer 




Polly's Cookies 



jfflcnu Mo. 6 

Bread Omelette 
Toast 

Jfflenu Mo. 7 
Scraped Beet Sandwiches 



Iced Cocoa 



Milk, through Straws 



Buttered Bunnies 



Ice Cream 



Slip-and-go-down 



Prune Jelly 



JHenu Mo. 8 

Chicken Soup 
Bread and Butter Fingers 



Buttercups 



Jflenu J£o. 9 

Boiled Spinach 
Buttered Brown Bread 

Brown Sugar and Cream 

iHcnu Mo. 10 

Fairy Farina 

Cream 

Graham Bread Toast 



Back of the loaf is the snowy flour, 
And back of the flour the mill; 

And back of the mill is the wheat, and the 
shower, 
And the sun, and the Father's will. 




€ 



1 






f©fmt Mv Cjjtibren Hobe to Cat 

During the Summer 




Jflcnu J|o. XI 

Lima Beans 

Buttered Toast 

Blueberry Slump Cream 

Jfflenu ^o. 12 

Bouillon in Cups Lettuce Sandwiches 

Rice Jelly with Sweetened Cream 



iflenu J!o. 13 

Panada 
Brown Bread and Butter 
Stewed Blackberries 

iflenu ilo. 14 

Broiled Bacon 

Boiled Rice 



9 



&> 



Cookie Boys 



Junket 



Raspberries 



JWenu Jlo. 15 

Poached Egg on Toast 



Holiday Crackers 



Lady Fingers 



Though you decline to think it nice, 
The mild Hindoo adores his rice, 
And always hands his plate up twice. 

So when you next the pudding view, 
Suppress the customary "pooh," 
And imitate the mild Hindoo. 

E. V. Lucas. 




WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 

During the Autumn Months 










f©bat Mv Ctyibren lobe to Cat 

During the Autumn 




Graham Bread Toast 



Baked Apples 



Cinnamon Toast 



Rice Jelly 



Sliced Peaches 



Hominy Pudding 
Bacon Sandwiches 

Jflenu J2o. 2 

Scotch Broth 
Egg Sandwiches 



jfflenu Mo. 3 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 
Thin Bread and Butter 

Jflenu J^o. 4 

Tomato Omelet 
Bread Sticks 

Jflenu i2o. 5 

Beef Tea in Cups 

Buttered Toast 



Jam 



Drop Cakes 



Cocoa 



Snaky Cakies 



Ginger Cookies 



There was an old woman who lived in a shoe, 
She had so many children she didn't know what to do. 
So she gave them some broth without any bread, 
And whipped them all soundly and put them to bed. 

Mother Goose. 



\ 




fl^fjat Mv Cfjtlbren ILobe to <£at 

During the Autumn 





Peach Tart 

Apple Fluff 

Spooned Peaches 
Cream Toast 



jWenu Bo. 6 

Creamed Ribbons 
Pulled Bread 

jflenu i5o. 7 

Chicken Sandwiches 
Hot Milk 

Jflenu J5o. 8 

Pop Robbins 
Cream and Sugar 

4Henu Mo. 

Pumpkin Pudding 



Cream 

Wheat Crisps 

Buttercups 
Bacon Sandwiches 



Jlenu iSo. 10 

Puff Potatoes 
Scraped Beef Sandwiches 



Crackers 



Jam 



THE PEACH 

Mama gave us a single peach, 

She shared it among seven; 
Now you may think that unto each 

But a small piece was given. 
Yet though each share was very small, 

We own'd when it was eaten, 
Being so little for us all 

Did its fine flavor heighten. 

Mary Lamb. 



&&& , 




I- 



m^ u r 



WW Mv Cfjtlbren Hobe to <£at 

During the Autumn 



Angel Cake 



Sponge Cakes 



Sliced Peaches 



Mud Pies 



Rosy Apples 



jfflenu Mo. II 

Lima Beans 
Lettuce Sandwiches 

JWenu Mo. 12 

Baked Tomatoes 
Bread Sticks 

iWenu Mo. 13 

Birds' Nests 
Thin Bread and Butter 

ilenu Mo. 14 

Hodge-Podge 
Toasted Crackers 

Jfflenu Mo. 15 

Dixie Sweet Potatoes 
Egg Sandwiches 



Cocoa Shells 



Cambric Tea 



Make-believe Juice 



Cream 



Gingerbread 



No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. 

O. W. Holmes. 



\ 



&* 




WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 

During the Winter Months 



Wfyat Mv Cbtlbren Hobe to Cat 

During the JVinter 



Jfflenu Mo. 1 

Alphabet Soup 
Thin Bread and Butter 
Corn Starch Moulds 

jftlenu Mo. 2 

Poached Eggs 

Baked White Potatoes 



Strained Honey 



Indian Pudding 



Bread 



fflttrn Mo. 3 

Scraped Beef Sandwiches 
Milk in Glasses 

Jflenu Mo. 4 

Broiled Bacon 
Hominy Pudding 



Carrie's Cookies 



Bread 



Molasses Sauce 



jftlenu Mo. 5 

Daisy Mush with Milk and Brown Sugar 
Scraped Apple Sandwiches 



Jam 



Cocoa 



"The wide Republic's emblem 
Is the bounteous, g 

' Dean Proch r. 



& 





Wt)at M? Cfjilbren Hobe to Cat 

During the Winter 




Apple Fluff 



Strawberry Jelly 



Orange Ruffle 



Prune Whip 



Stuffed Potatoes 



4Wenu J?o. 6 

Cold Chicken 
Chinese Rice 

jftlenu J|o. 7 

Coddled Eggs 
Buttered Toast 

Jfflenu i?o. 8 

Oyster Broth 

Butter Crackers 

JWenu iSo. 9 

Peas Porridge Hot 
Brown Bread Toast 



Ginger Bread 



Sweet Sticks 



Drop Cakes 



Wafers 



jWenu i!o. 10 

Beef Juice 

Maple Sugar Sandwiches 



"A loaf of bread, the Walrus said, 

Is what we chiefly need; 
Pepper and vinegar besides 
Are very good indeed — 
Now, if you're ready, Oysters dear, 
We can begin to feed." 

Lewis Carroll. 







Ws$i Mv Cfjtlbren Uobe to Cat 

During the Winter 



Sliced Oranges 



Stewed Prunes 



Apple Sauce 



Cinnamon Toast 



Baked Banana 



iflenu Mo. \\ 

Tapioca Beef Tea 
Brownies 

Mtrw Mo. 12 

Broiled Bacon 
Baked Potatoes 

Jfflenu Mo. 13 

Golden Toast 
Buttered Brown Bread 

jilenu Mo. 14 

Scraped Beef Balls 
Creamed Spaghetti 

jilcnu Mo. 15 

Potato Soup 
Pulled Bread 



9 



Sponge Cakes 



Cookie Boys 



Holiday Crackers 



Cocoa 



Wafers 



o 



(C 



If children are good and their parents obey, 
If they are not noisy when they are at play, 
If they eat the nice soup which before them is set, 
And the bread above all things never forget, 
St. Nicholas comes, and to them he brings 
A nice picture book and many good things. 




WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 

When Recovering from Illness 





Jfor tfje Cfctlb tofjo fe Ctoobertng from 
an 31Unes& 

While my child was very ill the doctor told me 
exactly what to feed him, and I strictly obeyed. But as 
soon as he was well on the road to recovery the doctor 
permitted me to give him almost any delicate, nourishing 
foods until he was able to play and study with the other 
children. 

Here are some of the menus which my children 
relished when recovering from illness. From these you 
can choose which ones your children shall have, because 
you know their likes and dislikes, and the nature of their 
illness. 



Here in my room 
I'm as snugly shut 
As a glad little worm 
In the heart of a nut!" 



James Whitcomb Riley. 



ifor tfje Cijilb tofjo fe Cftecobering from 
an Mnt&x 

Delicate, Nourishing Food 



#v*i 





Jfflenu Mo. 1 






Chicken Custard 




Bread Sticks 


iflenu J^o. 2 

Beef Juice 


Hot Milk 


Toast 


Jfflenu Mo. 3 

Panada 


Orange Ruffle 


Prune Jelly 


Jfflenu J^o. 4 

Junket 


Pulled Bread 


Educatur Crackers 




Cocoa 



The coals beneath the kettle croon, 
And clap their hands and dance in glee; 
And even the kettle hums a tune 
And tells you when it's time for tea. 

Gabriel Setoun. 




€ 



if or tfje atfjilb tofjo fe ftecobertng from 
an Sitae** 

Delicate, Nourishing Food 




Jfflenu iSo. 5 

Coddled Egg 
Bread and Butter Fingers 

JWenu Mo. 6 

Cream Toast 



Cocoa Shells 



Corn Starch Gruel 



iWcnu J2o. 7 

Scraped Beef Sandwich 

jflenu J|o. 8 

Scotch Broth 



Thin Bread and Butter 



'Use three physicians: 
First, Dr. Quiet, 
Then Dr. Merryman, 
And then Dr. Diet." 



Orange Juice 



Zwieback 



Wheat Crisps 



Ice Cream 



Old Rhyme. 



9 





LUNCHES 
MY CHILDREN LOVE 

To Take to School 





4 






Huncfje* Mv Cfnlbren Hobc to Cake 
to Jkfjool 

When children are pale and cross their mothers and 
aunts sometimes say that they have been studying too 
hard. Perhaps, now and then, this may be the case; 
but more often it is because the children are not eating 
enough of the right kind of food. I once heard of a little 
girl who took pie, pickles, and strong tea to school in 
her lunch box. Of course she never passed her examina- 
tions ! And does it surprise you to know that she had 
to go to the country for her health ? 

Sandwiches are the best things you can take; and 
there are so many kinds that you need never grow tired 
of them. If you have a preserve jar with a screw top 
you can take stewed fruits, puddings, and such things in 
your lunch box. 

In some schools there are lunch counters. If there 
is a good one in your school buy a cup of cocoa or a 
bowl of soup, and take it with what you have brought 
from home. 

Here are some lunches that will help you to keep well 
and happy. 

" Get up, for when all things are merry and glad 
Good children should never be lazy and sad ; 
For God gives us daylight, dear sister, that we 
May rejoice like the lark, and may work like the bee." 

Lady Mary Hastings. 



Huncjje* Mv C&fibren Hobe 



7# Take to School 




iflenu jSo. i 

Egg, Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Jar of Apple Sauce 

Drop Cake Sweet Chocolate 

iWenu J2o. 2 

Brown Bread and Butter, Chopped Ham Sandwiches 

An Orange 

Carrie's Cookies 

JHenu Mo. 3 

Lettuce Sandwiches 
Buttered Bun 
Gingerbread 

jWemt Jto. 4 

Hard Boiled Egg 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Jar of Stewed Peaches Pixie Rocks Nuts 

Jflenu 0o. 5 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Cold Sweet Potatoe, Sliced and Buttered 

Cup Custard Zwieback Fat Figs 



Dates 



Apples 

Peppermints 



The world's a very happy place 
Where every child should dance and sing, 
And always have a smiling face, 
And never sulk for anything. 

Gabri?/ Setoun. 




Htmcfjeg M? Cinforen Hobe 

To Take to School 




Maple Sugar 



Angel Cake 



Washed Prunelles 






Peach 



Pear 



ittenu Mo. 6 

Bacon Sandwiches 

Prunes 
Jar of Rice Custard 

jftlenu Mo. 7 

Hearty Jim Sandwiches 

Banana 

Currant Jelly 

iWenu Mo. 8 

Stuffed Egg 
Bread and Butter 

3 Marshmallows 

Jttenu J^o. 9 

Celery Sandwiches 

Graham Wafers 

Sponge Cake 

iMcnu Mo. 10 

Hard Boiled Egg 
Brown Bread Butterfingers 

Holiday Crackers 



Sweet Sticks 



Maple Sugar 



Cookie Boys 



Nuts 



Snaky Cakies 




WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 

TVhen They Go for a Picnic 








Ptcmcs 



Everybody would love picnics if they knew what to 
take, what to do, and when to come home. How much 
to take is the first thing to learn. If the boys are going 
you will have to provide plenty; remember how good 
everything tastes at a picnic. Dishes and extra silver 
are heavy to carry. Bring waxed paper napkins, paper 
towels, and paper or wooden plates, that can be thrown 
away after they have been used. Fold the paper cups 
the day before the picnic, and you will find them a 
great help; each person should have at least two cups. 
In packing the lunch basket, count noses, and try to pre- 
pare only those foods which you know everyone will like. 
It is not pleasant to find that there are things left uneaten 
which must be carried home. 

Come home while you are having a good time, then 
each one will feel that the picnic was a success. No 
thoughtful child would leave anything that the birds and 
squirrels cannot eat. Papers, boxes, and egg-shells would 
spoil the beauty of the place for the next picnic ; there- 
fore, look around before you leave and gather up the odds 
and ends. If you want to have a bonfire picnic, go in 
the afternoon, have an early supper, and afterwards sit 
around the fire for singing and story-telling until dark. 

Potatoes on the table 
To eat with other things, 
Potatoes with their jackets off 
May do for Dukes and Kings. 

But if you wish to taste them 
As Nature meant you should, 
Why, cook them at a rubbish fire, 
And eat them in a wood. 



tt^at Mv Cfnlbren Hobe to <£at 

At a Bonfire Picnic 




Bacon — Broiled on sharpened sticks 

Potatoes, Green Corn— Roasted in the ashes 

Egg and Lettuce Sandwiches 

Bread and Butter Jam Campers' Short Bread 

Cake Apples and Peaches 

Toasted Marshmallows 



If you have a hay-ride picnic you can take with you more things to eat, be- 
cause then it is not necessary for you to carry them. Have a freezer of ice 
cream tied under the wagon. It will be a surprise, for the children need not see 
the cream until lunch time. You can take a pail of ice, too, and cool the drinking 
water, the lemonade, or the ginger ale, as the case may be. 

t^fjat $&y CJObren Hobe to Cat 

At a Hay-ride Picnic 



i 



Stuffed Eggs, in waxed papers 
Chicken and Lettuce Sandwiches Bread and Butter 

Brown Sugar Sandwiches 
Ice Cream Ginger Ale Butter Cups 



«£ 



I 




Wi)tn Motbtv pan* <®ur Ptcmc 

This is What She Gives Us to Eat 



After all, the kind of picnic that you can have often is the best A few of the 
people you like very much, a box of lunch, and a raincoat, is all you really need. 

•Picnic J2o. I 

Slices of cold beef or chicken, salt and pepper, in waxed paper 

Hearty Jim, Bread and Butter, Jam Sandwiches 

Drop Cakes 



Oranges 



Sweet Chocolate 



•Picnic ^o. 2 



Hard Boiled Eggs, salt and pepper 

Saratoga Chips 

Bacon, Chicken, Currant Jelly Sandwiches 

Ginger Bread Peaches and Apples 

Grape Juice 



\ 



Wt 




WHAT MY CHILDREN 
LOVE TO EAT 

When "They Give a Party 




Cfnlbren's; Parties 

A party for small children should take place in the 
afternoon and if the supper is served at about the usual 
supper time, no harm is done if the menu is simple. 
Pretty cases in which to serve the ice-cream, and many 
festive things in the way of favors and mottoes can be 
bought now-a-days, and they add very much to the joys 
of the afternoon without risking the good health of the 
little guests. 

There is some doubt as to whether a party at which 
ice-cream is not served can be called a "party." But some- 
times ice-cream is hard to manage, so you will find 
among the menus one or two suggestions for substitutes. 



With chocolate-cream that you buy in the cake 
Large mouthfuls and hurry are quite a mistake. 

Wise persons prolong it as long as they can 
By putting in practice this excellent plan : 

The cream from the chocolate lining they dig 
With a Runaway match or a clean little twig. 

And then, when the cream is all finished, there still 
Is the chocolate lining to eat as they will. 

With ices 'tis equally wrongful to haste ; 

You ought to go slowly and dwell on each taste. 

Large mouthfuls are painful as well as unwise, 
For they lead to an ache at the back of the eyes. 

E. V. Lucas. 



t©fmt Mv Cljilbren Hobe to <£at 

JVhen They Give a Birthday Party 




Ice Cream Flowers 



itlenu Mo. 1 

Bouillon 
Lettuce Sandwiches 

Birthday Cake with Candles 
Bonbons 

jtWenu Mo. 2 

Creamed Chicken 

Buttered Finger Rolls 

Ice Cream in Egg Shapes Spun Sugar Nest 

Individual Birthday Cakes 

Candies in Mottoe Papers 



Wi)at Mv Cfnlbren Hobe to eat 

When They Give a Party During the Summer 



Jfflenu Mo. I 

Chopped Chicken Sandwiches 

Rose Leaf Sandwiches 

Junket with Whipped Cream — Buttercups — Pink Icing 

Wintergreen Cream Candies 

Jfflenu Mo. 2 

Chicken Custard Thin Bread and Butter 

Watermelon Marbles 

Snaky Cakies Marshmallow Mice 

jfflcnu Mo. 3 

Foamy Milk through Straws 

Buttered Finger Rolls 

Ice Cream Flowers Cookies Chocolate Creams 






I 




Wfyat MV Cijilbren Hobe to <£at 

When They Give a Party During the Winter 




jflenu Mo. I 

Hot Chocolate with Marshmallow on top 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Ice Cream in Cases Angel Cake 

Letter Peppermints 

ifflenu Mo. 2 

Chicken Broth with Whipped Cream 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Frozen Custard in Sherbert Glasses Drop Cakes 

Lollypop Ladies 

Jfflenu Mo. 3 

Bouillon 

Wheat Crisps 

Sponge Baskets, filled with Whipped Cream 

Decorated Peppermints 



I could wish my best friends at such a feast. 

Shakespeare. 




HOW TO PREPARE THE FOODS 

My Children Love To Eat 




2frreab 

BREAD.— (1 cup milk, % teaspoonful sugar, % teaspoonfulsa.lt, % yeast cake, 3 cups 
flour). First soften the yeast in a little lukewarm water, and scald the milk. Sift the 
flour. Put the salt and sugar in the mixing bowl, and pour in the milk, adding the yeast 
now thoroughly mixed with the water. Then stir in the flour, beating the batter until 
it is full of bubbles. Add the flour gradually, a little at a time. When the batter is too 
stiff to beat, spread a little flour on the dough, and knead it until it grows spongy, until 
its surface becomes smooth, and it rises quickly after you have poked it with your finger. 
Place this dough in a bowl or bread-raiser, cover it over and stand it in a warm place. 
Let it rise until it attains twice its original bulk. Yeast is a tiny plant, so small that we 
cannot see it without a magnifying glass. We wish it to grow very fast, so we give it 
plenty to eat and put in a warm place. The little plants push the dough up, and around 
about, until its size is twice what it was at first. The dough will become full of air- 
holes. When this has happened, shape the dough into loaves, laying them in the pans 
in which you are going to bake. Let this dough-loaf now rise for the second time, until 
its bulk is again doubled. The bread is then ready for the oven. 

Experience must teach you how to bake your bread. Have the oven so hot that it 
will turn a piece of paper brown if left there for the space of five minutes. Keep the 
oven at an even temperature, and let the bread bake from 45 to 60 minutes. Do not 
forget to grease your pans with lard before putting in the dough. 

BREAD STICKS. When you make bread cut off a piece of dough after it has 
raised for the second time. Roll this dough with your hands into long sticks; and 
bake it until it becomes entirely crisp. To make sweet sticks, work 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a pinch of cinnamon into the dough before rolling it into sticks. 

BROWNIES. Butter slices of bread very lightly, and cut into cubes. Dry, and 
brown them in the oven ; and let the children have all they want. 

BROWN BREAD. — (1 cup milk, 1 teaspoonful sugar, Y* cup molasses, pinch of 
salt, 1 egg, 2 cups whole wheat flour, 1 cup corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder). 
This is very easy to make ! Place all these things in a mixing bowl and beat them up. 
Bake for an hour in a slow oven. Mary makes this often, and she says the bread is 
best when it is 24 hours old. 

BUNS. — (% cake yeast, 2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, Y* cup melted butter, 2 teaspoonfuls 
sugar, 4 eggs, Y* teaspoonful cinnamon). Soften the yeast in the milk, and stir in the 
sugar and flour. Let it rise as you do bread. Add the melted butter and the beaten 
eggs. Knead, and let it rise again for an hour. Mould into balls about the size of a 
golf ball. Arrange them all side by side in buttered tins and sprinkle with sugar. 
Wait 15 minutes before you bake them, and they will rise a little more. Currant bun- 
nies have a washed currant baked on top of each bun, and plum bunnies, a raisin. 

CINNAMON TOAST. Start the toast just as though nothing unusual was going 
to happen. When it is time to turn the bread over, butter the white side and sprinkle 
it with sugar and a little cinnamon. Then finish the toasting and eat hot. 

CREAM TOAST.— (2 teaspoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful flour, salt, 1 pint of milk, 
plenty of hot toast). Melt the butter, and rub the flour into it. Add this to the hot 
milk, and stir until smooth. Boil for ten minutes or more, and pour over hot toast in 
heated soup plates. This is a good dish for cold or rainy weather. 



GRAHAM BREAD. Graham bread is made just like white bread, until you come 
to the place where it is put in the pan to rise for one more hour. At that point, add 3 
tablespoonfuls of molasses and 2 cups of graham flour. Knead until the graham flour 
is all worked in. Perhaps it would be well to add a little salt. 

GRAHAM WAFERS. They are made like wheat crisps except for the flour 
which is half graham. 

GOLDEN TOAST. Make the cream sauce as you did for cream toast, and add 
two well beaten eggs after you take it from the fire. Leave the sauce in the double 
boiler covered for a few minutes to cook the eggs. If you put it back on the fire it 
will curdle. Pour over the toast and lay slices of hard boiled egg on top. 

PULLED BREAD. Cut stale bread rather thick, take off all crusts, and let it dry 
and brown in a cool oven. If you cut the bread into long narrow pieces before you 
brown it, some good "pushers" for the babies can be made. 

WHEAT CRISPS.— (^ cup cream, % cup sifted flour, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful 
sugar). Mix and knead. Roll as thin as blotting paper, cut with a cookey cutter or in 
strips. Bake in ungreased tins in a very hot oven. 

ZWIEBACK. There are a great many recipes given for Zwieback, but the 
simplest way is about the best. Cut the bread as you did for pulled bread, sprinkle 
freely with sugar and cinnamon; then brown and dry it in a cool oven. 

CAMPERS' SHORT BREAD.— (I cup sifted flour, l A teaspoonful baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful lard and butter, 1 saltspoon salt). Mix the flour, baking powder, and 
salt in a small covered pail before you start. When the fire is low enough for toasting, 
mix the butter and lard through the flour; wet with very cold water until it is a soft 
dough ; take off a small piece and roll it between your hands until you have a long 
piece of dough as large around as your little finger. In the meantime somebody must 
be cutting birch branches not more than half an inch in diameter. Peel off the bark, 
and twist the dough around the branches ; twirl over the fire until the bread becomes 
a light brown; then eat it from the stick as you would eat corn from the cob. 



Cafce* 

ANGEL CAKES.— {Whites 2 eggs, Y* cup flour (sift 3 times), % cup powdered 
sugar, l A teaspoon cream of tartar, vanilla, pinch of salt). Beat egg whites until stiff, 
add cream of tartar and vanilla. Sift in the sugar, beating all the time. Fold in the 
salt and flour. Drop from a teaspoon into pans lined with fresh ungreased paper, and 
bake 10 minutes. 

BIRTHDAY CAKE— (1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1% cups flour, 
yi cup milk, 1 teaspoonful baking powder). Cream the butter and sugar, and add the 
beaten yolks and the milk ; sift in the flour and baking powder, and beat well. Now 
put in the vanilla, and last of all the whites of the eggs as light as you can get them. 
Bake in a round tin. 

FROSTING. Beat 1 egg-white very light, and sift into it one scant cupful of 
powdered sugar. You can smooth the frosting on the cake with a wet knife. 



DECORATIONS. Pink or white candles are always delightful, and the tiny red 
tapers used for warming sealing wax are very pretty for a small cake. You can buy 
them by the box at the stationer's, and they are inexpensive. A circle of little candies, 
or candied cherries cut in half, makes a pretty edge. The candies come so small that 
you can form the birthday-child's initial, or the number of his years, in the center of 
the cake. Narrow strips of Angelica will form leaves and stems for candied cherries, 
and you can buy a small piece from the confectioner and cut it yourself. The decora- 
tions must be done while the frosting is soft, so it is well to have everything ready. 

Serve the cake on a raised dish if you have one, and a ruff of mottoe papers will 
hide any imperfections around the edge of the cake. 

A Birthday Cake decorated with marshmallow mice is interesting. Place the 
mice around the edge of the cake, so that there will be one on each slice when the 
cake is cut. Have them face the edge, and place one large pink candle in the middle 
of the cake. 

Another way is to bake your cake in an oblong pan, turn upside down and frost. 
Save a little frosting, and mix a teaspoonful of cocoa and a little water with it ; when 
the frosting on the cake is hard make a little cone of paper, leaving a hole in the end. 
Fill the cone with the chocolate frosting and write or print the child's name and 
address, as the frosting drips through. The cake is then supposed to look like a letter. 

INDIVIDUAL BIRTHDAY CAKES. Bake your cake in little tins, one for each 
child at the party. Frost and place a candle on each. Decorate the edges of the cakes 
with small candies and serve on lace paper doylies. This makes a very pretty picture 
while the candles are burning, for each little face is lighted. 

BUTTER CUPS.— (1 cup sugar, 1Y> cups flour, yi cup butter, 2 scant teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, Y2 cup milk, 3 eggs, vanilla or nutmeg). Cream the sugar and butter 
and add the beaten yolks and the milk. Sift in the flour with the baking powder in it, 
and then the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in small gem tins. 

CARRIE'S COOKIES.— (2 cup sugar, 1 egg, % cup butter, 2 teaspoonfuls bakin a 
powder, Y\ cup milk, flour to roll, flavor with nutmeg or lemon). Mix these together 
in your bowl ; roll thin, and cut with round cutter. Bake in cake tins. 

COOKY BOYS. Use Carrie's recipe, and a cutter called a "boy cutter." You can 
buy these cutters now, although some big sisters are smart enough to cut them out 
with a knife. If you use small round candies for eyes and coat buttons, they look very 
well. 

DROP CAKES.— (Y cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, Y cup milk, 
2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder). Put these things in your mixing bowl in the order 
given, and beat well. Drop on buttered tins from a teaspoon, and bake in a quick oven. 

GINGERBREAD.— (% cup molasses, Yz teaspoonful soda, Y> teaspoonful ground 
ginger, 1 tablespoonful butter, % teaspoonful salt, % cup boiling water, 1 cup flour). 
Add the salt, soda, and ginger to the molasses, and beat in the butter, melted. The 
boiling water comes next, and then the flour. Bake for about 20 minutes. 

GINGER COOKIES.— (1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon ground ginger, % cup butter, 
Y2 teaspoonful baking powder, flour to make a soft dough). Mix, and make into small 
cakes, with plenty of flour on your hands to keep the dough from sticking. Bake in 
buttered tins. 



PIXIE ROCKS. — {Y-2 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 cup sugar, Y tea- 
spoonful ground ginger, 2 cups flour, 1*2 cup milk). Drop from a teaspoon on buttered 
tins, and bake. The rocks in that little place where the Pixies live are quite soft, — but 
many things are different there. 

SNAKEY CAKIES. Use Carrie's recipe for cookies. When you have rolled out 
the dough, cut it in strips, and lay in the pan. Turn the strips about to form the 
letter S or any snake-like twist that happens. Perhaps you can make the children's 
initials, and they always like that. 

SPONGE CAKE.— (2 eggs, juice of Y* lemon, 1 cup sugar, VA cup sifted flour, 
pinch salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder). Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar 
and beat again, add the lemon juice, then the flour in which the baking-powder has 
been mixed, and lastly the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a shallow pan in a quick 
oven. 



Cereals; 



CHINESE RICE. Wash % cup of rice very thoroughly and sprinkle into one 
quart of salted boiling water. Boil until you can rub one of the grains away between 
your fingers. If the water is not all gone, let it stand to dry for a while with the 
cover off. "Eatee up." 

DAISY MUSH. Have one pint of salted water boiling in the double boiler. Stir 
into it a cup of corn meal moistened with one cup of cold water. Boil on the range for 
two hours or for a longer time in the tireless cooker. When it is cooked beat one cup 
of boiled rice (either hot or cold) through it and let it cook again for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot with milk and sugar. 

FAIRY FARINA. Stir three tablespoonfuls of farina and J4 teaspoonful of salt 
into half a cupful of hot milk. Scald two cupfuls of milk or one of milk and one of 
water, and add the farina. Cook slowly for half an hour. Mould in egg cups and serve 
with sweetened cream. 

HOMINY PUDDING. Put a cupful of hominy and a cupful of cold water into 
the double boiler and let it stand until the water is all gone. Add one cupful of water 
and a half teaspoonful of salt, and boil for two hours. Beat into it one pint of milk and 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Let it boil again for fifteen minutes. This can be eaten 
hot, and what is left mould in cups and eat cold with a little syrup at another time.' 

RICE JELLY. Soak one tablespoonful of rice for an hour ; drain off the water 
and put the rice in half a cupful of milk. Salt and cook in the double boiler for one 
hour. Add the white of one egg beaten stiff and mould in cups. Turn out and serve 
cold with milk and sugar or fruit juice. 



J^es&erte 



BLUEBERRY SLUMP. Cut the crusts from thick slices of bread. Butter freely 
and lay in a china bowl. Stew a quart of blueberries, sweeten a little more than usual 
and, when thoroughly done, pour while boiling over the bread. This is to be eaten cold, 
with cream, if you like, although it is very good without. 

CORNSTARCH MOULDS. — (1 quart milk, 3 teaspoonfuls sugar, 3 level teaspoonfuls 
cornstarch, pinch of salt, Yi teaspoonful vanilla). Stir the cornstarch into >^ cup of the 
milk ; and then mix well with the rest of the milk after it has been heated in the 
double boiler. Put in the sugar and salt and cook for fifteen minutes. Add the 
vanilla when you have taken it from the stove and pour into egg cups. When firm, 
turn out and serve with sweetened cream or fruit juice. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. — (1 quart milk, 6 teaspoonfuls sugar, 4 eggs, pinch of salt, 
vanilla extract). Heat the milk in the double boiler. Beat the eggs and add the sugar 
to them. Pour the hot milk over the eggs and sugar, stirring all the time and return 
to the double boiler and the fire. Stir until the custard coats the spoon. When you 
have taken it from the fire add the vanilla, and when it is cool freeze in the ice-cream 
freezer. 

ICE-CREAM. — {2 cups milk, 6 teaspoonfuls sugar, 2 cups cream, 3 eggs, vanilla 
extract). Scald the milk in the double boiler. Beat the eggs and stir one-half of the 
sugar with them. Pour the hot milk over the eggs, stir all the time, you know, and 
return to the double boiler. Cook until as thick as rich cream. Take from the fire and 
add the rest of the sugar and the vanilla; and when cold beat in the cream, and freeze. 
This may be flavored in any way you like, and for a party it can be made pink by 
dissolving in it a tiny crumb of vegetable coloring matter. One small tablet will pro- 
vide a great deal of pinkness for a great many parties. 

ICE-CREAM FLOWERS. Buy small new flower pots and line them with paraffine 
paper. Fill the pot with ice-cream and stand a flower in the centre. Any small flowers 
with stiff stems are pretty. You can use chocolate ice-cream or sprinkle the top with 
grated sweet chocolate, to make it look more like earth. 

INDIAN PUDDING.— (1 quart milk, pinch of salt, 5 teaspoonfuls corn meal, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls molasses, 2 eggs, pinch of ginger). Boil the milk and add the meal very slowly 
to keep it smooth. Boil for half an hour and allow to cool. Then add the beaten eggs, 
the salt, molasses and ginger. Pour into a baking dish and bake brown. To be eaten 
hot. Use for a sauce 1 cup of heated molasses in which a tablespoonful of butter has 
been melted. 

JUNKET. — (/ quart milk, % cup sugar, 1 junket tablet, vanilla). Begin by 
dissolving 1 junket tablet in a few drops of water. Leave the milk on the fire until it 
is warm, not hot. Stir in the sugar and vanilla and last the dissolved tablet. Pour as 
quickly as you can into small glasses or a glass bowl. Let it stand just where it is for 
half an hour. It will then be firm and you can put it on the ice. You can break the 
tablet into halves or quarters for a smaller quantity of junket. For a party, serve in 
sherbet glasses with a peak of whipped cream decorated with a scrape of nutmeg or a 
sprinkle of pink sugar. You can buy a small quantity of pink sugar at a confectioner's, 
and keep it for special occasions. 



MUD PIES. Make the recipe for Cornstarch Moulds ; adding 4 teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa, mix to a paste in a little water. Add the cocoa when you "^ut in the cornstarch, 
and cook for 15 minutes. Mould in cups and serve with milk. 

PEACH TART. Cut the crusts from thick bread and butter. Lay slices of freshly 
cut peaches on the bread, and sugar well. Bake until sticky and brown. Serve cold, 
and for company add a peak of whipped cream. 

PUMPKIN PUDDING. Peel and cut into small pieces a Boston squash. It is 
more delicate and easier to cut than a real pumpkin. Steam until tender, and rub 
through a colander. To 1 pint of squash, add 1 pint of milk, Y. cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls 
molasses, 2 eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon ; beat well, pour into a baking dish and 
bake until set and brown. 

PRUNE WHIP.— (6 prunes, whites of 4 eggs, Y cup of sugar). Stew the prunes 
until very tender. Take out the stones, and mash to a fine pulp. Beat the egg whites 
very stiff, add the sugar and the prune pulp. Continue to beat until the prunes are 
well mixed through. Serve cold. 

PRUNE JELLY. — (Y pound prunes, Y\ cup powdered sugar, / lemon, Y box 
gelatine). Soak the prunes over night. Press them through a colander the next morning 
and add the juice of the lemon and the sugar. Cover the gelatine with cold water and 
let it soak for an hour. Add a cup of boiling water and mix with the prune pulp. 
Heat until just ready to boil and pour into egg cups or a jelly mould. Turn out when 
firm, and serve. 

SLIP-ANDGODOWN. Another way of having junket. Combine the dissolved 
tablet and the warm milk without sugar or flavoring. When set, cool and serve with 
brown sugar and cream. 

SPONGE BOXES. Use the little oblong sponge cakes to be bought at the baker's. 
Cut out the centres and fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. You can lay 
a candied cherry or preserved strawberry on top and serve on lace paper doylies, if it 
is for a party. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. — (/ quart strawberries, I cup sugar, V* box gelatine, I pint 
boiling water, Y> cup cold water). Soak the gelatine in the cold water for an hour. 
Crush the berries, mix them with the sugar and let them stand an hour. Put the 
berries through the colander. Pour the boiling water over the gelatine, and when all is 
dissolved add the strawberries and sugar. If all this does not measure one quart add 
water or the jelly will be too firm. In winter you can use canned or preserved berries. 

TOM THUMB PUDDING— (/ cup rice, Y cup butter, 3 cups milk, 2 teaspoonfuls 
brown sugar, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls white sugar, pinch of salt, pinch of cinnamon). Cook 
the rice and, when done add the milk and boil fifteen minutes. Stir in the salt and a 
tablespoonful of the butter. Beat the eggs with the white sugar and stir in when you 
take the rice from the fire. Beat the brown sugar, the rest of the butter, and the 
cinnamon together, and spread it over the hot rice when you have put it into the dish 
in which you wish to serve it. Serve very hot. One of Tom Thumb's adventures was 
the dropping into a dish of this very pudding. An eagle was flying over the castle with 
Tom Thumb dangling from its beak just as King Arthur's cook was crossing the yard, 
carrying the pudding. Tom Thumb dropped right into it. "Wasn't that a pretty dish 
to set before the King?" 



eggs; 



BIRD'S NESTS. Separate the yolks from the whites of as many eggs as there are 
children to be served. Beat the whites very stiff and heap on pieces of buttered toast. 
Make a little hollow in the middle of each and carefully slip a yolk into it, sprinkle with 
salt and brown in the oven. 

CODDLED EGGS. " The best boiled egg is one that is not boiled at all." Put the 
eggs in cold water and let them heat to the boiling point, stand aside in the hot water 
for five minutes. This jellies the egg and makes it very digestable. 

OMELET. A good omelet for children is a bread omelet. Soak half a cupful of 
bread crumbs in half a cup of milk and add it to 4 eggs, well beaten and salted. Pour 
into a hot frying pan in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. When the 
edge begins to show brown lift one side of the omelet with a cake turner and fold it 
over. It is then ready to be served on a hot platter. 

POACHED EGGS. Put as many muffin rings in your frying pan as you have 
eggs to cook. Cover the rings with water and let them boil. Draw the pan to a 
cooler part of the stove, or turn down the gas, as the case may be, and break an egg 
carefully into each ring. When the eggs have cooked for ten minutes without boiling, 
lift ring and all on a cake turner to a piece of buttered toast. Take off the ring, 
and a dash of salt finishes the dish. 

SHIRRED EGGS. Butter little baking cups and break an egg into each. Lay a 
crumb of butter on top, and sprinkle with salt. Bake until the eggs are firm and serve 
in the cups in which they were cooked. 

STUFFED EGGS. Cut hard boiled eggs in half and remove the yolks. Crumb 
the yolks with a fork and stir in a few drops of vinegar and some olive oil. Salt and 
pepper the mixture, and fill the hard whites with it. Put the halves together, and if 
they are for a picnic roll each egg in waxed paper, leaving the paper long enough to 
twist the ends. 



Htqufo Jfoob 

COCOA HOT AND COLD. The directions on the box may make cocoa that is 
too rich for children. A good rule is : a level teaspoonful of the powdered cocoa for 
each cup of milk. Rub the cocoa smooth in a little water, and stir through the milk as 
it is heating in the double boiler. Cook for at least ten minutes, and sweeten to taste. 
On a hot day serve it in glasses, ice cold. 

COCOA SHELLS. Boil 1 cup of shells in 1 quart of water for two hours on the 
fire, or for 4 or 5 hours in the fireless cooker. Add milk or cream and sugar at the 
table. This is not so rich as cocoa, and because of its different flavor makes a pleasant 
change. 

CAMBRIC TEA. Even cambric tea is better if it is made in the right way. Put 
the cream and the sugar in the cup and pour in the boiling water. Brown sugar gives 
it the color of tea and also a slight flavor. 



CORNSTARCH GRUEL. Rub 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch smooth in a little 
water, and stir into a cup of milk. Salt and boil for twenty minutes. If it is too thick 
add hot milk. 

FOAMY MILK. Beat the white of an egg into a glass of milk, with sugar and a 
f race of bitter almond. Serve with straws, if you need to make it more attractive. 

ORANGE JUICE. Squeeze the juice of an orange and strain into a glass with a 
little chipped ice. 

YELLOW MILK. Beat an egg very light and add enough milk to fill a glass. 
Sweeten and flavor with nutmeg or a little vanilla. 



"I sing the saucer and the cup, 
Pray, Mary, fill the teapot up. 
And do not make it strong." 



ifrutt 



APPLE FLUFF.— (2 cups apple sauce, 3 egg whites). Add the beaten egg whites to 
the apple sauce and mix thoroughly. Serve cold. 

APPLE HEAPS. Pare summer apples and grate on a coarse grater. Serve in 
heaps on dessert plates and sprinkle with sugar if the apples are not sweet. 

BAKED BANANA. Peel one side of each banana and arrange them in a baking 
dish, peeled side up. Put a teaspoonful of sugar and butter the size of a marble on each. 
Bake for twenty minutes with a little water in the pan, and serve hot or cold. 

BAKED PIEPLANT. Peel young pieplant and cut it in pieces an inch long. 
Put it in a baking dish. Sugar freely and cover with water. Bake in a slow oven for 
two hours. This is really very different from stewed pieplant and makes a nice change. 

FAT FIGS. Wash a plate of figs and stand in the steamer until soft and plump; 
cool and serve. 

ORANGE RUFFLE. For each child allow one egg and one orange. Whip the 
white of the egg very light, and beat the juice of the orange and a little sugar into it. 
Serve in glasses. 

ROSY APPLES. Peel and core the apples, and place them in a baking pan. Put 
about an inch of water in the pan and two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. Fill the 
centres of the apples with sugar and baste often. The apples will be pink and there 
will be a little syrup, formed by the water and the jelly, to pour over them. Two or 
three cranberries in the centre of each apple when baking will produce rosy fruit if the 
currant jelly is not at hand. 

SLICED PEACHES — MAKE-BELIEVE JUICE. Take 1 cup of sugar, % cup of 
water and butter the size of an olive. Boil together, adding a level tablespoonful of 
flour. Slice one peach into it just before you take it from the fire ; this takes the 
place of cream on sliced peaches. 



SPOONED PEACHES. Peaches can be eaten uncooked by well children. Cut in 
half and remove the stone. Eat out of the skin with a teaspoon as you would eat a 
muskmelon. This way of serving saves the table linen many a stain. 

WATERMELON MARBLES. Use the firm centre of the watermelon and cut 
with the cutter used for making potato balls. Heap in glass saucers with powdered 
sugar. The melon can be cut in cubes the size of cut sugar, but the marbles are more 
attractive. 



Obte anb Cnte 



CREAM SAUCE. — (1 teaspoonful flour, 1 cup hot milk, 1 teaspoonful butter, salt, 
pepper). Melt the butter, and rub the flour, salt, and pepper into it. Stir this through 
the hot milk until it is very smooth. Let it boil until the flour is well cooked, or about 
ten minutes. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. — (1 cup chicken soup strained, 1 teaspoonful melted butter, 
1 cup milk, 3 egg yolks, salt). Put the soup in the double boiler and add to it the milk 
and melted butter. Scald the mixture, and take from the fire. Stir in the beaten yolks 
and the salt. Put it back to cook very slowly until it begins to thicken. Fill custard 
cups and serve when firm and cold. 

HOLIDAY CRACKERS. Spread soda crackers with frosting, and brown in the 
oven. To be eaten hot or cold. 

MARGUERITES. Spread crackers with jam and put a small peak of beaten white 
of egg in the centre of each. Brown in the oven and eat hot or cold. 

MARSHMALLOW TOASTIES. Place marshmallows on crackers and brown in 
the oven. These are better eaten hot. 

PARTY BUTTER.— (Cream 1 teaspoonful butter and 3 teaspoonfuls of powdered 
sugar). Flavor with vanilla or lemon, and when very soft add the white of an egg, 
unbeaten. Use the egg beater until the mixture will stand. Serve as a sauce. It will 
often take the place of cream. 

SWEETENED CREAM. Put 1 tablespoonful of gelatine to soak in a pint of milk 
for half an hour. Heat in the double boiler until it steams, but do not let it come to a 
boil. Add 1 tablespoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of rose water. This will take 
the place of cream, many times, and is very nice when ice cold. A pitcher of half milk 
and half cream, flavored and sweetened, is often used instead of cream. 

PANADA. Butter pilot biscuit, sprinkle with salt and lay in a bowl. Pour boiling 
water over the biscuit, cover the bowl and stand away until the biscuits are clear. 
Eat with cream and sugar or with sweetened cream. 

POP ROBBINS— (1 egg, 1 quart milk, 1 cup flour, salt). Rub the egg and flour 
together until formed into grains, like rice. Add slowly to the boiling milk, stirring all 
the time. When thick as porridge it is done and should be eaten hot with milk and 
sugar. 



PEPPERMINT DROPS.— (1 cup granulated sugar, }4 tablespoon powdered sugar, 
pinch of cream of tartar, 10 drops peppermint). 

"Take one cup of coarse white sugar, three big spoons of water cold, 
Boil this mixture well together, do exactly as you're told. 

Take from stove, add cream of tartar, peppermint about 10 drops, 
Half a spoon of powdered sugar, work fast, there's no time for stops. 

Beat this mixture just two minutes, drop on paper smooth and clean, 
When they're done, I think you'll call them good enough to give a queen." 

LETTER PEPPERMINTS. The large cream peppermints that you buy are better 
for this. Make colored icing and write the children's initials, pouring the liquid candy 
through a very small cone. For fancy peppermints, use the small cone, colored icing 
and your good taste. A large drop in the centre or a circle near the edge makes a 
pretty candy. 

LOLLYPOP LADIES. Buy lollypops at some good store. Leaving on the paper, 
paint or draw a face on the smoother side. Dress in a skirt, shawl, and frilled cap of 
colored tissue paper. 

MARSHMALLOW MICE. These take some time and skill, but are well worth 
while. Choose soft, fresh marshmallows. Pinch one corner a little and draw eyes and 
nose with red ink. Thread a needle with white cotton and draw through where the 
whiskers should come, and cut them the right length. Cut white paper ears in pairs so 
that they will be alike ; if you leave a sharp point you can push it down into the 
marshmallow and it will help to form the head. The ears are better if you can color 
the paper pale pink on the inner side. If you are making a number of mice, color a 
small sheet of paper with a crayon or water color, and then cut all the ears at once. 
For a tail, break off a length of white worsted, take it between the points of your 
scissors, and push into the marshmallow. It will stay when you pull the scissors out. 
Children always love marshmallow mice, and they often grow grey in the service. 



^anbtoirijeg 



BACON. Bread that has been baked 24 hours is best for sandwiches. Soften the 
butter and spread the bread before you cut each slice. Chop broiled bacon (either hot 
or cold) very fine and use as a filling between bread and butter slices. 

CELERY. Choose the tender inside stalks of celery and chop fine. Salt and use 
as filling. 

EGG. Crumb hard boiled eggs and mix with a little olive oil, a few drops of 
vinegar, pepper and salt. Spread between slices of bread and butter. 

HEARTY-JIM. Push cold baked beans through a colander and salt well. If the 
beans were baked with pork, chop a piece of it fine and beat through. Spread 
generously on buttered bread. These sandwiches are very hearty and are much 
enjoyed by boys. 

LETTUCE. Cut young lettuce leaves both ways with a pair of scissors. Season 
and lay between thin slices of bread and butter. 



MAPLE SUGAR. Spread scraped maple sugar between slices of bread and 
butter. Brown sugar is almost as good. 

ROSE LEAF. Cut thin bread and butter into rounds with a cookey cutter. Sugar 
the slices, and lay one or two fresh pink rose petals between — near the edge so that 
they will show where the pieces are put together. 

SCRAPED APPLE. Peel one side of a good eating apple and scrape with a sharp 
knife. Spread the scrapings on buttered bread and sprinkle with sugar. Lay a 
buttered slice on top. 

SCRAPED BEEF SANDWICHES. Use raw beef from the round, scrape with a 
sharp knife. Cut crust from thin buttered bread, spread with beef pulp and salt. 
Toast after sandwich has been put together, as though the whole were one slice of bread. 



J>0Up£ 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. Carefully wash and scrape a bunch of asparagus. Cut off 
the tips and boil them. Cut in short lengths the green that is left on the stalks, and 
cook in one pint of water until soft. Press through a colander. 

Rub a tablespoon ful of flour and one of butter together, and stir with the asparagus 
pulp into one quart of hot milk. Boil ten minutes, season well with salt and pepper, 
and add the tips when you have drained the water from them. 

ALPHABET SOUP. Make beef tea, and add plenty of alphabet noodles. They 
must boil for 20 minutes. The letters are nourishing, and amusing. 

BEEF TEA. Cut one pound of lean, raw beef in small pieces, removing all the fat. 
Cover with 4 teacupfuls cold water and let it stand an hour. Cook slowly for an 
hour. Season with salt and pepper and serve in cups. 

BEEF JUICE. Cut one pound of lean, raw beef in small pieces, and put it in a 
preserve jar with a salt-spoon of salt. Set the jar on the stove in a kettle of cold water. 
Heat very slowly and let it simmer for two hours. Serve very hot in small cups. 

BOUILLON. Put in your soup kettle 2 pounds of lean, raw beef, cut fine, and a 
soup bone well cracked. Cover with cold water, and let it heat slowly and simmer for 
two hours. Season with salt and pepper and a few drops of Kitchen Bouquet. Take 
from the fire and remove the meat and the bone. When cold skim off the fat, return 
to the fire and drop in the white of an egg to clear it. Bring it to a boil, pour through 
a colander lined with cheese cloth, and serve. 

CLAM BROTH. Put one dozen clams that have been washed clean in a kettle 
with a little water, and heat until the clams are open. Chop up the clams and put 
back into the juice. Heat a quart of milk and pour the clams and juice into the milk 
when both have been taken from the fire, otherwise it will curdle. If you like, melt 
through it a little butter. It will be salt enough. 

HODGE PODGE. Start with beef tea and add to it two tomatoes, one potatoe 
cut in small pieces, stalk of celery, 6 okras, and any cold chicken, boiled rice, macaroni 
or noodles you may have in the ice box. Cook for at least half an hour. 



OYSTER BROTH. Cook one pint of oysters in their juice until the beards curl. 
Have a quart of scalding milk ready and pour together, off the stove. Season and serve. 

POTATOE SOUP. One cup mashed potatoe, one onion, 4 cups of milk, 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter, salt and pepper. Heat the milk and the onion together; add the 
potatoe and the butter ; boil five minutes, strain and serve. 

PEAS PORRIDGE HOT. Put a scant cup of split peas to soak the night before. 
In the morning drain and boil in one quart of water. When the peas are soft, put them 
through a colander, and stand the porridge back on the fire. Beat a tablespoonful of 
butter through it, and add pepper, salt, celery salt and onion juice until it tastes good. 
Some people boil a slice of pork in it. Serve very hot in porringers. 

SCOTCH BROTH. Take 3 pints of water that mutton has been boiled in, and 
1 cup of barley that has been soaking for 3 hours. Chop fine an onion, a stalk of 
celery, and a spear of parsley, and cook for two hours in the soup with the barley. 
Ten minutes before serving thicken the soup with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

TAPIOCA BEEF TEA. To beef tea add 2 tablespoonfuls of " Instant " tapioca, 
twenty minutes before the soup is done. Tapioca is very nourishing and digestible, 
as it is prepared for us now-a-days. 



Vegetables; 



BAKED TOMATOES. Cut a slice from the stem end of as many tomatoes as 
you wish to serve. Scoop out the centres and mix with boiled rice, melted butter, and 
salt. Put the mixture in the tomatoes and bake 20 minutes. 

CREAMED RIBBONS. Buy the flat ribbon or egg macaroni. Perhaps your 
grocer calls it " noodles." Break up a cupful and boil in salted water 35 minutes, or 
until very tender. Drain and serve in cream sauce. 

CREAMED SPAGHETTI. Is cooked just as are the ribbons, except that it needs 
ten minutes longer boiling. 

DIXIE SWEET POTATOES. Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in slices and place 
them in a baking dish. Butter and sugar each layer and bake until brown. 

PUFF POTATOES. Stir into one pint of mashed potatoe a half cupful of hot 
milk. Salt and pepper, and beat in the whites of two eggs. Bake in a pudding dish 
until a good brown. 

STUFFED POTATOES. Cut off the ends of hot baked potatoes, scoop out the 
inside and beat all together in a bowl with a little milk, butter, and salt. Put the mix- 
ture back into the skins and brown them in the oven. Sweet potatoes are stuffed 
in the same way. 



Your children will 
some day look back and 
think of the things 
which really contributed 
to their early education. 




Will these remem- 
brances include any of 
the books which you are 
buying for them now 
when they are young ? 



TRADE MARK 



Mother Goose Rhymes My Children Love 

Mother Goose Songs My Children Love 

Mother Goose Pictures My Children Love to Cut Out and Assemble 

My Children's Scrap Book 

Shadow Pictures My Children Love to Make 

What My Children Love to Eat and How I Prepare the Menus 

Mottoes My Children Love to Color and Frame (Paint Book) 

Home Songs My Children Love 

Piano Pieces My Children Love 

My Children's Robert Louis Stevenson Paint Book 

My Children's Eugene Field Paint Book 

Anderson's Fairy Pictures My Children Love to Color (Paint Book) 

Grimm's Fairy Pictures My Children Love to Color (Paint Book) 

Colored Crayons My Children Use (assorted colors) 

Paints and Brush My Children Use 

Paste My Children Use 

Pieces My Children Love to Speak 

All About My Baby (Baby's Record Book) 



Songs My Father Loves 

Songs My Mother Loves 

Songs My Sister Loves 

Songs My Brother Loves 
Piano Pieces My Father Loves 

Piano Pieces My Mother Loves 

Piano Pieces My Sister Loves 

Piano Pieces My Brother Loves 



For Sale at All Stores where Children's Books are Sold 




A PARTIAL LIST 

Home, Sweet Home 

Ben Bolt 

Annie Laurie 

The Old Oaken Bucket 

Home, Can I Forget Thee 

Flow Gently, Sweet Afton 

Rocked in the Cradle of the 

Deep 
Liiten to the Mocking-Bird 
Hard Times Come Again 

No More 
My Old Kentucky Home, 

Good Night 
Tom-Big-Bee River 
The Old Cabin Home 
Old Folks at Home 
John Brown's Body 
Massa's in Oe Cold Ground 
Old Black Joe 
Sailing 

Tarpaulin Jacket 
Nancy Lee 
Larboard Watch 



OF CONTENTS 

The Midshipmite 

Merrilly We Roll Along 

The Future Mrs. Awkins 

My Old Dutch 

The Battle Cry o( Freedom 

Soldier's Farewell 

Tramp 1 Tramp I Tramp I 

Yankee Doodle 

Just Beforethe Battle, Mother 

Nearer, My God to Thee 

Dixie's Land 

Captains Jinks 

Marching Through Georgia 

Dear Old Pals 

The Star Spangled Banner 

America 

We're Tenting To-Night 

The Son of God Goes Forth 

to War 
Onward, Christian Soldiers 
Jesus, Lover of My Soul 
Work for the Night is Coming 




Songs 
My Mother 



A PARTIAL LIST 

Sweet and Low 

Dream Faces 

Ah, Tis A Dream 

Oft in the Stilly Night 

Bonnie Doon 

Dearest Spot is Home 

Blest Be the Tie That Binds 

The Bridge 

I Cannot Sing the Old Songs 

The Heart Bowed Down 

Darling Nelly Grey 

The Last Rose of Summer 

Now the Day is Over 

Love's Old Sweet Song 

Love, I Will Love You Ever ! 

Darby and Joan 

John Anderson, My Jo 

Home, Sweet Home 

The Blue Bells of Scotland 

Rock of Ages 

The Lord is My Shepherd 

Old Hundred 

Softly Now the Light of Day 



■oves 



OF CONTENTS 

The Ninety and Nine 
The Old Arm Chair 
Now the Day is Over 
Lullaby from Erminie 
American Cradle Song 
French Cradle Song 
German Cradle Song 
Italian Cradle Song 
Go to Sleep, Lena Darling 

(Emmet's Lullaby) 
Come, All Ye Faithful 
My Faith Looks Up to Thee 
Nearer, My Cod, to Thee 
Lead, Kindly Light 
Jerusalem the Golden 
Jesus, Lover of My Soul 
Holy Night 
Abide with Me 
The Lost Chord 
The Lord's Prayer 
I Love to Tell the Story 
One Sweetly Solemn Thought 
God Be with You 





— 1 


*VJS^-/ Zs 





Songs 

My Sister 

Loves 




Songs 
My Brother 



Lo 



ves 



A PARTIAL LIST OF CONTENTS 



A PARTIAL LIST OF CONTENTS 



Comin' Thro' the Rye 
Beauty's Eyes 
Good-Bye, Sweetheart 
When the Swallows Home- 
ward Fly 
Forsaken 
Drifting 

We'd Better Bide A Wee 
I Love Thee, Darling 
Then You'll Remember Me 
Douglas 

The Blue Alsatian Mountains 
Am 1 Not Fondly Thine Own 
Take Back the Heart 
Two Roses 
Last Night 
Those Evening Bells 
Some Day 
Weary 



I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble 

Halls 
Robin Adair 
Ever of Thee 
Love Smiles No More 
You and I 

Rock Me to Sleep, Mother 
My Mother Dear 
Sleep, Gentle Mother 
Home, Sweet Home 
Long, Long Ago 
In the Gloaming 
In Happy Momenta 
Good-Bye 
"No, Sir!" 
Hark I I Hear a Voice 
Where, O Where ? 
Funiculi, Funicula 
The Little Tin Soldier 
Hours There Were 



Vive L'Amour 
Landlord Fill the Flowing 

Bowl 
Bingo 

Meerschaum Pipe 
Three Blind Mice 
Bohunkus 
Solomon Levi 
Noah's Ark 
I've Lost My Doggie 
Mush, Mush 
The Mermaid 
Ba-Be-Bi-Bo-Bu 
Crow Song 
The Bull- Dog 
Where Has My Little Dog 

Gone 
Polly-Wolly-Doodle 
Thine Eyes are Blue and 

Dreaming 
A Warrior Bold 



Farewell Forever 

My Bonnie 

Upidee 

Nut-Brown Maiden 

The Quilting Party 

Bring the Wagon Home, John 

My Last Cigar 

Stars of a Summer Night 

Dear Evelina, Sweet Evelina 

Over the Banister 

Twinkling Stars are Laughing, 

Love 
Juanita 
Drink to Me Only with Thine 

Eyes 
Wait for the Wagon 
When the Corn is Waving 
Only a Face at the Window 
Auld Lyng Syne 
Good-Night, Ladies 
Where, O Where? 



For Sale At All Stores Where Music Is Sold 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




