S?":^:^ 




to 



Household Soienoe 
Department 
Unlv- of Torontp 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. VII, 1915 
COMPLETE IN TEN NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 
1915 



T 







1101571 



T H K 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking 
Institution Management, and Educational Work in Home Economics 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Kkturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Lanowopthy 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

COLLABORATORS 
The OfTicere, Members of the Council, and Advisers 

Vol. \II JANUARY, 1915 No. 1 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Community housekeeping, J. E. ('utter 1 

Art in the home, Annette J. Warner 8 

The old and the new 16 

Welfare service in an English insurance company, F J. Cross 19 

Bureau of Home Economics, Xew York Edison Company 21 

Household ammonia an economic absurdity, J. F. Snell 22 

Domestic art equipment in Pawtucket, R. I., Florence A. Warner 26 

Report of the Household Aid Company (^reissued) 27 

Mis Richards and our debt to her, Lucy M. Salmon 27 

Editorials 29 

Housekeepers department 31 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 43 

Books and literature 45 

Books received 48 

News from the field 49 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year,--manthly except July 
and August, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENFS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on Xew York, Express Order, or Postal 
Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a 
repstered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date 
of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the subscriber's Old 
Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as iecond class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII JANUARY, 1915 No. 1 

COMMUNITY HOUSEKEEPING^ 

J. E. CUTLER 
Professor of Sociology, Western Reserve University 

The nature and scope of the work of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association depend upon the definition or interpretation of 
the word home. 

In the minds of most people home connotes a single dwelling 
located upon a plot of land which is at the disposal of the residents. 
This single dwelhng is, or ought to be, owned by the family occupy- 
ing it and the land should furnish suppHes for the family. Such a 
single dwelling and the family occupying it constitute a household 
serving as an economic and social center. Economically this house- 
hold is largely self-supporting and self-sufficient. Food suppUes and 
raw products are obtained from the land, and the members of the 
household carry on the necessary manufacturing processes, both 
sexes sharing in the work. This household is also a social unit. It 
serves as a meeting place for neighborhood gatherings; it is the place 
where the young people have their parties and their good times. 

Such may be called the colonial type of home, splendidly typified 
in Mount Vernon on the Potomac, George Washington's home. 
A visitor to Mount Vernon gets an impression of unity, complete- 
ness, economic self-sufficiency and social efficiency — an impression 
that it was a place which served admirably as a center of peaceful 
and restful domesticity. Popularly, at least, it serves as the stand- 
ard, the ideal form of the American home. Possibly it enters, more 
or less unconsciously, into the minds of those of us who are interested 

* Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. Dr. Cutler's address is given in part. 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

in Home Economics, and serves as our standard also. If it does, and 
to the extent that it does, we are handicapping ourselves profession- 
ally. We are selecting as our goal a past that is gone, and gone for- 
ever. We must concern ourselves with a new type, or types, of home, 
and we must consider a larger unit, a larger home. We must put 
into the meaning of Jwme something of its old Teutonic sense when 
in the form "heim" it m-^ant a village, or community. 

In the colonial i\'pe of home the family was fairly stable. There 
was a well estabHshed sex division of labor. The women were en- 
gaged in all the domestic arts which now have, almost entirely, be- 
come factory processes. The status of women was not questioned; 
it was in harmony with the customs and traditions of the time. At 
the present time there is plenty of evidence that the family is far less 
stable, that it somehow or other is less satisfactory. 

But there are two facts in particular pertaining to the American 
family, which greatly disturb many thinking people at the present 
time: the decrease in the size of families — the race suicide as it has 
been called; and the increase in the number of divorces. 

The number of persons to a family in the United States was 5.55 
in 1850. In 1900 it was 4.7, a decrease in 50 years of 16.07. In 
these figures the relatively large families of the immigrants are in- 
cluded. If we were to take the figures for the native element alone, 
the decrease would be much larger. There are two opinions about 
this situation, both held by people competent to draw conclusions: 

1. It is to be regarded as a source of alarm. It is an indication of 
the beginning of racial degeneration. It is an indication of a tend- 
ency toward the disintegration of the family. Our primary and 
fundamental social unit is disintegrating. 

2. It is not to be regarded as an indication of degeneration, but 
rather as an indication of a clearer recognition of the nature of the 
family — a clearer recognition of the responsibihty of the father and the 
mother to bring up well a small family rather than to neglect a large 
one. 

There is nothing abnormal about these facts. They are in per- 
fect accord with what we know about the operation of the general 
law of population. 

The increasing divorce rate in this country presents a serious 
situation. The number of divorces per 100,000 married population 
has increased from 81 in 1870 to 200 in the year 1900. Approximately 



1915] COMMUNITY HOUSEKEEPING 3 

4 out of every 1000 married couples are now being divorced annually. 
With possibly one exception we have the highest divorce rate of all 
the countries in the world — probably it is very nearly, if not quite, 
the highest divorce rate in the world's history. 

Various explanations are offered: various remedies are suggested. 
With none of these are we directly concerned in the present dis- 
cussion. 

There are some things that you cannot force a society to do, any 
more than you can force an individual to do certain things. You 
cannot by legislation, or by any form of compulsion, force men to be 
ambitious, to be energetic, or to be good and honest and true. No 
more can you by legislation compel a society to maintain an ideal 
marriage institution. A study of the history of marriage shows 
that this institution has in the past undergone many changes and 
modifications and it seems pretty clear that just now it is undergoing 
another notable change. Prominent as a factor in this change, per- 
haps the most prominent factor of all, is the new status of woman. 

The marriage institution is distinctly a social institution, one 
that is controlled by the customs, standards and ideals of society. 
Its existence, its continuance and the terms on which the marriage 
relation may be dissolved, are really determined by the conditions 
of life, and the standards and ideals which characterize the society. 
If marriage is regarded as merely a social convenience, at a time 
when conditions are in many ways unfavorable to the maintenance 
of high grade family life, as is true at present, divorce, or something 
which is practically the same thing, will be common. If marriage 
has a solid basis in mutual interests for the parties concerned and is 
regarded as a holy union to be dissolved only by extremely unfavor- 
able conditions for its continuance, then divorces and separations will 
be rare. 

Woman as a wife is a conception not fully attained by everybody 
as yet. It really is a very modern notion. The word wife seems 
to connote a higher status, a position of larger responsibihty in the 
household but after all, in fact, it has been interpreted as meaning a 
position with restricted authority. The wife is more or less of a silent 
partner; she may act as a representative of the firm up to a certain 
point and no further. 

One of the points at issue at the present time is whether the wife 
shall be a full member in the joint partnership of the family. Many 



4 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

of the women are refusing to be silent partners any longer. They 
are breaking the silence and the result is the modern woman move- 
ment. In the marriage institution we really have a case of antago- 
nistic cooperation. Neither party wants to ente^- such a permanent 
relationship unless there are distinct advantages to be gained. And 
so it happens that there must be mutual advantages for the two parties 
in order that the marria^ e institution shall be stable. 

Any change in -iving conditions must necessarily affect the 
stability of the family. New ways of earning a living make neces- 
sary a re-adjustment in the relations of the two parties in the mar- 
riage institution. At the present time a notable re-adjustment 
is in progress. A new alignment for the sex division of labor is being 
w^orked out. The entrance of women into wage-earning occupa- 
tions gives them a stronger economic position and hence the terms 
of the marriage relation are being re-adjusted. There is some in- 
dication that woman will come to occupy the full status of a wife and 
will assume all the responsibilities which that position implies. 

The fact that modern manufacturing plants can do the work of 
the domestic arts more cheaply means that the women cannot, if they 
would, all remain at home, spinning, weaving, making house fur- 
nishings and preparing meals for a family. A larger and larger 
proportion of the women must necessarily work for wages in factories, 
stores, and offices. And they are as a matter of fact entering prac- 
tically all the branches of the modern factory system and the busi- 
ness world. They are also establishing businesses of their own and 
they are entering the professions. 

In the census report of 1900 the detailed classifications of bread- 
winners, with respect to the kind of work in which they were en- 
gaged, distinguished 303 occupations. Women were represented 
in all but 9 of these occupations. 

The facts of human history make us exceedingly cautious about 
saying there are some kinds of work which women are not fitted to 
do. In this connection one might well read the book by Otis T. 
Mason: Woman's Share in Primitive Culture. It is a standard 
authority and written by a man. One wonders, after reading that 
book, if the men did anything at all. 

In 1900 one woman in every five was engaged in a gainful occu- 
pation, that is, working for wages or on a salary. Probably one in 
every four is a wage earner at the present time. 



1915] COMMUNITY HOUSEKEEPING 5 

If the young women go out from the home to work for wages the 
tendency is to weaken the family tie. The young women come to 
feel more or less independent. They are less closely bound to the 
home and to their parents. Their social life no longer centers in 
the home. It centers in moving-picture shows, theaters, parks — 
public places of amusement. Hence it is necessary to exercise super- 
vision over pubhc places of amusement. We are forced to treat 
this matter of recreation nowadays as a community problem. If 
married women go out from the home to work for wages that seems 
to mean less care of the home, less care of the young children. 

What is new about this situation is not that women are working. 
Women have always worked. The new fact is that women are 
working for wages; they are becoming wage earners. It was not 
so very long ago that men began to work for wages. Some important 
consequences followed that change. Now women are working for 
wages and still more important consequences are now beginning to be 
recognized. It is becoming apparent that a new type of home and of 
family hfe is necessary. The old is no longer possible. 

The family is now in a period of transition, a period of re-adjust- 
ment. Most people are at present studying the symptoms of this 
transition. They are studying desertions and divorces, when they 
ought to be studying the marriage institution and the family. They 
are seeking a remedy for divorce, when they might much more profit- 
ably be seeking a new basis for the stabiUty of the family. 

Some hundred years ago the economic effects of what we know 
as the industrial revolution became noticeable and students began 
to be interested in a new science — political economics or economics. 
Somewhat later the social effects and consequences of the industrial 
revolution became evident and people became interested in social 
problems — this interest giving point and significance to the develop- 
ment of another new science, that of sociology. 

We are just now becoming aware of the effect of the industrial 
revolution on the family and slowly we are coming to the realization 
that some changes in the form of the family are inevitable and neces- 
sary, whatever the cost. It is pretty clear that the cost will be 
heavy measured in human suffering and misery but we can scarcely 
doubt that the gain will overbalance the loss in the long run — unless 
we have ceased to have faith in humanity. 

Then there are the changes in the form of the dwelling. An in- 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

creasing proportion of the population is coming to live under urban 
conditions, and in the cities the single dwelling is becoming surpris- 
ingly rare. For perfectly obvious and vaUd reasons the single dwelUng 
is being replaced by terraces, double houses, flats, apartment houses 
and tenements— multiple dwelHngs of one kind or another. 

Many famihes, possibly a majority of the families, are now hv- 
ing in these multiple dwellings— these new types of dwelhng houses 
— owning no home and possessing no land. They have a right to use 
a balcony, a porch or part of a veranda, some stairs and a hall, a 
section of the basement— and the pubUc streets. There is no place 
for the children to play, without disturbing the neighbors or ob- 
structing the traffic on the streets. 

There is Httle chance for peaceful domesticity. The streets are 
noisy. Some of the neighbors are amateur musicians. There are 
piano players and victrolas. Vacations are necessary in order to 
avoid nervous break-dow^ns and these vacations must be spent away 
from home. Sundays must be spent away from home. There is no 
rest to be found at home. All must go away from home for their good 
times. 

!Many of the women Uving in multiple dwellings are Uving under 
conditions which do not permit them to work, that is, to contribute 
to the family income. The apartment house women are not per- 
mitted to work at anything worth w^hile on account of the attitude of 
their husbands and of the social standards which prevail. They are 
occupying, perhaps we may say, the position of ornamental fixtures in 
the home. Their function in the household is apparently to make 
themselves indispensable luxuries and thus keep the family together. 

The tenement house women do not have room to engage in work in 
their homes without endangering their own health and that of their 
famihes. But if the tenement house woman stays at home to look 
after the children she cannot really take care of them and give them 
the moral training which children used to get in the home. The 
children run the streets. There is nothing for them to do that is 
beneficial to them. 

It is evident that the problem of satisfactory modern living con- 
ditions has not yet been solved, that the modern dweUing is not 
yet adjusted to the needs of the modern family. Some of these 
multiple dwellings in our cities are not fit for human habitation, to 
say nothing of maintaining homes in them. When people build 



1915] COMMUNITY HOUSEKEEPING 7 

houses for other people to live in and maintain them as an investment 
for immediate dividends, these dwellings are not likely, in the ordi- 
nary course of human events, to be the best possible places for families 
to live. 

We are learning that there is such a thing as public health and that 
it bears a vital relation to the health of the members of the individual 
household. 

The relation of education, or of the educational system, to the 
family and the needs of the members of the family is also becoming 
clear. The boys cannot work with the father; the girls cannot work 
with the mother; they have no means of choosing or of learning a 
useful occupation. And so we are becoming interested in vocational 
guidance and vocational training. It is urged that emphasis needs 
to be given to the education of boys as homebuilders and income- 
earners, while girls should be educated as homemakers and income- 
spenders. There is little doubt that girls must be educated as income- 
earners also. 

The moral training of the children also demands our attention. 
The home is apparently not giving the moral training that it used 
to give. The church seems not to be in a position to assume any 
larger responsibility in this direction. Shall the schools undertake 
to assume this responsibility more definitely and effectively? 

In the matter of recreation we are facing a serious community 
problem, particularly serious because so few people as yet recognize 
that it is a community problem. In our dance halls and pleasure 
resorts the young people are seeking fun, which is perfectly normal 
and thoroughly wholesome, and they are being exploited for gain. 

The conditions of employment are also to be given earnest con- 
sideration. We must concern ourselves about child labor and leg- 
islation with reference to the employment of women. We must know 
what the incidence of the risks of modem industry is upon the family 
and we must do our part toward the development of a proper and 
satisfactory system of social insurance. We ought surely to be in a 
position to point out the vicious nature of the ordinary industrial 
insurance. 

These are all community problems. Home Economics seems 
to bear a vital relation to these questions. We shall not get a sat- 
isfactory modern home without, in a measure at least, solving these 
problems satisfactorily. 



8 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The opportunity that lies before this association seems to be an 
unusual and exceptional opportunity. No one is professionally in- 
terested in the solution of the problems of the modern home, except 
the members of this Association. 

The sociologists are professionally interested, it is true, but mainly 
in a general and theoretical way. You are interested in the prac- 
tical side. You have an opportunity to bear an important part in 
the development of community housekeeping as well as in Home 
Economics in the narrower sense. 

ART IN THE HOME^ 

ANNETTE J. WARNER 
Department of Home Economics, Cornell University 

The subject of Home Economics has been efficiently organized 
under the three heads Food, Shelter and Clothing. The poorest 
person in the United States must have food, shelter and clothing; 
the great middle classes are chiefly concerned in one way or another 
with food, shelter and clothing; the multimillionaires, far from be- 
coming independent of these, find in food, shelter and clothing a 
principal outlet and the outward symbol for their constantly in- 
creasing wealth — richer food, more magnificent shelter, more gor- 
geous raiment. Among poor, well-to-do and wealthy there are those 
who feed, some who eat, only a few who dine; there are many who 
are barely sheltered, some who are comfortably and even luxuriously 
housed, but comparatively few who really live in homes; there are 
many whose clothes serve chiefly as covering, many who are amply 
clothed for all purposes of warmth and many of display, a few only 
whose dress is the outward expression of an inner harmony. The dif- 
ference between feeding and dining, between shelter and a home, 
between clothing and costume is not one of quantity, of outlay or 
even of degree, but a subtle and important quahty which Ufts them 
from the realm of mere physical necessity into one where the spirit 
also is refreshed. 

One who attended the Cornell meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association must have been deeply impressed by the pur- 

^ Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. Miss Warner's address is given in part. 



1915] ART IN THE HOME 9 

pose, earnestness and enthusiasm of the speakers, the wonderful 
utility, efficiency and science in the methods by which they planned 
to do the daily work in every little group which centers about a home 
and in the larger groups where home is spelled with a capital H, in 
municipal and in national housekeeping. One marveled at the steps 
to be saved in houses rationally planned, the health to be conserved 
by well-balanced meals, the advantages in money and morals to result 
from ethically and economically planned clothing. There seemed to 
be only one thing lacking in this well begun, three dimensioned struc- 
ture of Home Economics and that was a sort of fourth dimension 
which would extend it into that realm where man does not Uve by 
bread alone. This fourth dimension is not in the nature of a super- 
fluous or supplementary adjunct to be affixed after people are well 
fed, adequately sheltered and comfortably clothed, but an integral 
and component element which should inhere in the structure from its 
foundations, a quality which should permeate it Hke an atmosphere. 
This reahzed, we should joyfully observe all the laws of health in order 
to make the body a fit abode for the human spirit, as did the old 
Greeks; we should naturally learn to clothe it becomingly and appro- 
priately; we should build worthy homes and furnish them simply and 
beautifully that they might be the dwelling places of contentment 
and harmony. 

One of the best things accomplished by Practical Art Schools and 
Home Economics Departments has been the dignifying of all the 
homely work of housekeeping by raising it to the level of a science. 

Now can we not further glorify it by accomplishing what Murillo 
suggested in that old picture of a Spanish kitchen where white robed 
angels are represented in the act of washing pots and kettles in such 
a fascinating way as to make it seem like a naturally angelic occupa- 
tion — do for it what Millet did when he showed that labor was not a 
curse but a necessary and beautiful part of the divinely ordered 
scheme of the universe. To his eyes the peasants of Barbizon working 
in the fields sowing and planting, tending their flocks, baking and 
churning, feeding their chickens and their children were links in the 
great nature rhythms of labor which swing the old earth in her orbit 
from seedtime to harvest, day to night, season to season. One might 
wish there were some different word than art to express this quality, 
for art always seems to scientific people an unpractical thing. But 
beauty was born of utility long, long ago. The shape of a tool, of a 



10 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

column, of an arch may have been determined with a view only to use, 
but the most economic and strongest form is always found to be the 
most beautiful. Art marks the eternal distinction between drudgery 
and work. The conclusion which must follow from this truth so ably 
defended by William Morris and others is that no human being can 
be satisfied and happy in an activity which fails to call into play 
his desire to express himself and his native instinct for the beautiful. 
"The art in a thing is the living expression of the joy of a man in his 
work." "Art is the doing whatever has to be done in the best way 
in which it can be done." 

To have art in the home and in Home Economics it is necessary 
that homemakers should be taught that appreciation of what is fitting 
and beautiful which we call good taste. Any person of ordinary 
intelligence is able to develop power to select with good taste the 
furnishings of a home and the clothing for a family. Such power is 
a growth, however, not a product, and is not to be acquired in a day. 
The training of this power should begin in the public schools, for the 
homemakers of tomorrow are in the public schools of today. To this 
end even the little schoolhouse should be one of the best buildings 
in the town with well cared for grounds. The schoolroom should be 
large, well hghted, well ventilated, with restful color on the walls. 

There should be books, pictures and casts so that poets and artists 
may act as interpreters of the beauty everywhere present. Every 
morning there should be some beautiful thing brought to the atten- 
tion of the children and interpreted to them — perhaps the morning 
itself bright with sunshine or beautiful with clouds, wonderful in the 
tender color of the springtime or gorgeous with the brilliant color of 
the fall, or a poem, a song, a picture or a flower, a cup, a pitcher, a 
bit of handwork, any common thing glorified with the touch of beauty. 
Their minds should be filled with beauty, for as Emerson says, out of 
nothing nothing comes. 

Almost every problem connected with the building and furnish- 
ing of a house is also an art problem. The selection of a site and 
the choice of the architecture best suited to the site is a matter call- 
ing for a trained taste. A house should be in such harmony with 
its environment that it seems a natural outgrowth, and if for any 
reason it were to escape from its moorings one should be able to de- 
cide whether it properly belonged on a town or village street, in a 
level or hilly landscape, in a rocky pasture or on a sandy beach, 



1915] ART IN THE HOME H 

whether it had been surrounded by trees and gardens or had been 
standing in bold relief against sea or sky. The house would proclaim, 
in its structure, its purpose, and not leave one in doubt whether it 
were a really truly modern house or an old colonial mansion surviving 
with the stately inconveniences of '76, or an imported Jacobean 
manor house brought up to date and unwillingly naturalized. Art 
training would determine the material of which the house should be 
built and dictate the color of the outside so that it would harmonize 
with the landscape at every season of the year. Such color would be 
always near neutral, the soft grays and browns of weathered wood, of 
the stones, earth, tree trunks, or other natural objects in the vicinity 
colored by the brush of the great colorists, time and nature. 

The planning of the interior is another art problem. Every home- 
maker should understand what considerations govern economy in 
the arrangement of the working, living and sleeping space in a home 
so as to produce the greatest possible efficiency, comfort and beauty. 
This does not mean that she sould become an architect, but merely 
that she should be able to work intelligently with the architect in 
the building of her own home. It would enable her to secure rooms 
of beautiful proportions, agreeable division of wall spaces by doors 
and windows, harmonious relation of lines in windows, doors, picture 
mouldings and built-in furniture; to avoid the inconvenient and un- 
beautiful placing of steam coils, ventilators and lighting fixtures 
which often are located as if with malicious intent to spoil the very 
best spaces in the room. 

Every homemaker should cultivate a discriminating taste in color. 
Color is the vehicle which conveys to the mind every idea which 
reaches it through the eye. There is no more important consider- 
ation in the furnishing of a home than that of color. There is 
nothing so bad in the way of furnishing in a home but that beautiful 
color will do something in the way of obviating its defects and atoning 
for its crimes; there is nothing so good in texture or design but that 
bad color will more than nullify its virtues, it will even render it 
a discordant note in the room like "Sweet bells jangled out of tune 
and harsh." Color makes the atmosphere of a house. Whether one is 
conscious of it or not color gives the first impression as one enters 
the room. It has been proven by psychology that some colors are 
soothing, others irritating, some produce cheerfulness, others de- 
spondency. Color has the power to increase the apparent size of a 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

room, to make a room actually lighter, or to subdue a too glaring 
light. The tendency of late to make all the rooms in a house or on 
one floor of the same color works toward a unity of effect which is one 
of the first requirements in a work of art. This is especially desirable 
if the rooms all open into each other. It is possible to give a pleas- 
ing variety even while using only one color. If, for instance, yellow 
were the color chosen, the walls in a room with a northern exposure 
might be colored with a not too dull yellow; a dark hall or less well 
lighted room with a lighter and brighter yellow; while the living room 
might be colored with a medium value in a tone approaching gray or 
with a shade of yellow which would popularly be called brown. The 
dining room might be varied by a two-tone design in a stripe or a figure 
and in the kitchen with its black stove there might be added to the 
yellow walls, dull terra cotta tiles with a white line so as to reproduce 
the color scheme in an old Greek vase. Exposure in fighting must 
always be considered in deternfining color schemes. Rooms with a 
northern exposure call for the warmer colors. In rooms with a south- 
ern exposure cooler colors may be used. The woodwork must always 
be a determining factor in selecting the color in a room. If the room 
is finished as far as the woodwork goes the furnisher is no longer 
free. The walls must harmonize with the woodwork by analogy or 
contrast. If the woodwork is to be painted the range of possibifities 
is greater, and many most harmonious effects may be obtained inex- 
pensively if the painter is also a colorist. Apparent size of rooms 
may be increased by matching paint to the paper. 

The walls, ceiUng and floor are the backgrounds for furniture, 
hangings, pictures and the scenes of family Hfe enacted against 
them. It is the province of a background to stay back, to play a 
subordinate though very important part like the accompanist in a 
vocal number. If home furnishers would remember this law of 
backgrounds, all gaudily hued, naturaUstically or obtrusively-figured, 
aggressively-striped wall papers would be banished from the market. 
None would be manufactured and thus one temptation to the indul- 
gence of a perverted or untrained taste would be removed. 

If every homemaker had a trained taste she would reaHze the 
beauty and restfulness in unfilled spaces and would have no pic- 
tures that were not selected with the defiberation with which one 
selects a Hfe long friend. These she would frame in accordance with 
the character of the picture, and in the room and space to which they 



1915] ART IN THE HOME 13 

were best adapted hang them on the level with the eye flat against 
the wall or by two cords which would continue the lines in the frame 
and harmonize with all the other vertical lines in the room. She 
would select draperies for doors and windows which should make 
them adjustable parts of the wall surface of the room or they should 
be of such interesting design and beautiful and harmonious coloring 
as to serve as decorations instead of pictures. The folds of these 
draperies would hang in vertical lines harmonizing with the structure 
of the room. The colors and possibly the design in walls or hangings 
would be repeated in the upholstery of furniture and in quieter, lower 
tones in the rugs upon the floor. In the home where art is a 1 and- 
maid the rugs will not lie at sixes and sevens upon the floor as if the 
wind had blown from all four points of the compass at once but in 
orderly fashion with due attention to each other and to the lines of the 
room. 

Every piece of furniture should be selected to fulfill a purpose 
for use or comfort, should be well and sincerely built of as good ma- 
terial as may be and on good lines. Every bit of decoration on a piece 
of furniture should be questioned. Does it emphasize or refine the 
construction or is it added after the construction is complete? A 
fine moulding following the edge of the mantelpiece, or a finely 
carved bed post is decoration. A bunch of acanthus leaves or a 
cupid's head stuck on in the middle of a frieze or a curved knot of 
fluttering ribbons or a garland of flowers on the head board, is orna- 
ment. Good taste dispenses with ornament. Every piece of furni- 
ture should have but one use. Beware of a bureau which masquer- 
ades as a chest of drawers by day and a bed by night, of chairs which 
are step ladders, of a mirror which is also a hat rack. 

Expense is not a necessary condition for beautiful homes. An 
ounce of taste will go farther than a pound of money. William Mor- 
ris once said, "Art was not born in a palace, rather, she fell sick there." 

The homemaker with trained taste has in garden and field a treas- 
ure house from which she may select at any time of the year sub- 
jects for art compositions which shall be sources of constant delight 
and inspiration to her household. The living room and dining room 
should be the scene of a pageant of flower arrangements march- 
ing in endless succession through the year. Every principle of de- 
sign and color is apphcable in flower arrangement. Some plants 
are beautiful for grace of line or for the perfection of a single bios- 



14 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

som, others for clusters of bloom or for their color. The former 
should be arranged singly or in small groups so that their particular 
beauty is seen to best advantage, the latter may be composed in masses. 
A single rose or a pond lily floating in a bowl of water, one stalk 
of eastern lilies, three poppies or chrysanthemums, a bowl of nas- 
turtiums or pansies, a glass of sweet peas, a single plant of field 
violets or hepaticas will furnish enough of a feast of beauty to glorify 
a simple meal. Nor are these possibilities exhausted by the coming 
of frost. The brown sedges, the seed packs, berries from the bitter 
sweet and black alder, the gray green boats of the milkweed gathered 
when the winged crew are just ready for flight, the many evergreens 
and countless other subjects furnish endless possibilities for beauty 
to be had for the trouble or pleasure of gathering. A simple and 
safe rule in the arrangement of flowers is to use only one variety and 
to arrange them so as to show the natural growth of the flower. In 
the arrangement of several single flowers or of masses of flowers there 
should always be one dominant flower or mass with subordinate flowers 
or masses related to it. Every homemaker should have a collection 
of flower receptacles. These need not be expensive, indeed, they 
should never compete in attraction with that which they are to hold. 
In form they should repeat or contrast the Hues of the plant forms 
and in color be entirely neutral or echo the color in the plant in grayer 
tones. Clear glass showing the stems of the plants is a good choice 
for many arrangements and may be procured in a great variety of 
good shapes for little money. 

In every home the homemaker is the supreme center of interest. 
Her standard of taste is an all-powerful influence. Therefore she 
should be always appropriately and becomingly dressed and with judg- 
ment and taste be able to select the clothing of the family. Clothing 
in its largest sense is not merely a personal problem, it is a national 
problem. It is a part of that much discussed problem of the cost 
of living, of woman's wages, of wasteful industries. It has to do 
with the social evil itself. Its right solution means not only better 
and more beautiful women but more stable industries and a finer 
social Hfe. Therefore, because of its far reaching, social and eco- 
nomic relations, every woman should devote to it that serious and 
orderly thinking with which one approaches important problems. An 
instinct for clothes is second nature to woman. Clothing was the 
first necessity impressed upon her after her first lesson under the 



1915] ART IN THE HOME 15 

apple tree. The part clothing has played in economics in the his- 
tory of the nations from the very beginnings to the present it would 
be impossible to estimate. In its art aspect it offers, Uke home fur- 
nishing, a most practical field for the application of all the principles 
of design and color. Training along these lines should begin in the 
public schools in the making of doll clothes, selection of hair ribbons, 
ties and other accessories according to some scheme of color or design 
and should continue through college and be an essential part of every 
course in Home Economics. 

A clever writer has said that ''In the merciful scheme of nature 
there are no plain women." If every woman would studiously make 
the best of herself physically, mentally, spiritually, artistically, 
there need be no unattractive women. It is no unworthy study to 
learn to make the most of and to do justice to one's self. If you 
cannot write a poem or paint a picture you can perhaps be one. 

Every woman should know her own color scheme, select colors 
that are becoming to her and remain true to them until with change of 
color and graying hair an entire change in color scheme is imperative. 
She should realize that color is of the first importance and that no 
woman unless a brilliant beauty in her prime can afTord to wear a 
whole dress of color of more than one-half intensity and then only 
by artificial light in the privacy of her own home or as the brilliant 
dominant decoration of a festive gathering. 

Clothes are never just clothes; they have relation to a great many 
other factors in Hfe and a trained taste will lead to considerations 
of dress in these relations. No woman can afford to dress for her- 
self alone but must consider her position, her business or profession, 
her purse, her own appearance and the occasion. When all home- 
makers have trained taste each member of the family will be appro- 
priately and becomingly costumed. 

Art in the home will manifest itself in countless other ways; it will 
make our Hving more simple. It wiU banish to the scrap heap all 
insincere, pretentious, over-decorative furniture with fat upholstery, 
all poor, gaudily framed pictures, all collections of meaningless junk 
which fill our mantelpieces and sideboards; it will bring about an 
orderly arrangement of all the belongings of the house, for order is 
not only Heaven's first law and the first law of the good housekeeper 
but it is the first all-inclusive principle of art. The other laws such 
as balance, rhythm, harmony and the others being but phases of it. 



16 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

When art is incorporated in the home and in Home Economics 
we shall be moved to pray as did Moses of old -w-ith assurance that our 
prayer vnW be answered: "And let the beauty of the Lord our God be 
upon us; and estabUsh thou the work of our hands upon us; yea the 
work of our hands estabhsh thou it." 

THE OLD AXD THE NEW 

In the charming stor}'^ by Mrs. Henry de la Pasture. The Hon- 
ourable Mrs. Garry, we are in one chapter taken \\-ith the heroine 
to call on a poor, decrepit old widow named Bence who has under- 
stood most of what she has seen in her restricted Hfe, and who, as 
she philosophizes to the London society woman, manages to hit sev- 
eral economic nails neatly on the head. Her ideas regarding Board 
School training and the "good old times," for example, really drive 
home points around which much discussion has raged in pedagogic 
and sociological circles. 

She is talking about her granddaughter Emily who lives with her. 

"Em'ly does what her can, but I makes no account of her cleaning. 'T is 
well known they Bard Skules [Board Schools] ruin our maidens for house- 
work as well as for manners and obejence. 'T is along of these 'ere young 
youths and fly-by-night moppets as is set over the children nowadays; 
being themselves onripe in T\-isdom though forward in the getting of scholar- 
ships." 

'*In course the children sarces them, as they -wudent durst sarce old 
witty ancient teachers, who'd make them mind their betters and their 
beya\-iour. My Em'ly be vast enough to tell I that my speech be turble 
ignorant, and so I'll allow it may be; but can her bake or mend or cuke as 
I can? WTiy, she can't so much as scarld the milk wi'out searching the 
pan. A fine wife her'll make the girt \'ule who weds her if such a one she 
ever finds." 

"My old man used to say as the railways, ha\'ing turned everj-thing 
topsy tuTvy since his grandfather's days, he thart as how the folk was 
still mazed ^\-ith the suddenness of it arl. But this be sartain, that good's 
come out of the changes for us, and the poor be better off than they was. 
Luke at us. Brart up 'leven children on eight shillings a week. My old 
man boasted on't, but I got a long memory so well as a long tongue, and I 
bain't forgot the cold, nor the hard work, not the taste of turmot [turnip] 

^The Honourable Mrs. Gam-. By Mrs. Heiir>' de la Pasture. New York: E. P. 
Dutton and Company, 1912, pp. 228-236. 



1915] THE OLD AND THE NEW 17 

mash, as we've sat down tu for a meal many's the time. My sons and 
darters hasn't never had to set that befar their little ones, and thank God 
for it. Why, my youngest grandson, as can't mow in a week what my old 
man cude mow in tu days at his age, gets eighteen shillin' a week." 

"The prices of everything have gone up, I suppose?" suggested Erica. 

"Some has gone up and some has gone down, miss," retorted the old 
woman. " 'T is the wants as has gone up, and pondering, I've come to see 
as us that be old must be patient wi' the mistakes of them as be young and 
struggling to get a foothold above the place where us was forced to bide. 
In every scrimmage there's bound to be damage done, and if they've throwed 
down a lot of things as experience has tart us to prize, along wi' the burdens 
as was bound on our backs, why, you may depend on't they'll pick those 
up later when their place is firm. They've gained more than they've lost, 
'carding to my notions." 

Again, when her rather cynical visitor has suggested that life is mainly 
a scramble after what you want for yourself, she tells of the Ufe of her 
husband "as done his duty arl the days of his life," and then goes on: 

"There bain't no scramble about that; 't is a steady fight, under arders. 
Us as is old, knows as the need of discipline be the first crying need. Tu o' 
my sons be soldiers, miss, as has telled me what discipline can do for the 
worstest of the worst, and says I, 't isn't only in the rigiments they find 
out that. Us has arl got tu 'bey arders and reg'late our time from the 
King on's throne as must be here and there 'carding to the clock, tu the 
labourer as can't keep the cows waiting past milking-time. And each of 
us has got tu know his place in the world and keep it stiddy, and du the 
best he can tu better it 'carding tu's powers. 'T is the young and the idle 
as listens to vule's tark about arl men being equal." 

"And you disagree?" 

"Be I a vule?" asked Mrs. Bence, heatedly. "Arl men equal! Be there 
one of my grandsons as cude ha' held up his head alongside my old man 
at their age? Why, 'a cude have lifted any one of them up in's tu hands, 
and dashed un's brains out against the flure. Be one of them so witty and 
cunning as he were tu know the ways of the birdses and the beastses, nar 
tu du the thatching in's spare time? Be Em'ly my equal as buys ready- 
made blouses and wears holes tu ready-made stockings? And lays abed 
in the marning and sits up nights wasting candlelight over they novelettes 
till her silly eyes be only able to blink at 'ee through goggles, same as my 
grandmother at eighty-vour? And her twenty year old, by which time 
I'd borne and nursed dree byes, and gotten the stiddiest man, and hap- 
piest home in arl Westacombe for my own. Equal! Why, my dear soul, 
there bain't tu men even in thiccy village as you could even \vith each other. 
God Almighty made men as different as He made trees and cattle, in 



18 ' THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

strength and vally and looks. They knows better than tu tark such non- 
sense tu I, but when they cries about the labourer being worthy of his 
hire, then I Hstens and says, 'Now yu 'm tarking clean sense.' Us has 
lived tu hard and worked tu hard, back along, and 't is time things were 
arltered; and they be arltering, day by day." 

" But the day be coming, if it bain't come," said Mrs. Bence, with glitter- 
ing eyes, "when the workers will be paid to the uttermost farthing, gude 
measure and running ove — and that's where I'm hoping that they Bard 
Skules be going tu help them as will come after us, when they got past their 
ignorant mistakes at starting. Us as is far-seeing must be patient till their 
common-sense begins to work and makes clear to them as 't is no use set- 
ting the blind to lead the blind. They'll find out yet as 't is witty well- 
mannered experienced folk, commanding fear and reverence, as must be 
axed to teach children, and not vulgar, flighty young things as knows no 
better than tu mock at the mother as bore them in pain and reared 'em in 
patience — or their father as sweated in summ.er and froze in winter to get 
their bread. Miss, as I sits here my blood boils to remember as my Em'ly 
when her got her scholarship over tu Bursdon, crossed the road because 
her saw her own father, as had been after a whitewashing job, coming 
along, and thart as he'd shame her befar her schoolmates. Her made 
believe not tu see un. When I heard on't I told her father tu take a stick 
tu her, but he says 'Mother, 't is ignorance. Life will teach her better. 
Doantee be hard. The maid be tu full of buke laming to mind manners.' " 

" 'Manners maketh man' as our old parson used to preach, and many a 
tell he's had wi' me about the respect us should have one tu another. But 
them as hasn't got can't give, and think of my Em'ly set up to teach a par- 
cel of little innocents — ." 

"Will her teach them what manners mean, or gratitude, or learn them 
not to be ashamed of honest work?" she asked passionately. "But I 
bides my time in patience, for I says, gude will come out of arl, and the 
change be but beginning. Presently them as works for us will see so clear 
as I do sitting pondering over it arl, after seventy year toiling in the thick 
on't. And I see as presently the children will be tart as character stands 
even above buke-learning, and that 't is only vules as be ashamed of work; 
for lookee here, miss, honest work makes honest men, and there's none so 
quick as workers tu find out as there's no equality under the sun; and tu 
show who can teach the rest, and who's a bungler, and band together against 
the shirkers and the drinkers, and make laws against them and learn them 
to obey, and choose the best man for their leader and stand by him and one 
another true and loyal." 



1915] WELFARE SERVICE 19 

WELFARE SERVICE IN AN ENGLISH INSURANCE 

COMPANY 

F. J. CROSS 

This attempt to improve the nutrition and the general comfort of 
employees of a large institution is thought to be of value from a social 
point of view, although no attempt is made to give the nutrients or 
cost of the luncheon. 

The Prudential Insurance Company of London, founded in 1848, 
is an entirely unique institution. From small beginnings, a tiny ofhce, 
a handful of clerks, it has increased in less than half a century to an 
office of colossal dimensions with a reserve fund of over £86,000,000, 
an income of £16,000,000 a year. The 1500 men clerks take their 
meals outside the building, but there are 1750 women clerks, for all of 
whom a substantial meal is provided at mid-day and tea for any that 
may stay in the evening. 

They are on duty from 10 to 5 and during those hours none leave 
the premises without the express permission of the superintendent. 
This system has been found by experience to work remarkably well. 
There is ample provision for their comforts inside, whilst on the roof 
is a vast recreation ground which is a scene of much animation in 
fine weather. An hour is allowed for the mid-day meal and relax- 
ation. A result of this admirable system is that the absences from 
ill-health of the girl clerks is rather less than that of the young 
men. 

A test was recently instituted by comparing the records of attend- 
ance of 250 youths, 17 to 21 years of age, and the same number of 
girls of similar age and the girls came out first. 

Unlike the Bank of England system, by which the meal for women 
clerks is provided free, or the Post Office Savings Bank system which 
is cooperative, the Prudential plan is neither entirely gratuitous nor 
entirely contributory, but the margin between cost and receipts is 
bridged by the company. 

The employees of this company, we understand, receive the usual 
pay of such workers in London. 

The system of catering is excellent and up-to-date. On the occa- 
sion of my visit, I was invited to see the preparations from start to 
finish and was impressed by the thorough manner in which each of the 
culinary operations was performed. 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The latest labor-saving apparatus was everywhere employed, as 
machines driven by electricity for knife-cleaning, apple-paring, and 
potato-peeling. In the latter the potatoes are rotated against whale- 
bone knives which pare off every bit of skin but leave the potato 
intact. No hand touches the plates when they are washed. They 
are stacked in baskets which are in turn placed in a machine that 
washes them thoroughly and delivers them dry to the attendant. 
Everywhere there -'s perfect cleanliness and neatness. 

Although more than a hundred large joints were in the ovens, 
with a great number of puddings and tarts, although various kinds 
of soup were being prepared, and vast quantities of vegetables were 
baking or boihng and the time was approaching for the mid-day 
meal, yet there was no sign of haste. All the operations were being 
done with precision. Many eyes were on the watch to see that the 
various dishes were done to a turn. The tables were covered with 
spotless table Hnen; plants were on every table. When the first 
party of 500 to 600 appeared, sixty or seventy waitresses assisted in 
the distribution of the courses. 

The prices for dishes are about half the prices for which articles of 
the same quaUty could be obtained outside. For 4 cents an excellent 
plate of soup is suppUed; an ample cut from the joint costs 6 cents; 
vegetables, 2 cents; puddings or pastry, 2 to 3 cents. As to fish, 
an excellent kipper can be had for 2 cents or cod-fish for 4 cents. 
More expensive fish-dishes such as salmon, can be had at 6 cents. 
Bread, butter, and cheese cost 1 cent each. So that a lunch consist- 
ing of soup, or fish, and meat with vegetable; or meat with vegetable, 
pastry and bread and butter; or soup, fish and pastry and accessories 
can be had for about 12 cents. Tea is provided at similarly moderate 
rates for any of the girls who are staying. 

Occasionally in a busy time, they continue at work after 7 o'clock, 
but no one is supposed to do so, and staying for more than two nights 
a week is discouraged. When work is continued for two hours after 
5 o'clock, half an hour is allowed for tea, and an allowance of 12 cents 
is made for its cost, whilst for half that sum, refreshment, consisting 
of bread and butter, or buttered toast or cake, with a cup of tea, can 
be procured. 



1915] BUREAU OF HOME ECONOMICS 21 

BUREAU OF HOME ECONOMICS, NEW YORK EDISON 

COMPANY! 

The work of the recently established Bureau of Home Economics 
of The New York Edison Company was the subject of an interesting 
exhibit at the Electrical Exposition in New York last October. 

There were two displays devoted to foods and their relative values, 
and rather a comprehensive demonstration of the various electrical 
appliances designed for use in the home. 

One of the food exhibits was loaned by the American Museum 
of Safety. Glass vials were shown, illustrating graphically the 
constituents of the various foods. A printed chart showing the rela- 
tive energy value obtained for ten cents was distributed among the 
visitors to the display. The other food exhibit was loaned by the 
Government and was accompanied by a chart showing the composi- 
tion of food materials. This too was for distribution. 

The display of electrical appliances was grouped according to 
the designated use of the articles. For instance, under the heading 
of bedroom suppHes were shown heating pads, curling irons, a hair 
dryer, a vibrator and a nursery milk warmer. For the dining room 
were shown a toaster stove, a chafing dish, a percolator, a tea sam- 
ovar, a table range, a soup tureen and a hot plate. On the break- 
fast table were a toaster, an egg boiler, a coffee pot, a grill and an 
electric water cup. The kitchen equipment included an electric 
fireless cooker, a double boiler, a frying pan, an egg beater, a plate 
warmer and an electric refrigerator. 

This unusual exhibit aroused great interest among the various 
schools in Greater New York and hundreds of students and many 
prominent teachers registered. The exhibit was in charge of Miss 
Anna M. East and Miss Ina J. Zimmer. 

Miss East has compiled a partial list of household electric supply 
manufacturers that would no doubt prove useful to teachers and 
housekeepers elsewhere. 

The Ust follows: 

The Acme Electric Heater Co., Detroit, Mich.; The American Electrical 
Heater Co., Detroit, Mich.; The Berkeley Electric Cooker Co., 1932 Centre 
Street, Berkeley, Cal.; The Comet Electric Stove Co., Detroit, Mich.; 

' See frontispiece. 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Copeman Electric Stove Co., Flint, Mich.; The Current Electric Co., 
18 E. Kinzie Street, Chicago, III.; The Cutler Hammer Co., 50 Church 
Street, New York City; The Detroit Fireless Stove Co., Detroit, Mich.; 
The Electric Dishwasher Co., 42 Pearl Street, Buffalo, N. Y.; The General 
Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.; The Helion Electric Co., Newark, N. J.; 
The Hot Point Co., Ontario, Cal.; The Hughes Electric Heating Company, 
211 West Schiller Street, Chicago, III.; Landers, Frary& Clark, New Brit- 
ain, Conn.; The Manhattan Electrical Supply Co., Jersey City, N. J.; 
The National Electric Utilities Corporation, 355 West 36th Street, New 
York City; The Phelps Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich.; The Prometheus Electric 
Co., 232-234 East 43rd Street, New York City; The Rochester Stamping 
Co., Rochester, N. Y.; The Rutenber Electric Co., Logansport, Ind.; The 
Simplex Electric Heating Co., Cambridge, Mass.; The Wage Electric Co., 
Chicago, 111.; Wells, Mowbray & NewTnan, 125 West 42nd Street, New 
York City; The Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., East Pittsburg, Pa.; 
The Vulcan Electric Heating Co., Buffalo, N.Y. 

HOUSEHOLD AMMONIA AN ECONOMIC ABSURDITY 

J. F. SNELL 
Macdonald College, Quebec, Canada 

How much the housekeeper suffers from commercial frauds it is 
difficult to determine but that she does suffer is not open to question. 
In the matter of foods and drugs. Government protection of the buyer 
is now the rule in civilized countries. In the United States and 
Canada, our efficiently organized governmental departments of agri- 
culture afford the farmer protection against fraud on the part of 
dealers in fertilizers, feeding stuffs and the materials used in the war- 
fare against plant diseases and injurious insects. Is there any reason 
why similar protection should not be afforded the housekeeper not only 
in respect to foods and medicines but also in respect to textiles and in 
respect to detergents and disinfectants. 

In the United States some progress has been made in the direction 
of securing legislation against fraud in the textile trade. In Can- 
ada this most important problem has not yet been attacked. 

It is a problem of some difficulty. The textile industry is an ex- 
ceedingly complicated organization and it is no easy matter to frame 
laws concerning it, which shall be both equitable and enforceable. 
Nevertheless in the interest of the home and in the interest of honesty 



1915] ^ HOUSEHOLD AMMONIA 23 

in business the problem must be grappled with and a satisfactory 
solution found. 

The second class of household commodities referred to above, the 
detergents and disinfectants, are unquestionably much easier to con- 
trol. From a chemical standpoint these materials are comparatively 
simple. Consequently the detection of fraud is in many instances 
a very easy matter. A little investigation made at Macdonald Col- 
lege may serve at once to illustrate the conditions existing in Canada 
in respect to these household materials and to suggest to workers in 
household chemistry elsewhere a hne of investigation which is both 
easy and fruitful. Practically all the experimental work referred 
to in this contribution was done by young women without special 
training in chemistry— second year students in household science. 

We purchased bottles of "household ammonia," of as many brands 
as we could find, measured their contents, determined by titration 
the quantity of ammonia gas they contained and calculated the cost 
of one pound of the gas in each brand. We found that bottles of clear 
household ammonia retaihng at 10 cents varied in capacity from 300 cc. 
to 450 cc. and in ammonia content from 1.67 to 3.68 grams per 100 cc. 
One brand selling at 12 cents contained 415 cc. of liquid with only 1.64 
per cent of ammonia gas (grams per 100 cc). Two brands selling at 
15 cents were distinctly superior to the cheaper ones and proved de- 
cidedly more economical when their actual ammonia content was 
taken into consideration. One of these bottles contained 475 cc. of 
liquid having 6.14 grams of ammonia gas per 100 cc; the other con- 
tained 400 cc with 7.15 grams per 100 cc. The retail cost of one 
pound of ammonia gas was for these two higher-priced bottles $2.33 
and $2.38 respectively. In the ten-cent bottles it ran from $3.08 to 
$6.04, while in the twelve-cent brand the ammonia gas was costing 
$6.67 per pound. 

Besides the clear ammonias we found on the market a number of 
brands of cloudy ammonia. The "cloudiness" was found to be due 
to soap. These turbid ammonias were, as a rule, stronger prepara- 
tions than the clear brands. The weakest contained 4.79, the strongest 
10.92 grams of gas per 100 cc. The bottles were of capacities similar 
to those of the clear brands, and the prices were higher — sufficiently 
high to bring the actual cost of one pound of gas to about the same 
level as that of the clear brands. The most economical of these was 



24 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

the second strongest, the least economical the third strongest, the cost 
of a pound of gas being for the former $2.88, for the latter $4.38. 

We thought it would be of interest to compare the cost of one pound 
of ammonia gas in these "household ammonias" vdth that in concen- 
trated ammonia, such as can be obtained from druggists. From the 
housekeeper's standpoint it would no doubt be most useful to have this 
comparison also on the etail basis. We made it on the wholesale 
basis. At the time of our investigation concentrated ammonia sold 
at wholesale in Montreal at 8 to 9 cents per pound. This was found 
to be equivalent to 33 to 39 cents per pound of ammonia gas. The 
wholesale prices of the bottles of household ammonia were 90 cents 
per dozen for the ten-cent, and $1.25 per dozen for the fifteen-cent, 
clear brands, and $1.60 to $4.10 per dozen for the cloudy ammonias. 
These prices were found to be equivalent to $1.62 to $4.54 per pound 
of ammonia gas, that is to say, from 4 times to 14 times as much as in 
the pure cor.centrated ammonia of the drug trade. 

The cost of the gas in household ammonia at retail, it will be noted, 
is from 6 to 20 times as great as its value in pure concentrated ammonia 
at wholesale. 

is it fair to compare values on this basis of the cost of the ammonia 
gas? From the consumer's standpoint it most certainly is. It is 
the only proper basis of comparison, since the gas is the only valuable 
constituent. The soap in the cloudy ammonia ought perhaps to be 
excepted from this statement, but its quantity is so small as to be in- 
significant. In no case did it amount to over one twenty-seventh 
the weight of the ammonia gas. 

Concentrated ammonia diluted with six times its volume of pure 
soft water will yield a product better than most of the commercial 
brands of household ammonia. Why, then, should not the house- 
keeper make her own household ammonia? What service does the 
household ammonia industry perform? Does it amount to anything 
more than botthng soft water and shipping it about the country? 
Bottling, packing and shipping water involves, of course, considerable 
expense and the consumer eventually pays for this absurd and useless 
operation. 

" But," it may be asked, "is not concentrated ammonia too disagree- 
able and even dangerous a material to put into the hands of the ignor- 
ant women who do most of the work of house-cleaning?" Familiarity 
with the material, we reply, would soon do away with any incon- 



1915] HOUSEHOLD AMMONIA 25 

venience or discomfort in its use. Danger is practically out of the 
question. Besides, the diluting of the concentrated ammonia to 
household strength need not be left to the most ignorant member of 
the household. It could be done once for all as soon as the concen- 
trated liquor is received. Common sense would suggest doing the 
work in a draught, for instance in front of an open fire-place or in an 
open window on the leeside of the house. The knowledge that am- 
monia gas is much lighter than air would suggest holding the bottles 
above the level of the eyes. If this precaution is observed the dilut- 
ing can be done anywhere without reference to the direction of the 
draught. 

In addition to the two variations of liquid household ammonia there 
is in Canada (and doubtless also in the United States) a powdered 
solid offered for sale as household ammonia. The brands of solid 
household ammonia we examined were all found to be untrue to name. 
Carbonate of ammonia is surely the only soHd material entitled to be 
called "ammonia," and it is no doubt the presence of this salt which 
the labels are designed to suggest. Yet none of the six samples we 
examined contained as much as ten per cent of commercial carbonate 
of ammonia (30 per cent NH3). One ran as low as two per cent. 
The chief constituent of these so-called "household ammonias" is 
washing soda. And not only so, but it is apparently a poor grade of 
soda. We found in the household ammonias from 3 to 13.5 per cent 
of sodium sulphate — a substance which precipitates soap and is there- 
fore less than useless as a detergent. The wholesale cost of the mate- 
rials in a five-cent package of solid household ammonia was found to 
be between one and one and a half cents— and some of the material 
worse than useless ! 

With disinfectants we have done Httle, but one experience is worth 
relating. We found on sale in a department store in Montreal a 
"Rapid Cleaning Cartridge," which claimed marvellous potency in 
the cleansing and disinfection of sinks and drains. This material, 
sold at a substantial price, proved to be simply common salt, colored 
with less than one per cent of potassium permanganate. 

We should be glad to hear from workers who have conducted similar 
investigations elsewhere or who contemplate undertaking work of 
this or a similar nature. Investigation must pave the way for 
reform. 



26 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

DOMESTIC ART EQUIPMENT IN PAWTUCKET, R. I. 

FLORENCE A. WARNER 
Supervisor 

The domestic art equipment for Pawtucket, R. I., High School 
was purchased a year ago and, as it has proved satisfactory, a brief 
description of it may be suggestive to teachers who are planning the 
furnishing of a similar room for high school use. 

Our room is not ideal either in location or in size but has sufficient 
light and accommodates comfortably a class of twenty-four students. 

Our tables were made by the Milton Bradley Company of Boston 
and the chairs were purchased from the same concern but addi- 
tional tables and cabinets have since been built by a local firm. The 
tables are of soft wood, 54 inches long, 30 inches wide and 28 inches 
high. In ei-ch side are two drawers 16 inches by 12 inches and 3 inches 
deep, divided into two compartments by a partition running from 
front to back. Across the middle of the drawer from left to right 
is a steel rod ^ inch in diameter resting in grooves at each side of the 
drawer. On it are placed the spools of thread and emery ball. The 
drawer contains the individual equipment — shears, scissors, tracing 
wheel, tape measure, twelve-inch rule, pincushion, and needles. The 
chairs are kindergarten teacher's chairs, cane seated, 16 inches high, 
2 inches higher than the stock chair known by the above name and 
2 inches lower than the ordinary chair. They are comfortable not 
only at the tables but also at the se\\ing machines. 

The cutting tables are 6 feet by 3 feet, and 32 inches high and have 
folding legs which enable us to keep tables in a small space when 
they are not needed in class work. We have just acquired a stoutly 
built table 2 feet square and 16 inches high to be used as a platform 
by the students when skirts are to be hung. Its cost was much less 
than that of the commercial platform and, equipped with a hem 
marker, its value is just as great. A wardrobe 6| feet high, 7| feet 
long, 22 inches deep, and having a wooden pole running lengthwise 
through it 4 inches below the top gives space for hanging garments. 

At present we have no locker room and no place for one. Conse- 
quently some sort of container for unfinished work had to be devised. 
Each girl has a firm bag, 24 inches by 18 inches, with featherbone and 
drawstring in the heading, and labeled with her name and the name 



1915] HOUSEHOLD AID COMPANY 27 

of the class. These bags are used by sewing and millinery classes 
and are hung in a cupboard 6§ feet by 5 feet by 20 inches. 

We have been somewhat handicapped by the limited number of 
sewing machines (only two), but we expect to have at least one more 
this year. 

Water for sponging or steaming is heated over a one-burner gas 
plate as are the irons used for pressing. An ironing board and irons, 
two dress forms, one long mirror and one small mirror complete our 
equipment. With it our classes have found it possible to work suc- 
cessfully. 

REPORT OF THE HOUSEHOLD AID COMPANY (REISSUED) 

The Ellen Richards Memorial Fund Committee through the cour- 
tesy of the Women's Education Association of Boston, is issuing, as a 
publication of the Fund, Mrs. Richards' report of the work of the 
Household Aid Company as carried out in Boston in 1902-1904, an 
experiment in organized domestic service by the hour. To accompany 
this report the Memorial Committee has secured from Lucy May- 
nard Salmon, Professor of History in Vassar College and author of the 
historical and scientific study of "Domestic Service" which has put 
all Home Economics workers in her lasting debt, a statement which 
makes plain the far-reaching results of Mrs. Richards' service in pro- 
moting the experiment in Boston. 

The report of the Household Aid Company may be obtained from 
the JouENAL office for 25 cents. 

MRS. RICHARDS AND OUR DEBT TO HER 
LUCY M. SALMON 

Honor has always and everywhere been accorded the missionary 
who leaves home and carries rehgion to those he believes ignorant 
of it. A like honor is paid the pioneer who through privation and 
hardship advances, in a temporal way, the outposts of civilization. 
It has remained for our own day to give to the world a new kind of 
missionary and a new kind of pioneer who through means quite 
different have benefited humanity in a spiritual way and in a ma- 
terial way. The worker in his laboratory and in his study is a mis- 
sionary and a pioneer who is discovering truth and spreading the 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

knowledge of it. The idealism, the faith, the zeal that have always 
characterized the forerunner in religion and the pioneer in the de- 
velopment of new countries equally distinguishes today the investi- 
gator who in the soUtude of his study and of his laboratory, in the 
heart of the great city, looks into the secrets of nature and of Ufe 
and reveals them to the world. These intellectual pioneers have 
opened up to us wide realms of knowledge, yet it was inevitable that 
they should overlook many fields lying near at hand. 

Mrs. Richards was among the very first to realize that the home 
atTords an opportunity for ^ :ientific investigation and she became 
our first great pioneer home missionary. Gifted with rare insight 
into the heart of things, trained in mind and in hand, and fired with 
the zeal of the scientific investigator, she discovered rich veins of 
interest where others had seen only prosaic humdrum duties, menial 
service, and uninspired, uninspiring household direction. 

The value of any investigation often depends less on its intimate 
results than on the forces it frees and turns against ignorance. If 
much of Mrs. Richards' work for the house and the home was too far 
in advance of the time to be productive of immediate widespread 
results, it is equally true that no one can circumscribe its far-reaching 
effects. Essentially an investigator, she was a true teacher in that 
she rejoiced to pass on to others the results of one investigation 
before turning to new fields to explore. Yet however far her ex- 
plorations took her, it was always to the home that she returned. 
Much of the ignorance that once surrounded it has been dissipated 
as a result of her own scientific study of it and of the investigations 
she set on foot. 

The Household Aid Company carried on its work in Boston for two 
years with apparently negative results, but its great achievement 
has been the awakening of housekeepers in every part of the country 
to an appreciation of the necessity of studying domestic conditions 
before attempting to reform them. For this great work all who 
dwell in homes must be grateful, and for her inspiration and en- 
couragement in that work they will render special honor to Mrs. 
Richards. 



EDITORIALS 

Teaching Household Arts in the Home. Probably no article 
in the current number of the Journal deserves more careful thought 
from our readers than does that of Professor Cutler on Community 
Housekeeping. If the tendency toward the disintegration of the home 
in the form we now know it is as marked as Professor Cutler's argu- 
ment would imply, the courses offered in Home Economics should 
be radically changed. But we ask our reader to consider that one- 
half of our population still lives in the country or in very small towns 
where the "single dwelHng located on a plot of land which is at the 
disposal of the residents" is still the rule; that in these houses women 
pursue many of the household arts, and this home is the center of 
hospitahty and of social Hfe; also that, barring the possession of 
land, these are the conditions in a vast number of town and city 
houses, so that even granting the tendency that Professor Cutler out- 
Hnes, the conditions that he depicts actually exist as yet in a com- 
paratively small number of homes and we need have no fear but 
that there will be breathing time for adjustment to the inevitable; 
and that good and not evil will come out of the change. 

Moreover, certain influences are at work that seem to be over- 
looked by our sociologists when making these predictions. This is 
often called the age of the child. Even the most extreme individualist 
owns that each generation lives for the next. When the scientist 
and the educator are able to say with certainty what are the best 
agencies and influences for the upbringing of the young, it is safe 
to say that that environment will be compassed in every community. 
It has been already decided that children shall not be reared in small 
city tenements and crowded streets. It will soon be demanded that 
the factories and other places in which the fathers of these children 
work shall be built in the open country where the individual home is 
possible. There would still remain the need of help in organizing for 
such groups the right educational and social Hfe. 

Another requirement of the young child which has always been 
taken for granted and is now being proved by careful investigation 

29 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

is that he be a member of a not too large group of different ages to 
which he belongs. He needs love unmeasured, play, teaching of the 
basic human relations, best done perhaps through the sharing of small 
household tasks whose relation to the comfort and well being of those 
he loves is perfectly evident, not manufactured for the purpose as 
in kindergarten work, and through the watching of processes that 
demonstrate simple physical and chemical principles. These condi- 
tions are found in normal family life. It is quite possible that new 
and cogent reasons may develop for the performance of certain 
household processes in the individual home quite apart from their 
industrial value, and it so, these arts must hear and heed the call, 
"Back to the home." 

Help for Teachers. Young teachers of Home Economics read 
the Journal and report that they gain much from it. But the Asso- 
ciation wishes to be still more helpful to them, and the new plan 
of having a field secretary makes it possible to do much in this 
direction. 

There are many questions of method for the school-room, such as, 
how to condense processes to limited periods, how to adapt recipes 
to the rising market prices, etc., which are dif!icult for an inexperi- 
enced teacher to settle, however good her previous training. These 
may better be covered in direct correspondence than in the pages of 
the Journal. 

Any such questions from our readers, addressed to the secretary. 
Miss Anna Barrows, Teachers College, New York City, will be 
promptly acknowledged, and will be referred to specialists if answers 
are not otherwise accessible. 

The Field Secretary. Routes are being planned so that the Field 
Secretary may visit as many states as possible during the months of 
February, March, April, 1915. One trip is planned through the South. 
Southern institutions are urged to arrange in advance for a visit from 
the secretary. It is hoped that trips to other parts of the country 
will be made. 

Since the Association furnishes the time of the secretary, schools 
and clubs on any route will share her traveling expenses. 

Requests and suggestions should be sent as soon as possible to 
Miss Anna Barrows, Teachers College, New York City. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 
THE MARKET AND THE HOUSEWIFE' 

BENJAMIN R. ANDREWS, PH.D. 

Assistant Professor of Household Economics, Teachers College, Columbia University 

How to buy more effectively is the housewife's most important 
business problem. Its solution turns as much upon better markets 
as upon a better marketer. Better markets will be secured as the 
people, including the housewives of the country, work for the condi- 
tions underlying better markets, and these conditions are: first, a 
more efficient production on farm and in shop that there may be 
cheaper products and products more satisfactory to the consumer; 
next, improved transportation from point of production to market; 
next, economic terminal and wholesaling facihties in cities; next, eco- 
nomic reta'l organization; and finally, marketing legislation, that is, 
the social support and control of the mechanism of markets by ade- 
quate laws and by supervision, so far as may be advisable. These 
conditions will be presented in turn, from the housewife's point of 
view. 

An efficient market turns primarily upon efficient production, 
both agricultural and industrial. Make cheaply and well, and the 
housewife can buy cheaply and well. Accordingly, of fundamental 
significance is the national sweep toward vocational education — 
every boy and girl thus trained in production, means cheaper and 
better goods. One illustration— the United States Department of 
Agriculture in seeking to find a ration for fattening cattle which will 
put on edible tissue instead of suet may affect a saving for the mar- 
keter as great as any that an elaborate reform of markets might 
accompUsh. A consumer's economy arises when the producer puts 
the goods in just the form desired; package goods and canned goods 
are illustrations, and the tinning of cooked cheaper cuts of meat 
and possibly of condensed skim milk for cooking are needs. The 

1 Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the .\merican Home Economics .Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. Dr. .Andrews' address is given in part. 

31 



32 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

grading of food products into standards set by authority, and easily 
understood, is a most important producer's contribution to the 
marketer. What has already been done in establishing grades of 
oranges, prunes, and other fruit, and packing by grades, is applicable 
to canned goods (where indeed it exists in a chaotic state), vege- 
tables, and meats, and possibly textiles. A post card order for No. 
1 lettuce, for example, should bring the housewife practically a 
standard product. Grades exist in wholesaUng; they need to be made 
uniform throughout the country, observed by all producers and 
packers and carried over into retail trade. Finally, the housewife 
marketer needs some group method of expressing her preferences 
to the producer and so directing production to meet consumer's 
needs more precisely. Buying clubs and cooperative societies will 
best express group views, but other informational services have great 
possibihties. 

Transportation affects markets by its adequacy, its efl&ciency, its 
costs. The continued development of steamship and steam hnes 
is needed but especially the gridironing of rural districts with trolley 
lines and witn auto-busses which are already gathering and distrib- 
uting routes for food and other household necessities. The new 
tariff brings eggs from China and butter from New Zealand; the 
inter-urban trolleys furnish produce to Indianapolis and other cities; 
and the Reading railroad which dehvers, to suburban towns, pur- 
chases made in the Reading Terminal Market, Philadelphia, suggests 
one solution for suburban centers. Housekeepers should study the 
adequacy of local food transportation service and consider possibili- 
ties with their chambers of commerce. The parcel post service should 
be extended to 100 lbs. and more, at least to and from rural homes 
where express is not available. The efficiency of food transportation 
and storage is improving and is due in large part to studies made 
by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Proper preparation by the 
producer and continuous low temperatures in transportation and 
storage achieved by the use of chilled cars, warehouses, and even 
chilled trucks, extend the time and enlarge the area in which perish- 
able foods can be shipped; hence our year-round fruits, vegetables, 
and other perishable products. The cost of transportation is a mmor 
item in consumer's food cost, but the housewife must stand for the 
lowest possible transportation rates. 



1915] THE MARKET AND THE HOUSEWIFE 33 

The wholesale marketing of foods, especially country produce, 
has been sharply criticized as regards so-called unnecessary middle- 
men. Three modes of improvement are possible: By the city, by 
the producer, and by the retailer. First, the city may provide con- 
nection between the lailroad and the retailer, by estabhshing ter- 
minal markets v/here the retailer can buy direct from the car or in 
an adjoining storage warehouse. Thus there would be obviated the 
carrying of produce successively from one point to another in the 
city between the rehandlers who divide, subdivide and grade the 
produce, and finally sell to each retailer the quantity and quality he 
desires. Bringing rehandlers to one point would save some carriage 
at least. Accordingly, the wholesale terminal market is the solu- 
tion proposed for New York City by the Mayor's Market Commission, 
In the second place, the producer may undertake wholesaling func- 
tions as in the case of the California and Florida fruit exchanges, 
the vegetable shipping associations, and various cooperative pro- 
ducers' associations which ship in car lots, and distribute directly to the 
retailer through local agents. Thirdly, the retailer by organizing 
associations of independent stores which buy as a unit or large retail 
units such as the "chain stores" owned by a single company, may 
reach back into the wholesale field and assume what have been 
middlemen's duties — get goods sorted into grades and divided into 
quantities desired by the individual retail store. All three move- 
ments are under way — but the housewife may well remember that this 
grading and quantitative sorting must be done somewhere and paid 
for when done. Losses through carting goods back and forth when 
the two middlemen concerned could do business at one point; action 
by two companies when one can undertake both functions and charge 
but a single profit; deterioration by rehandling; sorting and grading 
done in a city which might be done in the country more cheaply — 
these point to some possibihties of real economics in wholesaling. 

Retailing of foods, in New York City at least, costs 33 per cent 
of the consumer's price while wholesaling costs only 10 per cent. 
Economies in retailing depend, in part upon the retailer, in part 
upon the consumer. The retailer may seek a more economic business 
unit than the small detached store — thus the "chain stores" managed 
by a central company and the "food department stores," that is, 
a large unit combining groceries, meats, fish, green groceries, deli- 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

catessen. etc.. largely reduce wholesale and retail charges, nearly 
by a half it is reported. Delivery costs may be reduced as when 
the stores maintain a joint service ; losses by credit may be obviated 
by a cash business and credit costs are reduced by the food depart- 
ment stores; a clerklcss store has even been tried in which the customer 
waits on himself. Buying at retail by mail has undoubted economies, 
and the problem of mail-order houses merits a pubUc investigation. 
Savings by retailers' economies go to the retailer rather than the 
purchaser, but a good illustration of benefit actually received is the 
3 per cent reduction for meat purchases carried home on the prices for 
delivered goods allowed by a New York store, and taken advantage 
of by 45 per cent of its customers. If prices were set on the basis 
of delivery by the purchaser, and a fixed charge for delivery by the 
store made, still greater benefits would accrue to the purchaser. 

Economies in retailing may be sought by the purchaser himself 
by buying in large quantities directly from the producer or else- 
where, either as an individual, or through membership in a tempo- 
rary or permanent buying club, or through a cooperative store. 

The individual housewife may purchase directly from the pro- 
ducer in the case of farm produce, and the Wells Fargo and Adams 
Express Companies, and the Parcel Post now experimenting in a 
dozen cities, are developing this direct selling by printing lists of 
shippers; the farmer's market furnishes the same advantage. The 
individual can only rarely buy of a wholesale grocery house; she 
can however buy quantity lots from a retail grocer at perhaps 10 
per cent reduction. The individual may however join with one or 
more neighbors in a temporary or permanent marketing club, and 
increase her buying power. Such temporary buying arrangements 
are frequently entered into — their economies turn on buying in 
quantity either from retailers or producers. The temporary club 
is not likely to be able to buy from wholesalers, but if the club is a 
large permanent formal organization it probably can do so. Such 
organized buying clubs seem a promising agency, since they risk no 
capital in a stock of goods as does the cooperative store, but are 
still free to grasp opportunities for favorable buying as they arise. 

A further word should be said as to the farmers' market, the buy- 
ing club and the cooperative store. The farmer's market in which 
individual farmers bring in produce is not an entirely economical 
method; it takes the farmer away from his work; the selling force is 



1915] THE MARKET AND THE HOUSEWIFE 35 

larger than the sales warrant; it has no delivery service. An improved 
market might be suggested, maintained by an association of farmers 
in which graded produce would be sold by their representative with 
telephone for ordering and a joint delivery service with a flat charge 
per delivery. The marketing club, whether of housewives as at 
Greensburg, Pa., or of office and shop employees, as of the Civil 
Service cooperators in Washington and the clubs reported by the 
express companies, centralizes orders from a dozen, fifty or one hun- 
dred families, and places them through a committee or compen- 
sated agent who arranges for purchases and delivery. Payment in 
advance at a level sufficient to pay all costs is the simplest basis of 
operation. Definite business arrangements are essential — every- 
one has had experience with the joint purchasing with a neighbor 
in which trouble or misunderstandings arise as to quantities, quali- 
ties, advancing cash for payments, delivery of goods, etc. The 
permanent buying club effectively organized may prove a stepping 
stone to the cooperative store. 

A cooperative store is one owned by its own customers who re- 
ceive its profits in the form of a percentage dividend or rebate on 
purchases. The principles of cooperation as worked out at Roch- 
dale, England, require: open membership, any one may join by 
buying stock; small share-value of stock, usually $5; a limit placed 
on the amount of stock an individual can own; policies determined 
by one vote for each stock-holder, not one vote for each share; goods 
sold at regular market prices; cash sales, only; 5 per cent interest 
allowed on the stock, and net profits distributed to purchasers (some- 
times only to members) in proportion to the amount purchased. 
Retail cooperation which has been so successful in England and Scot- 
land will ultimately succeed here as fast as regard for small sa\dngs 
and thrift become necessary among our people, for thrift, with the 
cooperative spirit, is essential for successful cooperation. 

Ford reports 60 cooperative stores in New England. As the agri- 
cultural colleges are training leaders for rural cooperative enterprises 
so our schools of Home Economics may train leaders of cooperative 
retail and purchasing enterprises. 



36 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

FOR CLUB STUDY 

At the request of Helen Louise Johnson, Chairman of the Home Eco- 
nomics Committee, General Federation of Women's Clubs, the Journal 
has selected the preceding article as adapted to club study. The follow- 
ing suggestions and references will prove helpful: 

Suggestions. Arrange for a personal conference mth the express agent 
in your town, whether for buying or selling food; send names to express 
company and post office for receipt of weekly Hsts of producers ; appoint mem- 
bers to read and report from reference books; organize a buying club of not 
less than ten members pledg.d to hold together for a definite time, to follow 
the plan of the Greensburg Market Club as described in the June, 1914, 
Journal. 

References. Cooperative Buying as reported in any number of the 
Journal for 1914; The History of Cooperation, by Holyoke; The Cost of 
Living, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 
Philadelphia; Cooperation in New England, by James Ford, The Survey 
Associates, New York; Report of the Cost of Living Commission, Boston, 
1910: Report of the Mayor's Market Conimission, New York, 1913; 
Shipping Eggs by Parcel Post, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Farmer's 
Bidlelin 594; Markets for the People, by J. W. Sullivan, The Macmillan 
Con-pany, 1913. 

MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE SMITH-LEVER BILL 

In the Weekly News Letter to Crop Correspondents issued by the 
United States Department of Agriculture we learn that there is a 
good deal of misunderstanding in different parts of the country as to 
the method by which the money appropriated by Congress under this 
act is to be expended. Letters received by the department indicate 
that many think it can be obtained by individuals for the general 
improvement of home conditions. 

The necessary steps which precede the use of this money for any 
community are the following: 

1 . The 810,000 which for the first year is granted to every state 
must be duplicated by the state either by direct appropriation from 
state funds or by contributions. 

2. The sum is then placed at the disposal of the State Agricul- 
tural College which expends it in paying the salaries and expenses of 
men and women who as county agents and experts will move about 
among the farming people to demonstrate good methods of agriculture 
and Home Economics, to cooperate with them in studying their farm and 



1915] A TIME STUDY IN DISHWASHING 37 

home problems, and to assist them in the adoption of better methods 
on their farms or in their homes. In many of the southern states 
these agents are already at work in connection with the demonstration 
extension courses. The women agents demonstrate the preparation 
and use of products from canning clubs, pig clubs, poultry clubs, and 
the winter garden; they also show how to make or secure labor sav- 
ing devices and conveniences. 

The Hterature used will be as far as possible the circulars, letters 
and bulletins issued by the State Agricultural Colleges and the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture but 5 per cent of the fund may be expended 
for printing and distribution of publications. Every county in the 
United States may soon have its women agents, those that show enthu- 
siasm and interest being perhaps the first to receive such help. Women 
as individuals or better still as clubs should appeal to their state agri- 
cultural college and ask to be put in touch with their county agent 
and with that agent they may plan for demonstrations and other 
help. 

A TIME-STUDY IN DISHWASHING 

ELLA KAISER CARRUTH 

''Dish-washing is a job I won't do more than once a day." 

"I wash dishes the moment a meal is over." 

These two statements, appeared in the same number of a promi- 
nent household magazine not long ago. They excited my interest 
yes, even my curiosity. 

It occurred to me that for the housekeeper who washes her own 
dishes a very important reason for adopting one way of doing her work 
rather than another is that the chosen way takes less time. Also it 
occurred to me that to find out which of these two methods took the 
less time was rather easy. I had a dish-pan, soiled dishes, and a clock 
— all the equipment necessary for an experiment and I experimented. 

One week I washed dishes twenty-one times. The next week I 
washed dishes seven times. During these two weeks our meals 
were so planned thaf about the same number of dishes would be used 
on each day. 

Lest the time indicated in the table below seem unduly short, let 
me say that the family consists of two; the meals are always simple — 



I 



38 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

two or three courses. I cut down the length of time consumed in 
dish-washing by refraining from wiping anything but the silver, glasses, 
and cooking utensils. The china was always rinsed with boiling water 
and allowed to drain dry. 

The time counted was from the moment I put the dish-pan into 
the sink until the last bit of cleaning of sink, table, etc., was finished. 

Comparison of time consumed in the two methods 

Three limes a day Once a day 
minutes minutes 

Sunday *^ '*^ 

Monday ^^ ^^ 

Tuesday ^^ ^•' 

Wednesday 49 29 

Thursday 53 43 

Friday 47 40 

Saturday 58 41 

364 290 

Daily Average 52 4U 

Total gain 74 

Average daily gain 10 



FOOD FOR SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS^ 

Observations on thousands of school children show the retarding 
effect of poor feeding on body weight. On the other hand, experi- 
ments in feeding groups of these undernourished children have re- 
sulted in a pronounced gain in weight, one group of 40 children hav- 
mg averaged a pound and a half of increase per child in a four- 
week period (in which about three-fourths of the whole day's food sup- 
ply was carefully supervised) , while before the special feeding they had 
been gaining only about a quarter of a pound each per month. Be- 
sides failure to make proper gains in weight, other common signs of 
undernourishment are weak bones, flabby muscles, and lack of plenty 
of good red blood. 

Both kind and amount of food are important. The body is from 
birth a ceaselessly working machine, maintaining itself through such 
internal work as respiration and circulation and digestion, and more 

' Extracts from Food for School Boys and Girls. By Mary S. Rose. New York: 
Teachers College, Technical Education Bui., 23, pp. 15. Other extracts from this bulle- 
tin will be printed in a future number. 



1915] FOOD FOR SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS 39 

or less continuously engaged in muscular activity. Till the need 
for energy for these different kinds of activity is met, there cannot 
be available much material to build up into new body substance. 
In addition to this supply of food for fuel (which may serve in part 
also as food for growth), certain other substances are required spe- 
cifically for body-building. The fuel requirements of the body and 
the fuel values of food to satisfy these requirements are measured in 
terms of a standard unit — the calorie. The requirements of chil- 
dren vary with their age and body weight, being highest per pound 
in the youngest children, as is shown in the following table: 





FOOD REQUIREMENT ACCORDING TO AGE 




Age, years 


Calories per Pound 


Calories per day 


1-2 


45-40 


900-1200 


2-5 


40-35 


1200-1500 


6-9 


35-30 


1400-2000 


10-12 


30-25 


1800-2200 


14-17 


25-20 


2300-3000 


18-25 


not less than 18 


2300-3400 



Having determined the energy requirements of any particular 
person whom we have to feed, we must turn to foods and see how this 
supply of energy is to be obtained. Since several hundred calories 
are required each day, it is most convenient to think of our foods 
in 100-calorie portions. Some examples of the amount of food re- 
quired for such portions are given below. More extensive tables are 
available in various publications.^ 

The following approximate amounts of food yield 100 calories: 
Cooked or flaked breakfast foods, |-1 cup; milk, f cup, whole, 1| cup, 
skimmed; cream, j cup, thin; 1| tablespoons, very thick; butter, olive 
oil, or other fat, 1 tablespoon; bread, 1 slice 3 inches by 3 inches by 1 
inch; uneeda biscuit, 4 crackers; fresh fruit, 1 large orange or apple; 1 
medium banana or bunch of grapes; 2 large peaches or pears; dried fruit, 
4 or 5 prunes or dates, 2 dozen raisins, 1 large fig; eggs, 1 exceptionally 
large; Ij medium; meat (beef. Iamb, mutton, veal, chicken), about 2 ounces 
of cooked lean meat; bacon (cooked crisp), about 1 ounce (4 small thin 

2 Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. By Mary S. Rose. New York : The Macmillan 
Compan3'. 

Human Nutrition. By Flora Rose. Pt. I, Cornell Reading Course for Farmers' 
Wives, N. Y. State College of Agriculture. 

Food Values, Practical Methods in Diet Calculations. American School of Home 
Economics. 606 W. 69th Street, Chicago, Illinois. 



40 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

slices); potatoes, 1 medium; sugar, 1 tablespoon granulated; cocoa (made 
with milk), 5 cup; cream of bean soup, h cup; macaroni and cheese, | 
cup; rice pudding, ^ cup; ice cream (made with thin cream), j cup; milk 
sherbet, -J cup; sponge cake, 1 large individual cake; nuts (shelled almonds, 
peanuts, pecans), about J ounce; sweet chocolate, about f ounce. 

Building materials of many kinds are needed, the most important 
elements being nitrogen, phosphorous, iron and calcium. Nitrogen 
is obtained exclusively from proteins, a kind of foodstuff found in 
large amounts in milk, egg-, meat, fish, dried peas, beans, and len- 
tils. Milk is rich in all kinds of building material except iron, and 
contains these substances for growth in the most readily used form. 
It should constitute the chief part of the diet throughout childhood; 
and in the later years of growth should still be freely supplied. While 
whole milk is richer in fuel than skim milk, the latter contains nearly 
all of the nitrogen, phosphorous and calcium of the whole milk, and 
is still very valuable food. Egg yolks are rich in the iron which milk 
lacks, and also in nitrogen and phosphorous. Green vegetables, 
dried peas and beans, cereals (especially from .he whole grain), are 
very valuable for their building materials and some of these foods 
should be included in every day's menu. 

HUMAN HEALTH AND THE FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE' 

According to the specialists of the Department of Agriculture 
people even in states quarantined for the foot-and-mouth disease 
need have no fear of eating meat, provided they cook it thoroughly. 
The foot-and-mouth disease is not easily communicated to human 
beings through food, although milk from a diseased cow might trans- 
mit the disease to a human being. In the case of milk, however, 
pasteurization will render it entirely safe. Milk from infected farms 
is not permitted to be shipped at all. The only danger is, there- 
fore, that before the disease has manifested itself some infected milk 
might reach the market. For this reason, experts in the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture recommend pasteurization. As a matter 
of fact, however, pasteurization is recommended by the Department 
for all milk that is not very high grade. 

It has been demonstrated by experiments which have been made 
in Denmark and Germany that pasteurization will serve as a safe- 
guard against contagion from the foot-and-mouth disease just as 

' Office of Informatioo, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



1915] THE 1000 CALORIE RESTAURANT 41 

readily as it does against typhoid fever, but in any event it must 
be thoroughly done — the milk must be heated to 145°F. and held at 
this temperature for 30 minutes. 

Where pasteurization is not possible, and where there is any reason 
to suspect that the disease may exist, the precaution of boiling milk 
might be advisable. Simple directions for pasteurizing milk at 
home, however, are contained in Circular 127 which will be sent free 
on application to the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

In the case of meat, as in the case of milk, it must be remembered 
that all herds which actually show the disease are quarantined, and 
neither milk nor meat from the sick animals can be sold. Sixty per 
cent of the meat used in this country is produced in the nearly 900 
Federally inspected slaughtering and packing establishments located 

in 240 cities. 

The Federal Government, however, has no jurisdiction over local 
slaughter houses which do not ship meat outside of the state in which 
it is slaughtered. If, however, meat from such an animal did escape 
from one of these local slaughter houses, which are purely under 
state or municipal control, all danger of its communicating the dis- 
ease to human beings would be removed when it is thoroughly cooked 
and sterilized. 

THE 1000 CALORIE RESTAURANT 

The following is the final report as to what seemed at one time a 
hopeless quest. Early in the autumn a New York daily announced 
that a restaurant applying the recent work of Dr. Graham Lusk had 
been started on the lower East Side of New York, a rebuke, indeed, 
to more wealthy and intelHgent regions where any scientific measure 
of food values in a luncheon or dinner is far from being appHed. 
But it seems we have still to wait. A correspondent writes: 

The 1000 calorie restaurant proved to be a 1000 calorie dream. It is true 
that Dr. Lusk wanted some one to start a restaurant on the Bowery where 
1000 calories of food could be purchased for 10 cents. His menu was Tf 
ounces beans, 1 ounce pork, 21 ounces bread, i ounce butter, 5 ounces 
coffee with 5 ounces of milk. A man who runs a "beanery" m a basement 
at the far end of Broadway, took up the proposition and estimated a cost 
of 4i cents for materials and coal, excluding rent and labor, but found the 
price of foodstuffs going up so rapidly that he very shortly abandoned the 
project. 



i 



42 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

HIGH COST OF LIVING 

How much are you paying to have ammonia gas bottled in water? 
If you buy concentrated ammonia at the drug store and dilute with 
6 times its volume of water you can save from SI. 20 to $4 on each 
pound of the gas contained in the commercial solution. See the 
article by Dr. Snell, entitled "Household Ammonia an Economic 
Absurdity," page 22. The Journal hopes to publish many more 
articles on comparative costs, and would like to receive, from house- 
wives and others, the result of any experiment or experience in this 
line. 

THE DOCTOR AND THE FARMER'S WIFE 

Dr. Clarence J. Blake of Boston tells the following story: 
A farmer's wife was found too run down from overwork to respond 
to treatment. She told him that she and her young daughter did 
all the farm and house work for a family consisting of her husband, 
two hearty sons and two hired men, "And sometimes when I go to 
bed at night and think over what's on hand that must be used to- 
morrow and what will keep over and what must be cooked and bought 
and all the rest I just wish that my folks could have their vituals 
made up into an i-nte-ment an' rubbed into 'em." 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE 

Food 

A Further Study of the Chemical Composition and Nutritive Value of Fish Sub- 
jected to Prolonged Periods of Cold Storage. W. A. Perlzweig and W. J. Gies, Biochcm. 
Bid., 3 (1914), no. 9, pp. 69-71. 

A Red Color Developed When Meat Is Boiled in Water. Klut, Mitt. K. Laudesatisl. 
Wasserhyg., Beriin-Dahlen (1913), no. 17, pp. 36-39; abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 30 (1914), 
no. 3, p. 257. 

Concerning Methods of Making Coffee. O. W. Willcox, Pure Products, 9 (1913), no. 12, 
pp. 611-615. 

The Composition of Various Milks and Their Adaptability for Infant Feeding. F. 
Agcaoili, Philippine Jour. Sci., Sect. A, 8 (1913), no. 3, pp. 141-150, pi. 1. 

Report to the Local Government Board on Bacterial Food Poisoning and Food In- 
fections. W. G. Savage, Rpts. Local Govt. Ed. [Gt. Brit.], Pub. Health and Med. Subjs., 
n. ser., (1913), no. 77, pp. 80, pi. 1. 

The Function of State Authorities in the Control and Improvement of Food Supplies. 
H. E. Barnard, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 (1913), no. 10, pp. 1002-1005. 

Limitations of the Federal Food Law. C. L. Alsberg. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 
(1913), no. 10, pp. 997-1001. 

The Function of Municipal Authorities in the Control and Improvement of Food 
Supplies. E. J. Lederie, Atner. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 (1913), no. 10, pp. 1006-1016. 

Function of Voluntary Organizations or Agencies in the Control and Improvement of 
Food Supply. B. B. Burritt, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 (1913), no. 10, pp. 1017-1021. 

Nutrition 

Experiments on the Carbon Dioxid Excretion with Different Kinds of Muscular 
Work. G. Becker and J. W. Hamalainen, Skand. Arch. Physiol., 31 (1914), no. 1-3, pp. 
198-240, fig. 1; abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 31 (1914), no 6, pp. 561, 562. 

The Proper Diet In the Tropics, with Some Pertinent Remarks On the Use of Alcohol. 
A. C. Eustis, Amer. Jour. Trap. Diseases and Prev. Med., 1 (1913), no. 4, pp. 288-293. 

The Influence of Underfeeding and of Subsequent Abundant Feeding On the Basal 
Metabolism of the Dog. S. Morgulis, Biochem. Bui, 3 (1914), no. 10, pp. 264-268. 

The Effect of Calcium and Protein Fed Pregnant Swine Upon the Size, Vigor, Bone, 
Coat and Condition of the Offspring. J. ^M. Evvard, A. W. Dox and S. C. Guernsey, 
Amer. Jour. Physiol., 34 (1914), no. 3, pp. 312-325. (Cf. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 63 (1914), no. 3, pp. 244, 245). 

Butter- Fat in Infant Feeding. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), no. 3, 
pp. 246-248. 

The Constancy of Endogenous Uric-Acid Excretion. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 62 (1914), no. 24, p. 1892. 

The Price of Labor Expressed in Terms of Food-Fuel. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 62 (1914), no. 24, pp. 1895-1897. 

Studies in the Heat Production Associated with Muscular Work. J. S. Macdonald, 

43 



44 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Proc. Roy. Sac. [London], ser. B, 87 (1913), no. B-593, pp. 96-112. 

Cottonseed Flour As a Possible Food for Man. C. A. Wells. Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., 6 (1914), no. 4, pp. 338, 339. 

The Effect of the Calcium Magnesium Ratio in the Diet with Special Reference 
to Bread. R. Emmerich and O. Locw, Zlschr. Gesam. Gelreidew., 5 (1913), no. 4, pp. 
115-118; abs. E.xpt. Sta. Record 29 (1913), no. 6, p. 565. 

Some Obser^•ations on Metabolism in Connection with an E.xperimental March. C. 
H. Mehille. \V. W. O. BeveridRe and N. D. Walker, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 19 
(1912), no. 6, pp. 661-673, figs. 7. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Fighting Trim. The Importano of Right Living J. M. Eager, Pub Health Rpts. 
[U. S.\. 1913, sup. 5, pp. 7. 

Controlling Flies. A. F. Conradi et al. South Carolina Sta. Circ. 23 (1913), pp. 14, 
figs. 6. 

Mental Hygiene. E. H. MuUan, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 29 (1914), no. 4, pp. 
170-179. 

Hygienic Tropical Underclothing, C/iawfterV Jour. [London and Edinburgh], 7 ser. 
(1913), pt. 34, pp. 686, 687. (Brief reference is made to clothing for tropical wear, in 
which red and orange are blended with the view to absorbing the blue rays of sunlight 
to which harmful effects of tropical regions are attributed.) 

Heat and Infant Mortality. J. W. Schereschewsky, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 28 
(1913), no. 49, pp. .1595-2621, figs. 4. 

Hints on the Handling of Clean Oysters. Prepared by L. A. Round, Commissioners 
of Shell Fisheries, Providence, R. I. (1913), pp. 12. 

The Comparative Value of a Calcium Lime and a Magnesium-Calcium Lime for Water 
Softening. E. Bartow and C. Scholi, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 6 (1914), no. 3, pp. 
189-191. 

Deratization of Rat-Proof Buildings W. C. Rucker, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 28 
(1913), no. 6, pp. 254, 255. 

The Present Status of Our Knowledge Regarding the Transmission of Typhoid Fever. 
A. W. Freeman, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.] 28 (1913), no. 2, pp. 64-68. 

Economics 

Retail Prices, 1890 to .\ugust, 1913. F. C. Croxton, U. S. Depl. Labor Bur. Labor 
Statis. Bui. 136, 1913, pp. 146. (This publication is No. 11 of the Retail Prices and Cost 
of Living Series.) 

Reducing the Cost of Small Houses. Survey, 32 (1914), no. 6, pp. 175, 176, figs. 2. 
(The use of hollow tile made with double air space is mentioned. It does not require 
stucco and as the inside of the tile is smooth, the house need not be plastered.) 

Food and Labor. J. Aiken, Titnehri. Brit. Guiana, 3 ser., 2 (1912), no. 2, pp. 287- 
291 ; abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 30 (1914), no. 5, p. 463. (Data are presented and discussed 
regarding the cost of food of laborers in British Guiana.) 

The Organization of Rural Interests. T. X. Carver, U. S. Dcpl. Agr. Separate 626, 
Yearbook 1913, pp. 239-258. 

Marketing and the Cost of Living. N. Y. Dept. Agr. Bui., 35 (1912), pp. 875-1230, 
pis. 7. (A number of papers read at the 72nd annual meeting of the New York State 
Agricultural Society are included, upon the relation of marketing to the cost of living.) 

Shipping Eggs by Parcel Post. L. B. Flohr, U. S. Depl. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 594 (1914), 
pp. 20, figs. 6. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics at the price listed 

Household Physics. By Alfred M. Butler. Boston: Whitcomb and 
Barrows, 1914, pp. viii + 382, figs. 349. $1.30. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $1.42. 

Physics of the Household. By Carlton John Lynde. New York: The 
Macmillan Company, 1914, pp. xi + 313, figs. 217. $1.25. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.40. 

It is significant of the progress of the cause to which this Journal is 
devoted that two text-books on the fundamental science of physics, pre- 
pared especially for students of Home Economics, should make their appear- 
ance at this time, and so nearly at the same instant that the projected 
title of the one had to be altered to avoid confusion with the other. And it 
is gratifying to find both these pioneer text works of such excellent char- 
acter. The aim of both the authors has been to present the science of 
physics "more for the sake of the pupil than for the subject alone," and 
how fascinatingly interesting the subject can be made, when treated from 
this standpoint, will be realized by anyone who examines either of the 
books, and most fully appreciated by those who read both. 

Naturally, the two books have much in common in their selection of 
topics. To mention a few of many instances, both treat of the gas meter, 
of the vacuum cleaner, of the fireless cooker, of the vacuum-jacketed 
bottle, of artificial cooling, and of electrical heating applia^es. Neither 
author confines himself strictly to the household. Butler, ror instance, 
discusses eclipses and rainbows, while Lynde devotes a short chapter to 
wireless telegraphy and radio activity. However, the inherent interest of 
such phenomena doubtless justifies digressions. The proportion of space 
devoted to heat and electricity is greater in Lynde's book, while light and 
sound are more fully treated in Butler's. The order of treatment is also 
fundamentally different. Butler begins with heat on the ground that it 
is "closer to the students' life than is mechanics" and treats light, sound, 
and electricity before mechanics. The latter subject, however, is so treated 
that "those who desire can just as well start with this chapter and take 
heat second." Lynde begins with mechanics, which he relates to the stu^ 
dent's experience by first discussing simple mechanics, such as the lever;) 

4.5 



46 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

wheel and axle, pulley, and screw, all of which find numerous applications 
in household utensils. The less familiar conceptions of energy, inertia, 
momentum, etc., are introduced in a supplementary chapter at the end of 
the volume. Heat comes second in this book and electricity is treated 
before light and sound. 

Both books are clearly printed, strongly bound, and remarkably free of 
typographical errors. Both are well illustrated, the drawings in Lynde's 
being worthy of special commendation. Teachers of physics will natur- 
ally wish to e.xamine both texts and having selected one as a text-book 
we feel sure they will retain the other for the sake of the numerous supple- 
mentary exercises and applications of physical principles it will afford. 

The Disposal of Household Wastes. By William P. Gerhard. New 
York: D. Van Nostrand Company, 2 ed., 1904, pp. 195. Price $0.50. By 
mail of the Journal, S0.55. 

This little book, although written twenty-five years ago, is still valuable 
as a book of reference in this subject. It deals with waste disposal (i.e. 
disposal of garbage, ashes, slops, sewage) in case of the small cottage or 
farmhouse, the larger cottage or suburban or country residence, the village 
dwelling, the town house, the institution or group of dwellings. The 
appendix contains specifications for laying house drains and pipe sewers, 
for building tight cesspools, for sub-surface irrigation system for country 
house, and suggestions for sanitary code for municipality. 

The teacher of house sanitation who wants a short and purely practical 
treatise on this subject, very clearly and lucidly written, may welcome 
the book to her library. But it must of course be remembered that the 
more recent books on the subject will contain a greater proportion of up- 
to-date material. 

Sanitation, Water Supply, and Sewage Disposal for Country Houses. By 
William P. Gerhard. New York: D. Van Nostrand Company, 
1909, pp. 328. Price S2.00. By mail of the Journal, S2.15. 

Much of the material of the earlier book, Disposal of Household Wastes > 
appears in this volume. Like the former, it appears to have been ad- 
dressed to engineers primarily (at least this is true of "Water Supply" and 
"Sewage Disposal" in the second half of the book); but it offers no especial 
difficulties to the lay reader who has had a little science training, though 
it contains a good deal of technical detail. 

The first 85 pages, "Sanitation," treat of the disadvantages of town 
houses; the location, site, surroundings, soil, drainage of the country house; 
cellars, arrangement and construction of rooms, relation of insects to health 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



47 



I 



and their extermination, window and door screens; lighting, ventilation, 
heating, plumbing, waste disposal, water supply, and care of the country 
house. 

Report upon a Study of the Diet of the Labouring Classes in the City of Glas- 
gow carried Out During 1911-12 Under the Auspices of the Corporation 
of the City. By Dorothy E. Lindsay. Introduction by D. Noel Paton. 
(Physiological Department, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 1913, pp. 
100.') 

The sixty families investigated were in the poorest districts of Glas- 
gow, the weekly income varying from S3.25 to S15, being in some cases 
regular and in others irregular, and they were grouped according to the 
amount of income. The kind and amount of food, the proportion of in- 
come expended for different foods, and other data are recorded and dis- 
cussed. The principal foodstuffs used were found to be bread, potatoes, 
beef, mUk, sugar, and vegetables, two-thirds of the protein supplied being 
of vegetable origin. Very little oatmeal, peas, beans or cheese was used. 

The conclusion was reached that bad marketing is one of the main 
factors contributing to the existing dietary- conditions, as are also bad 
selection and bad cooking. Proper school training in cooking and market- 
ing is recommended as the best remedy, and a freer use of cheese and 
vegetables rich in protein, like beans, peas, and oatmeal is advocated. That 
there is difficulty in preparing such foods is admitted; however, "if the diet 
of the labouring classes is to be improved, without increasing the cost, time 
and labour must be expended on properly cooking these more nutritive 

vegetable foods." 

The report also includes the results of work carried out in cooperation 
^^^th Chalmers and Roberts, on the physique of children in relation to 
diet It was found, when the weight of a child was much below the aver- 
age for its age, that almost without exception the diet was inadequate 
An attempt was also made to ascertain what part inadequate diet played 
as a cause of rickets, but the data secured were not sufficient for definite 
conclusions. It was noted, however, that rickets was found in families in 
which there was overcrowding. 

Vacuum Cleaning Systems. A Treatise on the Principles and Practice of 
Mechanical Cleaning. By M. S. Cooley. New York: Heating and 
Ventilating Magazine Company, 1913, pp. xiv -f 232, figs. 104. 53. 
By mail of the Journal, S3. 12. 
In this book are compiled data regarding permanently installed systems 

of vacuum cleaning which the author has obtained from several years 

experience in the preparation of specifications for and the testing of such 

plants in governmental buildings. 



48 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

A history of the development of mechanical cleaning is given with a 
discussion of the merits and faults of the earliest systems. A chapter is 
devoted to the requirements of an ideal vacuum cleaning system, which are 
chiefly as follows: With such a system it should be possible by thorough 
daily cleaning to eliminate weekly or semi-annual cleanings when the 
housekeeper so desires. The dust, dirt, and germ-laden air should be 
removed entirely from the house. The use of the broom, carpet sweeper, 
dustpan, and duster should be replaced in the daily cleaning by the ideal 
system. It should be capable of picking from the floor a great variety 
of articles such as would be apt to be found in houses, office buildings, 
etc. It should have the fewest possible number of appliances and the 
removable parts should be light and at the same time durable. It should 
be possible to clean the room \v-ithout removal of heavy pieces of furni- 
ture. Finally, the system should be of such proportion and power as to 
clean both rapidly and efficiently. 

The different types of renovators are discussed in detail and data given 
regarding the efficiency of the more common types. The other parts of the 
system, including stems and handles, hose, pipe and fittings, separators, 
and vacuum producers are treated in a similar manner. A chapter, de- 
voted to the selection of the cleaning plant, gives iletailed information re- 
garding the selection of the most efficient types of the different parts of the 
system in order to produce in combination the most efficient system under 
the conditions to be met in a given installation. Sample specifications 
are given for systems to be used in a residence or small office building, 
and in the case of a plant for use in large office buildings both where pipe 
lines of moderate and unusual length are necessary. Portable vacuum 
cleaners are treated very briefly. These are said to be much less efficient 
and also less sanitary than the permanently installed t^-pe. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Poads and Sanitation. By Edith H. Forster and Mildred Weigley. New York: Row, 
Peterson and Company, 1914, pp. 396. SI. 35. By mail of the Journal, S1.40. 

Preservatives and Other Chemicals in Poods. By Otto Folin. Cambridge: Harvard Uni- 
versity Press, 1914, pp. 60. S0.50. By mail of the Journal, S0.54. 

Canning, Preserving and Pickling. By Marion H. Neil. Philadelphia: David McKay, 
1914, pp. 284. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

The Care and Feeding of Children. By John L. Morse, M.D. Cambridge: Harvard 
University Press, 1914, pp. 53. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, S0.55. 

The Mental Health of the School Child. By Dr. J. E. Wallace Wallin. New Haven: 
Yale University Press. 1914, pp. 463. S2. By mail of the Journal, S2.15. 

Por Girls and the Mothers of Girls. By Mary C. Hood, M.D. Indianapolis: Bobbs- 
Merrill Company, 1914, pp. 157. $1. By mail of the Journal, SI. 10. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Connecticut Home Economics Association. The annual fall meeting 

was held in connection with the State Teachers Association, October 23, 
in Hartford. About seventy-live were present at the afternoon session to 
hear Miss Anna M. Cooley of Teachers College, N. Y., who spoke upon the 
subject, "How shall we keep our household arts courses up-to-date." 

Home Economics Association of Greater New York, Because of the 
failure of the market commission to supply a speaker, the program fur ihe 
November meeting could not be carried out. 

The association met at Pratt Institute on December 3 to commemorate 
Mrs. Richards' birthday. Miss Barrows addressed the meeting, recall- 
ing some of her personal experiences with Mrs. Richards and with other 
early Home Economic workers. 

Michigan Home Economics Association. The fifth annual meeting 
of the ]\Tichigan State Home Economics Association was held at Kalama- 
zoo, Friday, October 30. The papers and address centered about the 
modern home. The first paper was by Miss Edith Blackman of the Michi- 
gan State Normal College at Ypsilanti. Her subject was "Household Man- 
agement," and treated of the modern home as a business enterprise. She 
said that the modern housewife must be fitted to organize her home as 
skilfully as business is organized. 

Dean Georgia White of the Michigan Agricultural College at East 
Lansing, was the second speaker and her subject was "The Modern Home" 
in one or two phases often overlooked. She said in part, "Home must 
mean more to us than it did in former days, for the demands of life neces- 
sitate a broader knowledge of industrial life and a more careful organiza- 
tion of the home. The real function of a home of today is to provide real 
rest for those li\T[ng in this busy world of competition; whether it be the 
business man, the child from school, or the woman in civic or social life, 
they all need rest. Proper training fits one to manage a household so that 
there is leisure for all; and it subordinates the routine to higher life in the 
home." 

The address of the afternoon was by Miss Martha \'an Rensselaer of 
Cornell University. She outlined the purpose of Home Economics as 
follows: 

40 



50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

To make men and women— to prepare them for good citizenship; to 
prepare men and women for good home makers; to aid men and women in 
finding a vocation. 

We need to establish a standard in Home Economics above mere cooking 
and scioing. We must know not only the "hows ' ' of home subjects but the 
"whys" also, and we must teach by our examples. 

American Vegetable Growers. The Seventh Annual Convention of 
the Vegetable Growers' Association of America met in Horticultural Hall, 
Philadelphia, October 6-9, 1914. 

Prof. Clyde L. King, of the University of Pennsylvania, led the dis- 
cussion in the evening on "Standardization." William H. Ball, chief of 
the bureau of city property, said that the greatest problem in the cost of 
living is the breaking down of the barriers between the producers and con- 
sumers. All food is delivered by the most circuitous route to the city 
consumer. As a result, the farmer does not get enough for his produce 
and the consumer pays too much. Middlemen will not and should not 
be eliminated, but it is necessary that farmers be induced to ship at least a 
portion of their goods direct to consumers. 

Professor King in summing up the results of his investigation of market- 
ing, pointed out that there should be cooperative societies for reporting 
to members, and state or national agencies for issuing market reports. 
Also that the "middleman" consists of at least five different classes of 
dealers and the problem is not so much the elimination of all of these, as 
the elimination of the least useful, thus simplifying the process of distri- 
bution. Standardization of grading and packing, thus making unneces- 
sary the repacking, is the first essential in eliminating the useless middlemen. 
One entire session under the leadership of Prof. Paul W^ork, of Cornell 
University, was given to the discussion of the principles of cooperation, 
their applicability to the trucking business and best methods of organiza- 
tion. Some of the essentials pointed out were as follows: First and most 
important, the cooperative spirit based upon mutual acquaintance, mu- 
tual needs and mutual confidence. Prof. Work declared that a grange 
community is the easiest in which to start a cooperative movement, be- 
cause it has had preliminary training in the essential requirements. Start- 
ing with small numbers outlining a plan on a sound legal basis and taking 
in new members on the basis of plans developed is the surest method for 
success; it lessens chance for internal dissension and develops the proper 
spirit of cooperation. Do not try to cover too large an area at the start. 
Select leaders of recognized judgment and standing in the community. 
Look for opposition and pitfalls, but support your officers and the general 
movement with absolute loyalty, and opposition will disappear. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 51 

Infant Mortality Conference. The fifth annual meeting of the Ameri- 
can Association for Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality was held 
in Boston, November 12-14, 1914. The program included sessions ar- 
ranged by the committees on nursing and social work, pediatrics, vital and 
social statistics, obstetrics, and public school education. Special clinics 
were held on the opening day of the meeting and a valuable baby-saving 
exhibit was shown at the public library. 

The session of most immediate interest to workers in Home Economics 
was that of the committee on public school education for prevention of 
infant mortality inder the chairmanship of Dr. Helen C. Putnam. Dr. 
David Snedden, Commissioner of Education for Massachusetts, spoke on 
"Some Possibilities of Public Schools in Reducing Infant Mortality." 
After the discussion of Dr. Snedden's paper, the following resolutions were 
considered: 

Inasmuch as, ignorance of sanitation, personal hygiene and care of 
infants before and after birth is the commonest cause of infant mortality; 
and racial well-being requires conformity to laws of physical, mental and 
social health that can be had universally only through specific education; 

Resolved: 

1. That for young adults and older: Instruction in Home Economics 
in all high schools, colleges, universities, and by extension or continuation 
work from these, should include in courses for homemakers the care of 
infants and children ; such instruction to be under the control of educational 
authorities. 

2. That for individuals in homes and for mothers' consultations: The 
boards of health in cooperation with other persons should provide special- 
ized instruction in preserving the health of infants and children under 
school age. 

Be it further Resolved: 

1. That in elementary schools the health of children should be safe- 
guarded by expert medical supervision of each child, teacher, and janitor, 
and of buildings and premises. 

2. That pupils should be trained by the schools in the practice of cor- 
rect personal habits and in personal cleanliness, and that the heating, 
ventilating, and cleaning of school rooms should be used as a means of 
teaching pupils to maintain correct standards in these particulars. 

3. That the laws of health should be taught by suitable study of the 
physiology of plants and animals, gardening being recommended as a 
valuable aid. 

4. That children should be taught to see the effect of personal conduct 
on family and community welfare. 



52 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

5. That Tarent-Teachcrs Associations and school nurses should be 
utilized as aids in carr>'ing the above recommendations into effect. 

General information in regard to the work of the Association, proceed- 
ings of the annual meetings, and reprints of the session on public school 
education may be obtained from the executive secretary. 1911 Cathedral 
Strett. Baltimore, Maryland. 

Home Schools for Rural Women. The U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture announced August 1, 1914, a plan for home classes in practical agri- 
culture and in domestic science for farm women whereby through the co- 
operation of agricultural colleges in central states home groups for the study 
of domestic science are formed in rural communities; the class is started 
under the direction of a visiting state organizer, and an agent of the De- 
partment of Agriculture, who arranges the appointment of a member 
of the group as leader. Text books, lecture notes, lantern slides, labora- 
tor)^ and cooking equipment are loaned the group. The federal govern- 
ment is to furnish lecture notes and lantern slides and the state colleges, 
apparatus up to $100 in value and a reference library. After use by one 
group the equipment will be passed on to another. Courses are already 
provided in several agricultural subjects and in comestic science in the 
cooking and use of vegetables and cereal foods. The classes are to be 
held from 2 to 3 days a week, meeting at some convenient farm house for 
an all-day session, the morning devoted to book work and the afternoon 
to laboratory practice. The leader reads the lecture notes and presides 
at the discussion. 

The plan of a cooperative study club with adequate equipment will, it is 
believed, furnish a more effective educational agency for better rural homes 
and agriculture than ordinary correspondence courses, which lack the 
stimulus of group work. These "home classes" were tried last year 
successfully in Pennsylvania, and are being extended this year into Massa- 
chusetts, Michigan, Vermont and Florida, while the Maine, New York, 
New Jersey and Delaware State colleges have also already signified their 
willingness to try them. 

The School of Mothercraft Auxiliaiy. The Auxiliary of the School of 
Mothercraft held its first public meeting Friday evening, November 20, 
in the Y. W. C. A. auditorium. New York City. The addresses of the eve- 
ning were: "Mothercraft in Education," by Dr. Arthur D. Dean, Chief 
of Vocation Division, New York State Department of Education; "The 
School of Mothercraft — its First Three Years," by Mar>' L. Read, Director. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking 
Institution Management, and Educational Work in Home Economics 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Klturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Lamowohth* 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

COLLABORATORS 

The Ofliccrs, Members of the Council, and Advisers 

Vol. VII FEBRUARY, 1915 No. 2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Municipal housekeeping, Mildred Chadsey 53 

The present need for education, for students of college age, in the problems of family 

life, Willystine Goodsell 59 

The housekeeping centers of New York, Mabel Hyde Kittredge 63 

Credit for home work, Hetlie M. Anthony 66 

Teaching Home Economics in rural communities, Hannah P. Waterman 70 

Ash content of canned vegetables, with special reference to canned peas, Agnes Fay 

Morgan 72 

The importance of a food museum, E. H. S. Bailey 77 

Editorials 79 

Housekeepers' Department 81-92 

Will the parcel post reduce the cost of living? 81 

Made at home, Anna Barrows 83 

Home Economics for farm women of the South 85 

The care of palms and ferns in winter 85 

Utilizing the workman's dull season 86 

How to disinfect rooms, furniture and clothing 87 

What bedsprings are the best? Harriette T. Richardson 88 

Food for school boys and girls 89 

Housekeeping a game 91 

Work for odd hours 91 

A new use for grapefruit 92 

The importance of retaining mineral matter in canning vegetables 92 

Bibliography for Home Economics hterature 93 

Books and literature 95 

News from the field 99 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year,— monthly except July 
and August, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or Postal 
Money Order, payable to the .■American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a 
registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date 
of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the subscriber's Old 
Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, BALxiyoRE, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 





Rural School Home Economics in Massachusetts. (See page 70.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII FEBRUARY, 1915 No. 2 

MUNICIPAL HOUSEKEEPING^ 

MILDRED CHADSEY 
Commissioner of Housing and Sanitation, Cleveland, Ohio 

Housekeeping is the art of making the home clean, healthy, comfort- 
able and attractive. Municipal housekeeping is the science of making 
the city clean, healthy, comfortable and attractive. Many tasks of 
housekeeping that were formerly performed by the individual house- 
holder are now performed by city ofi&cials. So gradually has the city 
taken over tasks that were once performed by the individual house- 
holders, and so many other tasks have been put upon it as it has 
grown into the complex and intricate thing that it is, and living in it 
has become such a co-related and interdependent process, that it is 
now confronted in a very real sense by the same problem on a highly 
magnified scale that confronts the individual housekeeper in making 
the home a clean, healthy, comfortable and attractive place in which 
to Hve. 

Under modern conditions the homemaker does right to buy the 
household necessities, the furniture, the food, the clothes from the 
factory because they are made more cheaply and better there than 
she can have them made at home. She would be a social and economic 
failure if she did not adjust herself to the new industrial order of the 
factory system. She has not less human kindness and sympathy 
because she allows her sick to be cared for in the hospital, nor has she 
less maternal love because she sends her children out of the home to 
be educated. She merely recognizes that she is living in an age of 

1 Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. 

53 



54 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

specialization, and because she wants the best care and the best train- 
ing for those she loves, she entrusts them to the care of specialists. It 
is not that she has failed to make home attractive that the older chil- 
dren seek their pleasure outside the home. It is because of their 
growing sociabiUty, the result of the community life which leads them 
into broader fields of human interest and human endeavor than those 
set by the confines of the home. Such a home implies not independ- 
ence, but interdependence. It establishes new bonds of human re- 
lationship, coordinated endeavor and community interests. There- 
fore many of the tasks tha the individual housekeeper performed for 
her household have been projected into the community, both for the 
advantage of mutual service and of collective bargaining. 

There is another reason than that of mutual advantage that makes 
us turn over to the municipality many of the tasks that the individual 
householders performed. It is because we have come into a fuller 
understanding that we are our brother's keeper. A broader humani- 
tarianism than we knew of old makes us want to share more freely 
with the less fortunate city dwellers. It is not enough that we can 
buy for our families cleanliness and health and a degree of comfort . We 
want our brothers in the alley and under the hill to have the same 
advantage, and so we turn over to the city certain tasks to perform 
with the guarantee that it performs them alike for the rich and the 
poor. It is the twentieth century answer of the age old question 
''How can I share my brother's burden?" 

The first and m.ost important function of any housekeeper is to keep 
the home clean. The disposal of waste, such as garbage, rubbish, 
sewage, the cleaning of its street, the prevention of smoke and other 
noxious substances in the air, are all important measures in keeping 
the city clean. Yearly new methods of sewage disposal and sewage 
treatment are being devised by one group of experts while the dangers 
which result from failure to properly dispose of waste matter are 
being studied by another group. New problems in keeping the city 
clean are constantly presenting themselves for solution. Not only 
does the city in its effort to keep itself clean, establish departments 
that perform these duties, but it passes laws requiring individual 
property owners to maintain their premises in a cleanly condition and 
it restrains individuals from uncleanly acts, such as dumping refuse on 
streets or on other people's property, committing nuisances or expec- 
torating on streets, and it employs inspectors whose duties it is to 



1915] MUNICIPAL HOUSEKEEPING 55 

enforce these laws. Some one has said that the same God that wrote 
the decalogues wrote the sanitary code. Surely an efficient enforce- 
ment of it is a God-like task, and one that is just about as difficult to 
perform as other God-like tasks are when performed by mere man. 

In making itself a healthy place in which to live, the city has a 
graver task to perform, but one that is every day becoming easier of 
accomplishment because the science of public health is so rapidly 
growing. Contrast any health department of ten years ago with one 
of today. Then such departments were political pork barrels where 
any one who was owed a job was put to work granting burial 
permits or posting contagious disease cards on houses. Today 
these same departments have a staff of experts whose duty it is not 
only to control disease but to make an effort to prevent it; not only to 
decrease the death rate, but to make human life more tolerable. This 
marvelous advance in the efficiency of health departments has been 
the result of bacteriological discoveries that have made the control 
of disease possible and the elimination of many dread diseases, such 
as tuberculosis, hoped for. When we consider that as late as the 
seventeenth century, plague, pestilence and epidemics that desolated 
the population of great cities, were looked upon as mysterious agents 
of the evil spirit or of divine wrath, and when we realize that it was in 
the last part of the nineteenth century that the germ theory was dis- 
covered, and that we now hear even the proletariat talk freely about 
germs and microbe organisms, we can realize how rapidly this science 
has developed. Public health today is not only a science, it is a fad. 
Religions are based upon it and magazines enter the ranks of best 
sellers through articles about it. This popularization of pubUc health 
is the result of the concrete example that scientists have been able to 
give the pubhc. The transforming of the Panama Canal Zone from a 
fever-ridden area to a health resort by killing the malaria mosquitoes 
happened at a time when the interest of the public was centered on 
the zone and when such an act made possible the completion of the 
canal. Another example was furnished by the checking of the 
bubonic plague on the Pacific Coast by the extermination of the rats 
that carried it. It is now so easy to arouse a community, that was 
once entirely apathetic about filth and disease, into a concerted war- 
fare against such common foes as mosquitoes, flies, and rats, that cam- 
paigns against them have become a commonplace, and newspapers no 
longer find news items in them. Such nuisances as foul privy vaults, 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

filthy manure boxes, muddy yards that were condoned and tolerated, 
are now recognized as the breeding places of disease, and those who 
are responsible for them are looked upon as foes to the community 
welfare. 

When the pubHc once grasped the fact that disease germs are 
transmitted through media such as air, water, milk and food, it de- 
manded that these be safeguarded against infection. As a result, 
water purification, and the inspection of milk and meat and other 
food products are now considered essential parts of the city's house- 
keeping activities. Every city has inspectors covering the territory 
for miles around it to inspect the cattle who supply milk for the city 
in order to guard against the transmission of tuberculosis or t>phoid 
fever in this way, and for the same reason every animal that is killed 
for human consumption is inspected by officials. Inspectors are at the 
market houses, at the bakeshops and at the caiming factories, not only 
to sec that food is prepared and handled under sanitary conditions, but 
that the ingredients which go into it are pure and wholesome. Every 
year sees new and more advanced requirements for the manufacturing 
of food. A few years ago, such sanitary laws would have seemed use- 
less, but when we consider that today so much of the food comes into 
the home ready made, we realize the necessity of these laws. 

Another housekeeping task that is placed in the health department 
is the auditing of vital accounts. It is no less important than the 
auditing of monetary accounts, for it shows us not only what our in- 
come in the birth rate is and what our outlay in the death rate is, but 
it shows us how we are using the income and it points out our useless 
expenditures. This is the new science of demography, the study of 
\'ital and social statistics. It does not confine itself to tabulating 
births and deaths. It takes account of what lies between. It raises 
the question of what does it profit us to add two years to the average 
length of fife if life itself is not made more valuable. Death rate 
renders judgment as relentlessly as fate against congestion of popula- 
tion and insanitary dwellings, whether in the tenements of our city or 
in the alleys of our neglected neighborhoods. With never an error 
of judgment it points an accusing finger at a polluted water supply, an 
infected food supply or an infected house or indi\idual. 

It is difficult to distinguish what the city is doing for the sake of 
health from what it is doing for the sake of comfort, just as it is diffi- 
cult to distinguish what it is doing for the sake of cleanliness and what 



1915] MUNICIPAL HOUSEKEEPING 57 

for the sake of health. To hve is not all of life and to be healthy is 
not the underlying motive of many of our activities that make for 
health. Our various senses deserve consideration and so offenses to 
sight and smell are eliminated for no other reason than that they are 
offensive. Water supplies are protected and purified not only be- 
cause polluted water causes disease, but because a glass of pure water 
is in itself a pleasure. Food supplies are protected, not only because 
contaminated food means that it is infected with germs, but because 
our sensibilities make us relish clean and wholesome food. 

So it is with the housing of people in homes and in mdustries. If 
people are forced or permitted to live and work in dark and damp 
rooms, to use foul and insufficient plumbing, to overcrowd in insani- 
tary quarters, they breed disease and vice that spread over the entire 
city just as infection spreads from any sore. Every city has a build- 
ing code that sets certain requirements for new buildings. Due to the 
rapid growth of cities and to the failure to solve the rapid transit 
problem, there is an ever-increasing tendency to crowd buildings on 
lots and to crowd people into buildings, so that building codes have 
had to limit the amount of lot occupied, as well as the size of courts, 
and rooms, and have had to require a certain amount of light and 
ventilation and certain minimum toilet facilities. All of these things 
have been done in addition to prescribing standards of building mate- 
rials and methods of construction that insure safety. Recently cities 
have gone further. They have passed codes setting certain require- 
ments of comfort and decency for existing buildings. These codes 
have been accepted much more slowly than those that relate to new 
buildings because many owners feel that if their buildings conformed 
to the standards of the time when they were built, they should not 
now be changed. They do not grasp the meaning of the French 
proverb, "Your right ceases where your neighbor's right begins." 

In passing laws that provide for decent and wholesome living and 
working conditions, the city is recognizing what Cato recognized so 
long ago when he said "Riches for the individual and poverty for the 
masses is the ruin of the commonwealth." It is recognizing that com- 
fortable conditions for working and living will go far toward giving to 
the individual health of body and mind, the essentials for making him 
an independent wage earner rather than a public charge. We have 
only to go to the slums of some of our cities where human beings are 
floundering in an abyss of vice, disease, poverty and idleness, to see 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

whence come the human derelicts that will tomorrow pass through 
our courts and fill our public institutions. It is time that cities 
were recognizmg not only the gross extravagance of such shortsighted 
methods, but the inhumanity of them. That they are recognizing 
this is evidenced by recent legislation. Twenty years ago not a city 
existed which recognized as a part of its functions that of making as 
comfortable as possible the conditions under which people must work 
and hve. Today twenty-eight cities have legislation either actual or 
pending, to secure a minimum degree of comfort and decency in the 
living conditions of its citizens, and many cities are beginning to make 
some effort to insure more tolerable conditions for work. It is true 
that these laws are inadequate and are inadequately enforced, but they 
are indicative that the community is awakening to its responsibility 
to provide its people with reasonable safeguards for health and comfort. 
To do this, it must do more than pass housing codes that provide safe 
and sanitary homes, and work shop laws that provide safe and sanitary 
places for work. It must determine where factories shall be located 
and where hones shall be located. It is a lamentable fact that the ma- 
jority of our homes are now placed where they are and are what they are 
because business has been the determining factor. We place the home 
near the factory so that the laborer is accessible to his work and we place 
the factory where it is because it is accessible to the docks, the rail- 
roads, the shops. WTiat a sacrifice of the ends to the means! What 
an inversion of the elementary principle of life that we work as a means 
of li\ang — not that we live as a means of working. The time must 
come when no factory can be located in such a way as to increase 
congestion of population, to destroy homes or to undermine health or 
blight the soul of man. That the municipality is responsible for the 
souls of men may be a new thought, but it is an old fact. What one of 
us has not seen the soul of the child die before it has been fully born 
because all about it was sordid and dismal? It is for this reason that 
the city planning commissions have ceased to interest themselves 
exclusively in the grouping of public buildings and the making of civic 
centers, and are limiting the heights of buildings and widths of streets 
so that tenement dwellers will not grope about in dark canyons. It 
is for this reason that they are becoming interested in establishing 
playgrounds and open space in the crowded quarters as well as in 
making a system of parks and boulevards that are accessible only to 
those who ride. The city recognizes that it is just as necessary to 



1915] THE PRESENT NEED 59 

provide light, sunshine, green spots, beauty in streets and buildings, as 
it is to provide for the disposal of waste or the control of disease; that 
it is just as essential to protect and foster the well being of the soul as 
the body of citizens, if the city would reckon its strength through the 
strength of its citizens. 

Such are the tasks of Municipal Housekeeping. Can women, who 
for all ages have been the homemakers and the housekeepers of the 
race, be grateful enough that this is changing from an individual into a 
community task just at the time when women are being liberated from 
the chains of tradition and custom to a fuller participation in the 
events of life? It is doubly fortunate that their liberation coincides 
with the great democratic revolution that is abroad in the land today 
because they can take up the community tasks untrammeled by the 
demorahzing influence of political spoilsmen and class exploitation. Is 
it too much to expect that they will bring with them in the performance 
of their duties, courage such as John Stuart Mills had, when facing the 
electors of Westminster, and being asked whether he had ever said that 
they were "generally hars," replied simply, "I did." 

THE PRESENT NEED FOR EDUCATION, FOR STUDENTS 

OF COLLEGE AGE, IN THE PROBLEMS 

OF FAMILY LIFE 

WILLYSTINE GOODSELL 

Teachers College, Columbia University 

The remark has so frequently been made as to be almost a truism 
that the current age is distinguished by a heightened degree of social 
consciousness. By this is meant that intelligent men and women 
are becoming increasingly aware of their intimate relationships to the 
group life and at the same time are more sensitive to the mistakes, 
the needs, the reconstructive ideals growing out of the common social 
experience. 

Ever since the second decade of the nineteenth century, when 
Auguste Comte wrote his Positive Philosophy with the intent to show 
that the betterment of humanity could only be brought about by 
the appHcation of exact, scientific knowledge to the control of social 
experience — ever since that time enlightened criticism has been 
brought to bear upon well nigh every institution of society. Church, 
state, the law, the economic system, education, each has come in 



60 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

for its share of destructive criticism and constructive suggestion. 
But, until very recently, the institution of the family has escaped 
analysis and adverse comment. The reasons for this immunity are 
not far to seek. The family, being the institution with which the life 
of each of us is most intimately and continuously bound up, is for 
that very reason the social organization least likely to challenge our 
critical attention. Familiarity has accustomed us to its anomalies, 
its maladjustment to present social conditions, its traditional in- 
equities. Hence we take 't largely as a matter of course that, in 
several states of our Union, the mother who has borne a child and 
has carried the heaviest share of the responsibihty of rearing it, 
is given no rights of guardianship in that child. Neither is our 
critical and moral sense profoundly disturbed when we learn that in 
parts of our land of liberty a married woman is still denied the right 
to control her own property and earnings. Again, the double stand- 
ard of morality, which stamps with ignominy and shame the woman 
who falls from virtue while it bears Hghtly upon the man who com- 
mits a similar ofifense is so famiUar as to arouse little hostile criticism. 
These inequitable customs have all the powerful sanction of age-long 
precedent. Excellent men and women in the past have lived and 
loved under these laws and practices and so we tend to accept and 
pass them on unquestioningly. 

Rut the familiarity bred of usage is not the sole reason why the 
family has, until a few years ago, been fairly exempt from critical 
investigation. The fact that home and family life are associated 
with many of our deepest and tenderest emotional experiences has 
contributed much to their immunity from criticism. Indeed, when 
modern social writers began to turn their attention to this most 
ancient of all institutions and to point out its manifest imperfec- 
tions with a view to their improvement, they were greeted with a 
storm of hostile comment. It is sufficient to remind readers of social 
literature of the bitter attacks made upon Mrs. Parsons' book, The 
Family. The author of this excellent study was not content to in- 
dicate certain points where the machinery of family organization 
was creaking loudest and seemed most in need of careful investiga- 
tion, but she went further and suggested possible means of reducing 
friction. It was this constructive suggestion that brought forth an 
outburst of angry and, on the whole, unintelligent criticism — chiefly 
from the pulpit. 



1915] THE PRESENT NEED 61 

But, during the last five years, students of social history in the 
making cannot fail to have noted a gradual change in the attitude 
of thoughtful men and women toward all problems of sex and family 
life. There is evident today a disposition to analyze these difficult 
questions with impartiality and in the spirit of scientific investiga- 
tion. This augurs well for the future; for, if the true function of 
intelUgence be to effect more satisfying conditions of life, in the 
broadest sense of the term ''life," surely every phase of human experi- 
ence will profit by the beneficent influence of man's enlightened 
reason. "Let there be Hght," then, upon every nook and corner of 
the social life of man — the hght of knowledge and constructive 
thought. 

With respect to the family institution this campaign of enlighten- 
ment, conducted by the leaders of thought, should not rest con- 
tent with educating adults to an appreciation of existing evils. It 
has an even more important ofl&ce to perform in the instruction of 
youths and maidens, the homemakers of the future, in order that 
they may avoid some of these mistakes of their forebears. To this 
end there should be wise education in the facts of sex life and re- 
production, as well as an awakening of the conscience of the nation's 
youth to a sensitive regard for the social obHgations involved in 
marriage. Is it not an amazing fact that the majority of parents 
permit their children to form their ideas of the marriage relation 
almost wholly from the chit-chat of adults and the frequently senti- 
mental and unsound theories of fiction? The need of the age for 
young men and women who have been educated for their future dig- 
nified position as the founders of new households, the fathers and 
mothers of a future generation, is profound. Surely we cannot 
longer neglect our manifest responsibihty to furnish this instruction. 

Such an education would, of course, have regard to the training 
of girls in the science and art of homekeeping, in the knowledge of 
food values and food preparation, in understanding of the essential 
laws of hygiene and sanitation as appHed to the home, in the appre- 
ciation of color, form and texture as these are related to house fur- 
nishings and dress. But it would likewise give honored place to 
courses treating frankly and scientifically the history and present 
status of the family, the problems involved in marriage and child- 
rearing in our present-day artificial society, and the whole difficult 
matter of sex life and sex relationships in both their personal and 



62 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

their social bearings. Let young men and women be made acquainted, 
at latest during their college course, with the various solutions of 
these troublesome questions with which our social literature abounds. 
Let them be taught to face these solutions squarely, to analyze, under- 
stand, and evaluate them in the light of the general social welfare. 
If the students' sociological courses have been presented by teachers 
not only well informed but morally in earnest, sound social stand- 
ards and a tender social conscience will have been developed to a greater 
or less degree within the cbss. Equipped with such weapons of de- 
fense, young men and women may safely read and estimate the di- 
verse theories advanced by modern social writers possessing wisdom and 
unwisdom in various degrees. On leaving the college life for life more 
completely in touch with vital problems and realities, our graduates 
will be forewarned and forearmed. As intelHgent members of so- 
ciety, actively concerned in its betterment, as future homebuilders, 
and parents, they need this intellectual and moral enhghtenment. 
A thorough and impartial course on the development of domestic 
institutions and laws would do much to orientatt the hostile critic of 
modern family conditions and render improbable the spread of that 
antagonism toward men as the "oppressors of womankind" which 
is even now too general among ill-informed persons. No one can 
study the history of the family in a liberal spirit without realizing 
that the narrow sphere of women in the past and the restrictions laid 
upon them were the outcome of economic and social conditions rather 
than the deHberate tyranny of man. 

Higher institutions should remove the stupid taboo from these sub- 
jects, and should arrange intelligently planned and closely knit 
courses concerned with sex, marriage and family life in all their phases. 
These should be assigned to specially trained instructors whose 
exact and thorough knowledge is equalled by their moral enthusiasm. 
In such education Hes the truest hope for the betterment of the race 
through the family. 



1915] HOUSEKEEPING CENTERS OF NEW YORK 63 

THE HOUSEKEEPING CENTERS OF NEW YORK 

MABEL HYDE KITTREDGE 
President, Association of Practical Housekeeping Centers 

Because there has been a definite recognition and growth in New 
York City of the housekeeping-center idea, a short history and reason 
for this growth may be of interest. 

What is a Model Flat, or Housekeeping Center? It is the natural 
expression of the homemaking instinct which is in every girl. This 
instinct expresses itself first in making a doll's house, or in construct- 
ing out of chairs and shawls and with imagination a place large enough 
to be actually crawled into and be called a house. 

Thirteen years ago, fourteen httle girls and myself, acting on this 
homemaking instinct, made a real house out of four tenement rooms, 
situated in one of the most congested districts of New York. The 
way the walls were painted and the floors treated, the kind of curtains, 
the manner of furnishing, were the natural expression of that group's 
idea of beauty. Having furnished our home, the next step was to take 
up the study of homemaking in the same practical, personal way. 

It mattered Httle to these small housekeepers that at the great 
colleges food values were being chemically worked out and domestic 
science taking its prominent place in the world. Windows were 
washed at the "Flat" (as it was called), until the best way to wash 
windows was found. The course in plumbing grew from the very 
interest that was taken in keeping the pipes of the bath room and the 
sink in a sanitary condition. Cooking was mastered, not by a scien- 
tific and proper balancing of food learned from any book or studied in 
any school room, but because dinners were served in the Flat. The 
girls planned the menu, did the marketing, cooked and served the meal 
to their own guests, and had all the enthusiasm and thrill of a hostess. 
Then they learned to wash dishes, and scrub the table, and leave the 
Flat absolutely clean— because they loved the work and loved the 
place they worked in. 

The common, homely, housekeeping duties have become an art for 
two reasons : First, the world has waked up to the reahzation of the 
beauty in simple things. In the remarkable Altman collection of 
pictures at the Metropolitan Museum in New York, it is the woman 
peeling potatoes that attracts attention, not only for the perfection 



64 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

of the work but for the charm of the subject. It is the every-day, 
homely acts of a woman's life that call out our admiration — the 
mother bathing her child, or the woman and man plowing in the field. 

Health is the next reason why homemaking has stepped forward in 
the rank of science. Take one example: It is known now that the 
sweepings from our streets contain poison; that with the natural dirt 
of the streets — manure, soot and pavement dust — are mixed human 
sputum and the slobbering of animals, and that this mixture chngs as 
mud to the boots and the clothing of human beings and is carried into 
the homes. There it dries, mixes with the air, and the dust and dis- 
ease germs find a lodgment in the lungs of the occupants; or, after 
being pulverized by the action of traffic, this dust blows in through 
the doors, windows and cracks of our homes and must be removed 
before it can do its deadly harm. And so dusting, sweeping and 
cleaning the home have become acts of vital importance; they are the 
great preventives of disease, and no doctor in his laboratory working 
over his preventive measures is any more important than is the house- 
keeper who dusts with her damp duster, and dusts well. 

Another seemingly simple, but really great, discovery that has been 
made is that children have an object sense, and that as they actually 
handle things their minds grasp the idea. Tell children forever about 
chemistry, even show them experiments with baking powder, soda, 
yeast and eggs, and they cannot adapt this knowledge to every-day 
life, but let these children work in the only kitchen that to them is a 
kitchen (one Hke home), let them mix the muffins and the cake, and 
test the oven, and see the effect of baking powder, and why it can be 
reduced in quantity if an egg is put into the muffin as well, and the 
lesson will never be forgotten, because their hands have worked out 
the problem for their minds. 

We all want real things. A Uttle child will play with the kitchen- 
garden tools for a few months; the doll's bed, the tiny dishes, the game 
of how to wait on the door, please for a while, but then the girl throws 
away these childish things and wants to play house in the real way. 
And so New York is giving her these real natural tools to work with. 
The housekeeping center at 226 Henry Street is now a part of the 
nearest public school at Jackson and Monroe streets. The pupils of 
that school in groups of fifteen fill the model home from nine until 
three; and the Board of Education pays for the teacher. Three groups 
a day walk from the school to the flat and actually keep house for 



1915] HOUSEKEEPING CENTERS OF NEW YORK 65 

eighty minutes. Sometimes it is a cooking lesson, at other times they 
scrub and clean. The question of garbage is so thoroughly under- 
stood, and the responsibility of each individual, that those girls know 
that the Street Cleaning and Health Departments are helpless to do 
this cleaning-up work alone, and each girl is taught what her part is 
in this garbage disposition work. 

Pubhc School 7, at the corner of Hester and Christie streets has, 
with the aid of the Housekeeping Association, actually built a model 
of a home in the school building. Nothing is lacking from the kitchen, 
the bedroom, the living-room or the bath room equipment; and there 
every week over two hundred pupils study the great homemaking 
problems. 

Next door to Public School No. 4 Manhattan, on Ridge and Riving- 
ton streets, an ordinary tenement-house flat has been fitted up and 
made into a model and homemaking laboratory for the pupils. This 
flat was entirely furnished by the girls. When the time comes for 
any one of them to have a home of her own she will know how to make 
everything from the curtains to the cleaning cloths, because she has 
done the work in the school home. The Housekeeping Center at 162 
SuUivan Street, which has for so many years been the model and the 
workshop of that Italian neighborhood, is now to be connected, during 
school hours, with PubHc School 38, four blocks away. After school 
and every evening the old neighborhood work will go on as usual. 
The neighbors would not get their vegetables canned or their fruit put 
up for the winter without that Center. 

School No. 4, in the Bronx, has its Housekeeping Center, and two 
other large public schools have permission to install these natural 
home plants next door to the school building. No longer is the 
instruction without the scientifically trained teacher. Only those who 
know the great laws of food and of sanitation so well that they can 
make them a part of every-day Hfe can teach in the Model Flats, 
which belong to the Association of Housekeeping Centers and New 
York Public Schools. 

At last the girls of our schools are to have what they want and what 
they have always wanted, because we growTi-up people have learned 
our lesson, that if we will let them use their hands in a natural way 
their minds will take in the lesson we want to teach. 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

CREDIT FOR HOME WORK 

HETTIE M. ANTHONY 
Missouri Slate Teachers^ Association 

Among the first to make use of school credits for home work was 
Mr. Alderman of Oregon, who made this a method of bringing the 
school and home in closer touch and helping the children to realize 
that work done at home had dignity, and was as well worth while as 
school work. 

He says: 

The idea of giving school credit for home work first occurred to me nine 
years ago when I was a school principal. I had noticed that one of my 
rosiest-cheeked, most vigorous appearing girls spent much time on the 
streets after school. One day Mary's mother was pointed out to me. 
She was a pale, nervous little woman who was evidently overworked. 
Knowing that the family was large and not very well-to-do I felt myself 
burning with u^dignation at the circumstances that were drawing Mary 
away from interest in her home. I thought, "What is the use of my 
teaching that girl algebra and general history, when what she most needs 
to be taught is that her mother is her best friend and needs her help?" 

At the algebra recitation the next day I announced that the lesson 
for the following day would consist of ten problems as usual, but that 
five would be in the book, and five out of the book. The five out of the 
book would consist, for the girls, of helping cook supper, helping with the 
kitchen work after supper, preparing breakfast, helping \\dth the dishes 
and kitchen work after breakfast, and putting a bedroom in order. When 
I asked for "hands up" on all the problems the following day, I noticed 
that Mary kept hers raised after the others were down. "What is it?" I 
asked. "I worked five in advance," she replied with sparkling eyes, "I 
worked five ahead in the book, besides the ten that you gave us." From 
that time Mary's interest in all school work was doubled. She was right 
in the first rank. The rest of the year we regularly talked over the girls' 
home work. School public opinion encouraged the girls so that more 
and more reported on what they had done in housework and se^\'ing, and 
fe t proud of it. Best of all, our discussions brought the school and the 
home together. The year was successful for all of us. More parents 
\asited the school, and there was a concerted movement for the better- 
ment of school conditions. 



1915] CREDIT FOR HOME WORK 67 

The school credit plan for home work is to have the school recognize 
home work as well as the home recognize school work. Many girls 
and boys cheerfully do work at school, but when the school hours are 
over, they feel that their duties are discharged, they look upon home 
work with contempt. 

One mother said, "When you (the teacher) ask Fay to perform home 
duties she goes at them cheerfully and thinks them worth while, but 
when I (the mother) ask her, she either refuses or performs them grudg- 
ingly." The student, as well as the teacher, seems to have the tra- 
ditional reverence for the text book. Many efforts have been made 
to depart from the text and make the work of the school and home go 
hand in hand, but facts are still learned as facts, and not for use. 
As was once said of the study of chemistry, one of three results were 
looked for and obtained, an explosion, change in color, or an ill smell- 
ing odor, and here the experiment stopped with no realization that 
almost every act and change in life was appHed chemistry. 

The real purpose of education in the public school system is to make 
good citizens and good home makers, yet many act as if the purpose 
is to make of all of them teachers or encyclopedias of facts. 

A prominent educator said last summer, that he would rather have 
his girl, if necessary, spend two or three days in the home kitchen 
working out a problem, than come to school, stand at a laboratory 
table and not reahze that the problem was a life problem, not to be 
applied in the class room but in life. 

Outside work may be and often is highly educative and the extra 
time the pupils spend either during the school year or during vacation 
is well used if spent in doing wholesome, honorable, thought-inspiring 
work. Pupils may be encouraged to seek employment during spare 
time and often the citizens will aid and become interested in the 
schools. While the remuneration is important to many, the intellec- 
tual and moral value of work well done is of inestimable value to all. 

Habit is a strong master and if the children are allowed to shirk 
responsibihty of home and hfe work until school days are over, and 
are found wanting when expected to step at once into Hfe's respon- 
sibiHties, it is not their fault. Many a hard working mother has 
spared (as she thought) her daughter the drudgery of home work until 
she acquired a home for herself, with a result that the profession 
of homemaking became a burden or she utterly failed to make good 
in it. 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The objection is often raised that there is no way of determining 
the quality and standing of the work. In a measure this is true, but 
better cooperation is had when the teacher trusts the parent as well as 
the parent the teacher and although in some instances it may be found 
to fail, on the average the results are good. Many teachers have re- 
ported that results were better both at home and school for this co- 
operation and many boys have been kept in school longer by showing 
them that their efforts outside were recognized; and they remain in 
school for an education that their outside work may demand greater 
recognition and compensati m. 

The twelve month j'^hooi has been tried in Cook County; three 
months was largely home work but recognized as school work. We 
give the result as reported by Mrs. Agnes M. Page, principal of the 
Morton Grove School. (Quoted from a newspaper cHpping.) 

To prove the value of the plan I need only to introduce one of my boys 
who made two grades in one year in addition to his work in the fields. — 
Harvey Brooks, a 15 year-old pupil of the Morton Grove School then 
told the teachers how he had made S200 durirg the summer months by 
the cultivation of fifteen-sixteenths of an acre of land rented from his father, 
a florist. "And I received a letter from George Mittendorf, a South Water 
Street vegetable dealer, telling me my radishes were the finest specimens he 
had obtained this year," said young Brooks. 

The principal of the first twelve-month school in the United States, 
described his methods for the teachers. His twenty-nine pupils already 
have "banked" $828 in net profits and are not through marketing their 
products. 

Methods of giving this credit or recognition may differ widely, but 
in every case it should be properly reported and satisfactorily done. 
Last year over 6000 boys in the PhiHppines received school credit' 
for raising corn. Venice High School, Cahfornia, has worked out a 
successful plan as follows:^ 

Extra credits on pupils' standing may be earned by their doing addi- 
tional work during the school term or during vacations, at school or else- 
where, on the following conditions: Pupils may receive credit on their 
school records for extra school work, for outside athletics, music, home 
work, gardening, oflBce work, mechanical work, newspaper work, reading, 
travel, school activities not included in the regular courses, and other 

* Copied from pamphlet issued by Venice High School, Venice, California. 



1915] CREDIT FOR HOME WORK 69 

educative efforts, when such extra work is done in a systematic and thor- 
ough manner, and in amounts that make it of positive value. Pupils 
desiring such credit must present to the principal two reports of the work 
for which the credit is asked — one report to be made out on a blank fur- 
nished by the school, and to be signed by the employer or the one super- 
intending the pupil's work for which credit is desired; and the other to 
be prepared by the pupil and to consist of a brief written description of 
the work done. On the approval of the principal the teacher in charge 
of the subject to which the pupil desires to have the credit applied may 
permit the pupil to give an oral report, in the presence of the class or the 
entire school, in lieu of the written description. The amount of credit 
to be allowed in each case W'ill be determined by the principal in consulta- 
tion with the teacher concerned. 

The aim of the plan here indicated is to encourage pupils in independent, 
systematic efforts to accomplish worthy objects. It is the hope and belief 
that such efforts wall lead to an application of training, and that they will 
bring about a closer correlation between the school work and the home life 
and civic life of pupils. 

Chillicothe High School in Missouri has worked out an elaborate 
plan for giving credit for outside work: — -One unit out of sixteen 
required for graduation may be received for outside work. Two 
units out of seventeen required for "Graduation with Credit" may 
be received for outside work. Three out of the eighteen required 
for "Graduation with Honor" may be received for outside work. 
The term "outside work" as interpreted in a pamphlet issued by the 
Chillicothe High School may include music (either vocal or instru- 
mental), literary work inside or outside of school (debating, public 
speaking, etc.), work in any of the local trades, home tasks, etc. All 
of these and many other things can be done for school credit. A 
definite statement of the amount of credit given in each different 
phase of work is published in the school pamphlet. 

A feasible plan seems to be to raise the promotion grade from pass 
to fair, or fair to good, etc., for having done one hour a day systematic 
home work, or the holiday plan of giving a half or whole day holiday 
to the ones having recognition for outside work, this holiday under the 
direction of a teacher to be spent in visiting a model farm; an ideal 
home as to building or furnishing; a good store for selecting good 
furniture or colors; or any educational excursion the neighborhood 
affords. 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The results in all cases where the teacher has given it a fair trial and 
taken the right interest have proven a help to both the school and the 
home. 

With some of the younger children, to whom charts were given to 
be marked daily, the results were good. Two girls acquired the habit 
of daily washing the teeth, several of sleeping with the windows open, 
and three mothers report much more help from their girls. All of 
this is well worth while and will add to the health and efficiency of 
citizens. The school from now on should more and more recognize 
that whatever a child does t iiat is worth doing and is well done has an 
educational value. 

TEACHING HOME ECONOMICS IN RURAL COMMUNITIES 

HANNAH P. WATERMAN 
Extension Department, Slate Normal School, North Adams, Mass. 

Our great leader in realizing the possibilities of country life in 
Massachusetts has been the Agricultural College with its resident 
courses, farmers' weeks, summer schools, rural conferences, extension 
service and its strong leadership in every phase of rural imderstanding 
and growth. 

For the women in rural communities, perhaps, the work of the Home 
Economics department has brought most welcome variety and serv- 
ice. The canning demonstrations that have helped to successfully 
conserve the delicacies of summer for the winter's menu, the talks that 
have given new ideas for cooking and serving and have reimpressed 
the weU-knowTi yet half-forgotten reasons why some habits of clean- 
liness and of carefully selected diet were good, and above all the in- 
spiration that came from realizing that we belonged to a sisterhood 
of women aspiring to make housekeeping a science and economy an 
art has helped homemaking to continue worth while. They have 
revived the feeling that domestic art is even worth the efifort of growing 
daughters. 

In this education of the daughters, the normal school at North 
Adams is vitally interested. We believe, with the college, that the 
country girl has every right to the good training in Home Economics 
given almost without question and by a specially trained instructor to 
her city cousin. An opportunity to know how to utilize farm products 
in cooking well-balanced, palatable, daintily served meals seems her 



1915] TEACHING HOME ECONOMICS 71 

rightful heritage, and a warm lunch for the girl or boy whose morning 
of study is to be followed by an afternoon requiring an active brain 
appears a demand of justice. 

We reahze that specially trained instructors or supervisors of domes- 
tic science are not possible, as yet, in country towns; they might 
be undesirable. The regular teacher can learn to teach cooking and 
with it much of hygiene and sanitation. Then, too, the teacher 
who is with the children every day and all day knows their needs 
better than the occasional teacher of a special subject can possibly 
understand them. Our graduates go out prepared to cooperate with 
the community where instruction in household arts is desired. 
The enthusiasm of our instructors is contagious and in the rural train- 
ing schools they have learned how to fit such instruction into the school 
program. 

The college, however, often finds response from some section where 
the teachers have never prepared a meal and the wish for school in- 
struction in cooking arouses a sense of helplessness. The appeal for 
assistance from such teachers is always welcome and among those who 
enroll for a course in cooking by correspondence are some of our most 
resourceful rural leaders. 

To such students we recommend the equipment absolutely necessary 
for a rural school if it has not already been given. When we know the 
number of children, their approximate ages and something of their 
resources we furnish a suggestive outline for lessons to be given during 
the school months, — an outline subject to whatever change conditions 
justify. 

The teacher is given definite directions for finding which recipe fits 
the immediate needs of her school, arranging for obtaining materials 
and for planning and conducting the lesson. She is given a cook-book 
of classified recipes which have been prepared by our instructor in 
domestic arts and served with success by children. Instructions for 
having the children make their own cook-books follow easily. The 
student's lessons are guided by notes so grouped as to include the 
forms of cooking taken by students in residence and to allow the stu- 
dent by correspondence to take them in the order most advantageous 
for her children. 

The student holds sanitation clearly in mind throughout her course. 
Cleanliness of person, clothing, materials and utensils, the proper dis- 
posal of waste and the care of kitchen and dining-room furnishmgs are 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

fundamental to every lesson. A study of composition of foods, the 
value of variety in the menu, and proper diet for growing children as 
well as for manual laborers, brain workers or invalids lends interest to 
the preparation of each lesson and appeals to the problem of balancing 
menus, while the discovery of meat substitutes and of new ways of 
cooking common products becomes absorbing. 

The children enjoy the work quite as much as their teacher, perhaps, 
and in their growth in responsibility and womanly qualities lies part 
of her recompense for havng summoned the courage to enter a new 
field of leadership arrong them. The feeling of power which comes 
from having mastered a problem worth while is a reward in itself and 
the growing sense of companionship with her children and her chil- 
dren's parents renders her teaching a friendly service. 

ASH CONTENT OF CANNED VEGETABLES, WITH SPECIAL 
REFERENCE TO CANNED PEAS^ 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 

That the ordinary methods of cooking vegetables do not conserve 
the inorganic compounds present has been shown in several instances. 
This fact was first pointed out by Snyder- at the Minnesota Experi- 
ment Station, who worked with carrots, cabbage, and potatoes, as 
topical vegetable foods. The results of his experiments showed that 
the loss of salts in these vegetables is proportional to the surface ex- 
posed, and is increased by the use of cold water at the beginning of 
the cooking. The removal of the skins of potatoes increases immensely 
the salt loss. 

The losses involved in discarding the water in which certain vege- 
tables have been cooked have been determined experimentally by 
Miss K. I. Williams^ who found, for example, that the loss in ash in 
the case of butter beans was 5.54 per cent and in the case of soy beans, 
13.39 per cent. These determinations were carried somewhat further, 
in work published in 1912, by Miss Berry ,"* who compared the losses 

^Presented in part fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Ph.D., University 
of Chicago, 1913. 

* U. S. Dept. Agr., 0. E. S. Bui. 43. 

^Joiir. Am. Chem. Soc, 26 (1904) no. 3, pp. 244-252; 29 (1907) no. 4, pp. 574-582; 
Jour. Indus. Eng. Chem., 5 (1913) no. 8, pp. 653-656. 

* Jour. HoifE Econ., 4 (1912) no. 5, pp. 405-412. 



1915] ASH CONTENT OF CANNED VEGETABLES 73 

involved in steaming green vegetables with those involved in boiling 
them in water. The results of her experiments showed that steaming 
instead of boiling the green vegetables, e.g., spinach and cabbage, 
effected a very considerable saving in total salts, phosphorous, calcium, 
and magnesium. 

Maurel and Carcassagne^ reported a considerable amount of data 
on the loss of ash and particularly of potassium oxide in the cooking or 
"blanching" of vegetables. Vegetables cooked 20 minutes were 
found to sustain a loss of total ash as follows: Cabbage, 55 per cent; 
asparagus, 35 per cent; Brussels sprouts, 44 per cent; cauliflower, 40 
per cent; green beans, 34 per cent; white beans, 19 per cent; celery 
stalks, 26 per cent; lentils, 33 per cent; celery leaves, 37 per cent. 

Corn, barley, wheat, white beans, lentils, dry peas and potatoes were 
boiled in water for three hours. These cereals were found to lose 38 
to 57 per cent of all their mineral content, and of this 43 to 55 per cent 
consisted of potassium oxide or carbonate, the vegetables lost 30 to 
61 per cent of total salts, 54 to 89 per cent of which were potassium 
salts. Most of the extraction took place in the first hour of boiling. 
It may be observed that the blanching for 20 minutes caused very 
nearly as large a total loss of salts as the three hour boiling. The 
French practice of "blanching" vegetables, in which they are par- 
boiled previous to the final cooking, appears thus to have a serious 
effect upon the basic or antiscorbutic properties of the vegetables. 
These investigators have reported other highly valuable data as to 
mineral loss, particularly potassium, in the blanching of a long list 
of other foods, as tomatoes, beets, carrots, spinach, etc. 

In 1905, T. Zschokke^ published the results of his work on com- 
parative losses in steaming and boiling vegetables preparatory to 
canning them. Carrots, beans, and peas when steamed instead of 
boiled as in the usual method of blanching before canning, were found 
to become soft 3 to 5 minutes sooner than samples cooked in water. 
The water in which the vegetables were boiled was found to be cloudy, 
and green in color in the case of the beans and peas, and yellow in the 
case of the carrots. When the same vegetables were steamed the 
water was neither cloudy nor colored. 

The writer has attempted to determine the amount of mineral loss 
in the canning of peas by the usual commercial process as compared 

» Compt. Rend. Soc. Biol., 67 (1910) no. 25, pp. 91-93; no. 26, pp. 211-213. 
6 Landw. Jahrb. Schweiz., 19 (1905) no. 9, pp. 619, 620. 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

with the loss in the home-canned product. The usual canning process 
is described in considerable detail by A. W. Bitting.'' The points in 
this technical process which might well affect the mineral content of 
foods are the blanching, the strength of brine used, the temperature 
and length of time of processing. By processing is meant the heating 
of the filled and nearly closed can imder high steam pressure. 

The blanching is a imiversal procedure in the case of most vege- 
tables, certainly in the case of peas. Duckwall^ directs that peas be 
blanched by boiling water **to remove mucus or slime, and a bitter 
principle." Bitting says t:iat "vegetables should be kept in boiling 
water from one to li\e minutes to cause softening, and at the same 
time to remove some of the mucus substances which form upon the 
surface. The effect produced by a short boiling in the open as com- 
pared with boiling in a closed can is surprising. In another bulletin^ 
Bitting says, 

There are two objects in blanching peas: (1) To remove the mucus sub- 
stance from the outside and a part of the green coloring matter, so as to 
have a clear liouor in the can; and (2) to drive wator into the peas, so that 
all will be tender. In the young juicy pea, the water content is at its 
maximum, so that the cleaning of the surface is all that is necessary. To 
get the best results, peas which are very old and hard will need a blanch 
approximately five times as long as young peas of the corresponding grade. 

The water used in blanching is in every case thrown away, the 
extracted material thus being wasted. According to Leach^" 2.03 per 
cent of the protein of the pea is soluble in water and is probably 
removed during blanching. 

The next factor which affects the mineral content of canned foods 
is the strength of the solution used in filling the cans after the vege- 
tables are packed. According to Oxborne and Campbell^^ 10 per cent 
of pea protein is soluble in salt solutions and only 2.03 per cent in 
water. E. Poppe^- in 1911, reported work on the extraction of protein 
phosphates, and carbohydrates from dried peas by soaking in distilled 

'U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 151. 
' Duckwall, E. W., Canning and Preserving, vol. 1, p. 348. 
9 U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 125. 

"Leach, A. E., Food Inspection and Analysis, N. Y., 1907, p. 233. 
"/aj<r. Am. Chem. Soc, 18 (1896) no. 7, pp. 583-609; 20 (1898) no. 5, pp. 348-375; 
no. 6, pp. 410-419. 

"£«/. Soc. Chim. Belg., 25 (1911) no. 3, pp. 136-145. 



1915] ASH CONTENT OF CANNED VEGETABLES 75 

water, and in solutions of varying concentration of common salt and 
sugar at different temperatures. He found that the more concen- 
trated solutions extracted the least solid material from the peas, and 
the distilled water the most. In general the extraction seemed rather 
upon the concentration than the temperature. 

The following figures given by Duckwall, before quoted, are fairly 
representative of the trade custom in liquors for all canned vegetables. 
He advises a brine made of 6 pounds of salt in 40 gallons of water to 
which 8 pounds of sugar may be added. This is 1.5 per cent of salt 
and 2 per cent of sugar. In reckoning the ash of canned foods this 
added salt is not always allowed for, and so the inconsistent statement 
that canned vegetables have a higher mineral content than the corres- 
ponding fresh article is accounted for. In Bulletin XIII, part VIII 
of the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture 
this correction is made in all analyses. 

The last factor in canning which affects the ash of foods is the 
temperature and time of processing. The cans are closed, capped or 
soldered, and placed in closed retorts into which steam is turned until 
the desired temperature is reached. The cans are kept at this tem- 
perature for a certain time, after which they are suddenly cooled. 
Necessarily the temperature and length of processing affect the amount 
of extraction as well as the integrity of the vegetable. Under the 
best trade conditions, canned peas, string beans, asparagus, sweet 
potatoes, and Hma beans are hkely to have lost in the process of 
blanching a considerable amount of their mineral nutrients. Toma- 
toes, corn, pumpkin, and rhubarb are canned with the hquor used in 
cooking them. Beets and sweet potatoes are cooked in their skins. 
Of the commoner canned vegetables in use in America, peas, string 
beans, asparagus, and lima beans, are those which are open to the 
question of avoidable waste of inorganic material in canning. 

The following experiments were undertaken to discover whether 
the major loss of ash, occurred in the blanching or in the processing. 
Two different varieties of fresh peas were analyzed for total water, 
ash and phosphorous. One sample of the first variety was then 
blanched in the usual manner, and processed in the commercial style 
with a 2 per cent salt and 2 per cent sugar solution to cover. Another 
portion of the same peas was canned in the manner recommended 
in the United States Department of Agriculture.'^ The same kind 

" U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmers' Bid. 359. 



76 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



of brine was used as in the first canning and the jars were heated in 
boiling water one hour on three successive days. Glass jars were used, 
thereby obviating the determination of tin, which sometimes com- 
pHcates the ash determinations. After a few days these jars were 
opened and the peas and hquor analyzed separately for total soHds, 
phosphorous, and ash. A sample of the second variety of fresh peas 
was blanched as before and canned by the home method. This was 
also examined for total sohds, and ash. In each case the water used 
in blanching was evaporated and total soUds and ash phosphorous 
determined. 

A comparison of the results obtained showed that there is a serious 
loss of ash, particularly of phosphorous, perhaps the most important 
constituent of pea ash, in canning by either the commercial or the 
home process. This loss is particularly heav^^ when the vegetables are 
blanched and the water throwoi away, (18 and 25 per cent), but there 
seems to be also a smaller amount of extraction of salts into the liquor 
when the peas are processed under high steam pressure in the usual 
commercial way, than when simply boiled in water for two or three 
hours in an open vessel, on three successive days. 



Comparison of commercial peas 



TOTAL SOLIDS 



Can No. 1 . 
Can No. 2 . 



per cent 

26.50 
14.16 



TOTAL SOLIDS 
OF LIQUOR 



TOTAL ASH 
OF PEAS 



per cent 

8.16 
5.40 



per cent 

1.17 
0.96 



TOTAL ASH 
OF LIQUOR 



per cent 

0.817 
1.270 



The specific gravity of the Hquor in each case was found to be very' 
slightly less than one, and the acidity of the liquor equivalent to 0.323 
and 0.202 grams, respectively, of acetic acid. In the case of the peas 
canned by the observer the Hquor was found to be neutral. The 
striking difference in per cent of total soHds seems to indicate that the 
peas of can No. 1 were soaked peas or else very mature (See Dubois, 
Bureau of Chemistr}^', Circular 54). 

AU analyses mentioned in this paper were carried out according to 
the methods recommended by the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists.'* The Volhard method was used for chlorin, and the 
volumetric molybdate method for phosphorous. 



"U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. of Chem. Bui. no. 107. 



1915] IMPORTANCE OF A FOOD MUSEUM 77 

Summary. The ash content of peas, blanched and canned by the 
usual high pressure process was found to be 46.1 per cent less than that 
of the corresponding fresh peas. 

The ash content of peas, blanched and canned by the standard home 
process was found to be 50 per cent less than that of the corresponding 
fresh peas. 

The ash content of peas, unblanched, and canned by the standard 
home process was found to be 22.6 per cent less than that of the cor- 
responding fresh peas. All these percentages were calculated for the 
water-free substance. 

The per cent of extraction of PaOs in each case is rather higher than 
the total salt extraction, indicating a special solubility of the phos- 
phorus compounds. 

Inspection of two varieties of commercial canned peas shows a high 
total of salts in the Hquor. 

Much more work must be done on the distribution of mineral loss 
in canning vegetables by the various processes before any definite 
conclusion can be reached as to the economy of such processes. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF A FOOD MUSEUM 

E. H. S. BAILEY 

Professor of Chemistry, University of Kansas 

In teaching so important a subject as the composition of foods, one 
of the things most essential to a broad understanding of the work is a 
well suppHed Food Museum. The attempt to teach without it is 
similar to the old time method of teaching chemistry or geology en- 
tirelyfrom a text book without access to the laboratory or the museum. 
It is too much to assume that the ordinary pupil will have, from 
common observation, a knowledge of the sources of food products or 
the methods of manufacture. Pupils may have had opportunities to 
observe many thmgs in this Une, but in our class work the faculty 
of observation is woefully neglected. 

A food museum should be built up for at least three purposes: First, 
in order to show such foods, for instance, as cereals, legumes, roots, 
fruits and herbs in their native or original condition, and to show the 
difference between that which is of good quaUty and that which is 
inferior. It is not difficult to obtain samples of all the cereals, of 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

pili and cashew nuts and of the locust bean, tamarind and soy bean 
among the legumes; yet how few people are familiar with them. 
Second, the common adulterations of foods may be illustrated by 
reference to the samples in this museum. There is a wide field for 
showing genuine and adulterated spices and the materials formerly 
so commonly used in adulteration, fraudulent samples of vinegar as 
compared -y^ath the genuine, and the preservatives and coloring mat- 
ters which have been used presumably to improve the quahty of a 
food. Third, and perhaps most important of all, the use of these mu- 
seum samples gives an oppr rtunity to demonstrate the various stages 
in the manufacture ol foods, the variety of their by-products, and 
finally, the different grades of the food stuff as it appears upon the 
market. It is not difi6cult to obtain a complete set of samples illus- 
trating the manufacture of sugar from the sugar cane or from the 
sugar beet. The preparation of rice from the field to the kitchen 
furnishes an interesting set of specimens. 

The expression "built up" has been used advisedly, for a good 
museum grows by constant accretions. One set may be added from 
a reliable seed house, another from the flour mill and a third from the 
confectioners. It is only necessary to be constantly watching for 
suitable material, and the museum will soon become of great value 
for illustration. 

Manufacturers of special food products are usually perfectly will- 
ing to furnish a set of the products which they put on the market, 
if they understand that these samples will be on display and will be 
used for illustrative purposes before a large number of students. 

The permanent character of an exhibit of this kind should also be 
noted. The Uquid samples can be put up in uniform bottles, con- 
taining from 8 to 12 ounces, and the solids show to best advantage 
in the well known inverted show bottles of about 8 ounces capacity. 
Cereals, seeds, etc. should be stored for a while to see that they are 
free from insects, before they are permanently installed in the bottles. 
The cork may then be covered with seaHng wax, to exclude the air 
as far as possible. Samples put up in this way will keep without 
any deterioration for many years. If the labels become indistinct, 
they are readily renewed. 



EDITORIALS 

The Art Side of Home Economics. Mrs. Richards once said, 
"We are making the home better and more efficient on the practical 
side. But we must not forget the play side. Women should have not 
only satisfaction in reaching a given end but a joy in the doing of it." 

There are those who feel this joy in the plainest surroundings and 
working with the simplest tools like the man who said: "All my life 
I have found a great deal of poetry in just plain prose." 

Miss Warner in her article printed in the January Journal says : 
"Art marks the eternal distinction between drudgery and work." 
And she quotes William Morris as saying: "The art in a thing is the 
living expression of the joy of a man in his work." "Art is the doing 
whatever has to be done in the best way in which it can be done." In 
all this there is much comfort for those who feel that they have had little 
opportunity to express themselves in any form of beauty. But though 
we may believe that "art was born of utility" we know past all denial 
that most people need help in working out their artistic expression 
in daily life. Every conservatory of music now gives extension courses 
in musical appreciation where the growth and development of music 
is shown and its simplest forms illustrated on the piano. Where are 
there open to every housekeeper art appreciation courses which shall 
prove to the doubting the true values of color in wall paper and decora- 
tions, and teach us to demand of the manufacturer furniture and 
dishes of beautiful design? And what artist among us will lay aside 
for awhile the painting of landscapes and portraits and teach women 
how to dress and how to circumvent the ignorant photographer who, 
secure in his maxim that "the camera cannot lie," knows not the ele- 
ments of the art of posing a sitter so that that valuable and well mean- 
ing instrument is enabled to teU the truth? Until the trained artist 
leaves the confines of the studio and picture gallery and is seen in our 
streets and enters our doorways with helpful word, we shall live un- 
beautiful and therefore unsatisfied Uves. 



79 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Institution Economics Section. As we go to press, we hear 
that the Executive Committee of the Institution Economics Section 
is holding a meeting at Lake Placid, New York, by invitation of 
Mrs. Mehil Dewey. This section Anil hold its annual meeting at 
the Lake Placid Club from June 26 to June 30, 1915. Ample pro- 
vision \\dll be made for the discussion of the essential problems of 
institution economics, both in the general program and by smaller 
groups interested in specific questions. 

The meeting will be open to all who are interested in the insti- 
tutional phases of Home Er onomics. The fee for attending or asso- 
ciate membership is two dollars for those who are not already mem- 
bers of the American Home Economics Association ; for such members 
the fee is one dollar. 

The program will be announced in the next issue of the Journal. 
That issue will consist largely of the addresses given at the last an- 
nual meeting of the Institution Economics Section. 

Material for Teachers. In response to our suggestions in the De- 
cember Journal we learn that Teachers College pubUshes a list of 
teaching materials and laboratory supplies for household arts which 
will be found useful for teachers. This may be obtained for 10 cents 
from the Bureau of PubKcations, Teachers College, New York City. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

WILL THE PARCEL POST REDUCE THE COST OF LIVING? 

Mr. John C. Koons of the United States Post Office Department has 
said recently that what we should be talking about is not the high 
cost of living but the high cost of selling. According to government 
statistics "the value of the products of this country amount to $8,000,- 
000,000 a year; $2,000,000,000 remain on the farms. When the 
$6,000,000,000 of produce sold reaches the consumer, he pays $13,000,- 
000,000. That is, it costs $7 to market every $6 worth of produce." 
It would seem that in the journey "from farm to family" our food 
products have paid too heavy a toll to the many hands through which 
they have passed, and the most rational way of adding to our $6 worth 
of produce is to save something from the $7 distribution bilL To 
help toward this result was one of the ends in view in estabUshmg 
the parcel post. The Post Office Department has seemed to make 
the greatest efforts to bring producer and consumer together. Special 
stamps are no longer required, the maximum weight aUowed for 
packages has been increased to fifty pounds and in thirty-two of the 
larger cities the post office furnishes a Ustof the addresses of farmers 
and the products they have for sale. 

Still, it must be owned that results are disappointmg, and it would 
seem from the very lack of the despised middle man; some one seems 
to be needed to attend to correspondence and to adjust mistakes, 
in short, to keep a standardized product moving without too much 
friction between producer and consumer. For instance, a city house- 
keeper wrote to fifty farmers whose names were found on the post 
office Hst, but received answers from only one in seven. Those who 
did not reply had doubtless sold out since the Hst was printed, but 
a good business house that could no longer furnish what it had adver- 
tised would have repHed to that effect and thus kept the good will 
of a possible customer. Postage, time used in correspondence, and 
final disappointment in the character of what she received sent this 
woman back to the old way of buying. 

81 



82 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Again, there is much difference of opinion as to how the margin 
between wholesale and retail prices is to be distributed. The farmer 
wants it to pay him for the bother of wrapping and sending a small 
package instead of selling his produce wholesale; the housewife wants 
it to compensate her for taking more time in correspondence and buy- 
ing what she cannot examine beforehand. The buyer should make 
a definite and just proposal. One man reports buying every week 
five dozen eggs from a farmer Hving in the second zone from his own 
home. After the cost of postage and of the containers is added to 
what his local dealer offers tc the farmer, there is a margin of six cents 
a dozen below the city retail price, which is divided between them, 
and both are satisfied. 

Let no housekeeper who is trying to use the parcel post in buying 
food be discouraged because of a few failures. We can not expect 
that what is nothing less than a revolution in methods can be smooth 
running and successful after a year or two of trial. The post ofl&ce 
promises still further helps, such as frequently corrected lists of farmers 
and their products and prices, these fists to be deHvered by letter 
carriers to ever>- housekeeper in town and city. Again, farmers will 
certainly cooperate as do farmers in Europe, for marketing their pro- 
duce; the buyer will in time be ordering from a central office which 
handles the produce of its fifty farmer members, and this will greatly 
help the supply to meet the demand in a regular way. 

FOR CLUB STUDY 

At the request of Miss Helen Louise Johnson. Chairman of the Home 
Economics Committee, General Federation of Women's Clubs, the Journ- 
al has selected the above article for study in women's clubs. 

Suggestions. City house\nves who have made connection with the 
fanner (according to our advice in the January number), or better still, 
with a group of neighboring farmers, should buy a stout hamper for 
general produce or a niunber of egg containers, and make a patient at- 
tempt to get into cordial and helpful relations with the producer. If difii- 
culties arise, ask advice of your post master or write to the Parcel Post 
Department in Washington. Cooperation with your neighbors in order 
to divide a larger order is strongly advised. 

If the town in which you live is too small to be furnished through the 
Post Office Department with frequently revised Usts of farmer producers, 
advertise in a paper known to have a good circulation in the country; 



1915] MADE AT HOME 83 

many newspapers have recently started a parcel post advertising column. 
The buyer must remember that the cost of marketing a small order is 
greater in proportion than that of marketing by the barrel or carload. 
After all expenses have been deducted the difference between wholesale 
and retail prices should be equitably divided. Personal acquaintance 
between buyer and seller is very desirable, and often leads to a regular 
arrangement for a week-end hamper to be filled somewhat at the discre- 
tion of the farmer. Let the Journal know the results of your effort. 

"MADE AT HOME" 

ANNA BARROWS 
Teachers College, New York City 

Readers of the Journal are asking for help in deciding a ques- 
tion that is always pressing— Shall the baking, the washing, the sew- 
ing and other work be done in or out of the house? We are no 
longer saying that conditions vary so greatly that each housekeeper 
must decide this question for herself. There are certain principles 
that can be worked out for all. 

Not many years ago every household was in much the position of 
Robinson Crusoe and depended upon its own resources for shelter, 
clothing and food. Now the pendulum has swung so far in the re- 
verse direction that few persons know the whole of a single trade. The 
average individual today would go hungry and naked if suddenly 
forced to feed and clothe himself. 

In these highly specialized days we are questioning whether it is 
wise to manufacture anything at home. This will be found to depend 
upon two factors: 1. The quality of the product made at home as 
compared with the commercial product. 2. The value to be put upon 
the time of the person who does the work at home. 

First, as to the quality of the product. The word "homemade" 
is likely to be spoken in two widely differing tones of voice, each 
showing the attitude of the speaker toward the article under dis- 
cussion. Sometimes our appreciation or depreciation is based whol- 
ly upon our own skill or lack of it. We admire fine needlework, 
drawn work, handmade lace, although they have their origin in the 
lowliest homes; we realize that their maker possessed skill which we 
do not. On the other hand we may despise homemade garments 
of our own manufacture, or refuse to attempt them because we reaUze 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

our own lack of skill to reach a certain acknowledged standard. The 
very core of the question is, Who makes these standards? 

We undoubtedly have one standard for what is intended for home 
consumption and another for what must meet the commercial demand, 
— the latter must be salable. Whatever is made at home is likely 
to possess an individuality seldom found in articles manufactured in 
quantities. Homemade generally imphes hand rather than machine 
work and in most cases more head is necessary to direct the hand than 
the machine. Some people highly prize this method of family or 
self-expression. Here is th( field of sentiment rather than of economic 
values. 

If we look over the common necessities of life we shall find that in 
some cases we scorn the homemade and in others have an almost 
superstitious reverence for it. There is a traditional reverence for 
homemade bread not wholly justified by the quality of bread found 
in the average home. It is eaten at home where criticism is modified 
by tradition. We employ the caterer for social functions and cheer- 
fully eat stereotyped dishes like oyster patties, chicken croquettes, 
lobster salad, and cakes and ices, over and over at every reception 
rather than venture outside the conventional routine and serve home- 
made refreshments. This is generally because we think the home- 
made products cannotmeet the public standards, whatevertheymaybe. 

In household furnishings there is now an effort on the part of most 
intelligent persons to make their homes express themselves rather 
than to accept them ready made from the hands of architect, builder 
and decorator. This is a welcome sign, but to make the effort suc- 
cessful requires innate good taste and much artistic training on the 
part of the homemaker. 

We come now to the question of comparative cost — a question to 
be settled not by sentiment but by cold figures. Manufacturers 
tell us that of the two factors, material and labor, which determine 
the cost of an article, labor is far more important. In the home, 
indeed, material may be a by-product of no value unless used in home 
manufacture — a familiar instance is refuse fat from which the house- 
keeper of a former time made her soap. It is in her valuation of her 
time that the greatest mistakes are made in calculating the difference 
in cost between the homemade and the commercially made. 

Who wiU send to the Journal records and comparisons along 
these lines? 



1915] SEASONAL OCCUPATION 85 

HOME ECONOMICS FOR FARM WOMEN OF THE SOUTH' 

The county women agents who during the summer have been 
teaching southern girls to can their garden products and tend poultry 
will continue during the winter to make other practical demonstrations 
in Home Economics for such farm women as desire them, if the plans 
materialize which the U. S. Department of Agriculture hopes to carry 
out in cooperation with the state colleges. These women will have 
the club members grow winter gardens. It is also proposed to have 
capable county agents make demonstrations in such lines as the fol- 
lowing: utilizing canned goods in cooking, bread making, use of fire- 
less cookers, preparation of vegetables from winter gardens, home- 
made step and labor-saving devices, and similar subjects. Thus the 
Girls' Clubs work will be carried into the home, and mothers as well 
as the girls in southern rural communities may become acquainted 
with the most up-to-date methods of housework. 

CARE OF PALMS AND FERNS IN WINTER' 

Palms. Palms are much used for interior decorations where there 
is no direct sunlight. Regular watering is essential, with especial 
care not to overwater. It is better with most palms to keep them 
a httle dry than too wet. Where a pot is in a jardiniere especial care 
must be exercised not to have them too wet. 

While small, wash the foliage occasionally with soap suds made 
from a good soap. Immediately follow with a thorough rinsing. 
When too large for this, spray the tops frequently with clear water. 

Browning at the tips usually comes from trouble at the roots : first, 
overwatering; second, worms on the roots; third, lack of plant food. 
The first is the trouble in nearly every case. The worm that gave the 
trouble is not the ordinary earth worm, but a little white harmless 
looking creature that emerges into the air as a small fly. Dissolve 
a piece of quick lime as big as a tea cup in three gallons of water. 
After it is through sputtering and the milky mixture has cleared, 
pour off the clear part and soak your soil with it. Do not dilute, for 
the soaking should be thorough. To provide plant food, stir small 
quantities of bone meal and wood ashes into the surface or in place 
of ordinary watering occasionally use manure water or ammonia 

' OflQce of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



86 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

water (a teaspoonful of ammonia to a quart of water). Trim oflf the 
brown tips, as they will never recover. If the leaves turn yellow, 
look for scale on the under side and be sure you are not overwatering. 
Wash the scale off or spray with kerosene emulsion or whale-oil soap, 
or some nicotine preparation. 

Ferns. Ferns as they come from the florists prepared for indoor 
culture should be placed in a strong light, though they grow well 
without sunlight. They should be watered sparingly but should 
be kept moist at all times. Improper watering, especially keeping 
the plant soaked or permitti.ig it to get dry, is the foundation of most 
fern difficulties. It is especially difficult not to overwater when the 
fern is in a jardiniere, where drainage is necessarily poor. In spring 
and summer they will require three times the water necessary in fall 
and winter. 

It is well occasionally to put them in the bath tub and give them a 
bath with weak soap suds made from a good grade of soap. The soap 
must be thoroughly rinsed off immediately. Great care must be 
exercised not to injure the fronds as they arc very tender. Mealy 
bug is one of the worst enemies in house culture. This is a white woolly 
insect that works close to the bottom of the fronds. If found, the 
plant should be examined every day and all insects removed by a 
splint or tooth pick. If the pest is very bad, cut off all the top of the 
fern within an inch of the ground, treat thoroughly each day till all 
insects are exterminated when a new top can be grown. 

Red spider is a minute sucking insect that thrives in a dry atmos- 
phere. It can be kept in check by spraying the top with clear water. 
In living rooms this is frequently impracticable. The next best thing 
is repeated baths. The aphis or green fly is also eradicated by washing. 

Ferns should be fed once in two to four weeks in the place of ordi- 
nary watering with dilute nitrate of soda (a heaping teaspoonful to 
a quart of water), ammonia water (a teaspoonful of ammonia to a 
quart) or manure leachings. Prepared plant food or a little sprink- 
ling of ground bone and wood ashes also gives satisfaction. 

UTILIZING THE WORKMAN'S DULL SEASON 

"Is it a hurry order?" asked an upholsterer regarding the sofa 
that was to be done over. "Then it will cost you $40.00 but if 
you can wait and let me take it to my shop while you are away in 



1915] DISINFECTION 87 

the summer I can afford to do it for $25.00. This is our busiest 
time and I have to pay an extra price to good men." 

The woman who thus saved $15.00 on one article of furniture 
has inside painting done at a lower rate in the winter when it is 
too cold for the men to do outside work; she has also found that 
at the turn of the seasons when the old stock of wall papers must 
be gotton rid of to make way for the new, it can be bought at the 
most surprising reductions from the price charged only a few months 
before, and that the paperer is glad of work in the slack season. A 
better job may be expected in the repair of stoves and furnaces in 
the spring than just as cold weather is setting in. Many other 
ways of taking advantage of seasonal occupations will occur to the 
thoughtful housewife. 

HOW TO DISINFECT ROOMS, FURNITURE AND CLOTHING^ 

For the benefit of those who have to disinfect after contagious 
diseases, details of the method being recommended by Boards of 
Health are here given. The help of an expert is not needed. 

The windows, doors (with the exception of the one which is to give 
exit to the operator), registers, openings into chimneys, keyholes, and 
all other apertures through which air can pass should be sealed. ^ In 
other words, the rooms should be made as nearly air-tight as possible. 
Gummed paper, put up in roUs, is made for this particular purpose. 
In lieu of it, however, common newspaper, cut into narrow strips 
and throughly wet, may be used, as it will remain in position long 
enough for the purpose. The paper used for seaUng cracks, whether 
gummed or not, should be wet with a two per cent solution of formal- 
dehyde, in order to disinfect the surfaces upon which it is to be pasted. 

All surfaces should be exposed as much as possible; closet doors 
opened and their contents, together with the contents of drawers, 
removed, scattered about, and the drawers left open; mattresses set 
on end, pillows, bedding, clothing, etc., suspended from lines stretched 
across the room or spread out on chairs or other objects so as to expose 
all sides; books opened and the leaves spread— in short, the room and 
its contents so disposed as to secure free access of the gas to all parts 

I Food Department, North Dakota Agr. Expt. Sta. Special Bui. 3 (1914), no. 12, pp. 
209, 210. 



88 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

as fully as possible. Upon this preparation largely depends the 
thoroughness of the disinfection. 

The amount of cubic space to be disinfected should be calculated. 
For each 1,000 cubic feet of space, use six and one-half ounces of per- 
manganate of potash and one pint of formaldehyde. 

One large, flaring pail is the only apparatus needed. The pail 
should not hold less than ten or twelve quarts, and under it should 
be placed a few newspapers or a piece of old carpet, so that in case it 
should overflow or spatter during the intensely rapid effervescence 
which takes place, the floor may be protected. A wooden or indurated 
fiber pail is better for the purpose than one made of metal, as it better 
retains the heat which is evolved and which is essential to the best 
results. 

When all is in readiness, place the permanganate of potash in the 
pail, then pour the formaldehyde upon it. The operator will be 
obhged to leave the room instantly on account of the rapid formation 
of gas. The premises should remain closed for not less than five 
hours; a longer time would be better. The temperature of the rooms 
to be disinfected should not be less than 60°F. 

Remember that the formaldehyde solution must be poured upon 
the permanganate of potash, and never the reverse. 

WHAT BED SPRINGS ARE THE BESTP^ 

HARRIETTE T. RICHARDSON 

The modern spring was made possible through the development 
of steel. Cords and wooden slats provided a support for the mattress 
of the olden time but with the malleable steel wire the spring came 
into existence. In the simplest form it is seen wrought out of center 
disks into which four even steel wires are linked making a square 
four inches in size. This steel net is suspended by helixes — that is 
coils of steel at the head and foot of the frame. This taut suspen- 
sion prevents sagging under the weight of the body. 

The woven wire spring is attached to the steel frame directly 
without the use of helixes. It is in reaUty a steel hammock, and it 
provides for an even distribution of weight; nevertheless, it will sag. 

' Part of a study of mattresses and bed springs, made at Teachers College. 



1*^131 FOOD FOR SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS 89 

If side support is required a steel rod is at times used. But this 
rod once bent never returns to place. In certain woven mattresses 
the edge is rolled from the steel spring itself and by this means a 
side support is secured. The cost of the steel woven springs varies 
from $3.75 to $10. 

The box spring is made upon another design. This spring is built 
upon a wooden frame which rests fast upon a wooden bed and is rab- 
bited under for the same position on the iron bed. Upon this frame 
are fastened coils of tempered steel knotted at the ends and shaped 
in the form of an hour glass. These are covered with burlap and 
fastened. Over the burlap are placed layers of cotton felt, hair 
or lamb's wool and a tick which is tufted exactly in the same fashion 
as the mattress; a tick covers the frame, at the sides and on the under 
part as well. These box springs are further protected around the 
edges beneath the tick by a bamboo rim or in certain makes by a 
tempered steel rod. If the steel is once bent the fault may not be 
remedied easily while the bamboo will spring back to place and is 
never permanently bent. The height of spring is determined by the 
purchaser. 

The cost of the box spring varies with the top filling. It may be 
bought with no hair, or untufted, for $10, but when upholstered the 
cost is $27 to $28, and it will be noted that the sizes differ one dollar 
only in price. The cost lies in the workmanship. 

The box spring is a better investment than the woven wire. 

FOOD FOR SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS^ 

A Day's Food Plan. Age 14-1 S Years'^ 

Breakfast— 500-800 calories Calories 

Fruit 50-100 

Cereal 100-150 

Milk 100-200 

Bread and butter 150-300 



' Extracts from Food for School Boys and Girls. By Mary Swartz Rose. New York: 
Teachers College, Technical Education Bui. 23, pp. 15. 

' For amounts required, see January Journal, pp. 38-40. 

For children under 14 years, see April (1914) Journal, pp. 179-181 and June (1914) 
Journal, pp. 286-288. 



90 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Luncheon — 600-1200 calories 

Macaroni and cheese, or hot roast beef sandwich, or bean soup and 

crackers 200-300 

Cocoa or milk 100-150 

Bread and butter 200-500 

Baked custard, or rice pudding, or baked apple 150-200 

Dinner— 800-1400 calories 

Meat, or bean or lentil loaf and potatoes, or scalloped eggs 200-300 

Green vegetables, cooked 25-100 

Fresh fruit or vegetable salad 100-150 

Bread and butter 200-600 

Ice cream, or tapioca cream, or charlotte russe 150-200 

Milk or cereal caf6 au lait 100-200 

Total 1800-3200 

Most aversions to food are formed during or before the period of 
adolescence. These are deplorable socially and economically, and 
may be the cause of a badly selected diet. They arise through un- 
pleasant associations, as sickness or accidents; through imitation of 
others, especially admired adults; through unpleasant suggestions 
made by others; or through idiosyncracies of taste. An enthusiasm 
for nourishing food needs to be cultivated among children by precept 
and example, and worthy foods should be kept from falling into dis- 
repute by every legitimate means. The cultivation of a rational 
appetite will help immensely in laying the foundations of health for 
later years. Many of the results of dietetic indiscretions are not 
apparent immediately, and their seriousness is apt to be underesti- 
mated. Fuller physical development, greater resistance to disease, 
freedom from fatigue, increased mental alertness are hard to measure in 
concrete terms. But psychologists and physiologists are perfecting 
tests, and these, even in their present crude state, give abundant 
evidence of the value of food in promoting health. And while we are 
right in insisting upon economy in the use of food materials, it must 
be a rational economy which avoids waste but recognizes the necessity 
of an ample food supply, rich in building material, not only through 
elementary school and high school, but even through college. Many 
a young man and woman has, by subsistence on meagre and unsuit- 
able food during the college years, paid the penalty of lowered resist- 
ance at a later period. If rigid economy must be practiced, let it be 
on the seasoned adult who can best bear it, and not upon developing 
young people, whose right it is not only to be well born but also well 
reared. 



1915] WORK FOR ODD HOURS 91 

HOUSEKEEPING A GAME 

Let the young men and women who make new homes look upon 
housekeeping as a game requiring consummate skill and affording much 
enjo}-ment to those who play it for themselves. 

"Housekeeping a game?" Well, why not? What are some of the 
elements that make games enjoyable? The charm of uncertainty, 
of the unforeseen turn which brings victory, and the opportunity 
to show personal skill or prowess. Are not thf^se present in the 
everyday routine of the new housekeeping? Probably it is the 
secretly recognized lack of skill or power to win the game that makes 
household processes so distasteful to many women. Strange that 
any woman will undertake the management of a home without some 
preparation in the arts involved. 

WORK FOR ODD HOURS 

Nothing is more called for, nothing more urgently needed than 
a Hst of money-earning occupations for odd hours in the home. 

In default of this Hst the housekeeper can without doubt earn, or 
she may call it save, best by doing her own sewing, washing and 
baking, that is, if she must be at home caring for young children and 
preparing the meals — or she may choose of the three that for which 
she has most inclination or talent. On the other hand, the house- 
keeper who follows a regular vocation outside the home will buy ready 
made garments and patronize the laundry and the bakery. 

But in any case when the garments require re-modeling, or the choicer 
laces and muslins will not bear the hard treatment of the laundry, 
then the home manufacturer may save more than she could earn in the 
same hours elsewhere. For the making over of garments it is desira- 
ble that one should know their defects and the conditions under which 
they are to be used in the future. Therefore, the home dressmaker 
with even a limited knowledge of the art often secures better results 
than the skilled seamstress. Material of good quality, made over 
at home will do better service, usually, than an inferior grade of 
ready made clothing. In combining two half-worn garments into 
one new one there may be found a fascination, not exceeded by a 
jig saw puzzle, or a game of cards. 



92 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

A NEW USE FOR GRAPEFRUIT 

A correspondent in the South suggests that in locaUties where 
grapefruit is cheap the juice might be used as a substitute for sour 
milk in making waffles, griddle cakes, muffins, biscuits, cakes, etc. 
The acid equivalent of a cup of sour milk would be furnished by two- 
thirds of a cup of juice. The remaining one-third of a cup of liquid 
is made up by adding water. 

Some who have tried this substitute think the advantage lies chiefly 
in the added flavor, while others suggest that an objectionable acid 
flavor is noticeable. 

IMPORTANCE OF RETAINING MINERAL MATTER IN 
CANNING VEGETABLES 

The Journal has frequently called attention to the dietetic value 
now attached to minute quantities of mineral matter found in fresh 
vegetables and fruits, and also to the fact that these are to some 
extent soluble in hot water and thus liable to loss if the water in 
which they are cooked is thrown away. 

As might be expected, it has been found that the mineral matter 
in certain canned vegetables is much less than that in corresponding 
fresh ones. For further details seepage 72. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Food 

The Water Content of Oysters. F. L. Shannon, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and 
Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 161-165. 

The Cookery Exhibit at Granby Fair. E. Rutter, Jour. Agr. and Ilort., 18 (1914), 
no. 4, pp. 87, 88, figs. 2. (A specially .equipped space for use of the judges is described.) 

The Canning' of Fruits and Vegetables. Katharine A. Fisher, Jour. Agr. and Hort., 
18 (1914), no. 4, pp. 86, 87, figs. 3. 

Canned Salmon— Cheaper than Meats, and Why. U. S. Dept. Com., Bur. Fisheries 
Econ. Circ, no. 11 (1914), pp. 11. (A number of recipes are given for dishes made with 

canned salmon.) , ,^ ^ ,,. , rr ■ 

[Analysis of Citrus Fruit Juices and of Prickly Pear Products.] H. J. Vipond, Union 
So. Africa Dept. Agr. Rpt. 1912-13, pp. 308, 309. 

The R61e of Controlled and Guaranteed Advertising in the Control and Improve- 
ment of Food Supplies. R. H. Waldo, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 (1913), no. 10, pp. 

1027-1031. ^^ ,„ 

The Function of Organized Industries in the Control and Improvement of Food Sup- 
plies. H. D. Pease, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 3 (1913), no. 10, 1040-1045. 

Better Coffee Making— Recommendations for Dealers and Consumers Resultmg 
from Exhaustive Studies Which Disclosed the Importance of Fine Granulation and the 
High Efliciency of the Filtration Method. E. Abom, Tea and Cojfee Trade Jour., 25 
(1913), no. 6, pp. 568-574. 

The Sugar Palm. O. W. Barrett, Philipp. Agr. Rev., 7 (1914), no. 5, pp. 216-221. 

Curing Meat on the Farm. D. T. Gray, North Carolina Sta. Circ, 4 (1913), pp. 10, 

fiss 7 

Notes on Siamese (seedless) Pomelos or Grapefruits. H. H.Boyle, Philipp. Agr. 

Rev., 7 (1914), no. 2, pp. 65-69. 

Ghee (boiled butter). Philipp. Agr. Rev., 7 (1914), no. 2, pp. 83, 84. A note on the 
culinary use of Ghee, cocoanut oil and cottonseed oil in India and Ceylon.) 

Wheat Study and Investigation from a Milling and Baking Standpomt at the North 
Dakota Agricultural College and Experiment Station. North Dakota Sta. Rpt. (19U), 

pt. 3, pp. 348-396. _ , o . , Aon 

The South American Meat Industry. A. D. Melvin, U. S. Dept. Agr. Separate 629, 

Yearbook (1913), pp. 347-364. 

Ndtrition 

School Breakfasts. Mo. Bui. Ind. Bd. Health, 17 (1914), no. 2, p. 20. (A brief state- 
ment is given regarding the character of breakfasts of 37 pupils m a public school in 

^° ThTschool Luncheon. Mrs. H. Calvin, Oreg. Agr. Col. Bui., 89 (1913) pp. 6^ 

Unpolished Rice and the Prevention of Beri-Beri. H. Eraser and A. T. Stanton. 
Lancet [London], 1914, I, no. 2, pp. 96-98, fig. 1. ^^ 



94 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

On the Influence of Atmospheric Pressure, Temperatures and Humidity on Animal 
Metabolism. W. Thomson, Mem. and Proc. Manchester Lit. and Phil.Soc, 57 (1912-13), 
pt. 3, no. 13, pp. 8, tables 2, pis. 2. 

The Influence of Moisture in the Air on Metabolism in the Body. W. Thomson, 
Mem. and Proc. Manchester Lit. and PhiL Soc, 57 (1912-13), pt. 3, no. 14, pp. 4. 

Relative Nutritive Value of Pasteurized and Raw Milk. I. C. Weld, Creamery and 
Milk Plant Mo., 2 (1914), no. 7, pp. 1, 2. 

The Influence of Nutrition and the Influence of Education in Mental Development. 
F. W. Mott, Sci. Prog. [London]. 8 (1914), no. 31, pp. 460-481, pis. 2. (The author dis- 
cusses infant feeding, stimulus in relation to development of the brain, etc.) 

The Significance of Finely Divided Vegetable Foods in the Economy of the Body— 
A Contribution to the Study of CeV. ilose Digestion. F. W. Strauch, Ztschr. Expt. Path, 
u. Ther., 14 (1913), no. 3, pp 462-479; abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 30 (1914), no. 8, p. 761. 

Modem Reforms in Nutrition. M. Rubner, Arch. Hyg., 81 (1913), no. 4-5, pp. 179- 
259; abs. Expt. Sta. Records, 30 (1914), no. 8, p. 764. 

Feeding Experiments with Mice. Ruth Wheeler, Jour. E.xpf. Zool., 15 (1913), no. 2, 
pp. 209-223, figs. 6. (A comparison of different proteins.) 

The Sandwich and Its Significance in Popular Diet. M. Rubner and Schuize, Arch. 
Hyg., 72 (1913), no. 4-5, pp. 260-271; abs. E.xpt. Sta. Record, 30 (1914), no. 8, p. 761. 

The Behavior of Levulose in the Body. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 62 (1914), 
no. 16, pp. 1258, 1259. (Cf. Hoppe-Seyler's Ztschr. Physiol. Chem., 89 (1914), p. 78.) 

Hygiene an"d Sanitation 

The Care of the Baby. Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], Sup. 10 (1914), pp. 14, fig. 1. 

A Progressive Woman. [Food sanitation in a gelatin factorj'.] Gen. Fed. {Women's 
Clubs) Mag., 13 (1914), no. 5, pp. 34, 35, figs. 3. 

Biochemical Studies of Expired Air in Relation to Ventilation. C. Weisman, Easton, 
Pa. (1913), pp. 99, fig. 1. (An extended summar>' of data relating to the subject is 
given, and the results are reported of a series of experiments.) 

The Effects of School Life Upon the Nutritive Processes, Health, and the Composi- 
tion of the Blood. L. M. Terman, Pop. Sci. Mo., 84 (1914), no. 3, pp. 257-264. 

The Bacteriology of Canning. J. Vanderleck, Jour. Agr. and Hort., 18 (1914), no. 4, 
p. 72. 

Sanitary Food Law and the Us2 of the Score Card in Sanitary Inspection of Food 
Establishments. H. E. Barnard, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and Drug Officials, 17 
(1913), pp. 91-93. 

The Score Card System of Food Inspection. G. B. Taylor, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, 
Food and Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 93-96. 

WTiat Should Be the Attitude of Food Ofiicials Toward the Supervision of Sanitary 
Conditions in Hotels, Restaurants, Dining Cars, and Eleemosynary Institutions. G. L. 
Flanders, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 83-85. 

Sanitary Conditions in Alaska. [Food Poisoning.] E. Krulish, Pub. Health Rpts. 
[U. S.], 28 (1913), no. 12, pp. 544-551. (Water supply, garbage disposal, and other 
questions are discussed.) 

Protection of Food Offered for Sale. Maine Sta. Of. Insp., 49 (1913), pp. 29-36. 

Man and the Microbe. C. E. A. Winslow, Pop. Sci. Mo., 85 (1914), no. 1, pp. 5-20. 

On the Presence of Spore-Forming Bacteria in Washington Market Milk. J. C. 
Pr>-or, Bui. Johns Hopkins Hasp.. 25 (1914), no. 283. pp. 276-278. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics at the price listed 

Principles of Cooking. By Emma Conley. New York: American Book 

Company, 1914, p. 206. $0.52. By mail of the Journal, $0.60. 

As a basic text-book for teachers and pupils in upper elementary and 
secondary schools "Principles of Cooking" finds a deserved place among 
many recent publications in the household arts field. 

Prominent among the distinguishing features of the book are (1) the 
broad view-point established through the suggestive references to the 
economic and industrial phases of the subject of foods, (2) the logically 
systematized sequence of principles of cooking, with a thorough com- 
parative summary, (3) the application of principles in well selected basic 
recipes, with suggestions for adaptation and variation, (4) the detailed 
discussion of food stuffs, (5) the balance between the practical phases and 
the essential scientific principles involved, (6) the chapter devoted to the 
teaching of cooking in rural schools, (7) the selection of essential details 
in the teaching of simple table service. 

Miss Conley has enriched the pages of her book with many valuable 
illustrations, and a well-organized index renders it very usable as a reference 
as well as a text-book. 

Studies in Carbohydrates; the Composition and Digestibility of Wheat Bread 
and Allied Foods [and] Gelatinization of Starches. By C. H. L.\Wall 
AND Sara S. Graves. (Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. Phila., 7, 1913, 
pt. 2, pp. 35-45.) 

The results are reported of the microscopic examination of 12 starches, 
raw and also cooked below and at the temperature of boiling water, includ- 
ing starches from cereals, potato, sweet potato, maranta, and bean and pea. 
In the cooked starches, "it was noticed that the absorption of water begins 
at the hilum, working toward the edge until the granules burst or collapse." 
Similar studies were made of the starch of white bread, commercial 
rye, graham, and gluten bread, rolls and crackers, pretzels, and matzoth, 
and of the starch in cooked vegetables, including beans, peas, and lentils, 
boiled until soft, baked beans, string beans, and canned French peas (petits 
pois). With the vegetables, "in every case the starch granules were found 
to be entirely gelatinized, either swollen or broken." 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Determinations of the gelatinization points of free starches from cereals, 
potato, sweet potato, maranta, bean, pea, and lentil were also made. 
"Noting the gelatinization points of raw and dried potato starch, and 
the diverse results in the pea and bean experiments, it is evident that the 
form of the starch and size of the particles have marked influence. It is 
possible that the time required to heat to the desired point may affect the 
lesult. The greatest difficulty, however, lies in determining the point 
at which the majority of the granules may be called gelatinized. It is not 
definite ^^■ithin 1 to 3°. 

"The microscopic examination of starch, both raw and after cooking, 
has shown that in process of bread making it undergoes a marked change 
which has a direct effect on the composition and value of the bread pro- 
duced. From 5 to 8 per cent of the insoluble starch is changed to a sol- 
uble form, and very many grains are ruptured and rendered more sus- 
ceptible to the action of solvents, such as the digestive fluids, by combined 
action of heat and ferments. The 35 to 40 per cent of water prevents the 
temperature in the interior of the loaf from rising much above 100°, thus 
accounting for the small amount of soluble starcli in comparison with the 
10 to 18 per cent in bread crust and 5 to 12 per cent in crackers." 

Food Analyses and Other Pure Food and Drug Topics. [Examination of 
Textiles.] By E. F. Ladd and Alm.\ K. Johnson. (North Dakota Sta. 
Spec. Bui., 2, 1913, No. 21, pp. 357-368.) 

Some data are given regarding the relative cost of a meal in hotels and 
restaurants of different grade and the relation of fancy marketing of food 
products to the cost of living. Some pure food and drug topics are discussed 
and data are given regarding the examination of miscellaneous foods and 
beverages. 

A sample of cloth said to have been purchased as "all wool" flannel was 
examined and found to contain approximately f cotton and ^ wool. "This 
is characteristic of a good share of the material sold as 'all wool' or 'com- 
mercial wool.' " It is stated that samples of so-called "woolen cloak 
goods," which one of the authors saw made in the factory where the samples 
were procured, consisted of cotton, 10 per cent, Australian wool, 10 per 
cent, and shoddy, 80 per cent. 

"That this material might be called 'commercial wool' is true, but the 
statement that it contains enough of cotton, about 10 per cent, to make it 
wear better, when, as a m^atter of fact, the truth is that it contains 10 per 
cent of cotton to hold the shoddy together, 80 per cent of ground-up rags, 
and 10 per cent of real wool. The ground-up rags may be all wool, but 
they are not what is understood as such when purchasing all wool goods, 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 97 

nor are they of the same value. At the present time when one buys the 
product called 'commercial woolen goods,' he may be getting an article 
that contains a small amount of cotton and the rest straight wool, but he is 
more apt to be getting a considerable proportion of cotton, 'k small amount 
of true wool, and the balance shoddy or ground-up rags." 
The need for a textile law is urged. 

Ptire Food and Sanitation. Papers at the Seventeenth Annual Conven- 
tion of the Association of American Dairy, Food and Drug Officials. 
(Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and Drug Officials, xvii, 1913, pp. 
165, figs. 2.) 

In addition to officers' reports and similar material, papers on a va- 
riety of pure food and related topics are included. Among others are the 
following: Supervision of the wholesomeness of materials, by E. F. Ladd; 
to what extent should the functions of a State food department be re- 
garded as educational, by L. P. Brown; the fat standard as a substitute for 
the water standard for butter, by W. C. Frear; net weights and measures 
laws, by A. H. Jones; what should be the attitude of food officials toward 
the supervision of sanitary conditions in hotels, restaurants, dining cars, 
and eleemosynary institutions, by G. L. Flanders; what attitude toward the 
supervision of sanitary conditions in restaurants, hotels, etc., by C. D. 
Woods ; sanitary food law and the use of the score cards in sanitary inspec- 
tion of food establishments, by H. E. Barnard; the score card system of 
food inspection, by G. B. Taylor; the analysis of a sample of sugar \dnegar 
made from cane sugar, by W. H. Harrison; an apparatus for the rapid 
determination of available carbon dioxide in baking powder, by B. Harrison; 
and the water content of oysters, by F. L. Shannon. 

Markets for the People. By J. W. Sullivan New York: The Macmillan 
Company, 1913, pp. 316. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

A well-considered plea for the despised pushcart as a means of reducing 
the cost of li\dng by lowering the price of food. As such it merits the serious 
consideration of students of Home Economics. These students need not 
the figures presented here to convince them that the item ''food" is the 
largest in the average household budget, often constituting between 45 
and 60 per cent of the total family expenditure. Well-stocked provision 
stores dealing in all kinds of foods are, according to the author, a con- 
venience to the rich and to the well-to-do. Permanent municipal markets 
are Hable to benefit chiefly the commission merchant and the middleman 
in general. Hope for the poor, however, lies in the provision section of the 
department store as a source of staple goods and in the ambulant push- 



98 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

cart vender who, in the opinion of the author, should be provided with a 
place in the public park or other open space where at popular marketing 
times (Saturday evenings, for example) he can cease from ambulating and 
give his exclusive attention to his patrons. "Working-class London in 
general, and much of middle-class London as well, buy the bulk of their 
perishable necessaries from ambulant pushcart vendors or at open-air 
markets. The system is at once the most ancient and the most modern. 
It is the cheapest of all systems — efficient, natural, democratic, rightfully 
communistic. It often gives the masses double rations." 

The book contains a chapter on cooperative buying and much other 
material which bears more or less directly on the problem of how^ "the 
successive barriers that ciog the flow of foodstuffs from the country pro- 
ducer to the cit}- consumer" can be broken down; its chief claim to dis- 
tinction, among the host of books on the same subject, lies in the unique 
character of the remedy which it advocates and in the facts which it as- 
sembles in support of its plea. 

How Wc Serve Hawaiian Canned Pineapple. (Honolulu, 1914, 2 ed., 
pp. 24, figs. 29.) 

This pamphlet, issued by the Hawaiian Pineapple Packers' Associa- 
tion, contains numerous recipes for serving canned pineapple in a great 
variety of ways. The recipes are contributed by fifteen well-known cook- 
ing experts. 

Making Built-in Furniture. By Abbot McClure. New York: Mc- 
Bride, Nast and Company, 1914, pp. 52. $0.50. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, S0.55. 

The latest of the House and Garden Making Books is the one on Making 
Built-in Furniture. It includes a number of sensible suggestions for ar- 
tistic, convenient and permanent additions to the house in the way of fur- 
niture for storage purposes, such as bookcases, drawers, closets, cupboards, 
side boards, dressers, etc., and of furniture for personal or bodily accom- 
modation, such as settles, benches and desks. 

Usefulness, appropriateness and beauty are insisted upon. No attempt 
is made to give directions for making such furniture, but the drawings 
and photographs as well as the text are suggestive and illuminating. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

New England Home Economics Association. On Thursday after- 
noon, December 3, the New England Home Economics Association held its 
opening meeting in an informal "At Home" in its new headquarters, 4 Joy 
Street, Boston. Mrs. Eva W. White, the president, told of the plans for 
weekly round table conferences, beginning January 4. The first Monday 
of each month is to be for the Social Workers and Nurses, the second 
Monday for the Domestic Science Teachers, the third Monday for the 
Homemakers, and on the fourth Monday we plan to have an open meet- 
ing with speakers on cooperative buying. 

It is hoped that friends from all over New England will bring their 
problems to the round table for discussion. These discussions will be led 
by persons prominently connected with the special lines of work. At these 
meetings notice will be given of other meetings or lectures on Home Eco- 
nomics in or around Boston. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. The classes 
planned by the Home Economics Association are successfully under way. 
Great interest is being shown in the class in dietetics, with laboratory 
work, which is being given at Drexel Institute by Miss Hannah Hill. 

Between fifty and sixty people have joined the class on "The Budget," 
conducted by Miss Emma Winslow of Teacher's College. The following 
is the outline of the course as Miss Winslow expects to give it: 

I The history of the budget: The budget as it has been used by gov- 
ernments, by business and social organizations, etc.; the increas- 
ing realization of its importance as an instrument of financial 
control. 
II The budget of the household: The budget plan as used in the house- 
hold; the budget standards as set by various investigators of 
household expenditures. 

III Household accounts and the budget: Methods of keeping household 

accounts; methods of using budget standards in controlling ex- 
penditures. 

IV The expenditure for housing: The importance of good housing as a 

basis for normal, healthy family life; the economic and social 
factors which influence the amount to be legitimately spent for 
housing. 

99 



100 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

V The expenditure for clothing: The importance of the wise selection 
of clothing if the family are to be adequately clothed with a not 
too large expend'ture of money; discussion of the various sug- 
gested lists of clothing where the minimum expenditure is a ne- 
cessity; the additional items which are necessary. 
VI Food expenditures: The minimum standards that have been set by 
various investigators; the range of variety possible in low cost 
dietaries; the need for education in the selection of the right kind 
of food, and in its purchase in such a way that minimum prices 
are paid. 
VII The operating expenses: The housewife's time, or her money for 
labor-sa\'ing de\dces or a servant's wage; how low is it fair for the 
operating expenses to be kept? 
VIII Savings and the "higher life;" After the necessities of living are 
provided, what? 
IX Discussion of budgets collected by class. 
X Discussion: Is a budget worth while? 

Ohio Home Econoinics Association. The fifth annual meeting of the 
Ohio Chapter of the Home Economics Association was held in Cleveland, 
Ohio, on October 22, 23, 24, 1914, in conjunction with the North-Eastern 
Ohio Teacher's Association. The afternoon of the 22d, and the morn- 
ing of the 23d were devoted to school-visiting. 

The program of Friday afternoon w'as devoted to the art phase of our 
work. Miss Adelaide Van Duzer, supervisor of Household Arts in the 
Cleveland schools spoke on the Use of the Model Apartment in teaching 
Household Arts. Miss Agnes B. Slaymaker of the Interior Decoration 
Department of one of Cleveland's most exclusive shops, The Halle Brothers 
Company, spoke on Art in Textiles, illustrating her talk with simple and 
inexpensive as well as very costly fabrics. Miss Jean Garrabrant of West 
Technical High School, presented Art in Dress, giv'ing illustrations through 
line sketches of good and bad taste in clothes. Mr. A. D. Kennedy of 
East Technical High School spoke on Art in House Furnishings, and he 
used fabrics, paper, furniture and wood finishes to illustrate color schemes 
for various rooms. 

The Saturday morning meeting was held in the rooms of the House- 
hold Administration Department, Western Reserve University. Miss 
Mary E. Parker, head of that Department gave her impressions of the June 
meeting of the American Home Economics Association. Miss Florence 
M. La Ganke, Western Reserve University, talked on the Relation of the 
School-Lunch to the Pupils' Health, and told of work being done in other 
cities. She laid especial emphasis on Cleveland School-feeding which ;is 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 101 

financed and managed largely by the Federated Woman's Clubs. Miss 
Cecelia A. Evan's topic was Homemaking as seen by a Visiting Nurse. 
She put in a plea for the teaching of Homemaking— especially Marketing 
and Costs and Table Service— to boys. The last speaker was Prof. C. C. 
Arbuthnot of Western Reserve University, who chose Marketing in Theory. 
The subject dealt with economic and social phases of the problem. 

:Miss Marcella Macke of Dayton is compiling a State directory of Home 
Economics teachers. 

Home Economics Day. The California State Normal School of Manual 
Arts and Home Economics Branch of the American Home Economics Associ- 
ation kept Memorial Day for Mrs. Richards by having a very dignified but 
delightful program at the close of the day on December 3. The program 
consisted of music, and addresses on phases of Mrs. Richards' work, per- 
sonal recollections of Mrs. Richards, and the Memorial Fund. 

The lecture room was very tastefully decorated and Mrs. Richards' 
fondness for flowers and her idea that a row of flowers or potted plants 
could be used instead of a curtain in front of windows, especially of dining- 
room windows, was called to our attention by palm branches before the win- 
dows in the school. No celebration in honor of Mrs. Richards is com- 
plete without at least a small exhibit, for Mrs. Richards believed so deeply 
in the value of exhibits as a means of educating public opinion. And hence 
a small exhibit of personal letters, Mrs. Richards' books and the Memorial 
numbers of the Journal were arranged and the walls were decorated with 
some of the best mottoes from Mrs. Richards' writings selected by the 
students in Home Economics. 

Mrs. Richards' personal letter to Miss Stewart giving her reasons for the 
use of the word Euthenics was of special interest. 

''My dear Miss Stewart:— No, indeed, 'Euthenics' is to be used only 
for a college course on the lines of sociology or social economy. I do not 
mean cooking or millinery but a broad study of conditions leading to a better 
practice. It is the ethics of scientific living. * * * * Dr. Robins at the 
meeting at which eugenics was discussed said that he beUeved that food was 
the greatest o al factors in the development of the child. I searched the 
Greek dictionary for a word which should mean improvement through 
environment rather than heredity— of those I selected and submitted to 
Dr Gildersleeve of Johns Hopkins he thought Euihenia came nearer and 
so I started the term Euthenics. * * * I do think Euthenics a very good 
word to signify race betterment through existing possibilities which are 
under our control and that the fact that they are under our control is the 

most important one to teach. 

* * * (signed) Ellen H. Richards." 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONomcs [February 

Mrs. Richards' interest in Santa Barbara and the growth of Miss Rich's 
work here was always very keen. President Rich gave tribute to the debt 
which we owe to Mrs. Richards for her wise advice, helpful counsel and 
personal interest in the early growth of the work in Home Economics in 
California begun by Miss Rich first in the Public Schools and later in the 
special normal school of Manual Arts and Home Economics which because 
of its high standards and thorough work was shown much appreciation by 
Mrs. Richards. 

North Dakota Agriculturai College. Recently the national chapter 
of Phi Upsilon Omicron Fraternity installed the Beta Chapter in this col- 
lege. Graduates of Home Economics courses leading to the degree, or 
college women who are interested in some line of investigation or some 
educational work, are eligible to membership in this fraternity. Its aim 
is to advance Home Economics. The chapter is planning a program for 
Home Economics Day and hopes to contribute to the Memorial Fund. 

Last year the fraternity house of the Minnesota chapter was turned 
over to the Home Economics Division for an experiment in carrying out 
a self-supporting home management course. The data thus obtained fur- 
nished a basis wiirranting the Division in securing a larger house for this 
year and establishing the course as a permanent requirement in the cur- 
riculum. Further details are given in the following news item. 

University Farm, St. Paul, Minn. The Home Economics Department 
has rented a large house for a practical course in home management. It 
was at first an optional course but proved to be of such value during the 
semester it was tried that it is now required of all seniors for graduation. 
Twentv girls live in the house, eleven of whom are permanent boarders, 
and the other nine are seniors who are required to stay at the house for 
nine weeks, doing all the work for that time. 

Miss Josephine T. Berry, head of the Home Economics Department, is 
primarily responsible for the organization but it is under the direct super- 
\asion of Miss Grace Williams. 

The house manager has by far the most difficult work. She must plan 
the menu for the week and is responsible for everything that is done dur- 
ing her time of management. She is allowed thirty cents a day for each 
person for food, that is, raw material. The boarders are unanimous in 
declaring the fare excellent for a boarding house. 

The regular boarders, who are made up of college girls and members of 
the Home Economics faculty, pay $25 a month, while the workers pay $20. 

There are fifteen rooms, five on each floor. This gives ten bedrooms 
to accomjnodate twenty girls. Eight of the girls sleep on a large porch. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 103 

Extension Work in Massachusetts. A free course of lectures and dem- 
onstration on Home Economics is being offered to interested people in 
the State of Massachusetts. The purposes of this free course as outlined 
in the folders are: to present to as many women in the state as possible 
information on subjects pertaining to homemaking; to arouse interest 
throughout the state in a state-^\^de campaign of education on the sub- 
ject of Home Economics; to secure the introduction of these subjects 
into the schools, especially those of small villages and rural districts, and 
the employment of trained teachers for the carrying on of the work. 

The organizations cooperating in this campaign are: the Massachusetts 
State grange, the Home Economics section of the Massachusetts Federa- 
tion of Women's Clubs, the New England Home Economics Association 
and the Extension Service of the Massachusetts Agricultural College. 
Six towns have signified their desire for these lectures and demonstrations 
to be given. 

Home Economics Section of the Central Association of Science and 
Mathematics Teachers. This section met for the first time on Friday, 
November 27, at Hyde Park High School, Chicago. About two hundred 
teachers and students of Home Economics were present. 

Short papers were read, as follows: Household Management Course in 
High School, Bernice Allen, High School Department, School of Education, 
University of Chicago; Teaching Food Work through Preparation of 
Meals, Agnes Wilson, Housekeeping Center, Stockyards District, Chicago; 
House Decoration Course in High School, Isabel Clark, Beach Manual 
Training School, Oshkosh, Wis.; High School Dietetics, Ada Hillier, 
South Bend High School, Ind. At the close of the discussion following 
these papers, the section voted to instruct the chairman to appoint a 
committee on nomenclature to take up the question of terminology to be 
used and corresponding content of subject matter, in naming high school 
courses, with a view toward securing greater uniformity in that respect. 
This committee was appointed as follows: Miss Van Hoesen of Chicago 
University, chairman; Miss Clark of Oshkosh, IVIiss Firth of Davenport, 
la., Miss Latta of Columbus, Ind., and Miss Green of De Kalb, 111. 

Mrs. Sabin of Lucy Flower Technical High School, Chicago, answered 
many questions which followed her paper describing the work of the lunch- 
room class of which she is the teacher. :Miss Grace Hood, director domes- 
tic science and in charge of institutional work at Lewis Institute, Chicago, 
then gave a paper in which she discussed the opportunities for, limitations 
of, and necessary conditions for institutional courses in high schools. 
Miss Julia Tear of Hyde Park High School gave a talk on Textile Testing 
for High School Girls; and was followed by Miss Agnes Hanna of the 
University of Chicago, on Drafting of Dress Patterns— the values secured 



104 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

by teaching drafting, the extent to which the girl will be likely to utilize 
such instruction in after life, etc. 

At the Saturday morning meeting new officers were elected for the 1915 
meeting: Miss Agnes Hanna, University of Chicago, chairman; Miss Emma 
Conley, vice-chairman; Miss Minna C. Denton, Ohio State University, 
secretary. The speakers were Mrs. W. S. Heff eran, vice-president and chair- 
man, Parent-Teacher Committee of National Congress of Mothers of the 
National Education Association, who spoke on Attitude of the Home 
toward School Home Economics, and who urged teachers to educate girls 
to simpler standards of livir.g; Miss Grace Schermerhorn, Iowa State Col- 
lege, Miss Abby Marlait, University of Wisconsin, and Miss Emma Conley, 
Wisconsin supervisor of domestic science, who gave an accoimt of various 
methods used by Home Economics teachers in different parts of the coun- 
try-, to secure cooperation with the home, to encourage home work by 
pupils, and even to give school credit for this home work. Miss Louise 
Stanley of the University of Missouri told of Home Project work in South- 
ern High Schools as she has seen it in a recent visit. That these topics 
were of great interest to the audience, was manifested by the disposition 
shown to ask questions whenever opportunity occurred. 

Some further addresses of interest to Home Economics teachers were 
the Place of Home Economics in Secondary Education, by Miss Van 
Rensselaer of Cornell University, given at a general meeting of all sections 
on Friday morning; What Chemistr\' Should a Girl Have Who Expects to 
Teach Domestic Science? by Professor Ashman of Bradley Polytechnic, 
Peoria, 111., given before the chemistry section; Methods of Connecting the 
Teaching of Physics with Phenomena Observed Outside the School. 

A moving picture exhibit and lecture were given Saturday afternoon 
at the First National Bank Building, showing manufacturing processes 
for various silk and cotton textiles, to an audience of forty teachers. 

Standardization of Home Economics Courses. The following resolu- 
tions were submitted by the Committee on Education of the District of 
Columbia Federation of Women's Clubs October 31, 1914: 

Whereas, The value of Home Economics study has become generally 
recognized, and 

Whereas, Investigation shows that Home Economics courses are not 
sufficiently standardized to be counted as college entrance credits by manv 
of our colleges and universities, 

Be it Resolved, That the District of Columbia Federation of Women's 
Clubs use every effort to secure the standardization of the course in Home 
Economics as taught in our schools. 

Frances G. French, Chairman, 

Ellen Marshall Rugg, Vice-Chairman. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking 
Institution Management, and Educational Work in Home Economics 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Klturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Ben I. R. Andrews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

COLLABORATORS 

The Onkers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



Vol. VII MARCH, 1915 No. 3 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Foieword, Sarah Louise Arnold |||5 

Address of welcome, Godfrey Dewey JJ^ 

Waste, Mary Uri Watson • JY^ 

Dormitory suj^ervision, Elizabeth May Goodrich | J^ 

School lunches, Alice C. Boughton J j° 

Feeding school children in New York City, Edward F. Brown 11^ 

The formation of a sanitary food code, C. F. Langworthy 1^4 

Unit costs in institutions, William Morse Cole |^^ 

The cost of foods in non-meat dietaries, Lenna F. Cooper 1^' 

Facts desiied on cost of laundering J^i 

The score card for rating employes, Annie Dewey J*^ 

Buying, storing and handling food supplies, Annie Dewey |4* 

Daily routine, S. C. Meigher |*^ 

Cooler construction, Sidney L. Wood j*" 

Food cost accounting, Olive M. Cosby • • • |*^ 

The grading and standardizing of food supplies, F. S. Snyder j^u 

Lake Placid reports and institution papers J^^ 

Editorials ^cg 

Housekeepers' Department • • • .„ 

What the household has learned from institution methods |^ 

A rare boarding house, Ella Kaiser Carruth jou 

A model wet-wash laundry • , , ;. 

Comparison of the cost of home-made and bakers' bread |03 

Selecting economical foods 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year.-montWy except July 
and August, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS. 
HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York E^pre^ Order or Postal 
Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a 
registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Jw J^ k, b^^^^^^^^ 
of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the subscribers urn 
Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

Station N, Baltiuobe, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Offic. 




u 



CIh 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII MARCH, 1915 No. 3 

FOREWORD 

SARAH LOUISE ARNOLD 
Dean of Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

In this number the Journal of Home Economics presents a report 
of the proceedings of that section of the American Home Economics 
Association that gives specific attention to the administration of 
institutions. 

A word of introduction may be needed for readers who have been 
accustomed to think in terms of the private home when discussing 
the subject called Home Economics. As society is constituted today, 
the private home does not suflSce the triple needs of humanity: food, 
clothing, and shelter. Thousands of children spend their early years 
in homes provided by the state or by philanthropy — homes more or 
less public and often far removed from the ideal. All of us are glad 
to take shelter in the warm room of the modern hotel. Many of us 
have profited by the home attached to the school or the college in which 
we were educated. Communities are obliged to estabhsh homes for 
the sick, for the unfortunate, for the criminal, and for the defective. 

The institution becomes then a matter of common interest. If the 
public has not learned to measure the needs of the institution, is it 
not time that this should be done? If society must provide food, 
clothing, and shelter for orphaned children, for the poor, for the de- 
fective, for the wayward or the criminal, is it not incumbent upon the 
intelligent members of society to understand the type of institution 
that can best be adjusted to the needs of these various groups? 

The general reader, therefore, is urged to reflect on the subject 
matter offered here, noting that the work of the institution is not 

1G5 



106 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

far removed from the work of the private home, and recognizing that 
the commmiity will profit by a clearer imderstanding of the problems 
that the Institution Section of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion is trjdng to solve. 

Many readers may be interested to know that the Institution Sec- 
tion is really the parent of the American Home Economics Association, 
as well as its daughter, the Lake Placid Conference being the begin- 
ning of the American Home Economics Association. At present a large 
and important group of the members of the association are endeavor- 
ing to secure better Kving couditions in institutions. The members of 
this group are studying all the problems of nutrition, sanitation, and 
expenditure, from the point of view of the institution. They are 
anxious to learn how the home for the many can be made wholesome, 
comfortable, serviceable, economical, and rehable. 

Several schools and colleges are attempting to pro\dde courses of 
instruction in institution economics. Notable examples of this at- 
tempt may be found at Teachers College in New York, Simmons Col- 
lege in Boston. Mechanics Institute in Rochester, New York, Pratt 
Institute in Brooklyn, Chicago University, and Cornell University. 
For the classes no text-books can be foimd except such as have been 
compiled by the Institution Section. For the time being, therefore, 
the reports of the proceedings of this section have a very definite 
value. As the years go on, as the material is properly assorted and 
tested, and as our experience increases, formal texts and formidable 
volumes will take the place of these simple records. Until that time, 
all students of institutional problems will do well to secure the rec- 
ords of the armual meetings of the Institution Section. 

On another page of this issue appears a list of the reports and Jour- 
nals containing papers that have been presented at earlier meetings. 
The reader will also find the announcement of the 1915 meeting of 
the section, which will be held once more at the Lake Placid Club, 
at the invitation of Mr. and Mrs. Dewey. 

We heartily urge all who are interested in the problems of the larger 
housekeeping to attend the meeting. No one ever enjoys the privi- 
lege of one of the Lake Placid meetings without promising himself a 
repetition of the pleasure. 



1915] ADDRESS OF WELCOME 107 

ADDRESS OF WELCOME 

GODFREY DEWEY 

Secretary, Lake Placid Club 

It is a great pleasure to welcome you here at this time. There are 
many present who have been here in other years, and to whom the 
Lake Placid Club is an old and famiUar story; but there are many 
others here to whom this is the first glimpse of Lake Placid and the 
club, and to whom a word of introduction and explanation of the aims 
of the club may not be amiss. 

The idea of the club was born long before the physical plant took 
shape, or substance, or even name. Its birth was brought about by 
the reahzation that the increasing pressure of American life was making 
it essential for the world's best workers to get the greatest pos- 
sible amount of life, strength, comfort, and recreation, out of 
their annual or occasional vacations. After years of search for the 
right place in which to develop the idea of the club, Lake Placid was 
selected in 1893 as the spot on the American continent best suited for 
working out the plans of the founders. 

We have come far from the first year of the organization of the club 
in 1895. At that time there were only thirty persons on five acres of 
land, and they were housed in one building, which has now been lost 
in the heart of this Lakeside Club House. In August last year there 
were nine hundred guests here at one time; and it is a far cry from 
the evening when the club council sat in grave deliberation over the 
wisdom of mstalling a second bathtub for the plant, and decided 
against it as an unjustified extravagance, to to-day when there are 
over three hundred bathrooms on the premises. 

To-day the plant comprises something over six thousand acres, 
stretching for a distance of perhaps ten miles. It comprises over two 
hundred and sixty buildings, large and small; twenty-seven farms in 
five or six groups; shops; mills; and accessory departments of every 
description. The plant has grown to be ahnost a little self-contained 
world, not from the choice or the desire of the founders for expansion, 
but from necessity caused by the growth of the club. 

The business organization of the club is called the Lake Placid 
Company. It is a New York stock corporation with $100,000 worth 
of controlling common stock in the hands of trustees, with bonded 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

indebtedness tc the amount of $500,000, and with $500,000 worth of 
preferred stock scattered among the members of the club. The com- 
pany is the legal organization. It assumes all Hability and owns 
and operates the plant for the club members. All the departments 
with which the members come in contact, except the department in 
charge of rooms, are administered by departmental heads who are 
pledged to spend the total receipts in making their departments the 
best possible according to their ability. The company takes the room 
rental, and with that money operates and adds to the entire estate. 
All the departments, with tnis one exception, are placed on a coop- 
erative basis, but without the individual liability that cooperation so 
often implies. No club member, as such, is liable for anything but 
the bills that he himself incurs. 

The social organization is represented by the club council, which 
is elected annually by and from the club members. To this council 
are referred questions of membership, house rules of the club, and like 
matters. The members of this council, however, have no legal respon- 
sibility other than that for their personal expenses. 

What are the aims of this organization? The first aim is best ex- 
pressed in the opening sentence of the general circular of the club. 
It is as follows: 

The object of Lake Placid Club is by cooperation to secure among congen- 
ial people and beautiful natural surroundings the advantages of an ideal 
vacation or permanent country home, the highest standards of health, 
comfort, rest, and attractive recreations, both summer and winter, at as 
moderate cost as is consistent with high standards. 

The next aim is to work out the best standards for health and com- 
fort, to make of this plant a great experimental laboratory for the 
working out of these standards, and to share the results freely with 
others who are interested. Besides the aim to make of this a labo- 
ratory or an experiment station, there is a desire to make it a training 
school from which persons may go out to spread the standards learned 
here and to guide other persons in their work. It is a hope of the 
club to make this a center for conferences of workers who need an ideal 
meeting place in order to obtain the best results. 



1915] WASTE 109 

WASTE 

MARY URI WATSON 
MacDonald Institute, Guelpk, Ontario 

The committee on waste decided to limit its work this year to the 
question of food waste. A questionnaire concerning this subject was 
sent out to members of the association, and a brief summary of the 
answers to these questions follows: 

The first question was: "Does your institution use any means 
other than garbage inspection to control or prevent the waste of food?" 
The most important factors in the control of waste, according to the 
answers, are the interest and the everlasting vigilance of the manager 
of the institution and his or her power to interest subordinates in the 
subject. The work of controlling food waste may be delegated to 
subordinates, but it will not be effective if keen interest in it does not 
emanate from the manager, and if he or she is not in sympathy 
with the work. There are various methods of controlling food waste 
given in these answers. Close calculation of suppHes needed was em- 
phasized by many. The planning of menus and the calculation of pre- 
cise quantities to exactly serve the required number of portions was 
another method. Careful buying was emphasized. Another method 
was careful calculation of quantities so that only the food necessary 
for each meal should be cooked. Another method of obtaining the 
same result was by using a system of requisitions for all supplies fur- 
nished to the kitchen and the other departments. In some cases, daily 
inventories of refrigerators and storerooms were made before the req- 
uisitions for the next day were made out. In one institution the 
portions of food were measured. In most of the answers the constant 
watch of the plates was mentioned. Unpopular dishes, careless prep- 
aration and wasteful service are discovered in this way. A certain 
dish may be unpopular because of lack of seasoning, or it may have 
other objectionable features. In some institutions unserved foods 
that may have been sent to the dining rooms or other serving rooms 
for individual or family service are carefully collected so that they 
may not be spoiled for later use. In one institution the served dishes 
are collected on one central table and the chef decides which can be 
used and which have to be put out. Another method of controlhng 
waste is by a thorough inspection of the refuse collected from serving 



110 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

dishes and from plates. Another method used which has apparently 
been well tested in one or two places, is the written daily report of gar- 
bage or waste inspection. In one answer attention is called to the em- 
ploying of competent skilled labor as a means of controlhng waste, 
and in another to the need for departmental heads who are able to 
train subordinates to the needs of the particular institution. 

The next question was: "What use is made of left-over bread, 
cake, butter and the Hke?" There was great uniformity about the 
answers. Most of the left-over bread, cake, and so forth, is used. 
Usually left-overs are used in the preparation of meals. Occasionally 
institutions sell left-overs, and occasionally they give them to homes or 
charitable institutions. Sometimes garbage is given to any company 
that will pay for the cost of transportation. Occasionally a bargain is 
made by which grease and bones are sold by the pound and by which 
the company buying them agrees to remove garbage. The agricultural 
colleges and institutions which have farms in connection with them are 
fortunate in that they may transform all their waste into Uve stock or 
poultry. This, in some cases, adds revenue to the institution. 

The next question was: "Have special recipes for the use of left- 
overs been worked out in your institution? If so, can copies be ob- 
tained?" In the forty or more answers to the questionnaire, there 
were but four touching on this question. One or two recipes, which 
may be new to some, were given in the repKes to this question, and 
others a few of which may be obtained, were mentioned. One ma- 
tron reports that she is compiling a cook book of recipes for 500 
portions. 

The next question was: "Does your institution use printed or 
written directions to govern the collection or disposal of food waste 
or garbage?" There was a very curious lack of printed or written 
directions in the answers for this work. Only one person reports the 
use of typewritten directions for part of this work. One manager is 
now formulating such directions. Probably some of the lack is due 
to the fact that many institutions have to employ illiterate help for 
whom written directions would be useless. Here is a field wherein 
the members of the association may do some good work if they will 
cooperate. The training schools have already proved the value of 
printed directions for mechanical work. The use of written directions 
does not eUminate the necessity of using inteUigence and judgment, 
but it does prevent misunderstandings with regard to processes of 



1915] WASTE 111 

handling. Our own institution has more than proved the value of 
printed instruction in the training of students. 

The next question was: "What special arrangement does your 
institution make to facilitate the collection of left-overs and refuse, 
or its inspection and disposal?" One manager reports that it is one 
man's business to empty, wash, sterilize, and replace the garbage 
cans daily at a specified time; that is, one man is responsible for the 
state of the garbage receptacles. Another reports the use of special 
trucks with garbage cans underneath. Soiled dishes are collected, 
scraped and stacked on these trucks. It was not stated whether this 
truck is simply a scraping table on wheels with a rubber cover around 
the hole, over the garbage can, or whether it is simply an ordinary 
truck on wheels with a can imderneath. A scraping table with a 
rubber cover around a hole over a garbage can and with room enough 
around that hole for the stacks of plates, would be very satisfactory 
for use in large institutions and in institutions where the service would 
permit the rolling of the trucks. Such tables might be used advan- 
tageously in institutions that give family service and in institutions 
where all the residents enter and leave the dining room at the same 
time. Another manager reports the collection of the serving dishes 
at a central table. Another reports the use of separate receptacles 
for the different left-overs of food, in order to prevent mixing them 
so that they cannot be used again. One reports the use of separate! 
receptacles for different kinds of bread scraps, one for whole slices of 
bread that may be used for toasting or serving, another for loaf ends 
and crumbs from the cutting table, and a third for broken bits, which 
in this case went to the poultry department of the farm. Another 
manager reports the practice of keeping garbage cans in cold storage. 
In this institution garbage was evidently disposed of once a day, and 
in the interval garbage cans were kept in cold storage to prevent food 
souring in them, to keep them from flies, and also to prevent the de- 
velopment of objectionable odors both in the food and in the cans. 

The next question was: "What kind of garbage receptacles do 
you have?" The almost unanimous answer is galvanized iron, that 
much abused metal. The receptacles vary in capacity from eight 
quarts to thirty gallons, according to their location and to the system 
of garbage collection. A few managers report the use of white enamel 
receptacles but these are chiefly in hospitals. Some report the use 
of covered cans and some open cans. This appears to be a question 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

for careful discussion, the use of the open can versus the closed can. 
Some persons object to using the closed can, especially when it is 
kept in warm kitchens because foods ferment rapidly in it and because 
waste is kept out of sight in this way. Several persons report the use 
of patented receptacles, barrels made by the Dover Stamping Com- 
pany, the Just Right cans, and the DeWitt cans. One lunch room 
manager reports the use of wire baskets with solid metal bottoms for 
the collection of paper wrappers in school lunch rooms. In one in- 
stitution the question of a garbage can with a strainer bottom, which 
will strain the hquids from the soUds of the garbage is being consid- 
ered. In another institution the garbage receptacle used is a galvan- 
ized tub with an elevated double bottom for draining the Uquid off. 
The lower part of this tub has an outlet with a stopper similar to that 
of a beer bottle. Such stopper is comparatively easily cleaned. 

The next question dealt with the frequency of inspection, and the 
answers range from "when necessary" through " casual" and "irregu- 
lar" up to "after every meal." In the majority of cases, however, 
there is daily inspection though it does not seem to be so well organ- 
ized as some of the other methods of controlling food waste. In one 
or two institutions it is very thoroughly organized. A thorough sys- 
tem of inspection very quickly permeates an institution and has its 
effect in lessening waste, for if employes know that careful check is 
kept in small matters of waste, greater care is taken to lessen waste. 
The moment the inspection relaxes, care is likely to relax. There- 
fore, the matter must be continually brought to the minds of the 
employes. 

The final question on the paper was: "Does your institution use 
an incinerator?" The use of an incinerator is reported in eight an- 
swers. There is, however, little information given as to the cost of 
instalUng incinerators, the size of the institutions using them, and the 
amount of waste consumed in specified time. The fuels used are gas 
and coal. One person reports that the cost of fuel is neghgible because 
it is only needed in starting the operating of the incinerator. After 
the incinerator is started, it practically runs itself, for the burning of 
the material suppHes the heat necessary for drying the wet garbage. 
Another person reports that the incinerator used in his institution 
heats water at the same time that refuse is burned ; therefore the cost 
of the incinerator is offset by the heating of the water. One or two 
report that the cost of using gas incinerators is about 50 cents per 



1915] WASTE 113 

hundred pounds of wet garbage. One person doubts the advantages 
of incinerators in small institutions because of the cost of operating 
them. In one institution, according to the report made, incinerators 
were tried and abandoned because of the high cost of operation and 
because of inabiHty to regulate the water heating attachment. 

DISCUSSION OF MISS WATSON's PAPER 

Miss Eckman, The Massachusetts General Hospital. In our hospital 
we have seventeen wards. Twice daily an assistant inspects the gar- 
bage from the wards, the serving room and the kitchen. Each ward 
is provided with a twenty-quart galvanized iron pail. The pail is 
numbered or lettered according to the ward, and in the morning an 
assistant inspects the garbage from breakfast of that morning to sup- 
per of the night before. In a basement set aside for this purpose the 
cans are arranged side by side on a shelf. In the morning, a man 
whose duty it is to collect this garbage comes with his truck contain- 
ing a number of barrels and the inspector protected with an outer 
garment stands by as he slowly pours the contents of these pails into 
the barrels. He calls the number or name of the ward while she looks 
to see what is in the pail, and decides whether there are things which 
should not be there, such as paper, glass, etc. Then the kitchen gar- 
bage is inspected in the same way. The receptacles for this garbage 
are barrels which have a capacity of about thirty gallons. 

Miss Watson. There is a very valuable report of an address given 
by Mr. Pitcher at the meeting last May of the American Association 
of Officials of Charity and Correction. This report worked out in 
connection with Kings Park State Hospital, Long Island, was upon 
kitchen organization and administration, and the thing that will be 
especially interesting is the matter of close calculation of quantities 
for fixed numbers, for he has given here the standard basic dietary 
ration tables, very Hberally worked out. It would be exceedingly use- 
ful to dietitians and people making close calculations for institutions. 

Mr. Dewey. In the ten or twelve tons of waste burned in a Chicago 
hotel we have a cause of the high cost of food in the country, and an 
annual loss that would build some of the institutions in which you are 
working. The key to this whole problem is the elimination of waste, 
not only using garbage, but also stopping the waste that makes gar- 
bage. In one of our club houses we substituted a cook who insisted 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

on carvdng and serving large portions. People ate only half of it; 
it took only a short time to make a $1,000 waste. 

Dr. Langworthy. You will find in bakers' journals and manuals 
recipes for using left-over cake dried and ground in place of part of 
the flour in making spice cake, gingerbread, etc. The uses of stale 
bread for bread pancakes, bread pudding, etc., are too well known 
to need mention. 

Mr. Dewey. Ordinary hotel keepers are advocates of anti-economy. 
They vie with each other in conspicuous waste. There are hotels in 
which a guest gets two fresh sheets and two fresh pillow cases every 
day. The hotels \de with each other in the number of towels they 
can get into a room. A person goes into the average high-priced 
hotel and wants a little bit of steak and they serve him enough for 
a family of four or five. They get a class of people who rush to the 
highest priced hotel. The training of the average hotel man has been 
absolutely in the reverse direction from what we are working for. 
There is a sprinkling among the hotel men of people who are looking 
at this question in a broader way, and a more scientific spirit. The 
hotel interest today overshadows your churches and schools in the 
amount of money involved. Eyery little community has the hotel. 
The hotel men have their state and national associations. This is 
an age of training men for special work. I have been told recently 
by owners of large hotels that if I could find a man capable they would 
pay him any salary he chose to ask. There is an enormous demand 
for trained and educated people in the large hotels. 

DORMITORY SUPERVISION 

ELIZABETH MAY GOODRICH 
Simmons College, Boston 

The Committee on Dormitory Management has carried on its work 
during the months past with directors of dormitories in schools and 
colleges in various parts of the country and the work has been facih- 
tated by the ready response with which our efforts to investigate 
certain lines have been received. 

A Hst of the following topics was sent out to members of the com- 
mittee, suggesting subjects for study: 

1. The Dormitory. Service, care of rooms, laundry, trunks and 
storage, vacations, opening and closing of houses, care of equipment, 



1915] DORMITORY SUPERVISION 115 

repairs, use of vacation, description of duties of house superintendent 
and her responsibilities in various positions, amount of equipment for 
fifty or one hundred students, and amount of replacement. 

2. Food. Question of one large dining room or several small ones; 
proportion of servants to students served ; number of tables, and per- 
sons accommodated at each; provision for care of dining room; provi- 
sion for waiting on table; marketing and menus; storage of provisions; 
kitchen, serving-room and dining room; care and replacement of 
equipment. 

From these topics they were asked to select five which seemed to 
them of greatest interest. The subjects chosen were put in the form 
of a questionnaire which followed. 

The interest shown in these subjects may be indicated by some of 
the letters received. One person repHed "It is most difficult to make 
a choice, each one is so interesting and so important." Another said 
that the duties of house superintendent would be of interest to all, 
since it was a topic it had not been her privilege to hear discussed at 
any of the meetings she had attended. And still another wrote: 

I am glad to be a member of this committee for the sake of help and 
enlightenment along these proposed lines, since many of the subjects are 
very important ones with us, as we have 250 to house and 450 girls, boys 
and servants to feed three tunes a day, and we are most anxious to gain 
knowledge and assistance in the studying and solving of this problem. 

The subjects decided upon by the committee as a whole were: 
Care of rooms, laundry, care and replacement of equipment, market- 
ing, duties and responsibiHties of the house superintendent. 

From information based on the questionnaire it was found that serv- 
ice was required for care of student rooms in only three out of twenty 
institutions. In all others, students cared for their own, with the ex- 
ception of the weekly cleaning and general care. The rooms in most in- 
stances were inspected daily by the house director or her assistant. 
In one case it was done by the matron and in one other by an upper 
servant. The lowest per capita rate was 1 to 6, and the highest 1 

to 11. 

In regard to laundry. Only three out of the twenty had sufficient 
equipment to do the household laundry and it was therefore sent to 
commercial laundries. As the flat rate, 1| cents, was the same in a 
western university and an eastern college, the price appears to be uni- 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

form in different sections. One of the three where the laundry was 
done at the dormitory, was where there were four halls of residence, 
the laundry being done in each house entirely by hand, but they were 
trying out electrical equipment with the object of installing a plant 
that would take care of the whole amount from each house. 

In nearly all cases some provision was made for students to do their 
own laundry, in a few instances without charge, but the usual charge 
was 5 cents per hour where they provided their own soap, etc. The 
exceptions to this were 50 cents per month in one college and $1 per 
year in another. One institution reported that students were allowed 
to wash in a lavatory where tubs were provided for the purpose and 
then go to a pressing room to iron, the charge being only for the rent of 
the iron. 

In the care and replacement of equipment there was found to be 
no adequate method of estimating either the Hfe or replacement of 
furnishings ; one place, where oak furniture in students' rooms had been 
in use twenty years, reported that it was still in excellent condition ; re- 
pairs had been made when necessary. It was alsc difficult to estimate 
the Hfe of linen. Here again there seemed to be no definite method. 
In most instances the life of Hnen was from four to five years for bed 
linen and two and a half for towels. To keep up the supply one dormi- 
tory replaced one-fourth of the original stock each year. In another a 
sufficient supply was bought in 1910 and had not been added to until 
1914 when they replaced the entire amount. Others purchased one 
new set each year. The charge for damage to building or equipment 
was in some cases only for "wanton carelessness" but in most of the 
others the charge covered cost of repairs or replacement. 

Inventories were taken for furnishings once a year; for china, glass 
and silver at the end of each term, with very few exceptions. 

Under the head of food. In the matter of contracts the reports showed 
a divided opinion. Some felt that where there might be a saving in 
price the quaUty was often doubtful. Others contracted for butter, 
eggs, caimed goods and some groceries, and also meats successfully and 
advantageously, while still another stated that the economical value 
of contracts could not be rated too highly. To quote the wording of 
this report it was said: 

The time given to careful testing of different goods is repaid in economic 
saving, more fully than in any other labor. Where there were competitive 
bids by local dealers the need was felt of making use of contracts. 



1915] DORMITORY SUPERVISION 117 

Quantities purchased always depended on storage and refrigeration which 
in most instances was inadequate. 

One only reported a large store room for unpacked goods, a large 
pantry and a fine refrigerator of 4500 pounds capacity. 

In regard to the buying of meats there was also a divided opinion 
between buying by the carcass and buying selected prices for par- 
ticular needs. 

The question of inventory of food consumed, food returned from 
the table, waste and per capita cost was regarded in most cases as 
an impossible task to do with any satisfaction or system. One re- 
ports that where there was no central dining hall and kitchen for 
four separate dormitories, to accurately work out this problem often 
enough to be of value would require the services of an extra worker. 
Another reported that inventories were taken from suppHes purchased 
but no record was made of table waste. In still another institution, 
inventories of food and per capita cost were made daily from state- 
ments sent to office from kitchen, bakery and storeroom. All seemed 
interested in this subject, but gave nothing clearly defined in regard 
to it. It may be that the committee on waste has discovered some 
method that will prove valuable. 

The duties of house superintendent were with few exceptions a 
supervision of all matters pertaining to the care of the house and the 
welfare of its occupants, for example, buying of equipment, food sup- 
plies, making of menus, employing help and scheduKng the work, 
attending to repairs and replacements as needed. The exceptions 
were where care of house and dining room and kitchen department 
were carried on under separate heads, and where material duties and 
supervision of students' behavior were included. In reply to the 
question how far training was necessary for efficiency in dormitory 
management, it was generally conceded that service in this direction 
must be professional in order to give the greatest satisfaction. 

In the digest of the questionnaire of which I have given you a brief 
summary, it is plainly evident that with all the work and thought 
which have already been given to matters in this line, there are still 
problems to be solved, and standards to be set which shall prove ap- 
plicable to individual needs, and the committee recommends for your 
discussion the subjects of contracts, some uniform method for esti- 
mating the life of equipment, and for the inventory of food supplies 
in relation to consumption and waste. 



118 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

SCHOOL LUNCHES 

ALICE C. BOUGHTON 

Superinlendent of Elementary School Lunches, Philadelphia 

The School Lunch Committee organized a symposium on school 
feeding for the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene held 
in Buffalo, August 1913. 

There were two sessions, morning and afternoon. At the morning 
session the papers and discussion centered on school feeding as a part 
of the School Hygiene Movement. There was a large attendance of 
physicians, nurses and teachers primarily interested in nutrition of 
school children. 

At the afternoon session the papers and discussion dealt with the 
administrative side of the movement in elementary, secondary and 
rural schools. In addition some educational, social and economic as- 
pects were elaborated. 

The entire program is printed in the "Proceedings" of the Congress. 
Several papers'- have appeared in the Journal and of others the 
committee has reprints which it "will be glad to furnish to any one 
interested. 

Through the hospitahty of Miss Small an informal group of about 
thirty persons met and had luncheon at the Teachers' Club. There 
was open discussion, and points were brought up which could not be 
covered in the sessions. The idea of the luncheon was a happy one, 
as it not only singled out the group interested in school feeding, but 
also prepared the way for an interested audience at the sessions. 

In connection with the Scientific Exhibit of the Congress, the com- 
mittee prepared a school lunch exhibit, composed of photographs, dia- 
grams, and statistical material pertinent to the history and present 
scope of the movement in this country and abroad. It comprises two 
units of five screens each with stands for mounting and locked travel- 
ing cases. The National Child Welfare Exhibits Committee gave 
valuable advice and assistance as to the arrangement of screens which 
were built according to the plan used by the Child Welfare Committee 
for all its exhibit material. 

For loan purposes the exhibit was arranged in permanent form, 

' JotniNAL OF Home EcoNOsncs, June (1914), pp. 207 and 213; also December 
(1914), p. 437. 



1915] FEEDING SCHOOL CHILDREN IN NEW YORK CITY 119 

and during the winter has been used by several colleges. The chair- 
man will be glad to give further information to anyone interested. 

Plans are now under way for the re-organization of the committee 
on a better working basis, and for the extension of its work. On 
these plans a later report will be made. 

FEEDING SCHOOL CHILDREN INT NEW YORK CITY 

EDWARD F. BROWN 
Executive Secretary, New York School Lunch Committee 

The New York school lunch service has a special significance at this 
time, because it represents the very first endowed school lunch service 
in this country. Through the generosity of Mrs. EHzabeth ]\Iil- 
bank. Anderson, a generous sum of money is being devoted to 
a Department of Social Welfare in the New York Association 
for Improving the Condition of the Poor. This Department con- 
sists of the Bureau of Public Health and Hygiene, the Bureau of 
Food Supply, and the Bureau of Welfare of School Children. Under 
the latter head provision was made for the New York School Limch 
Committee. 

The committee in 1912 was on the point of disbanding owing to 
the uncertainty of its contributions. Mrs. Anderson, in making her 
gift, very wisely directed that a part of the fund should be devoted to 
continuing and extending the work of the School Lunch Committee. 
In 1912 lunch service was operated in eight schools on the individual 
kitchen plan; at the opening of the current school year lunch service 
for seventeen public schools was estabHshed under the so-called group 
kitchen plan. The scope of the service now extends to seventeen ele- 
mentary schools with a register of over 25,000 children. The Com- 
mittee consists of a staff of over forty paid workers. 

The Board of Education and the Lunch Committee have an under- 
standing that the lunch service may be extended to as many elemen- 
tary schools as possible on condition that no liabiUty accrues to the 
Board of Education by reason thereof. For the first time, a sum of 
$2300 was appropriated last year by the city for the purpose of in- 
stalling kitchens in the schools where the committee had agreed to 
operate. That was the first official recognition, if it may be called 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

such, of school lunches on the part of the Board of Education in New 
York City. 

The plan for 1913-1914 was to extend the service from seventeen to 
twenty-eight schools with a registration of 44,000 children, and in 
order that this might be done the committee asked the Board of 
Education to provide $6500 for the equipment. 

Each child is required to purchase a half pmt of warm, nourishing 
soup before he may purchase anything else. It is beheved that this 
"forced feeding" is necessary especially as an educational feature. 

The Association maintaiiis a number of hospitals and provides re- 
lief for about three thousand famihes, besides engaging in a number 
of other activities that make it advisable to purchase food in large 
quantities. The Association has organized a food supply store where 
the committee stores large quantities of food and from which from 
time to time it draws suppHes. The committee is able to enlist the 
service of expert buyers, and large sums are saved in buying large 
quantities of foods. 

By operating under the central kitchen plan, that is, by preparing 
food in a centralized kitchen from which the food is distributed to a 
group of four or five neighboring schools, money is saved in the cost 
of labor. The serious problem, however, in the operation of a central 
kitchen plan is the transportation of the food. In the beginning we 
had to depend on pushcarts propelled by janitors and by the older 
and stronger school boys who could be drafted into the service; and 
when we could not get either of these, we had to depend upon floating 
labor, which we found uncertain and unsatisfactory. During the cur- 
rent year we were able to start in a new direction. We contracted 
with a truckman to call every morning at ten-thirty, load the large 
sanitary-covered containers (large enough to retain the heat) on his 
wagon, and distribute them to the schools. We found this plan en- 
tirely satisfactory. For the 1914-1915 term we have arranged for 
horse and wagon delivery entirely. 

One phase of the administration of the school lunch service in which 
the committee has been particularly successful has been its system 
of accounting. The aim has been to demonstrate to the Board of 
Education that no educational system is complete unless it provides 
not only for the mental growth of the children, but also for the physi- 
cal growth. No school system is complete unless it provides for feed- 
ing children who, in their ordinary course of life, are not given the 



1915] FEEDING SCHOOL CHILDREN IN NEW YORK CITY 12 1 

proper care in the selection of food. Realizing these facts, and realiz- 
ing, too, that we should demonstrate a self-supporting school lunch 
plan, we entered upon a rather comprehensive and intensive cost ac- 
counting system. We determined in the beginning, for instance, to 
know at the end of the year what it cost for supervisory service; ad- 
ministrative salaries; clerical salaries; kitchen help; various foods, such 
as meats, fish, soup, green groceries, dry groceries, fruits, milk, butter, 
eggs, bread, crackers, and the hke; the cost of equipment for trans- 
porting of food; printed office supplies, and the Uke; charges for tele- 
phone, telegraph, postage, periodicals, express, cartage, rent, and 
travehng expenses. 

Another necessary step that has been made is in supervising the 
health of those who handle the food suppHed to the children. Coming 
in contact as we do with a large group of children, we felt that it was 
important to obviate so far as it was possible the contamination of 
the food and the transmission of any disease from the food handlers 
to the children. Therefore we had each of our helpers undergo a 
thorough physical examination in order to ascertain whether they 
were free, as carriers, from such diseases as tuberculosis, syphihs, and 
typhoid. We urged each of our helpers to be vaccinated, with the 
result that two-thirds were immunized. There is a group of one 
hundred and thirty children who assist in the school lunch service. 
We had these children thoroughly examined, but in a manner unlike 
the ordinary medical inspection in which the children are examined 
completely dressed. The committee had this group of children 
stripped to the waist, and the result was that we discovered one case 
of a possible typhoid carrier among them, and that some of them had 
Hve PedicuH. These children were, of course, taken out of the service, 
and we were reassured that our food was absolutely free from the 
possibiHty of disease transmission through the helpers. 

We have extended the scope of our work but shghtly from the serv- 
ice of food to the children of elementary schools. In the city of New 
York there are still private caterers serving lunches in some of the 
high schools. In others, the student organizations maintain the serv- 
ice for their own benefit. WTiere the concessionnaires serve the 
lunches, all the profit accrues to them. We undertook an investigation 
to see if it were possible to consoHdate the elementary and high school 
service so that the shght profit that could come from the high school 
service might cover our shght deficit in the penny articles in the ele- 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

mentary schools. We made an investigation and found that the 
high school service in the city of New York was a business involving 
nearly a half million dollars a year. 

Our proposal to the Board of Education, which is still pending, is 
briefly this: that the Board of Education authorize the committee 
to operate the service in all the high schools; that the committee will 
seek to provide food of high quality at a minimum cost; that the com- 
mittee will seek to make that as low as possible, but should any sur- 
plus accrue in the operation of the high school service that surplus 
should be applied to the paying of the deficit of the elementary serv- 
ice and extending the elementary service further than is possible at 
present. 

This proposal appealed to many of the members of the Board of 
Education, and, unless the student organizations in the schools where 
concessionnaires now operate take over the school lunch, they are in- 
clined to turn it over to our committee. 

The lunch service in the seventeen schools during the last 
year embraced an average daily attendance of 3300 children, and 
during the period of service from October 1 to May 22, 1,249,000 
portions of food were sold. 

The central kitchen plan, which we operated during the last year, 
has proved its greater economy as compared with the individual 
kitchen plan of the previous year. We have been able to save on 
each portion of food the sum of nineteen hundredths of a cent: that 
is, for each of the 1,249,000 portions of food we have saved nearly two 
mills in labor, supervision, and transportation costs. This saving 
conclusively proves that the operation of the central kitchen plan in 
large cities where the schools are situated near enough together is 
superior to the individual kitchen for each school. During 1912 the 
deficit per school was $480.10. Through the concentration of our 
energies and the expansion of the work, we have been able during this 
current school year to reduce this deficit to $272 per school, which 
puts the service on the road towards being an entirely self-supporting 
scheme. 

The total expenditures in the operation of the seventeen schools 
have been, roughly, $17,000; the total receipts have been $12,000, 
thus leaving a gross deficit of $5,000. The equipment which is an 
asset to us, less the depreciation, leaves a net deficit of $4,624.52 in 
the provision of 1,249,489 portions of food. The deficit for each 



1915] FEEDING SCHOOL CHILDREN IN NEW YORK CITY 123 

penny portion has been thirty-seven hundredths of a cent. This 
means that we are counting every conceivable item that is a legiti- 
mate charge to school lunches. 

Next year we plan to serve lunches in twenty-eight schools with 
44,800 children, and with a further concentration in preparation and 
further expansion in numbers of schools, we may be able to reduce 
the deficit further. The feeling that we ought to strive for this self- 
supporting elementary school lunch service, is particularly borne in 
upon us, not merely because of the social service that may be ren- 
dered, but also because it is good business. In the city of New York 
during the last school term there were some 190,000 children who were 
retarded in grade. The per capita cost of education is nearly $20, and 
we figured out that the city of New York lost about $3,800,000 in the 
re-education of the children who for some reason have been retarded. 
We certainly can attribute a considerable part of this to the physical 
incapacity of these children for study. Surely it is folly to spend large 
sums of money on the education of children who because of hunger 
are not in a receptive mood for the educative process. 

WORK OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISES 

Other fields of operation involve the request recently received from 
the MetropoKtan Life Insurance Company, which feeds four thousand 
of its employes daily without charge, for us to make a survey of their 
lunch plant, including their system of purchasing, preparing, and han- 
dhng the foods, and the dietetic and sanitary features of this service. 
This request was complied with. 

We feel that while there is no organization deaHng exclusively in 
the extension of lunch facihties to factories and office buildings, we 
ought to step into that vacant place in the beginning and do as much 
as we can, and later, if the demand is sufficient, organize a service that 
will endeavor to estabfish lunch rooms in factory buildings. 

The Anderson Foundation provided for $50,000 with which to study 
ventilation. The Ventilation Commission is making certain experi- 
ments in the city of New York, and we undertook this summer to feed 
the subjects of these experiments in order to ascertain the relation 
between atmospheric conditions and appetite. 

Another item of cooperation has been the request received from the 
New York City Department of Health to assist it in the organization 
of a lunch room for its employes. We feel that this is a most signifi- 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

cant step because just as soon as the Board of Health Department 
demonstrates to the city that there is a sufficient demand in the city 
departments for a lunch service to be run on a non-commercial basis, 
the other departments of the city will request a similar service. 

THE FORMATION OF A SANITARY FOOD CODE 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Chief, Nutrition Investigations, United States Department of Agriculture 

The subject under consideration, a sanitary food code, is a proposal 
rather than a reality; Members of this association realize the great 
importance of food sanitation, and they have given much thought to 
existing conditions and to the consideration of possible remedies. 
Undesirable as food adulteration is, the greater danger Hes in unclean 
food, which is a menace to health because of the disease-producing 
organisms it may convey, and which is disgusting because of the street 
dust, excretory products, and all uncleanness, which it has acquired. 
Existing conditions are bad, but the situation is not without hope, for 
the ways in which food becomes contaminated are known, also the 
nature of the danger, and many possible remedies. Best of all, there 
is evident in many different quarters an attempt at improvement. 
It seems certain that a set of rules for the guidance of all who come 
in contact with food would prove a great help, and this association 
can render good service if it will provide such a guide. For the best 
results it must secure the cooperation of public officials, health officers, 
producers of food, manufacturers, dealers in food, housekeepers, and 
others interested in the matter. Before discussing the content of 
such a code, it seems worth while to speak of existing conditions with 
respect to food sanitation and of matters that make such a sanitary 
food code necessary, also to point out some of the things that are be- 
ing done to make things better, and to speak of ways in which we 
can all help to attain the desired object. Without doubt it is true 
that many of the conditions surrounding the growing, handling, manu- 
facture, marketing, sale, preparation, and service of food which are 
so undesirable are the result of carelessness and ignorance rather than 
of design: that is, they are ascribable to a failure to recognize that 
many common practices are not only an offense against true cleanli- 
ness and decency but also a menace to health. 



1915] form:\tion of a sanitary food code 125 

All of us — the grower, the dealer, the servant who prepares the 
food, and the family who sits at the table — are consumers of these 
food products; therefore we cannot afford to permit insanitary prac- 
tices. Unless we are careful all along the line, we are all likely to 
suffer from the carelessness or ignorance of some one. Selfish inter- 
ests, if no other reason, should make us all willing to work for better 
conditions. 

Existing conditions range all the way from the unspeakably bad to 
the extremely good, but the proportion of good is growing larger. It 
is well to realize, too, that the evils that we are trying to eradicate 
are not confined to the practices of producers, manufacturers, dealers, 
or public distributors of food, but are too often in our own homes. 
Nor are the dangers confined to any one class of foods. They may 
lurk in green vegetables and fresh fruits, as well as in dirty milk, or 
meat and fish unfit for sale. For example, green vegetables grown in 
soil fertilized with night soil are a great source of danger unless they 
are cooked before they are served, for contamination with fecal bac- 
teria (and this too often means pathogenic bacteria) is almost certain. 
It has been found by experience as well as by laboratory work that, 
although washing lessens the danger and should never be omitted, 
it is practically impossible to do away entirely with such contamina- 
tion by this means, even though all visible dirt may be removed. 
It follows then that the contamination must be prevented. No Euro- 
pean resident of China or Japan, we are told, would think of eating 
green salad plants grown by the native market gardeners owing to 
the general use of night soil as fertilizer. There is a possibility of 
contamination of strawberries or other fruits that grow near the soil 
or that drop from the tree to the ground, and if fruits are once con- 
taminated, it is difiicult to make them safe except by cooking them, 
though it is comparatively easy to remove the sand, bits of earth, and 
straw, which may have adhered to them. Fortunately, such pollu- 
tion of soil through wrong use of fertiHzers has not been general in the 
United States, and it is perhaps for this reason that we use much more 
imcooked fruit than is found on the table in many older countries. 
Nevertheless, there is a very real danger from this source, as is evident 
from the efforts of the United States Public Health Service to do away 
with this practice in soil fertilization. 

Food can be easily contaminated by handling. Utensils washed 
with polluted water may readily convey t>'phoid fever. Milk pro- 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

duced and handled under insanitary conditions becomes unsafe. A 
typhoid carrier who handles food may convey the disease to many 
others. T^^hoid Marys, unfortunately, are not at all a rarity. A per- 
son who is suffering from an infection of the nose or throat may cough 
or sneeze without covering the face and spread the bacteria of infection 
as well as droplets of saliva over food and everything else that is 
within a fairly wide radius. Sewage flowing over oyster beds may 
contaminate oysters. Dirty clothing, dirty surroimdings, unclean 
ice, unwashed hands, rats, mice, flies and other insects, unclean air, 
and a lack of proper sewage and drainage faciUties — all these may be 
dangerous causes of pollution of food. Perhaps the greatest danger 
of all is the human hand, for nothing comes so often in contact with 
filthy things and food products alike, and only too often without 
proper washing. Some food manufacturers display conspicuously the 
sign: ''When you leave the room for any purpose whatever always 
wash your hands before returning to your work." Such a sign would 
not be out of place in every kitchen, and in every shop where food is 
handled. Cov.ld we not display some similar s^.gn that would make 
us realize that after we have gone back to our work with clean hands 
we must continue to keep them so and avoid the contamination that 
comes from running the fingers through the hair, putting them in the 
nose, ears, or mouth, or doing similar things? 

That such conditions as those above mentioned exist, no one who 
is a careful observer can doubt; that such things are disgusting, no 
one can deny; that they are dangerous, no one can dispute, for 
it has been estabhshed by a great mass of clinical and laboratory evi- 
dence. To cite only one instance, a recently pubHshed work by Stiles 
shows that the digestive tract of man very commonly contains a micro- 
organism that can be there only because something that has suffered 
fecal contamination has been taken into the mouth. Even if such 
conditions did not involve illness, common decency would make any 
one wish to avoid them, almost as much as he would typhoid fever, 
cholera, or other diseases that must also gain entrance through the 
mouth. 

Persons as a rule are very careless in the matter of washing their 
hands. This fact has been estabhshed by counts that have been 
made in toilets in pubhc places by one of the philanthropic associa- 
tions in New York. Would a similar count in hotel kitchens or in 
home kitchens indicate a higher percentage of cleanliness in this re- 



1915] FORMATION OF A SANITARY FOOD CODE 127 

spect? At any rate, we may be certain that in such kitchens it is not 
universal, for cases of typhoid are often traced to a typhoid carrier 
who has spread infection by this method. 

The sterilization of cooking utensils, drinking glasses, cups, knives, 
forks, and spoons, which otherwise may convey "colds," diphtheria, 
pneumonia, and other diseases, from mouth to mouth, is something 
that should be insisted upon, just as much as the sterilization of milk 
cans or factory equipment. We believe that service of food is more 
often cleanly in the home than under commercial conditions, but we 
have not yet reached the stage when we make sure by examination that 
those who handle food are free from communicable disease. Not all, 
I think, are as careful as they might be in the matter of washing the 
hands, attention to linger nails, avoidance of tasting from a spoon and 
putting it back into the food without washing it, or in the matter of 
sweeping and dusting while food is being prepared, and of keeping 
flies, household pets, and other possible distributors of dirt and micro- 
organisms out of the room where food is handled or served. In the 
public service of food as well as in its preparation there is greater 
danger, for the personal interest which is present in the home is lacking. 
There are also lacking the supervision and the opportunities for clean- 
liness (shower baths and the like) which are commonly found in high- 
grade food factories. There are very few homes where there is any 
medical inspection of those who prepare and handle food, though this 
is not infrequently found in the commercial food industry. This 
matter of the health of employes and cleanly habits in working is of 
the utmost importance, and every effort must be made to see that 
proper sanitary regulations are enforced in the home and out of it. 

Better practices in the public service of food must prevail just as 
much as better means of handHng it in the factory or in the shop. It 
should be no more difficult to teach a waiter to avoid polishing the 
dishes with a soiled napkin than it is to teach an employe to wash 
his hands before he packs some food product into a box for shipment 
from the factory. If we cannot make sure in any other way about the 
napkin and service towel, we should insist that the service towel be 
distinctive in color. It can then be easily identified. If the napkin 
were used only to wipe the lips or the fingers or to protect the clothing 
from bits of food, which fall accidentally, there would still be reason 
enough to Hmit it to its obvious purpose, but we cannot overlook the 
fact that often it covers a person's face when he sneezes or coughs, 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

even though it may not very often serve the other purposes for which 
a handkerchief is designed. Its other uses are too dubious to permit 
its use as a service towel. 

There was a time when we were only too inclined to dismiss these 
disagreeable subjects with the statement that persons have always 
done these things and the race has survived — a statement which is 
true, though the force of the argument is lost since we have every 
reason to beHeve that the percentage of survivors was not so great in 
the "good old times" as ^ow. That the proportion increases with 
cleanHness is showa by the diminished infant mortaHty that follows 
the establishment of a clean milk supply. Then too, we are always 
meeting the "dainty-minded" who say that these things are disgusting 
and unpleasant to talk about, that we cannot avoid them, and that it 
is therefore better to forget them. ConceaHng an evil is never a 
remedy, and we must talk of these as of many other unpleasant sub- 
jects at the right time and in the right place, in order to arouse public 
opinion and bring about better conditions. 

After considermg the problem, representatives of this Association 
came to the conclusion that the whole cause would be furthered by 
the preparation of a code, or guide, containing simple rules for the 
guidance of all those who come in contact with food in one way or 
another in its long journey from the farm to the table. Accompanying 
the rules should be some explanation of what contamination means. 
It should also be made plain that visible dirt, undesirable as it is. is 
less to be feared than invisible contamination that may accompany it 
or that may be present even when the article looks clean, and that the 
dangers of dirty food are such that no one can be sure that he will 
escape them. 

Something should be said of the scientific and economic facts that 
imderlie the whole question of a clean food supply. There are many 
reasons for beHe\dng that producers and distributors of foodstuffs, 
those engaged in the sale of food in hotels and other public places as 
well as in shops, purchasers of food, and housekeepers would join gladly 
in a campaign for improved conditions. Many manufacturers already 
insist on a standard of cleanliness, which does not exist except in care- 
fully super\'ised homes. Many persons who are engaged in the sale 
of food on trains and in hotels and restaurants have also established 
a high standard of cleanliness. The same may be said of the mer- 
chants who realize that goods must be protected from dust and insects 



1915] UNIT COSTS IN INSTITUTIONS 129 

and must be handled in a cleanly way. Every one knows that house- 
keepers and other purchasers of food are every year realizing the need 
for clean food, sold under clean conditions, and for making sure that 
those who prepare the food for them do their work in a cleanly way and 
are not affected with disease which they could communicate to those 
who share the results of their labors. 

It would be interesting to cite in some detail the efforts that are lac- 
ing made by manufacturers, producers, and distributors of food to 
insure better conditions; to refer to the efforts that are being made 
to secure clean food factories and to insure decency in all that pertains 
to food service in hotels, on dining cars, and in other public places; 
to discuss state and municipal regulations for governing the produc- 
tion and sale of foods; to note the efi&cient services of health officers, 
physicians, and teachers, as well as the increasing interest shown by 
housekeepers; and to cite at least a part of the valuable information 
on this subject which has accumulated in the laboratory and been 
pubUshed in journals and books. 

The members of the Council of the American Home Economics 
Association who have had this sanitary food code under considera- 
tion have made an attempt to bring together data and have done other 
preliminary work. Further information concerning the project can 
be secured by those who are interested. 

If the sanitary food code project finds favor with the Association, 
much remains to be done before the code can be compiled. The 
project, it is beHeved, may well form a part of the work for the Memo- 
rial Fund Committee, for no one was more interested in all these mat- 
ters than Mrs. Richards, and few have made a greater contribution 
to the subject than she did through her work for a pure water supply, 
by her writings, and in other ways. At the same time she was a splen- 
did example of personal cleaniness in food matters and all else that 
pertains to right living in the home and out of it. 

UNIT COSTS IN INSTITUTIONS 

WILLIAM MORSE COLE 
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 

It is practically impossible to say anything new as to the reason 
why we have unit costs. Astronomers in talking about the distance 
of stars from the earth do not say that a certain star is so many mil- 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

lion miles away, they say it is so many light-years away. If we were 
to read that a certain star was two hundred fifty-seven quadrillion 
miles away from the earth, it would mean little. We must have the 
terms in measurements that we understand; therefore, if we are 
told that the Ught of a certain star started from that star when 
David was the king of Israel, the distance means something to us. 
The statement that the cost of food in a hospital is $347,000 a year 
means very Uttle unless the cost of food in some particular hospital 
is used as a standard. A comparison may be made in regard to two 
things: namely, the scale of expenditure or the standard of living, 
and the number of people. If the cost per capita for food in a certain 
institution is two dollars a day, we decide whether that expenditure 
is high or low, by comparing it with the normal. 

For institutions the standard unit cost is computed per resident 
day. Allowance must be made for the fact that the size of the institu- 
tion will have a great deal to do with the unit cost. Mr. Dewey has 
been tr>dng to learn what is the unit for which a kitchen may be run 
most economically to supply one hundred, two hundred or four hun- 
dred persons. A great many persons beheve that the most economi- 
cal unit for cooking and ser\'ing is four hundred persons; others be- 
lieve that it is one or two hundred. In any case it is necessary to 
know the size of the institution in order to know the possibihties for 
economy. Increasing the scale of operations may increase the economy 
of operation up to a certain point; equipment is increased; the cost 
of operation immediately increases again until a new maximum scale 
is reached. That is particularly illustrated in the operation of rail- 
roads. The cost per mile of running trains on a single-track road 
decreases, if traffic increases, within the limits of efficient operation. 
The minute traffic increases beyond that point a double-track Hne 
must be laid. Then the expense per mile of running trains increases 
tremendously because twice as many miles of track are being main- 
tained. If traffic continues to increase then the cost of operation 
decreases until the capacity is strained and a third track must be 
laid. The matter of unit cost must not be taken with extreme serious- 
ness unless it is realized that the scale on which an institution is op- 
erated has something to do with it. 

Unit cost is the cost per resident day, not per capita day. The lat- 
ter is very different from the cost per resident day and includes the 
cost of feeding and housing residents, servants and perhaps laborers. 



1915] UNIT COSTS IN INSTITUTIONS I3l 

If a school unit cost is being computed for a school, the resident day 
of the students must be used as a basis; if for a hospital, the resident 
day of the patients; if for a hotel or club, the resident day of the 
guests. The first division is into the cost per resident, and cost per 
employe. The result will not be the average of the two, unless the 
institution is very unusual, because there are not as many employes 
as guests. The ratio between employes and residents varies from one 
employe for perhaps five or six guests, to two employes for three 
guests. This ratio depends entirely upon the kind of service ren- 
dered, and it will have a very great effect upon the unit costs of the 
institution. 

The division of unit costs into the two classes, the cost per resident 
day and the cost per employe day is very unsatisfactory because 
neither the waste nor the economy is located exactly, but merely for 
the institution as a whole. The fact that there is waste or economy 
is only the basis for intelligent management of an institution. Waste 
and economy should be located in the different departments, for in 
an institution there may be a very well administered purchasing de- 
partment, and a badly managed cooking department. 

Unit costs should be subdivided into various elements. The raw 
food cost should be subdivided into per capita day, per resident day 
and per employe day. These costs should be compared with those 
in other institutions and in this way they may be found to be high, 
normal or low. Different standards of Hving should be taken into 
consideration in making these comparisons. 

The next subdivision of the unit costs should be into the cooking cost 
per capita day, per resident day and per employe day. It may hap- 
pen that the cooking costs per resident day and per employe day are 
the same, but in most cases the cooking cost varies proportionately 
with the raw food cost. The cheaper foods are usually less expensive 
to cook. 

Serving costs should be subdivided in the same way. This could 
not be done in hospitals because the serving and the nursing are so 
nearly combined that it would be impossible to divide them. The 
housing cost should be subdivided in hke manner. The total housing 
cost is the cost of the sleeping accommodations, the housekeeping care, 
the care of rooms, and so on, including the care of the general rooms, 
the halls and the stairways. The laundry should be divided into the 
cost per resident day and per employe day if it is possible to divide 



132 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

them. The administrative cost is usually computed per capita day, 
although it might possibly be subdivided. 

These are only the main subdivisions, and they should be subdivided 
further. The raw food cost ought to be extensively subdivided. A 
committee spent several days in discussing what subdivisions of raw 
food cost ought to be made in order to enable a person to judge intel- 
ligently or efficiently both the purchasing and the dietetic standards 
of the institution. For instance, if one person obtains certain kinds 
of dietetic results by purchasing one kind of material, and another 
person obtains the same results by the purchase of another kind of 
material, obviously the costs would be different, or if one thing is 
substituted for another because it is less expensive, or because one 
group may be devoted to the taste and the other to the psychological 
effect of the diet. 

Certain main subdi\dsions of raw food ought to be made. The main 
subdivisions, accepting them for the moment as very unsatisfactory, 
are in the first place, meat costs, because food costs are very largely 
affected by tlie degree to which meats enter into the diet, then milk, 
cream, and possibly butter costs combined. The latter are dairy 
products and they are grouped together for that reason only, for they 
serve different purposes. Fruits, fresh fruits particularly, furnish 
another group of costs; flours, cereals and the like still another group. 

The housing costs should be subdivided into at least four items 
of which the first is the rent, in case rent is charged. Most institu- 
tions do not pay rent, in which case five separate items are combined 
in place of rent cost. These five items are interest on the investment 
or interest on the value of the property; insurance, taxes; depreciation; 
and maintenance. Those five items are the cost of the buildings 
housing the institution, and they cannot be avoided as cost. The 
difference between depreciation and maintenance may be stated in 
this way : the amount that is spent to keep the property in condition 
is called maintenance; the amount that should have been spent, or 
the equivalent of that amount, is depreciation if it is not spent. A 
chimney may last fifty years, but it cannot be kept in condition by 
putting in two bricks every year. You must let it run down and then 
repair ; there must be a certain amount of depreciation in every build- 
ing. The chimney may have no repairs for twenty years, but in the 
meantime changes have been made in other things every year. 

The second and third costs are fighting and heating and these should 



1915] UNIT COSTS IN INSTITUTIONS 133 

be put in terms of units. If the lighting cost per capita or resident 
day is more in one institution than in another and the former insti- 
tution is not of a higher grade, either the cost in it for light is too 
much or the persons in it are wasting Hght. The same thing is true of 
heating. In certain institutions cold air is a remedial thing, and the 
heating cost should be lower there than in other institutions. 

The last housing cost is the housekeeping cost — the care of the 
building, such as cleaning, dusting, scrubbing, making beds, and the 
like. The minute any of these subdivisions are combined, it is im- 
possible to learn whether the institution is being capably adminis- 
tered or not. There may be a loss somewhere offset by a particular 
saving or a particular fortunate situation. There is no reason why 
a manager of an institution should be given credit for a low cost due 
to a favorable situation. If, for instance, an institution is rather re- 
mote and entirely surrounded by grass, the dusting cost should be 
low. Care should be taken to differentiate those costs that are due 
to management from those that are not due to management, and this 
cannot be done unless the costs are subdivided. 

There has recently been published the first study in cost accounting 
in construction work although a great deal has been published on 
operating costs. The pamphlet contains this very interesting illus- 
tration. The persons for whom the system was devised are producers 
of concrete construction work. They have for a number of years 
been studying the desirable imit cost to maintain in their business. 
They have shown in this pamphlet in what appears to be a very 
simple tj-pe of construction something like forty or fifty difi"erent ele- 
ments for which they compute unit costs. Last year they made a 
study of one job that on the face of it appeared to be very efficiently 
directed so far as anybody from the superficial idea of the subject 
could see; the men were working faithfully and hard and everything 
was satisfactory. After that job had been imder way for six weeks 
they made a study of the unit costs. They foimd out how many 
feet of concrete work had been done, how many tons of steel had 
been put into the reinforcement, and so forth. The result was that 
they found themselves $10,000 behind on the construction up to that 
time and if it had continued they would have lost $20,000 or $25,000 
on this job. The reason for this condition was not apparent, but they 
found out, by computing the unit costs, that they were losing money 
and they shifted their force. They put most of the superintendents 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

on other work and put new superintendents in charge. In five weeks 
they had recovered the $10,000 and were making profit on the work. 
This example illustrates the necessity of subdividing unit costs and 
applying them. 

DISCUSSION OF MR. COLE's PAPER 

Mr. Hinkley, of Hotel Statler. The business in which I am inter- 
ested is entirely different from that in which most of you are engaged. 
The hotel proposition is purely for a pecuniary gain, and we have 
not as yet gotten to the question of unit costs. We feel that, in our 
business, cost accounting is the very crux of the whole question. In 
our two hotels we have now estabhshedacost accounting system, car- 
ried on so that we know exactly what each hotel is paying. We know 
too what the results should be in all of the different departments. 
W> have placed the two hotels on a percentage basis, and everything 
is figured on percentages. We know what percentage should be al- 
lowed for the housekeeping, the labor, the power, the laundry, etc. 
The restaurart, which is practically all a la carte, for we have no 
American plan, is an entirely different problem, but there again it 
is a question of percentages. We hold our steward, in each hotel, to 
a certain percentage upon the cost of raw supplies. We do not charge 
the dining room with rent, Hght, heat, power, laundry or cleaning, but 
we arbitrarily fix a certain sum for that amount and we offset it by 
having the steward feed all employes. 

We are endeavoring to get away as far as possible from feeding 
employes. We have abandoned the feeding of officers, and arbitrarily 
increased their wages or salaries so much per month and asked them 
to take their meals out. In our newer hotel in Cleveland we have 
put in a service which is practically a cafeteria proposition. We have 
the ranges and the steam tables, and employes help themselves. 

We have the restaurant on a basis of percentage also. On meat, 
sea food and vegetables, it is purely a percentage proposition, one 
house against another. And when the percentage is very low in one 
house, then is the time to analyze the cost sheets. We place it on a 
monthly basis. We take a percentage of the profit so that if a man 
buys $3000 worth of meat in one house, and shows only 17 per cent 
profit and another man shows 35 per cent, then we know there is 
something wrong because they are buying the same meat; either they 
are selling it too cheap in one house or giving too large portions. Our 



1915] UNIT COSTS IN INSTITUTIONS 135 

sheets contain columns for every article of food, except butter, milk, 
and cream, which goes into the cooking of the dishes, but every ar- 
ticle that is served is analyzed. Whether or not that percentage prop- 
osition could be extended I do not know, but it is an excellent stand- 
ard for more than one institution that is operating under the same 
management. 

We run our own laundries. In our Buffalo house we have a laundry 
equipped for flat work; in our Cleveland house we do both the flat 
and bundle work for the guests and so there is no comparison as to 
figures at present. Out of 1000 employes probably three or four 
hundred are PoHsh women, and it is necessary to keep them in the 
buildings and feed them. Our percentage is not only of labor, but of 
suppKes and everything else. The percentage basis is rather new in 
the hotel field. We do not analyze an item Hke coffee. We take all 
meats, poultry, sea food, fish, vegetables, pastry and ice creams, 
which are practically all that can be analyzed as percentages, but of 
course in the further analysis of the business, we do keep a complete 
table of every article. Every meat is separated but not as percent- 
ages. That is merely for the guidance of the steward in knowing 
what is popular. The percentage is of the meat as a whole. Staple 
supplies come to us at regular intervals and are charged to expense. 

Mr. Hofer, Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. We have about 370 boys, 
nearly all of them Hving at the school, and we feed about 100 servants. 
We have two departments, the one the administration of the school 
and the other the kitchen and bakery. We have a monthly distribu- 
tion, and we make counts regularly to know how many people are 
fed in the school department, how many in the help department and 
the number of guests. In the total cost we include fuel, the breakage 
and the maintenance of utensils. This is divided by the number of 
meals, to give us the cost per meal per month. With that we carry a 
complete report of the year, and in that way decide whether the cost 
is increasing and how it can be decreased if necessary. On the other 
side of the account we have the executive department, and the school 
department, including the salaries of the teachers, and the miscel- 
laneous department. Then follow the grounds, repairs and renewals, 
the stables, automobiles, taxes, and everything that belong to the 
general administration. The boys at the Hill ^School come mostly 
from wealthy families who are accustomed to very expensive living, 
but the Hill School people have beheved that the table has been de- 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

vised largely for their good rather than for their taste. The cost per 
meal never runs over 23 or 24 cents. The fee for the year's tuition is 
$1000 which includes repairs, renewals, everything except rent. 

Miss Proctor, Junior Bursar at Bryn Mawr. We have an allowance 
which was given some years ago, and we are trying to work out now, 
from this original allowance which has not been increased, how the 
cost of Uving is going up in our neighborhood in Pennsylvania. It is 
a very wealthy section of the country and the question of quaUty is 
of very great importance to us in our college because we have a large 
class of wealthy students to cater to. We allow 36 cents a day for 
food and divide it into different amounts for each meal, 9, 12 and 15, 
and reckoning it on the basis of 12, use 12, u and 12 to estimate the 
cost of things, taking into accovmt absolutely everything, including 
salaries of the housekeepers, cooks, maids and men, cost of preparing 
foods, the cost of the food itseh. We found that the last college year 
of 1912 and 1913 we were just within the limit of our charge. Some 
years ago it was a matter of income and we had come up to the Hmit. 
This year we are working to see how much we would have to increase 
board, to find out how we would still keep our standard up, give them 
sufi&cient food for their vigorous outdoor life, and not run beyond our 
limit. 

Aliss Fleming. We have helpers in the kitchen regularly employed 
who come into the cafeteria for their meals. Then there are student 
assistants at 20 cents an hour, and to them we give a rebate of thirty 
per cent for every hour they work. For instance, our half-monthly 
payroll is made in the form of a memorandum to the person having 
charge of the cash register, showing the number of hours that each 
person has worked for that 15 or 16 days, and that memorandum is 
a guide to the person at the cash register in giving rebates. This 
is for students employed by the hour. For regular employes we keep 
a record showing the actual sale price of the food they receive but 
board is a part of their wage. Their meals average about the same 
as the meals of students coming in. 

Miss Sperry. We maintain a dining room for the students at Berea 
College. During the winter term when there is extra expense for heat 
and light the per capita cost is $1.50 per week. In the fall and spring it 
is $1.35. We have good storage room and buy many of our supplies 
by the carload and our canned goods in gallon cans. We have a 
school garden and a dairv from which we secure milk at the rate of 



1915] COST OF FOODS IN NON-MEAT DIETARIES 137 

20 cents a gallon in winter and 16 cents in the spring and fall. We 
buy the shoulder clods of beef at 13 cents. There is a refrigerating 
plant that makes it possible to store perishable goods and we are experi- 
menting on the preservation of eggs. Supplies are selected and rec- 
ords kept through the requisition sheets. The rent of the boarding 
hall and the initial cost of equipment is not charged to the dining serv- 
ice, but heat, light and help are all included in the $1.35 and $1.50 
per capita cost. 

We serve meat once a day except with the occasional substitute 
of fish. We have found that dried beef at 30 cents a pound and 
good milk gravy makes a less expensive dish than soHd meat. In 
the spring term when eggs are 15 cents we serve them once a week in 
place of meat. 

Student help is used as much as possible. The aim of the school 
is to give students employment and in getting new machinery the 
question is always considered whether it will eliminate student help 
too much. Wages vary from 5 to 12| or 15 cents an hour. We pay 
according to the grade of work the students do. 

THE COST OF FOODS IN NON-MEAT DIETARIES 

LENNA F. COOPER 
Head Dietitian, Battle Creek Sanitarium 

The cost of food plays no small part in the present high cost of liv- 
ing. The fact that meat is one of the most expensive articles of diet 
is illustrated by a comparison of the costs of a mixed diet and of a 
non-meat diet. 

The costs of foods given here are from the non-meat dietary in use 
at the Battle Creek Sanitarium, 

There are at this institution two classes of dining rooms, one for 
the guests, another for the employes. For the guests no pains are 
spared to obtain fresh fruits, vegetables, or other delicacies that are 
on the market whether in season or out of season. 

In the purchasing of supplies the sanitarium is at considerable dis- 
advantage, however, for it is distantly removed from market centers, 
being about one hundred and fifty miles from Chicago, the nearest 
one. Consequently much of the produce must be purchased without 
having been seen, and it is often somewhat deteriorated when it 



138 THE JOURNAL OF HOAtE ECONOMICS [March 

arrives, thus entailing considerable loss. The installation of a cold 
storage system and the exercising of extremely careful supervision 
has cut down the loss very materially in the last year, as will be shown 
by figures given below. 

The cost of foods in the guests' dining room for the year 1912 
amounted to 67.8 cents per capita per day, or 22.6 cents per meal. 
The first six months of the present year 1914, the cost of foods per 
capita per day has averaged 58.7 cents, or 19.5 cents per meal. The 
cost per capita per day is divided as follows : 

Cream $.0ol5 Health foods 0308 

Butter 0518 Bread 0302 

Eggs 0307 Canned goods 0778 

Fruit 0971 Nuts 0085 

Vegetables 1379 Milk 02576 

Groceries 03334 Beverages 0113 

The total cost of foods for this same period was $67,866.44. The 
total number of guest days was 115,590. 

A copy of one day's menu is given in order to give an idea of the 
variety of food in the guests' dining hall : 

BREAKFAST 

Fresh fruits Toasted granose (wheat) biscuit 

Cantaloupe Good health biscuit 

Apples Bran biscuit 

Cereals (with pitcherful of cream) CofFee cake 

Cream of wheat Butters 

Scotch bran brose Nut butter 

Toasted rye flakes Palm butter 

Gruels Sterilized butter 

Gluten gruel Cooked fruits 

Barley gruel Apple sauce 

Entrees Pnme sauce 

Broiled protose Relishes 

Scrambled eggs Malt honey 

Vegetables Malt honey with butter 

Baked potatoes with brown sauce Malt sugar 

Potato cakes with gravy Beverages 

Toasts Apple juice 

Cream toast Grape juice 

Peach toast Milk 

Breads Yogurt buttermilk 

Whole wheat bread Yogiu-t buttermilk with cream 

White bread Sanitas cocoa 

Entire graham bread Hot malted nuts 

Breakfast toast Minute brew with sugar and cream 

Toasted rice biscuit KafBr tea 



1915] 



COST OF FOODS IN NON-MEAT DIETARIES 



139 



Soups 

Wastdngton chowder 

Lentil soup 
Entries 

Nut fillets 

Nuttolene with piquant sauce 

Spaghetti Milanaise 
Vegetables 

Baked potatoes with brown sauce 

Creamed potatoes 

Fresh asparagus 

Wax beans 
Relishes 

Lettuce with lemon 

Fruit macedoine 

Sliced tomatoes 

Malt honey 

Malt honey with butter 

Malt sugar 
Breads 

Whole wheat bread 

White bread 

Entire graham bread 

Rye bread 

Breakfast toast 

Soups 

Tomato macaroni 
Toasts 

Browned rice patties 
Vegetables 

Hashed brown potatoes 

Kidney beans 
Cereals (with cream) 

Toasted wheat flakes 

Farina 

Gluten gruel 
Breads 

Whole wheat bread 

White bread 

Entire graham bread 

Breakfast toast 

Toasted rice biscuit 

Toasted granose (wheat) biscuit 

Good health biscmt 

Bran biscuit 

Lettuce sandwich 
Butters 

Nut butter 

Palm butter 



Toasted rice biscuit 

Toasted granose (wheat) biscuit 

Good health biscuit 

Bran biscuit 
Butters 

Nut butter 

Palm butter 

Sterilized butter 
Cooked fruits 

Peach sauce 

Stewed raisins 
Beverages 

Apple juice 

Grape juice 

Milk 

Yogurt buttermilk 

Yogurt buttermilk and cream 

Sanitas cocoa 

Hot malted nuts 

Minute brew with cream and sugar 

Kafl&r tea 
Desserts 

Apple tart 

Cherries 

Pine nuts 

SUPPER 

Sterilized butter 
Rehshes 

Yogurt cheese 

Malt honey 

Malt honey with butter 

Malt sugar 
Cooked fruits 

Plum sauce 

Pear sauce 
Beverages 

Apple juice 

Grape juice 

Milk 

Yogurt buttermilk 

Yogurt buttermilk and cream 

Sanitas cocoa 

Hot malted nuts 

Minute brew with cream and sugar 

Kaffir tea 
Desserts 

Lemon cream 

Sweet graham wafers 

Apples 



140 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The employes' dining hall is now conducted on the cafeteria plan. 
When the writer first became a member of the Dietetic Department 
of the institution, the employes' dining room was run on a semi-cafe- 
teria plan. The food was placed on the counters, the employes passed 
by in line and took from the counters any amount of food that they 
wished. As they passed out of the dining room their meal tickets for 
twenty-one meals were punched. No price was attached to the in- 
dividual dish. This gave the opportunity for very injudicious choice 
of food without any regard whatever to expense. 

The writer then took a class of students in domestic science into 
the dining hall, and a week's dietary study was made. As a result it 
was foimd that between one-sixth and one-fifth of the total amount of 
food issued from the storerooms finally found its way into the garbage 
cans as waste, and that the cost of foods alone amounted to about 
$2.38 per week, or $0.34 per day. This did not include service. 

A recommendation was made to the board of managers that the 
plan of serving be changed and a strictly cafeteria plan be adopted. 
It was necessary then to put employes upon a so-called flat rate, al- 
lowing each one a certain amount for board which could be spent at 
the cafeteria or elsewhere. The rate fixed was ten dollars per month, 
and it was expected to cover only the cost of food and of labor. 

This plan has been followed for some years very satisfactorily. If 
there is a large number of employes to be served, there are many ad- 
vantages in serving them on the cafeteria plan. The first and most 
important advantage is that the responsibiUty of economy is placed 
on each individual. When a person feels that he is paying for each 
article he is more careful of waste than when he is paying by the 
meal. Upon the adoption of the cafeteria plan the amount of garbage 
which had been several canfuls per day, was cut down immediately 
to two or three canfuls. Another advantage of the cafeteria plan is 
that the individual taste may be catered to much better than under 
table d'hote system. This does away with the most of the complaints 
that are common among hospital employes. 

A great number of banquets are given at the sanitarium, and the 
menu of one banquet given last year by the students in domestic 
science is given here. 



1915] FACTS DESIRED ON COST OF LAUNDERING 141 

Salpicon of fruit 

Celery Radishes Olives 

Cream of rice soup Bread sticks 

Nut meat loaf Creamed potatoes 

Cranberry sauce Green lima beans 

Bims Breads 

Apple juice 

Apple and nut salad Cocoanut sticks 

Pineapple cream dessert 

Minute brew with whipped cream 

Total cost of materials $125 . 195 

Cost of labor $110.25 

Total hours of labor 565 

Cost of foods per capita $0,397 

Cost of labor per capita $0.35 

This banquet was one of the practice meals prepared by the do- 
mestic science students. The number of guests was three hundred 
and fifteen. 



FACTS DESIRED ON COST OF LAUNDERING 

Miss L. Ray Balderston, instructor in Laundering in Teachers Col- 
lege, New York City, is making a study of relative costs of commer- 
cial and home laundering in various parts of the country. Readers 
of the Journal can answer her inquiry with little personal incon- 
venience and are asked to do so. 

Miss Balderston desires "assistance in securing copies of printed 
price lists from one or more laundries in each community, for reg- 
ular goods for men and women, flat work, body work, etc., and any 
special rates that they may have for the family washing, "wet wash," 
"rough dry," or wash per hundred, per dozen, or per pound; in fact 
the prices which famihes must pay to get their laundry handled at 
the commercial laundry. 

Also the wages of the laundress by the day, or by the hour, as she 
comes into the home to do the work. Is she usually given certain 
additional payment as breakfast or dinner or car fare? What is the 
usual charge for laundry sent to the home of some woman laundress 
per "wash," per dozen? Information as to both home and com- 
mercial work is needed, but the rates of commercial laundries are 
especially desired. 



142 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE SCORE CARD FOR RATING EMPLOYES 

ANNIE DEWEY 
Lake Placid Club 

A list of traits of character, mind and personality which are desir- 
able in the type of employes with whom we deal every day, easily 
runs over a hundred. Eliminating many synonyms, using positive 
rather than negative terms and endeavoring to make as simple a form 
as possible, the result is still a cumbersome card which does not apply 
equally well to all kinds and grades of helpers or to men and women 
ahke. Certain traits which are important in some positions are of 
little value in others, yet it is very desirable to discover unusual 
qualities and to discharge, or promote and reward for service which 
is less or more than the average. 

The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table explains that every human be- 
ing is at least three distinct personalities. There is the real man, 
known only to his Maker, there is the man's ideal of himself and the 
ideal that others have of him. If applicants are intelligent enough to 
mark themselves, and heads of departments mark them later, accord- 
ing to results shown in their work, the emplo>Tnent bureau, controlHng 
all engagements, may secure a fairer idea of the true value of services 
rendered. When the score or grade card is printed on the reverse 
side of the appHcation blank, this one sheet, kept on file permanently 
will give concisely the record of each employe for a period of five years 
or as much longer as columns may be ruled. 

However careful the grading on any such basis, there still remains 
that intangible, indescribable motive power, rate of vibration or spir- 
itual key note with which every human being is endowed at birth. 
It is this invisible quaHty for which we most need a test. Doubtless 
some day science will give us a unit, comparable with horse power, 
calorie, and kilowatt, which will measure this ego-spark which is the 
mainspring of human action, which sets a limit to man's power and 
is the ultimate measure of his capacity. The possession of this mo- 
tive power in any high degree demands health of body, mind and 
morals. Who will give us this unit, this test of man-power? 

LAKE PLACID CLUB GRADE CARD 

The purpose of this card is to discover and promote unusual efficiency. 
Work badly done is drudgery. Work well done brings pleasure and success. 



1915] 



THE SCORE CARD FOR RATING EMPLOYES 



143 



Close grading requires that each hne be weighed separately. Quick 
grading may be by catch words only, or even quicker, each group may be 
given a total per cent, after the first close grading. 

Applicants mark themselves in first column at right, as fairly as they 
can judge. Numbered columns are to be marked by department head at 
end of each season. 

Scale: 1 poor, 2 doubtful, 3 average, 4 better, 5 best. 



Physical, 20 per cent 

Health — strength, endurance. 

Industry — energy, diligence (no loafing or shirking). 

Neatness — in woik, dress, person. 

Defects — in sight, hearing, speech, body. 
Mental, 40 per cent 

Education — common, high school, college, technical. 

Intelligent — interested, teachable, willing. 

Apt — alert, skillful, quick. 

Accurate — attentive, observant, good memor>'. 

Careful — orderly, systematic. 

Prompt — ^punctual (no procrastination). 

Cheerful — good disposition, optimistic. 

Ambition — enthusiasm, force, persistence, will. 
Moral, 40 per rent 

Honest — truthful, reliable, trustworthy. 

Cooperation — loyal, conscientious, urselfish. 

Courtesy — good manners, quiet, self possessed. 

Habits (cross out and count 1 for those never indulged in) 
liquor, drug taking, profanity, graft, gossip, tobacco, 
gambling, vulgarity, tips, temper. 

Late Hours — out or indoors (joy rides) . 

Conduct — towards other sex, self respect, sex restraint. 

Waste — misuse of food or equipment (no lunching). 
Total grade, per cent 
Traits for Special Promotion: mark on scale of 10. 

Executive — grasp of details, supervisory experience. 

Resourceful — creative, initiative, ideals. 

Discipline — control of seK and others, tact. 

Judgment — sense of proportion. 

Fairness — justice (no favoritism). 

Phj'sical — 

Mental — 

:\Ioral— 

Quality of work — 

Quantity of work — 

Total special, per cent 





1 


2 


3 


4 


5 












i 



























144 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

$1 is offered for each new suggestion submitted in writing and finally- 
adopted which will improve service or lessen cost. $10 wall be paid for 
the most suggestions, above 5, submitted by one person and adopted. 
Cooperation of all employes is cordially invited. 

BUYING, STORING AND HANDLING FOOD SUPPLIES 

ANNIE DEWEY 
Lake Placid Club 

The food of primitive man was very simple compared with present 
day requirements. Since war-like implements were developed and 
fire and cooking were introduced, man has gone on surrounding his 
daily meals with increasing complexities until to-day practically every 
country and every cHmate contributes something to the tables of the 
prosperous in civiHzed lands. 

We read that, in the days of Roman luxury, peacocks' tongues made 
a choice dish to tempt the palates of epicures. In my own girlhood 
days Point ShJrley in Boston Harbor was famous for its game dinners 
and humming birds were sometimes served in Enghsh walnut shells 
as a special delicacy. The jaded palate today must be tempted by a 
great variety of foods and many of them are very perishable. Man's 
ingenuity, his inventive power, seem ever to keep pace with the de- 
mands made upon them and methods have been developed by which 
these perishable foods can be preserved, many of them for quite long 
periods so that, if temperatures are scientifically controlled, some of 
them are scarcely distinguishable from fresh foods. It is a sad fact 
that with this increase in variety and complexity of Kfe, diseases seem 
to have increased in proportion and it is imperative that we go back 
to nature and a simpler hfc or our race will inevitably be replaced by 
a stronger and more rugged people. 

Man, the human animal, eats from one to five times a day in differ- 
ent countries and cUmates, and in proportion to the number and vari- 
ety of his meals must he depend on modern methods of preserving, 
preparing and serving his daily rations. 

To-day a man who expects to build up successfully any large busi- 
ness or enterprise, must so organize and administer it that if any- 
thing happens to him, if he steps out, it can go on in the same general 
lines and with equally high ideals. A good administrator has been 
defined as "one who can so organize his work that he is not necessary 



1915] DAILY ROUTINE IN HANDLING FOOD SUPPLIES 145 

to it." There are few lines of business which require greater accu- 
racy, skill and careful application of scientific principles than the buy- 
ing, storing and handling of food supplies for large numbers. 

Tills and the three following papers are not an attempt to give 
an ideal system but simply to show one way of dealing with the 
problem as it has been worked out at the Lake Placid Club. Others 
may have worked out better details in some directions and as a result 
of open discussion we should find a combination of the best methods 
to adopt as a standard or basis for further development. 

An alphabetic list of addresses of all firms from whom supplies are 
bought, is kept on cards. This is supplemented by a dictionary fist 
of names of each article so that one not familiar with the routine may 
easily see where any article needed has been obtained formerly, and 
the price. This includes all supplies bought by the store, other than 
food, such as disinfectants, laundry and housekeeping supplies, paper, 
etc. An index book in which is written the name of each article 
with prices for the dift"erent grades, has been used but this is being 
transferred to card index form also, as more convenient and easier 
to keep under revision as market prices vary. 

The method of storing and handling the supplies is given in the 
papers that follow. 

DAILY ROUTINE IN HANDLING FOOD SUPPLIES 

S. C. MEIGHER 

Steward Lake Placid Club and Royal Poticiana, Palm Beach, Florida 

The most essential thing in handling large quantities of per- 
ishable foods during the summer months, is to have correct daily 
inventories. Each morning at 10 o'clock the head butcher and store- 
room man hand in the exact amount of meats, fish, fruit, and vege- 
tables that are in the various coolers and necessary orders are sent, 
the amounts being governed entirely by the number of guests, the 
house count being sent daily from each kitchen. It takes about forty- 
eight hours from the time orders are mailed until the goods are 
delivered via national express either from New York or Boston and 
six hours from Tupper Lake where Armour and Company have a 
large distributing plant. Every Wednesday a refrigerator car comes 
direct from Chicago which suppHes a large part of the heavier meats. 

The most reputable firms are selected to deal with and printed lists 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

are received from them two or three times a week telKng what they 
have to offer, and prices. All orders are made out in duplicate, one 
mailed and one retained for reference and to check supplies upon 
arrival. 

All goods are inspected upon arrival and anything that is not con- 
sidered up to standard is either deducted from invoice or claim filed 
against the express company for damages or delay. 

With groceries and all non-perishable goods, inventories are handed 
in at the end of each week and orders mailed, all shipments being 
made by freight instead of express, taking usually from six to eight 
days from the time orders are sent until received. 

The chefs of the different kitchens come to the store each morning 
and go over the stock on hand, deciding at that time what shall be 
used for the following three meals, being careful not to get any one 
article too often on their menus and at the same time trying to use 
anything of which there happens to be a large supply, in this way 
never overstocking and reducing waste to a minimum. Deliveries 
are made promptly after goods are put up and are stored in the smaller 
coolers and grocery space provided in connection with each kitchen. 

Particular attention is paid to cleanliness and all storerooms and 
coolers are given a thorough cleaning and over-hauling twice a week; 
temperatures are watched very closely and are never allowed to vary 
to any great extent. Meat coolers are kept from 36° to 38°, eggs 40°, 
fish 28° to 30° and butter 34°. The temperature may be controlled 
down to 24° by means of extra pipes packed with ice and salt, making 
it possible to keep a large supply of meats and poultry indefinitely. 

CONSTRUCTION OF COOLER AT LAKE PLACID CLUB 

SroNEY L. WOOD 
Supervising Engineer 

The store cooler and ice house are side by side in a building 52 x 
117, the 3 equal sections being each 39 x 52. The building is of frame 
construction, resting on a stone foundation. There is a cellar imder 
the cooler but not imder the other sections. 

The insulation of walls, partitions, floors and ceiling in the cooler 
and ice house is effected by subdividing the thickness of these mem- 
bers into a large number of small air spaces. No asbestos felt, mineral 
wool or other non-conducting material is used in any part of this 



1915] 



COOLER CONSTRUCTION 



147 



building which now stores for 1500 people including employes and 
has ample capacity for 2000. 

The construction of the outside walls is typical of the rest. On the 
outside of the studs (vertical members) is nailed the siding which in 
turn receives the shingles which form the outside finish of the building. 
On the inside of the siding, a strip of paper is fitted between each pair of 
studs. This paper is exceedingly tough and non-absorbent (C. S. Gar- 
rett & Sons, Phila., j^ 16). It is secured in place by long cleats nailed 
to the studs, the paper being turned up on each edge to go under the 
cleats and to secure a good joint. On the cleats are nailed short pieces 




of board fitting tightly to the studs and to one another (ship lap). 
A complete air space is thus formed. A second strip of paper is fitted 
over these short pieces of board. A second set of cleats and a second 
set of short boards are also fitted, so that a second air space is formed. 
This construction may be followed to produce any desired number 
of air spaces, six being used in interior partitions and seven for out- 
side, including shingles. When the full depth of the studs is reached, 
the short pieces of boards are replaced by long lengths running over 
the inner face of the studs. Long lengths of the same paper are se- 
cured to this surface by cleats to which cleats another tliickness of 
boards may be nailed, thus producing another air space. The verti- 



148 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

cal extent of the air spaces may be limited by fitting horizontal strips 
wherever desired. Precisely the same method of construction is fol- 
lowed for interior partitions and for floors and ceiUngs. 

Above the meat room and the fruit and vegetable rooms are fitted 
large ice bunkers in which perfectly clean ice is stored approximately 
11 feet high. On each end of the ice bunker the partition is di- 
rectly above the partition of the cooled room below; but on each 
side of the ice bunker a passage is formed for the air to circulate, the 
cold air down on one side and the warm air up on the other. On the 
warm air side, an insulated partition protects the ice from the rising 
warm air. 

The space between the ceiling of the room below and the floor of 
the ice bunker is carefully insulated in the manner above described — 
as is also the ceiling over the ice bunker. 

The floor of the ice bunker is inclined and is covered with a water 
tight pan which collects the water from the melting ice. Appropri- 
ate drainage is arranged to free the pan from this water. The size 
of these bunkers is such that it is generally necessary to fiU them only 
twice a year, once in the winter when the year's supply of ice is stored, 
and once again in the summer, usually in August. 

In addition to the ice bunkers some of the rooms are fitted with gal- 
vanized iron tubes, 10 inches diameter for holding a mixture of ice and 
salt. These tubes extend from the floor of the room to be cooled, 
through its ceiling where the upper ends are accessible in a room con- 
venient lo a large ice smashing tank from which the tubes are filled. 
Drainage from the bottom of these tubes is provided. 

The temperature of any room is very easily controlled by the 
proper use of these tubes. 

The store proper has, of course, no insulation, and it presents no 
feature of special interest. The first floor is the receiving and distrib- 
uting point for all food suppHes; that is, raw material; and on the 
second floor storage is provided for many suppUes other than food. 

The creamery is included in one corner of this store building and is 
fitted with appliances as indicated on the plan. To this creamery all 
the milk from the club dairy herds is brought for separation, bottling 
and distribution. 



1915] FOOD COST ACCOUNTING 149 

FOOD COST ACCOUNTING AT LAKE PLACID CLUB 

OLIVE M. COSBY 

Accounlanl 

In the system used at Lake Placid Club, there are three main steps: 
calculating food used, counting guest days, and figuring the per capita. 
Each of the first two steps may be elaborated or simpUfied to suit 
the needs of the particular institution. We have six kitchens, each 
with its own table director buying from our own store, the latter be- 
ing managed by the steward. Every kitchen has a requisition sheet, 
the color of which is significant to the initial letter of the name of its 
clubhouse, as lemon color for Lakeside, orange for Overlook, etc. 
After many years of experimenting, the division of foods into the fol- 
lowing groups has been found most satisfactory, ranging from proteins 
and fats to carbohydrates: meat, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, cream, 
butter, fruit, vegetables and groceries. 

Food used. The prices and the extensions are verified, each group 
of items being placed under its corresponding column and Hne on a 
sheet called Steward's daily report. At the end of one day we not 
only have the total sold to each kitchen, but also the total sold to 
each of the ten groups of food. 

From the Steward's report is made the Food used sheet, containing 
the same ten columns, each kitchen having a separate sheet for each 
month. This sheet is divided into three ten-day periods, thus ena- 
bhng the per capita to be reckoned each ten days of the month, 10th, 
20th, 30th. The first line contains the amount on hand of each group 
followed by ten lines of food bought the first ten days, then a line for 
the total of these. In order to estimate the actual amount of food 
used, the kitchen inventory is taken every ten days. 

Guest days. Each dining room sends in a meal count sheet record- 
ing each grade of meal served: guests I, children, maids and staff 
f , servants in side hall \. At end of ten day period the guest meal 
count may be converted into guest days. The actual meal count 
may be converted into guest days by proportioning each grade into 
guest meals, and dividing by three (three meals to one day). 

Per capita. Dividing the total food used by the total guest days 
the ten-day per capita is reached. Each of the ten-day totals of the 
ten groups may be figured in this manner, their sum equaling the total 
per capita each month. The monthly per capita is figured not by 



150 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

averaging the three ten-day periods, but by dividing the monthly 
total food used by the monthly total of guest days. 

These per capitas may be transposed in many ways for convenient 
comparison with prexious months or the same period in previous 
years. After calculating the club per capita (by totaling the several 
kitchens) a graphic sheet may be made. Each food line has a charac- 
teristic color, as meat red, vegetables green, butter yellow, etc.; thus 
a chart of peaks or curves by ten-day periods may appeal to the eye 
of an uneducated chef when figures are meaningless. 

THE GRADING AND STANDARDIZING OF FOOD SUPPLIES 

F. S. SNYDER 
President, Batcheller and Snyder Company, Boston, Mass. 

The grading and standardizing of food supplies is a very extensive 
subject. A few years ago it appeared that no study had been made in 
this countr>' covering the subject of purchasmg suppKes of a variable 
nature. For example, even the two sides of a beef are not alike, nor 
of the same value. If the two sides of the same animal are different, 
and no two animals are aUke, the infinite variety that must be covered 
in the question can be seen at once. A new era is dawning in the 
matter of meat food suppHes for the United States. It was only a 
few years ago that this country was exporting large quantities of beef 
and other foods to Europe; it controlled the market in England ; but 
seven years ago the tide began to turn and about four years ago 
American meats were completely driven out of the EngHsh markets 
by the meats from Australia, New Zealand, and Argentine. The 
changes in the tariff have turned the tide still further and some meats 
have been brought into this country through the eastern ports and 
have been shipped as far west as Kansas City. This portends some- 
thing of very extreme and serious consequence. The changes in values 
in the last decade have been very great, and they are bound to be still 
greater. With the increased cost, the question becomes of very much 
greater importance than at any previous time, because if the waste 
percentage was worth, say the unit of $1, and today that same value 
of meat is twice as great, of course the waste becomes of twice as much 
importance. Armour and Company closed up forty- three branch 
houses in the year 1913 because they did not have sufficient stock 



1915] GRADING AND STANDARDIZING OF FOOD SUPPLIES 151 

purchased in this country to utilize them. The pressure of demand 
for the distribution of the produce was such that they needed to do 
this. Now there is insufficient supply even with the packing houses 
running. Therefore their cost of distribution is increasing and their 
over-head charges are becoming serious. The importation of this for- 
eign meat is looked forward to with a good deal of satisfaction. Some 
persons from Argentine report that unless their country increases its 
supply, we shall make such demand on it that the prices will increase. 
Today the people of this country are enjoying a reduced price based 
upon the coming in of the foreign meat. The great bulk of the foreign 
meat is chilled, that is, it has been kept at a temperature slightly below 
the freezing point. If meat is frozen, the cells are expanded and 
become unnaturally red. Not everyone is familiar with the appear- 
ance of thawed meat, or with the character of the change that takes 
place, particularly in red meat. The aging process cannot be carried 
on in just the same fashion. Do your thawing out in your own re- 
frigerators, because in that way you will avoid this chance for sour- 
ing which is the natural and ordinary process of the development of 
frozen meats. 

Lamb is being imported as well as beef, and shipments have been 
received from New Zealand, and Australia. Lamb has sold for seven- 
teen cents per pound. This is a high price compared to the price of 
the lamb raised in the country, but this imported meat is said to be 
finer in quahty. The second grade of this meat is worth about twelve 
cents per pound delivered at Boston. 

Beef, lamb and veal may be divided into four general classes. Beef 
perhaps is of greatest importance in the matter of its uses. Let us 
consider the very concrete problems that relate to buying. In com- 
paring two steers after dressing, one weighing seven hundred pounds, 
the other a thousand pounds, we find a very slight difference in the 
length of the animals but a great difference in the thickness. It is 
easy to see what that means with reference to the use of the sirloins, 
ribs or other cuts of meats where a surface cut of a given shape or size 
is being used. Sirloins are classified as "suet in," ''suet out," and 
"Frenched," the latter meaning that the suet is removed and the 
flank removed. The weights of the Frenched sirloins from these two 
steers are almost precisely the same. The difference in the total weight 
is due to feeding and the difference in the feeding is registered in the 
suet so that if the suet is removed from these sirloins they have almost 



152 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

precisely the same weight. With the difference in inches there is a 
difference of but about ten per cent, but in serving sections from this 
large loin there is a loss of at least thirty per cent. The importance of 
choosing the size of the sirloins is evident, and unless three sections 
are cut from a slice there would be given away a service which would 
mean a loss of at least thirty per cent in the cost. That principle 
also appUes to the ribs. Comparing the twenty to twenty-four pound 
rib with the thirty to thirty-four pound rib, a difference of hfty per 
cent in weight shows a difference in length of but three-quarters of 
an inch. The difference in the first and second sizes is only two per 
cent in length, but twenty per cent in weight, so that the difference 
of eighteen per cent is a pure surface loss. This surface loss can be 
avoided by choosing proper sizes, as between the twenty to twenty- 
four and the thirty to thirty-four there is a dift'erence of but seven per 
cent in length, and a fifty per cent in weight. The same principle 
appHes in the purchase of lamb and lamb racks. Racks are quoted 
at this particular time of the year at five different prices. You have 
the eight to nine pound size which is under normal ; the ten to eleven 
pound size in the normal range; the twelve to tliirteen and the four- 
teen to fifteen. There is a difference here of about ten per cent in 
weight, and a difference in accurate usage and cost that is much 
greater. The first rack costs $1.88; the next $3.68. You serve pre- 
cisely the same number of people from any one of these. Again you 
choose as to how many you will serve. If you are serving two chops, 
the importance of choosing a size of the sort that will make a difference 
of ten to for*^y per cent in the cost is of paramount importance. It is 
not what you pay per pound, but the size which fits your need and, 
what is of equal importance, the cut of the particular thing you are 
buying plus, of course, the general question of quality. Anyone han- 
dling meats becomes at least famihar with general quality, but the 
question of cut is infinitely more important than the question of price 
per pound. In purchasing lamb, find the size chops that you want, 
and remember also that the rack is one-third the weight of the lamb. 

Further, in consideration of beef cuts we have what are called 
economy cuts of beef. This is an outgrowth of a practice in the West. 
The idea was to take fine cattle and make boneless cuts. A careful 
experiment was made by us in the use of these economy cuts with 
the result, in one institution trying them, that their cost had been 
reduced exactly one hah, because they had been making the daily 



1915] GRADING AND STANDARDIZING OF FOOD SUPPLIES 153 

mistake of purchasing a large percentage of beef which was too good 
for their use, and they were purchasing another percentage of beef 
which was entirely too poor. In this great institution with its 
staff of officers, they were using a great many sirloins which they did 
not have to use. On the other hand they were getting parts of the 
rounds of beef, an extra amount of bone and things of that sort. It 
was vastly better for them to buy bones at bone prices, but by pur- 
chasing a limited amount of sirloin for their officers' use, they found 
that no one had extravagantly good meat and no one had poor meat. 
It is the right selection of the particular thing for the particular need 
that should be studied. Go to some of the butchers and require that 
they serve you with the thing that fits your case. A few years ago 
Harvard was using rump steak, and was having a large amount of 
waste. When I suggested that they change to sirloin steak, the new 
steward held up his hands in horror, saying that they could not afford 
to. I showed him that they could not afford not to. 

Passing on to sweetbreads we make seven groups. The chef can 
take a large sweetbread and cut it into seven pieces so that they fit 
any need that can occur in any well regulated kitchen. Lamb sweet- 
breads are almost precisely the same as beef sweetbreads in texture 
and flavor, and the cost is only one-third. Generally speaking, they 
are indistinguishable so far as the flavor is concerned. 

Packers use two systems of curing — the dry and the wet. Take, for,, 
example, one hundred pounds of green meats, and by the dry system 
they can turn out eighty-five pounds of finished product, while by 
the other system they can turn out one hundred to one hundred and 
two pounds, so that in buying the finished product you are getting 
fifteen to seventeen pounds of water in one case. Of course, in the 
cooking a large share of that extra amount of water is evaporated. 
There is no way of knowing which kind you buy unless you cook two 
types and compare the cooked product with the original product. 

Another thing which the government has not taken up seriously is 
the question of the excessive use of saltpeter. In New York and 
further west they use very largely the red com beef. The excessive 
use of saltpeter is imdesirable. The use of saltpeter and salt or any 
form of curing process is a modified form of tanning. We cure leather 
to make it tough; in curing ham and bacon we get the same results. 
The ordinary method of curing heavily with salt and saltpeter and 
then soaking is a common practice. Perhaps they could not do dif- 



154 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

ferently in extremely large plants, but they need not go to the extent 
to which they do in some plants. Saltpeter is more serious in its effect 
than salt, but either an excess of salt or saltpeter during the process 
of curing, produces a less desirable meat from the standpoint of food 
use. Therefore avoid any meats that have an excessively high color. 

In using" olives where you want both quantity and quahty get the 
very largest size of oKves that is possible. A pound of large olives 
will contain less than one-half the pit waste found in the finest queen 
olives. Another illustration of extravagance is the use of oils. There 
is a great protest in many sections against using any of the neutral 
oils. There is no reason why certain of the refined oils that are now 
made from grain, cotton seed, and peanuts are not entirely wholesome, 
and you wiU find that as compared with the olive oils, from Spain es- 
pecially, these oils are better and cost about one-third as much. Buy 
the finest French or Italian oils and mix with cotton seed oil, and you 
wiU find your working qualities much better. The French oils are 
heavier and a Httle richer, and do not blend quite as readily as the 
Itahan. The average American prefers the French oil. 

In a certain institution they are paying ten and one-half cents for 
certified milk, and thirty-six cents per pound for butter. In a forty 
quart standard can that weighs eighty- two pounds, forty quarts at 
ten and a half cents would cost $4.20. If it contained a four per cent 
standard of butter fat that would make 3.28 pounds of butter fat in 
the can of milk; at twenty per cent surplus for the casein and the 
water content that will be incorporated in making it into butter, it 
would produce 3.93 pounds of butter. So that amount of butter mul- 
tiplied by the price per pound would be $1.41. That is, the cost of 
the milk was $4.20 to turn into butter, and the butter would cost 
$1.41 ma'le from the same milk. In other words, they are paying a 
dollar a pound for the butter that is in that milk. The usual practice 
is to get an unnecessary price for cream. It is something that is be- 
ing used more every year, and what has been equally remarkable is 
that the cost of cream has been maintained in the market. There is 
not a sufficient justification for it. Cream can be shipped from north- 
ern Vermont to Boston, and if there is any surplus it can be turned 
into butter. There is no reason why cream should bring the high 
price that it does. It is simply trade practice. 



1915] LAKE PLACID REPORTS 155 

LAKE PLACID REPORTS AND INSTITUTION PAPERS 

Those who wish the papers that have been given at Lake Placid 
Conference and at meetings of the Institution Economics Section at 
Lake Placid and elsewhere may obtain them from the office of the 
American Home Economics Association, Station N, Baltimore, Mary- 
land, at the prices quoted. 

The following is a list of reports and Journals containing the papers 
referred to above. A few of the important subjects are given for each. 

lake placid conference proceedings 

*1899-1901— History and outline of first conference. Suggestions for 
professional school of Home Economics, Courses in Home Eco- 
nomics for elementary and secondary schools and colleges 5i2.00 

1902 — Industrial institutes. Social conditions and family Kfe, Courses 
in Home Economics 1 . 00 

1903 — Personal hygiene. Manual training, Relation of Home Eco- 
nomics to other studies. Labor problem in the home 2 . 00 

*1904 — Household labor. Cost of living for family and for large num- 
bers, Standards of wages, Personal hygiene 2 .00 

1905 — Teaching Home Economics, College and university education 
in Home Economics, The food problem. Household industrial prob- 
lem 0.50 

1906 — Euthenics in education, Progress in teaching Home Economics, 
Food and nutrition. Public health 1 . 00 

1907 — Woman's pubhc work for the home, University work in textiles. 
Essentials of cooperation . 50 

1908 — Hygiene and sanitation. Requirements of the modern house, 
Study of textiles, The school lunch room . 50 

Papers from the administration section June, 1912 — Laundry, school 
lunch, accounting systems, diet . 50 

journals 

Vol. 11, No. 5 (Institution number) — Institutional management. 
Administration of dormitories. Organization and control of institu- 
tions. Accounting, Laundry . 50 

Vol. IV, No. 1 — Equipment of kitchens and dining rooms, Insect 
pests in institutions. Scientific management. Purchasing and han- 
dling supplies . 25 

* Those marked with a * are so nearly out of print that they can be sold only in orders 
for a complete file of the reports. 1901 can be furnished by itself for $1 and contains 
most of what is found in 1899-1901. 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Vol. IV, No. 4r— Marketing facilities, School lunches, Laundry, In- 
stitutional management $0.25 

Vol. IV, No. 5— Dietaries, Diet kitchen, Pubhc utilities, Uniform and 
waste accounting 0.25 

Vol. V, No. 1— Commercial laundries, Penny lunches. Cafe in men's 
clubs 0.25 

Vol. V, No. 5— Standards of livmg. Organization and rewards, School 
dietitian . 23 

Vol. VI, No. 4 — ^Laundry, Lunch room suppUes 0.50 



EDITORIALS 

Institution Economics Section Meeting. The Institution Sec- 
tion of the American Home Economics Association will hold its 
annual meeting at the Lake Placid Club, Essex County, N. Y., from 
June 26 to 30, 1915. 

The program of each day will consist of a morning and an evening 
session devoted to the discussion of problems of administration. The 
cafeteria, the school lunch-room, the hotel, and the school and college 
dormitory will be represented, and contributions will be made from 
the experience of the Young Women's Christian Associations, coop- 
erative housekeeping for student groups, lodging-houses for working 
women, and state institutions. Two sessions will be given to the 
study of housing problems affecting the women workers in our cities. 
Consideration of the field assigned to the dietitian of today will oc- 
cupy one session, and the practical experience of hotel managers, per 
capita costs in various institutions, service, equipment, and the buy- 
ing of suppHes will be fully discussed. 

Ample provision for group conferences will be made, in which the 
specific interests of the various t3^es of institutions may be consid- 
ered. 

If you are interested in any institution or if you are teaching Home 
Economics, you should avail yourseK of the advantages offered by 
this meeting. 

Chairman, Institution Economics Section. In 1913 Miss Sarah 
Louise Arnold resigned from the chairmanship of the Institution Sec- 
tion of the American Home Economics Association in view of more 
responsible duties placed upon her as president of the American Home 
Economics Association. Miss Martha Van Rensselaer was elected 
chairman of the Institution Section in Miss Arnold's place. At the 
Cleveland meeting in the summer of 1914 Miss Arnold declined re- 
election to the presidency of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, and Miss Van Rensselaer was elected president. Accordingly a 
reversal of the original plan took place and Miss Van Rensselaer re- 
signed as chairman of the section and Miss Arnold was again elected 

chairman. 

157 



HOUSEKEEPERS DEPARTMENT 

WHAT THE HOUSEHOLD HAS LEARNED FROM 
INSTITUTION METHODS 

Our debt is great and promises to be greater as we learn more of 
these methods and test and apply them to the every day use of the 
smaller group. The institution is but the larger household and in 
reaching conclusions as to the efficiency of methods in all of the Hues 
of household management it has certain advantages that insure for 
it leadership. 

On the financial side. The household has been a law imto itself. 
Its manager has other functions besides that of house management 
and they are important ones, of great social and educational value. 
They may even obscure in her mind the importance of time and train- 
ing which should go to the practical running of her household. She 
is responsible to her husband only and he may or may not be a good 
critic of the efficiency of her methods. On the other hand, the head 
of an institution is ffi-st and foremost a thinker and a worker along 
these Hues and responsible to a board of managers who in turn are 
responsible to the public for the use of funds. The methods in use 
must be the best attainable, they must have passed criticism and 
comparison mth those of other institutions. Their results are not 
hidden, they are constantly in evidence on the pages of the account 
books. From the institution we have thus learned the absolute ne- 
cessity of keeping accounts in order to know whether we are spending 
our income with economy. Imagine the matron of a hospital facing 
her Board with this statement found very amusing in a young house- 
keeper, "When the housekeeping money is gone, why it's gone and 
that's all there is of it — we have to Hve on mush till the first of the 
month." In times of business depression, the certified public account- 
ant reports that he is busier than ever. A business man wants to 
know whether his methods can be improved and calls in the account- 
ant to look over his books. 

Hours of labor. The institution must have an exact understanding 
with its employes as to hours of labor. Those hours may be 8, 9, or 
158 



1915] HOUSEHOLD A1«TD INSTITUTION METHODS 159 

10 a day, but they begin and end on the minute, a system so agree- 
able to the worker that the housekeeper finds to her amazement that 
many a girl prefers hard work in a hotel to the easier work extending 
over uncertain hours in a private house. Will these industrial com- 
petitors force us to shorten and make definite the hours of work in 
the household even though it may necessitate our getting the family 
breakfast ourselves? 

System in buying. A woman who served on the board of a child's 
asylum found that all purchases are made by institutions at whole- 
sale by the system of samples and by competitive bids; the competing 
firms submit their samples of food, clothing, blankets, and other house 
furnishings to the buying committee. These samples are carefully 
tested; for instance, a decoction of the samples of coffee is tested 
by a number of people. When the orders are filled, the foods must 
come up to the sample as to quality and be of the guaranteed weight 
or they are returned. In comparison the household system of buying 
seems a very poor one. The great difference between the wholesale 
and retail price paid by the household ought to guarantee besides 
dehvery of goods in small quantities exactness as to weight and qual- 
ity, but does it? 

Test of utensils, house furnishings , etc. It was the institution which 
started the use of bare floors with rugs, and brought about the use 
of the concave joining of mopboard and floor and the filled-in corner, 
all for hygienic reasons, and slowly the household has followed suit. 
The tiled bathroom was first approved by the hospital and it is 
the hospital that has made experiments to determine the best floor 
covering. 

Laundry. Only in the large institutional laundry is there an op- 
portunity to test out laundry methods and machinery. Few house- 
keepers, for instance, could duplicate the following test: In a certain 
hospital 12 collars were given out to each nurse and expected to last 
for a year, but when the laundry was changed to one using destructive 
chemicals, these 12 collars were worn out in three months. 

The laundry departments in our schools of household arts, start- 
ing with appliances and methods suited to the institution, have worked 
out what can be used in the individual home. 



160 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

A RARE BOARDING HOUSE 

ELLA KAISER CARRUTH 

Situated in the midst of a choice residence section of one of our 
largest cities near a thriving university is a boarding house which is 
unique. 

The problem of serving good, homelike, abundant meals at a figure 
lower than similar meals could be served at a private home has been 
solved. For a family of three whom boarding relieves of the neces- 
sity of emploj-ing a maid, the following is a roughly estimated com- 
parison of prices for the same meals for one week at home and in the 
boarding house. 

Cost in the home 

Cost of food $15.00 

Cost of fuel 50 

^Maid's senice 2 . 50 

Maid's waste .70 

Laundry of table linen .35 

Total $19.05 

Cost of boarding for three 18. 00 

Balance pei week in fa\ or of boarding % 1 . 05 

To the cost in the home should in reahty be added the wear and 
tear of equipment and the time given to oversight by the housekeeper. 

At this boarding house no pretence of giving meals at an absurdly 
low price is made although the following price Hst indicates rates from 
a dollar to a dollar and a half less a week than prevail in other board- 
ing houses setting similar tables, in the same section of the city. 

Board per Week 

Three meals per day $6 . 00 

Two meals per day 5 . 00 

Dinners only 4 . 50 

Reductions made only for absence of one week or more. 

Single Meals or Guests 

Breakfast $ .50 

Luncheon 35 

Dinner, weekdays 75 

Dirmer, Sundays 1 . 00 

No supper is ser\-ed on Sunday or holiday evenings. 



1915] A RARE BOARDING HOUSE 161 

The better to appreciate the spirit and atmosphere of this boarding 
house home, which mean so much to the patrons, a glance at its his- 
tory and surroundings may be of interest before examining its ma- 
chinery. Nearly a century ago the grandfather of the present owner 
bought a farm far out from a struggling village in the middle west. 
As recently as fifteen years ago his acres were on the very out- 
skirts of the city. But now the farm has been pierced by city streets. 
Much of the land has passed out of the hands of the family but a 
choice and very deep corner lot still remains on which a large and 
comfortable home was built about thirty years ago. Well back from 
the street it stands, surrounded on all sides by expansive lawns and 
sheltering trees. 

Some ten or twelve years ago, the owner allowed ten or fifteen 
people to room in the house. Rather reluctantly she also arranged 
to board them. The board was superior, the location ideal, the host- 
ess charming and personally acquainted with and interested in her 
guests. The refined atmosphere of the place made it a haven of dehght 
to the privileged few. 

Presently another house was required to accommodate even a part 
of the people who were clamoring for admission. And they were 
just the kind of people for whom the owner wanted to provide a 
home — young professional and business men and women of moderate 
income accustomed to culture and refinement and unostentatious 
Hving. 

The fame of this home spread, and more people wanted to come. 
If circumstances had necessitated the giving up of their own home, 
where could a family live better, than here where they could enjoy the 
privacy of a table of their own? 

Then the barn was made into a deHghtful little cottage. Two or 
three houses were converted into rooming houses for the boarders. 
A three story brick apartment house, having two and three room 
suites was built on part of the garden. All the suites were engaged 
before the roof was on. And now some facetious boarder has said, 
"Only death or marriage leaves one vacant." Prices for suites in 
this building are: $25 per month for two rooms and bath; $30 for 
two larger and front rooms and bath; $35 for three rooms and bath. 
All tenants pay their own light bills, and many of them supply their 
own furniture. 

The present seating capacity of the dining room is one himdred and 



162 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

twenty-live. This one hundred and twenty-five includes an inter- 
esting lot of people. Teachers of all kinds, from kindergartners to 
college professors; "More kinds of librarians than I knew existed" 
some one said; business men and professional men of the bachelor per- 
suasion and men of famihes. To some elderly ladies left practically 
alone this happy, congenial home seems more of a boon than to al- 
most anyone else. 

The service in the dining room is all rendered by students from the 
neighboring university, who wait on the table in return for their 
board. They do their work quickly, quietly, politely and efficiently. 
By using the card-index system, the head waiter keeps track of the 
absence of regular boarders and of the number of guests they enter- 
tain. The price of all guests' meals is added to the proper bills. 

The other waiters so systemize the work that no time is wasted and 
yet there is no feeHng of haste. Since one waiter has charge of the 
soup and the drink (tea, coffee or milk) and another of the main 
course and dessert, two waiters can serve several tables. And only 
ten waiters are ordinarily required in the dining room. 

The color scheme of the dining room is green and white from dishes 
to wall paper, and is very restful. The table Unen, always changed 
three times a week and oftener if an accident occurs, is as fine as is 
consistent wath durability, and is always well laundered. The silver 
is always bright, the salt cellars always full and flowing, the water 
cold and the cream yellow. 

The following menus, selected at random, are typical of the meals 
served : 

WEEK DAY ME.\LS 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Creamed chipped beef Brown potatoes Graham muffms Toast 

Coffee Postum Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Minced chicken in gravy on toast Candied sweet potatoes 

Succotash Rolls 

Chocolate pudding Sliced peaches Cake 

Tea ("hot or ice) Milk Cocoa Postum 



1915] A RARE BOARDING HOUSE 163 



Chicken broth 

Roast beef Mashed potatoes • Tomatoes Mashed squash 

Tea Coffee Milk 

Apple pudding and hard sauce 

SUNDAY DINNER 

Cream tomato soup 

Fricasseed chicken Sweet potatoes Succotash Cucumbers 

Tomato salad, French dressing Ice cream and cake 

Cofifee Tea Milk 

Few choices are given, but well balanced palatable meals are pre- 
pared in the kitchen. Eggs may always be substituted for meat and 
an orange for the dessert. On Friday there is always a choice between 
meat and fish. 

The genius who plans the meals and does a large part of the market- 
ing is a capable, cultured woman. She buys the best of everything. 
She, with the hostess and another charming woman who keeps the 
books, make up what might be called the Executive Board of the 
estabHshment. Under their direction the cooks, the maids, the but- 
ler, the gardener, all do their work. 

An old black cook, the backbone of the estabhshment, presides 
over the kitchen. Although all her cooking is unusually good, she 
excels especially in the preparation of vegetables. 

The four or five maids help in the kitchen, do what laundry work 
is done in the house (and this includes all the table Hnen), wash the 
dishes and care for the rooms of the bachelors. The women tenants 
provide for the care of their own rooms — they are not as yet wholly 
emancipated. 

No expense is spared in equipping each department with the really 
labor saving de\dces. During the past summer an iceless refrigerator 
plant was installed. Vacuum cleaner, washing machine, mangle, and 
dish washing machine have all been installed as rapidly as they were 
perfected. 

The very marked success of this boarding house is due primarily 
to the unusual personaUty of its hostess. Still the financial success 
of an institution can hardly be attributed to so elusive a thing as a 
personality. The question still arises, what makes it possible to pro- 
vide such excellent fare for so reasonable a price. The answer is six 
fold: 



164 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

1. In common with all boarding houses a large part of the profit 
must come from the renting of rooms. The practice of having 
practically all the tenants furnish and care for their own rooms 
adds materially to this profit. 

2. Again, in common with all large boarding houses, is the oppor- 
tunity for saving which comes from buying in large quantities. 

3. No wages are paid to the waiters. They are given only their 
board. 

4. The owner has an abihty amounting almost to genius for finding 
just the right person for each bit of work. 

5. The number of servants employed is greatly lessened by the in- 
stallment of practical labor saving devices. 

6. The boarders are given very few choices in their meals. 

A MODEL WET- WASH LAUNDRY 

The small house or apartment has seldom any proper facihties for 
doing the family laundry. In a canvass of two blocks in the East 
Side District of New York it was found that in one of them 40 per 
cent and in another 59 per cent of the f amiHes were \vithout wash tubs. 
Great relief has been afforded by the municipal wash houses, fifteen of 
which have been estabhshed in the last few years in connection with 
the pubHc baths in our large cities. Here the man or woman may do 
a family or a personal washing and ironing at cost price, by the use 
of a simple and inexpensive outfit. 

But a great advance on this method would be the general estab- 
lishment of wet-wash laundries where work may be done by machin- 
ery at cost price. Under the direction of The Association for 
Improving the Condition of the Poor, such a one has been in opera- 
tion in connection with the Milbank Bath in New York since the 
middle of November last. It uses a washer of eight compartments, 
each compartment holding a family washing in its own bag. For 25 
cents, 30 pounds of clothing are washed and partially dried, and re- 
turned the same day within a radius of 6-8 blocks for an extra charge 
of 10 cents, or the family may bring the washing and call for it. At 
present the number of family Vv^ashings done per week averages 275. 

If this method of public service proves to be a success, as seems 
probable, we may expect the municipal wash house to extend its 
scope or to improve the methods and lower the prices of the com- 
mercial wet-wash laundry. 



1915] COST OF HOMEMADE AND BAKERS' BREAD 165 

COMPARISON OF THE COST OF HOMEMADE AND BAKERS' 

BREAD 

The following conclusions are taken by permission from the pub- 
lished report of an experiment conducted by the Boston Branch of 
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae and the School of Housekeeping 
of Boston. 

The work was done fifteen years ago and certain adjustments as to 
prices and conditions are necessary to make it of practical value to- 
day. But the results should be carefully preserved, as the work was 
done with the utmost accuracy and care under a fellowship estab- 
lished by the Collegiate Alumnae at the School of Housekeeping, in 
1900. 

To compare the cost of food cooked out of the house with that of food 
prepared at home, the follo^\dng data must be obtained in regard to home- 
cooked food: cost of materials, cost of labor, cost of fuel, cost of wear and 
tear on equipment and of waste. 

Cost of Materials. This is the simplest of the four problems involved and 
can be determined -^ith comparative accuracy. The prices used in the fol- 
lo\\ing experiments are retail prices of the better-class dealers in Boston. 

Cost of Labor. This is an item extremely complex, first because there 
exists as yet no standard of the value per hour of labor in housework, and, 
second, because of the difficulty of determining the exact amount of time 
required to prepare any one article of food, since in practice, the person 
cooking usually does not give her undivided time to the preparation of 
this one article, but is cooking other things at the same time, with a conse- 
quent economy in time. The price adopted was 8| cents an hour, based 
on a wage of $4 a week. 

Cost of Fuel. In the absence of obtainable data on the comparative cost 
of different fuels, an approximate estimate of the cost was found by using, 
as a standard, coal at $6.25 a ton, coal oil at 15 cents a gallon and gas at 
$1 per thousand cubic feet. At these prices, oil cost 4.58 per cent, and gas 
27.69 per cent, more than coal. 

Cost of wear and tear on equipment and of waste was omitted from the 
calculation as it was found impossible to arrive at any satisfactory estimate. 

It is significant of the lack of business management in housekeeping, that 
no house manager was found who could give an accurate statement of the 
cost of wear and tear and waste. The fact that these items must be disre- 
garded in the present investigation, because of lack of data, is indicative 
of the present unorganized condition of house-management. 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

RESULTS 

The average cost of producing one pound of bread, including the cost of 
materials, fuel, and labor, is 5.865 cents. The cost of one pound not includ- 
ing labor is 3.72 cents. The cost of one pound not including either labor 
or fuel, but simply the cost of materials, is 2.942 cents. 

The cost of a pound (not loaf) of bakers' bread is 5.55 cents. 

CONCLUSIOXS 

The cost of bakers' and home made bread does not differ materially when 
the housekeeper counts labor and fuel in estimating the cost of making 
the bread at home. But when the fuel would be burned in any case, and 
the heat is available for baking bread without extra expense, that item should 
hardly be counted in the cost. Again, when labor is hired by the week, as 
in the case of the cook or general houseworker, the time of the worker is 
available for bread making, and does not mean a loss of time which could 
be more profitably employed. Hence, the item for labor may in these 
cases be eliminated. Taking out the cost of both labor and fuel, only the 
cost of materials remains. This averages 2.942 cents per pound of bread, 
and may be reduced to about two cents. Under these conditions it would 
evidently be much cheaper to make bread at home. 

On the other hand, in cases where the housekeeper's aim is tc put out of 
the house as much work as possible, the reduction of service secured by 
buying the bread might prove an important element in reducing the ex- 
pense for labor. Provided a satisf actor}- article can be secured it would 
probably be economical to buy it ready made. 

SELECTING ECONOMICAL FOODS 

The housekeeper who wonders at every rise in the price of meat, 
wdll find an explanation with many other important points as to the 
cost of food, in the paper by Mr. F. S. Snyder, in another part of 
the Journal. The article is full of information that very rarely 
finds its way to the housekeeper. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking 
Institution Management, and Educational Work in Home Economics 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

M«8. Mary H. Abel Klturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Ben J. R. Andrews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS 

Martha Vam Rensselaer. Sarah Louise Arnold, 

President American Home Economics Association Chairman Institution Economics Section 

COLLABORATORS 

The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 

Vol. VII APRIL, 1915 No. 4 



TABLE OF CONTENTS . 

The visiting hoasekeeper, M. Adelaide Nutting '. 167 

Instructive inspection, Ellen H. Richards ■ 170 

The work of the visiting housekeeper, Frances Stern 1 75 

Excerpts from annual reports of charitable organization societies showing develop- 
ment in visiting housekeeping, Emma Winslow 179 

The Hiram House model cottage: a social settlement, Laura Gifford 185 

A girls' trade school course ift dressmaking, Mary H. Scott 188 

Pottery glazes and their solubility, C. F. Langworthy 191 

Indoor humidity, L. R. IngersoU 193 

Notes on Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund 197 

Editorials 199 

Housekeepers' Department 201 

Club women approve sensible styles in dress, Pearl MacDonald 201 

The training of children in the spending of money, Helen Louise Johnson .... 203 

More accurate measures for the kitchen 206 

Serving without a maid 207 

Time saving methods in housework 208 

Thorough fumigation for Buffalo moths 208 

Ventilation 209 

What is thrift? 210 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 211 

Books and literature 213 

News from the field 217 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year,— monthly except July 
and August, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or Postal 
Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed m a 
registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date 
of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the subscribers Old 
Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered ai second class matter at the Baltimore Post Offic*. 









^^^^^■"/'/:<;'.; . ^b^^^^^^^^^^^H 


^Hi^^^^^" ■'■ \'\..^-'- 


""^ ^^^^^^^^1 




^^^^H 


^^Bp v^^^H^B II ^---JaSfc^jBtWMJM '^^■■fe* ^r 










^^^ n^^^H^^P'^wQr^^^^^^^Bjfl ^^r 


^H 


BflBII^^HHHHHHII^^^^^p , 


■^^^^^^^^^^^1 


^^^^^^^^Hk~-!7^' ^I^^^^HjU^^^I 


■ 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII APRIL, 1915 No. 4 

THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 

INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

M. ADELAIDE NUTTING 
Professor of Nursing and Health, Teachers College, Columbia University 

WTien we commit ourselves more fully to the principles of pre- 
vention and of conservation, it wiU lead us to look for new ways of 
reaching into homes and families before, through long mismanage- 
ment or disability, a climax has been reached which compels them 
to seek outside interest and aid. We are unhappily conscious that 
many of the misfortunes and extremities with which we are obliged 
to concern ourselves might have been averted, had there been any 
way of finding out the particular conditions which were working 
inevitably downward and toward a crisis. When that stage is reached, 
our hand is outstretched, we are anxious to help in all available ways, 
and we have taken the trouble to train groups of workers, visiting 
nurses, rehef agents, tenement inspectors and others, all of them 
social workers, who are ready and able to answer in their own special 
ways the calls of those in need, whether the trouble be sickness, desti- 
tution, or other pressing and unendurable conditions. 

Most of these workers would probably agree that a good many of 
the problems with which they deal are, if one goes back far enough, 
due to ignorance, and that a fairly common factor in the general 
situation, one to be reckoned with pretty constantly, is the untaught 
mother. 

]\Irs. Florence Kelley in discussing this question makes her a very 
large factor. She says: 

167 



168 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Intemperance, infant mortality and the reduced \itality of working 
class families are problems with which under a vast variety of forms, 
modern philanthropy struggles. All three are due in large measure to 
unskilled mothers. 

I suppose most of us see that mother contending with a good many 
things besides her own ignorance: the saloon, the landlord, the em- 
ployer, the milkman and grocer, and a bewildering complexity of 
other elements seen and unseen; elements of a kind, indeed, against 
which even the most astu:e may find themselves helpless. Now 
there appears to be nothing in civilization much more beloved, or 
more highly prized, than a good home, and we would probably at 
present agree that without good homes we cannot have a good state. 
And there is evidence to show that good homes are not entirely con- 
trolled by material conditions, that they can be maintained in poverty 
as in riches. Pictures are indeed before us of households where under 
similar conditions of housing, of income, of family needs, one will 
be wholesome, happy, thrifty and well-governed, and the other will 
be disorderly, unclean, unhappy and demoralized. The difference 
appears to be due generally to intelligent direction and skill in the 
one instance and to ignorance and lack of skill in the other. It 
appears to be obvious that we cannot hope to improve conditions 
without the cooperation — the intelligent cooperation — of the mothers 
and homemakers of the country. The mother can, if she will, set 
at naught the best safeguards that we may devise, but she will do 
so not through wilful neglect, but through ignorance and helplessness. 

The belief is, therefore, growing that a way should be found of 
reaching and teaching such mothers and homemakers in their homes. 
The expert from the institute helps the farmer by lecturing in his 
farmyard. The expert should also be found to help the mother by 
teaching her in her home, in her kitchen, that crowded and cramped 
little laboratory, presided over often by dense ignorance, by lo\ing 
and faithful incompetence, yet charged with the extraordinary task 
of providing the very sinew^s of life. There are thousands upon 
thousands of homes w^hich are unfit to be called such, in which children 
cannot be brought up healthily and happily with any hope of right 
growth of mind or morals ; homes in v/hich adults cannot live decent 
lives, and it seems to be a part of our proper business to find a way 
of establishing and maintaining better standards of life in them. 



1915] THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 169 

We should be able to do in some measure for the inside of such homes 
what we have long accepted as quite right and natural for the out- 
side of them. To have homes which are fit to form part of a self- 
respecting state, there must be some sort of guardianship over them. 
Some one should be provided, trained and paid, whose business it is to 
reach, if necessary into every home, to inspect, to discover, to advise 
and to teach. Public service of some such nature seems to the writer 
as necessary as that we should have a force to clean our streets, and 
remove our daily refuse, to keep our streets safe for traffic, to protect 
us from fire and to inspect our food, milk, markets and our tenements. 
The need of some such worker was discussed with Mrs. Richards; 
her province, her methods, her preparation, even the title which she 
might use was considered. The suggestion that the term in use in 
England of "Health Visitor" for a somewhat similar body of workers 
found favor. The term "Home Economist" was mentioned. Mrs. 
Richards often spoke with enthusiasm of the instruction given in 
homes by Visiting Nurses, as pointing the way for our endeavors in 
this direction. Her paper on "Instructive Inspection," republished 
in tills number of the Journal, embodies some of her ideas on this 
subject. 

Within the last few years some interesting and highly valuable 
efforts have been made to carry such education into homes. Miss 
Winifred Gibbs, who began some years ago as Visiting Dietitian 
of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor has done 
pioneer work in this field, and has clearly demonstrated its value. 
She has had the satisfaction of seeing the work develop in various 
ways and extend into other cities. Miss Winslow, whose report 
appears in part in this number of the Journal, has been gathering 
material on this subject, and finds that such workers, usually under 
the title of Visiting Housekeepers, are found in about twenty cities 
or towns. Four are employed by the Associated Charities of Chicago. 
It appears further that the results of their work have been uniformly 
recognized as highly important, and its expansion generally urged. 
Miss Winslow finds that Visiting Housekeepers are being used by: 
Charity Organization Societies throughout the country; in connection 
with the administration of the Widows' Pension Act (IlHnois); by 
Settlements; by Visiting Nurse Societies; by Hospital Social Service 
Departments; in Welfare Work, especially in mining towns — now 
carried on by the U. S. Steel Corporation, and the Guggenheim 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

interests; in Rural Extension Work — now being tried in New York, 
North Dakota and Massachusetts. 

One of the most encouraging aspects of the work is the eagerness 
of many of the mothers to learn. Just how a plan can be worked 
out which will carry instruction into every home that needs it, it is 
not easy to determine, but one catches a gUmpse of possibiHties in 
finding the admirable work which ISIiss Kittredge has done in her 
Housekeeping Centers now bemg related to the PubHc Schools. 
During the last year, two of the PubHc Schools have cooperated with 
these centers by sending groups of pupils in rotation for systematic 
instruction in housekeeping. The extension of the work of these 
centers, which would carry special members of the teaching staff 
into the homes, might be worth considering and worthy of trying 
out as an experiment. But the teacher in this new field has a pecul- 
iarly difficult and important task and needs special training. The 
ordinary preparation for the teacher of domestic science in schools 
is not wide enough. A good groundwork in economics, more study 
of housing and sanitary conditions and of indiistrial problems are 
needed. There is also needed some social training. Such a worker 
must bring a definite and usable contribution to her task. 



INSTRUCTIVE INSPECTION^ 

ELLEN H. RICHARDS 

The checking of wastes of all description is much in the air but 
there is less discussion about waste of effort than might be expected. 
Yet effort means time, and saving of time saves lives as well as 
money. 

Nearly every investigation of sanitary evils leads back to the family 
home (or the lack of one) and a great deal of the health authorities' 
work is saving at the spigot while there is a hundred times the waste 
at the bunghole. The medical inspection of the schools was found 
to have Uttle effect without the visiting school nurses, for the parents 
did not know how to better conditions and in the majority of cases 
did not beheve in the need. 

^ Read before the American Public Health Association at Richmond, Va., October, 
1909. Reprinted from the American Journal of Public Health, 20 (1910) no. 3. 



1915] INSTRUCTIVE INSPECTION 171 

Such experience should give the health authorities a cue. Rules 
and regulations should be enforced, but enforced with instruction 
as to the means of doing it. The why is not so easily understood 
as the student of sanitary science seems to think. Germs and mi- 
crobes are empty air to the street urchins until they have been shown 
on a screen in a lecture hall or until cultures have been made in 
the sight of the children in a school room. One whole school dis- 
trict of intelligent parents was converted, many years ago, by giving 
the children in one class two Petri dishes each with sterile prepared 
gelatine, with directions to open one in the sitting room while it 
was being swept, and two hours after the room had been thoroughly 
dusted to open the other in the same place for the same time. These 
"dust gardens" as the children called them took the place of the 
family album for callers, and spread knowledge. 

Hundreds of similar experiences should convince any intelligent 
earnest board of health that a teacher by nature or training should 
be in their employ to be sent with power like any other inspector, 
wherever ignorance — usually diagnosed as stubborness — is found. 

The health officer whose mother was a good housekeeper, not 
afraid of work, has no idea of the attitude of half the housewives 
of his district. Having been made as a boy "to get the dustpan 
and brush and sweep up his whittUngs," he does not realize that 
these houses in the tenement district have no dust pans and that 
no one would bend his back to sweep up litter if there were. It is 
all swept into the alley or the street. Cheap, long-handled dustpans 
would be valuable sanitary implements. As has been elsewhere 
suggested, the garbage question in the tenement house needs study 
and must be solved by a practical housewife. There are such, and 
boards of health are wasting efifort and the town's money until they 
avail themselves of their help in the enforcement of their rules. 

All health boards use the strong arm of the law, that is, a police 
inspector's club to drive the ignorant and careless householder to 
keep his premises from becoming a nuisance. The newly-arrived, 
prospective citizen, or more often, citizeness, fails to understand 
what it is all about — neither the words nor the pantomime convey 
an idea, except that this country is topsy-turvy anyway, for every- 
thing is dififerent in this new land. 

In the process of learning what not to do, the dwellers in the alleys 
flee when the health officer appears and oppose a stubborn indiffer- 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

ence to his threats. When his back is turned, matters go on as 
before and nothing is gained, but an opportunity is lost. 

Law is a potent educator when rightly applied, but it may work 
more harm than good. Rules of action clearly explained are soon 
accepted — Uke traffic rules, notification of contagious diseases, dis- 
infection, etc. The placing on the force of each town of at least 
one specially trained "explainer" would result in cleaner backyards 
and less illness and, better than all else, a more friendly feeHng 
between the officials and those they honestly wish to help. 

It is beginning to be thrown in the face of sanitary authorities 
that the laboratory wisdom does not reach the street; that there is 
not enough, nor rapid enough, improvement in general conditions. 
Newspapers are ready, for the most part, to disseminate information, 
and benevolent societies write tracts, but we must remember how 
Httle words mean— especially printed words — to those unaccustomed 
to acquiring information that way. 

The actual showing in an alley of the process of cleaning up ; the 
going into a huuse and opening the windows at the top and tacking 
on a wire netting to keep out the flies; the actual cleaning of the 
garbage pail, perhaps, or at least the standing by and seeing that 
it is properly done — all such actual doing, even if it is done only 
in one house on a street, will spread the information all over the 
neighborhood. 

One of the most helpful offices is to tell the woman where she can 
get the special article needed, and what it will cost, and to show her 
the thing itself, in a friendly spirit. Such visits would soon revolu- 
tionize the sanitary condition of any community. 

Villages need this help even more than cities, because they have 
fewer chances to know about inventions. 

There may be races, as there are individuals, whom persecution 
drives to progress — who do find means to execute unjust commands — 
but the people a health officer has to deal with can be better led by 
kindness and will learn from teachers, if the teaching is in the form 
of example or demonstration. 

It is an incontrovertible fact that to hasten sanitary reform, it 
is only necessary to hold out the helping hand; to encourage the 
ignorant citizen to ask for instruction and direction, instead of plac- 
ing upon him the task of making bricks without either clay or straw. 
There are times and seasons, and individuals, at which, and on whom 



1915] INSTRUCTIVE INSPECTION 173 

the bludgeon must be used — the greater good covering the lesser 
evil — but such cases are less common than present practice would 
seem to indicate. 

The tenement house mother who has only one pan for all her 
cooking and one broken pitcher for all fluids, does not really under- 
stand why she must keep her milk bottle for milk only. Who is 
to tell her, so that she will understand? 

The men may be shamed into cleaning up the back-yards and 
alleys by pictures of such conditions in contrast to what might result 
with a little effort. The famous Cash Register yards were started 
in this way. Neglected spots have been cleaned up all over the 
country by similar influences. Why does not the health officer take 
a leaf from this book of recorded good work and show conditions 
known to him? Is he afraid of hard words from the owner? He 
will have the approval and support of all good citizens. 

Health board regulations may be left at a house after they have 
been explained, and a firm insistance on obedience may then have 
an effect. 

Why should there not be a constant exhibit of the conditions found 
within the boundaries of the district, with the changes for the better 
indicated as soon as they occur. 

The health board office is now in some out-of-the-way place, where 
few people ever go and where those who do go are frequently not 
welcomed. Has the board ever asked itself why it is often so mis- 
understood, so hampered in its work? What board will be the first 
to take an office on a busy street and put pictures and samples with 
clearly printed legends in the windows: examples of the evasion of 
the plumbing laws on a T- joint pipe; photographs of a dairy bam; 
photographs of a street at daybreak, showing the few open windows, 
and the one or two, if any open at the top — these would serve as 
texts for the newspapers' sermons, sure to be preached, and back- 
alley conversations thereon. Why not? Rival water companies are 
allowed to show filters to prove their claims. 

The basis of all successful sanitary progress is an intelligent and 
responsive pubHc. 

The problem is to visualize cause and effect to the ordinary indi- 
vidual, too absorbed in his own affairs to study out the principle for 
himself. 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The success of the street cleaning brigade, tried for one season in 
Boston; the improvement in the condition of parks wherever recep- 
tacles for wastes have been placed; the tidy condition of corner lots 
where civic improvement leagues have taken the matter up with the 
children — all point to a means neglected by the officials, and hence 
to wasted opportunity and delayed obedience to regulations. 

For the position of instructive inspector, it goes without saying 
that a trained woman will be worth more than a man, since most 
of the regulations affect, or would be controlled by women. But 
that a gain in the speed of adoption of sanitary reforms would be 
comparatively rapid under a thoroughly qualified woman as instruc- 
tive inspector, and that there will not be any great gain until such 
a measure is adopted is the firm behef of the writer. 

Mrs. Wagner's work in Yonkers, begim in 1897 under the Civic 
League, is well known. After three years' trial the Board of Health 
estabhshed her in the position of Sanitary Inspector. Her work in 
the tenement districts has been most successful. Several other cities 
have followed the example of Yonkers, but the practice is by no 
means general. Yet there is no doubt that it would add efficiency 
to any board of health. 

The most recent experiment was the employment, the past sum- 
mer, of an inspector provided by the Woman's Municipal League 
of Boston, to inspect, and devise means for bettering conditions in 
a district of small shops where food is sold. This district had been 
found by the Market Committee of this organization to be in need 
of such help. The person chosen was a graduate of the School of 
Social Workers, who carried on her campaign with the spirit of 
helpfulness fostered by her training. She was given a badge by the 
Board of Health, who have been most sympathetic and cordial in 
their support. The experiment has been justified by the results 
and especially by the reception accorded the inspector by the people 
of the district. It has proved that there is a responsive desire to 
fulfill the law wherever its provisions are understood. 

Inspection cannot fulfill its purpose until it is instructive. Man 
and the law wiU be in accord when the benefits of the law to man 
are appreciated. It is incumbent upon the sanitary authorities to 
see to it that their eft"orts are not wasted on inert, partially hostile 
people. 



1915] THE WORK OF THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 175 

THE WORK OF THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPERS 

FRANCES STERN 

Visiting Agent of the Boston Provident Association 

A scientist has lately published a lecture in book form, "so that 
educated people may derive a better understanding of the principles 
of nutrition than is to be had from current popular writings." 

Much has been written to be read, but what of the individuals 
who cannot receive this message — the busy, tired mothers, hmited 
in knowledge through no faults of their own, having been set to work 
in their early years, or having come from lands where the common 
education is not established? 

A new type of teacher is attempting to help the mothers in the 
tenements, to increase and sustain the well-being of the family by 
teaching them through example what our scientist has set forth in 
word and letter. She has a variety of titles, chosen by various 
associations. I];i Boston she is known as Instructive Visiting House- 
keeper. 

Can the Visitor convey this knowledge to the housekeeper who is 
ignorant rather than intelhgent; feeble-minded rather than alert; 
lazy rather than vigourous? No doubt she can if the lessons are 
very concrete, consisting of the actual doing of the thing she wishes 
to teach. Often one has to go with the mother to buy the food, 
then return and prepare it, and further, if necessary, stay to the 
meal to eat it with the family. Great difficulty is experienced with 
the children to induce them to eat any food which is unfamiliar to 
them. They are not influenced as are the parents by the "cost 
of Hving." 

Food is the most important factor in the lives of the families living 
on the average income of the workman, $600 to $700 per year. He 
spends the greatest part of his income for food, for according to 
Engel's laws the less the income the greater the percentage that 
must be spent on food, thus leaving much less for the "region of 
choice," the pleasure and amenities of living, without which life is 
of a doubtful value. The truest way to reduce the cost of Hving 
and the only scientific one is through a knowledge of calories. The 
mother in the tenement may never know of the existence of such 

1 Written for the Seventh Annual Meeting of The American Home Economics 
Association, Cleveland, 1914. 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

computation, but the Visiting Housekeeper must plan the meal 
accordingly, and, through her suggestion and the mother's constant 
imitation, a habit will be formed and a general procedure estabHshed. 
The experience of many women as housekeepers is an excellent guide 
and "mother's cooking" is always an ideal; yet in this profession one 
of the requirements must be a knowledge of food values, and if that 
is conceded then the courses in Home Economics must recognize 
this new worker, planning the curriculum for her needs. 

The externals reflect the life of the people. The shops are indi- 
cative of the nationality, and of the frugahty and other habits of 
the neighborhood. Would an Itahan grocery be without macaroni? 
It is a sad commentary on our general teaching that in many of the 
crowded districts that do not have a foreign atmosphere the cheaper 
foods are missing. In one of the districts near Boston, lima beans, 
lentils, cereals in bulk, crisco, butterine were almost impossible to 
find. 

Living on a very small income in crowded quarters, the habit of 
living from day to day has grown upon the people. The Visiting 
Housekeeper must gradually arouse an interest in the economics 
of buying and a satisfaction in a good-looking shelf of foodstuffs. 
A little pamphlet is to be printed, giving a Hst of some two dozen 
dr>' foods with advice as to their use. This pamphlet will tell of 
the cereals that can be bought in bulk, how to buy and store them, 
and how to cook them. 

An interesting experience was the gathering together of several 
mothers at one of the homes and having a "cereal afternoon." To 
insure an attendance each mother had been provided with a different 
cereal which she was asked to cook and bring. On the afternoon 
the Visiting Housekeeper reheated the cereals — boiled, baked or 
fried them, and served them with additions of milk, syrup or fruits. 
Everyone wanted to try each kind and a child who accompanied 
her mother, to the latter's great surprise, for she said that her child 
would not eat cereals, tasted them all. The variety that could be 
bought loose and the many ways to serve the cereals were a reve- 
lation to most of the women.' 

The Visiting Housekeeper, then, must be trained to know the value 
of food, how to purchase, store, prepare and serve it, adapting these 
processes to the needs of the nationality, traditions, income, preju- 
dices and bodily needs in health or disease. 



1915] THE WORK OF THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 177 

A very necessary help is a food record. A woman's off-hand narra- 
tive is not authentic. In Boston a booklet of eight pages, 4x6, 
has been prepared and is ruled off for each day of the week, with 
space for breakfast, dinner and supper and extra, and a column for 
the cost. The first page has the title, "What I eat," and a place 
for name, address, date. This is only a suggestion of a method. 
A penny notebook would suffice. Cincinnati ReHef Society has a 
record printed in English and Yiddish and is to be filled out by the 
mother. This daily record gives the Visiting Housekeeper an idea 
of the food habits of the family and upon this she can base her future 
work. But the record will not suffice merely for a society to base 
its relief upon; it should be the means of the rehabilitation of the 
family — perhaps gradually changing the diet by adding new dishes, 
or what the family may need as studied out by a trained Home 
Economist. 

The Visiting Housekeeper must make the home kitchen a rival 
of the "bakeshop," for there more money is unwisely spent than in 
buying too costly meats. In one large family of children, by home 
baking instead of buying, eighty-six cents was saved in a week, and 
in another family, by having the Relief Society advance the barrel 
of flour a saving of 100 per cent was made between "bags." 

All who have entered the field since Miss Gibbs are deeply indebted 
to her and to the work of the Association for Improving the Condition 
of the Poor for their leadership in scientific management in the 
homes of the people. 

Conservation of human Ufe is largely accompHshed through sani- 
tation. Laws may be passed, but there is a wide divergence between 
the law and its enforcement, the acceptance of the theory and the 
neglect of the practice. 

Here again the Visiting Housekeeper has her field — a large oppor- 
tunity to assist in establishing healthful homes by helping to clean 
the homes, and teaching the home-makers to maintain them in cleanly 
condition. There are hygienic and unhygienic ways of cleaning 
house, sweeping, dish-washing. The trained woman with previous 
experiments in the bacteriological laboratory with exposed Petri 
plates knows the story, and here again must convey that knowledge 
to the mother. 

The mothers of the tenements are coming to understand sterih- 
zation through the lessons in keeping babies' bottles clean, and the 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

general work of the medical profession in teaching them the care 
of tuberculous patients. 

One family, the dirtiest of about 2000 patients at the dispensary, 
was consigned to my care. The only cleaning utensil in the house 
was a stub of a broom. A series of visits, of scrubbings, of diggings, 
of scraping the dirt from the floor with a knife, of cleaning back of 
the stove, under the stove, under the ice-box, to the right, to the 
left, above, below, had some effect. The house had been reported 
to the Board of Health and an inspector called soon after and really 
had a shock, when he examined the plumbing under the sink, the 
enclosed space was so clean, compared with what he had seen in 
former visits. 

This illustration is given to emphasize the fact that if with intelli- 
gence and skill one Visiting Housekeeper can do the work of ten health 
officers, or one dollar in her hands can accompHsh as much as ten 
dollars in the hands of a Sanitary Inspector, the larger expenditure 
is sheer waste. 

To help the mother of the tenement, one must pursue with her 
the line of least resistance, and if energy is to be conserved, and time 
not wasted, she must Kve according to the proverb, a place for every- 
thing and everything in its place, and the organization attempting 
to help her must reaUze the demands on her of the daily round of 
work and the lack of equipment with which to accomplish it. Often 
coal and food are suppHed, but the broken grate of the stove is not 
mended nor the cooking utensil suppHed. 

One Visiting Housekeeper Httle thought she was acting in the 
capacity of a medical-social worker, but after having supplied the 
mother with a double boiler as a Christmas gift the woman informed 
her she had helped her sore leg so much, because now she did not 
have to stand while stirring the cereal. 

One cannot mention all the activities in one paper. Besides the 
advice and help given in regard to food and sanitation, there are 
the care of clothing, the adjustment of the budget, teaching per- 
sonal hygiene, looking after general home interests, and the assistance 
that is sought in many ways after a friendship has been estabHshed. 

In a very simple statement, the Visiting Housekeeper is a substi- 
tute mother, bringing her scientific knowledge to bear on the proper 
rearing of the children of the race, and leading the mother to a reali- 
zation of her position and duties. For this new-old position, knowl- 



1915] REPORTS OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION SOCIETIES 179 

edge must be added to the inheritance and tradition that has been 
the homemaker's through the centuries. 

The Visiting Housekeeper for this must have the broadest train- 
ing in Home Economics, food, sanitation, economics and sociology. 
And added to this she must be a lover of mankind, the personality 
that approaches the mother of the tenement with all humiUty, know- 
ing that the mother is fulfilHng a heavy task, usually sacrificing 
herself for others, that she is hmited in time and money and knowl- 
edge, and that the Visiting Housekeeper must give time and strength, 
as well as knowledge, actually entering into the activities of the 
household. 

To extend the work, the Visiting Housekeeper could teach the 
"Friendly Visitor" and direct her to carry on the work after the 
difficulties have been adjusted and the wheels have been set going. 
Further, there should be a strong bond of cooperation among all 
those who visit the family, so that all may work together. 

The Visiting Housekeeper is a logical person in the scheme of mod- 
ern social service — she is a help to the school nurse, the visiting 
nurse, the tuberculosis nurse, her problem is to cooperate with the 
reHef, the medical, the industrial, the school agencies, endeavoring 
to establish the home on a sound economic and hygienic basis. 

EXCERPTS FROM ANNUAL REPORTS OF CHARITABLE 
ORGANIZATION SOCIETIES SHOWING DEVELOPMENT 
IN VISITING HOUSEKEEPING 

Compiled by EMMA WINSLOW 
Lecturer in Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University 

United Charities of Chicago, Report, 1912. Ignorance of home- 
making on the part of both father and mother is becoming more 
and more apparent. Training the family in home-making is funda- 
mental in good case work. 

The best way is through the visiting housekeeper. She teaches 
the woman in her home how to cook with her crude utensils and 
simple food materials and repeats her visits until the lesson is learned. 
She shows the mother how to buy wisely, to understand food values, 
the importance of cleanhness and fresh air, how to divide her income, 
how to interest and instruct her children, how to repair clothing, etc. 

This work should be enlarged, and for those who contemplate 



180 • THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

endowing any form of philanthropy, here is a splendid opportunity. 
The endowment of a visiting housekeeper means saving the present 
and building for the future in hundreds of famihes. The work lays 
a broad foundation for good family life and is the most effective 
service we have given. 

Report, 1914. Four trained visiting housekeepers bemg employed 
by the United Charities. One visiting dietitian working under the 
Juvenile Court in the administration of the Mothers' Pension Act. 

Boston Provident Association, Report, 1912. Beginning April 1, 
1913, we shall have an instructive visiting housekeeper who will 
carry into homes where such help is sorely needed, the most useful 
kind of instruction in the choice and purchase of food and the hygiene 
and general conduct of the home. This is the result of experimental 
work with the Tuberculosis Association which has shown the educa- 
tional and constructive value of such an undertaking when carried 
on by a skillful and devoted inspector. In taking over the work, 
together with the valuable service of Miss Stern, we beUeve that 
we have excellent promise of being able to er large its usefulness 
as well as to add to the effectiveness of our help to families in need. 

Cambridge Associated Charities, Report, 1913. Our ambition is to 
show so clearly what constructive work one worker can do, that 
later we may find a public eager to employ four such workers, one 
in each district. 

Cooking lessons are only a part of this work. Hygiene, making 
over of old clothes and buying new ones wisely, proper care and 
discipline of children, marketing, value and use of different kitchen 
utensils, the care of fuel— all these need to be also included. It is 
ignorance in all these practical matters that is the cause of inefficiency 
in many families. 

We feel that we have proved the wisdom and economy of the 
services of a Visiting Housekeeper in the Associated Charities. It 
now rests with the generosity of the public whether we are able to 
retain these services. 

Roxbury Charitable Society, Report, 1912. If most poor families 
frequently need physician and nurse, nearly all of them need the 
teacher of housekeeping. As few of them would go to classes in 
settlements or elsewhere, it is best for the teacher to teach in the 
tenements themselves, and usually to teach each family or each 
mother separately. 



1915] REPORTS OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION SOCIETIES 181 

Report, 1913. Mrs. Jennie T, Dahlmann from the Instructive 
Visiting Nurse Society spends part of her time as nurse in the 
dispensary and part as teacher of housekeeping in the tenements 
of our families. The work has shown that in order to improve 
living conditions, raise standards in home and instruct in expenditure 
of income, very intensive and personal work on the part of the visitor 
is required. Of the fifteen families dealt with, six have been given 
perhaps three-fourths of the visitor's time. The others have been 
visited less frequently and some have been seen only in class work. 

Before arriving at the real work of teaching housekeeping the 
visitor must win the confidence of the family and acquaint herself 
with their peculiar problem or problems. 

The classes which met at the Model Flat with Miss 
Stern's cooperation, are to be transferred to the room back of the 
Society's office which has been fitted up as a kitchen where women 
will see and use the proper cooking utensils, work together, exchange 
ideas and meet each other socially. 

Detroit Associated Charities, Report, 1913. The visiting house- 
keeping work was started in December, 1912, because of the extremely 
improvident and in some cases harmful way in which the grocery 
orders were used by the poor. The visiting housekeeper in eight 
months of her work covered by this report, had made 383 calls, 
giving 174 lessons in 133 families. Besides doing the reconstructive 
work in the homes of the poor, teaching them to plan, buy and pre- 
pare nourishing and pleasing food, to clean windows, floors and wood- 
work, make and repair clothing, and even cane chairs, she has taught 
invalid cooking in the homes of the patients of the Visiting Nurses, 
and followed the Babies Milk Fund Nurses with instructions to the 
mother as to the preparation of cereals, stewed fruits, etc., an un- 
known art to the foreign women. She has also prepared well bal- 
anced and economical menus and grocery orders for the use of the 
Associated Charities workers. 

She has also established classes where older girls in her families 
can be instructed in methods of food preparation adapted to their 
circumstances. These classes are taught by the Thomas Normal 
Training School students under her direction. She now has stand- 
ardized all the settlement classes. 

This work is supported by a special fund, and since February, 
1914, has been independently organized. 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Minneapolis Associated Charities, Report, 1908. Mrs. Bertha W. 
Roderick, visiting housekeeper, divides her time between the Asso- 
ciated Charities and the Pillsbury Settlement House where a house- 
keeping center is estabHshed. 

Report, 1910. 390 visits by visiting housekeeper. Report, 1912. 
559 visits by visiting housekeeper. Report, 1913. 477 visits by 
visiting housekeeper, Mrs. Roderick, and her assistant, Mrs. Martha 
J. Malusky, instructing poor mothers. 

Brooklyn Bureau of Charities, Report, 1912. The Tenement House 
Committee has organized Tenants' Leagues with the following aims : 
Clean houses, well Hghted and well ventilated, sanitary toilets, clean 
yards, hall, cellars and areas, unobstructed hre escapes, proper dis- 
posal of garbage and ashes, and immediate report of violations to 
the Tenement House Department. 

It maintains a demonstration flat used as a housekeeping center 
and provides lectures for women and girls in hygiene, sanitation, 
housekeeping and tenants' responsibilities. It also maintains a smaU 
travelling exhibit. 

Since November, 1913, one of the regular visitors in the Relief 
Department has been acting as a visiting housekeeper among families 
imder the care of the Bureau. 

New York City, Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. 
Report, 1904. We have two visiting housekeepers, untrained women 
who do the work of a good mother, washing, cleaning, preparing 
meals, marketing, etc. Report, 1907. Miss Winifred S. Gibbs, a 
trained visiting dietitian, appointed. Report, 1914. The educa- 
tional Home Economy work has met with a ready and interested 
response in the homes of the poor, and has become part of the regu- 
lar scheme of family rehabilitation work. Its good results are shown 
in three general ways: (1) Saving of funds by teaching housekeepers 
the best use of relief and by systematizing food orders. (2) Saving 
of time and energy of visitors for their other work. (3) Minimizing 
the danger of appHcants becoming a future burden by teaching them 
the best management of present resources. 

In the homes the good results are shown in live definite ways: 
family expense systematized, family dietary revised, dietary for 
children furnished, general standard of hving decidedly raised and 
health of family improved. 

The home instruction is especially profitable in cases where relief 



1915] REPORTS OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION SOCIETIES 183 

is being given in pension form, in cases of children returned to their 
homes from Sea Breeze Hospital and of mothers and children coming 
back from Caroline Rest, in order that the improvement already 
effected may not be lost, but continue and increase. 

A real transformation which promises to be permanent, has taken 
place in 799 homes through the instruction of our four visiting house- 
wives, one sewing teacher, and two dietitians. 

Newark, New Jersey Associated Charities, Report, 1910. Visiting 
housekeeper work started by Friendly Visitors' Conference in 1905. 
Present worker is a woman of about forty-five years of age, bright, 
cheery and tactful and interested in people. She is always sent by 
the visitors, takes only a limited number of cases and follows them 
up as long as is necessary. She does not do cleaning, washing, etc., 
for the woman, but with her, except when the woman is physically 
incapacitated. She serves to supplement, not take the place of 
friendly visitors. 

It is hoped later to employ a trained dietitian who should teach 
both friendly visitors and the visiting housekeeper, the principles 
of household economy. She must have some knowledge of these 
problems and it should be intelligent and systematic. 

The need is nearly continuous in the houses of slovenly house- 
keepers, and does not correspond to such crises as demand the care 
of a trained nurse. 

Cincinnati Associated Charities, Report, 1911. The small number 
of district agents and their numerous duties prevent the giving of 
close continuous supervision to certain families which they ought 
to have. To partially meet this need, during the past year the 
regular force was augmented by a visiting housekeeper. It is the 
business of this specially trained young woman to go into the most 
disorderly and poorly kept homes, to try to bring order from chaos. 
She helps the mothers wash, scrub and clean thoroughly if they 
promise to keep things decent thereafter. She teaches the housewife 
how to cook plain foods in the most palatable manner, how to save 
by cooking the same food in various ways and by utiUzing the scraps; 
cooks meals herself as object lessons; goes marketing with the buyer 
of the family, teaches her how to buy so as to obtain the greatest 
nutritive value at the least cost; plans the menu for each day in the 
week, substituting cereals, pure milk, etc., for black coffee, leathery 
pancakes and various indigestible or expensive foods frequently 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

selected by housewives who are ignorant of the art of domestic 
economy. 

She shows them how to make new garments or repair and make 
over old ones. She instructs them in the rules of hygiene and arouses 
whatever latent pride they may have in the appearance of their 
children and their homes. In many instances she has helped them 
bridge over the chasm between dependency and self-support and 
has become the household divinity in several homes. 

She has conducted two neighborhood centers or classes where 
housewives come to learn C')oking, sewing and other household arts. 

Wheeling, West Virginia, Associated Charities, Report, 1913. In 
urging a special Domestic Relations Court and the estabhshment of 
a Probation Officer in connection with it: 

Often home conditions and the lack of home-keeping abihtyin 
the wife are directly responsible for the husband's failings. Here 
the Probation Officer may, to great advantage, call in the services 
of a trained charity worker to assist in bettering home conditions. 
The visiting housekeeper is rapidly gaining favor where her work is 
understood. 

Milwaukee, Associated Charities, Report, 1912. The salaries of the 
three visiting housekeepers are contributed directly by churches and 
individuals. 

From Kansas City Housing Report, 1912. "In Milwaukee there is 
a Sanitary Squad made up of several lady inspectors appointed to 
make house to house visits in the poorer districts and teach house- 
wives the art of housekeeping. After housing inspection is completed 
through a district, a list of delinquent houses is turned over to the 
Sanitary Squad. They enter designated houses accompanied by a 
police officer to furnish the necessary official authority, and give the 
occupants a practical demonstration in house cleaning. They teach 
how to sweep, scrub, mop, dust, how to hold a broom, how to wash 
the windows, clean stairs, privies, water-closets, kitchens and back 
yards. They show how to dispose of garbage, the correct use of the 
bath tub, how to exterminate insects, rats and other obnoxious pests 
which are always present in poor housing districts. In fact, the 
entire fiat, house or tenement is put in as good sanitary condition 
as possible and the people given the best kind of inducement to keep 
it clean. The visit should, of course, be followed by subsequent 
inspection and systematic surveillance to produce lasting results.'' 



1915] HIRAM HOUSE MODEL COTTAGE 185 

THE HIRAM HOUSE MODEL COTTAGE: A SOCIAL 
SETTLEMENT 

LAUR.\ GIFFORD 

Director oj Household Arts. Hiram House, Cleveland 

Our cottage is of the same style as the other houses in the neigh- 
borhood, but the bright lights, the dean curtains, the plants at the 
windows and the bright, happy girls who are always present, make 
our cottage an interesting spot in one of the most crowded foreign 
sections of Cleveland. But come in and see our cozy Uttle house, 
furnished entirely by the girls and in the simplest way possible, that 
they may be able to make use of the suggestions in their own homes. 
The girls have painted the woodwork, selected the wall paper, woven 
the rugs, purchased and made the sheets, pillow-cases, tablecloths, 
napkins, and tea towels. Some of the furniture we bought at auction 
sales, the girls bidding, and if successful, carrying home the article 
to be painted or varnished to match the rest of the furniture. 

If it is between four and five o'clock in the afternoon, you will 
find about a dozen girls over twelve years of age, each one busy, 
for there is much to be done. Just a simple practical cooking lesson, 
then the careful setting of the table, which the girls feel is never 
complete without the red geraniimi or primrose as a centerpiece. 
Each girl takes a turn acting as hostess and waitress. If you have 
never seen the homes of these girls, where dinner means a kettle of 
soup and a pot of coffee on the stove, from which every member of 
the family helps himself, you cannot realize the effort put forth by 
the girls in preparing the meal and then having it served by one of 
the class while the others sit at a table covered with a white cloth, 
use napkins and try to carry on a conversation. Here one comes to 
see how sensitive these girls are and how anxious, and also how 
capable when they have the opportunity. While part of the girls 
clear the table, wash the dishes and put the kitchen in good condition, 
the rest have a lesson in bed-making, ventilating the bedroom and 
in the general care of the house. After our work is completed and 
the house in order, the girls are ready and anxious for a good story 
or a game. 

On one afternoon a week, the class in Public Health Nursing of 
the Visiting Nurses' Association gives a lesson in hygiene in the 
cottage. They teach, first, personal hygiene that the girls may take 



186 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

better care of themselves and grow to be better, stronger women, 
and, second, infant hygiene, that these girls, so many of whom have 
entire care of younger brothers and sisters, may be more intelhgent 
in their care. Last year, the girls made a baby's outfit and for the 
final lesson we borrowed a bright, healthy baby. The nurse demon- 
strated the baby's bath, dressed the baby in the new outfit and 
returned it to a proud and delighted mother. These nurses have 
also taught the girls how to be more helpful in their homes during 
times of illness. 

The very little girls of five and six years have a share in the cot- 
tage, too. A little side room, equipped with tiny furniture, is the 
scene of the merriest play. Gently the baby doll is undressed, rocked 
to sleep, laid in the cradle and watched over. While she sleeps the 
hushed voices of the busy little workers may be heard as the children 
bustle about in their effort to accomplish the work in their little 
home. Table is set or dishes washed, clothes laid neatly in the 
dresser drawer or perhaps taken out and made ready for wear. In 
this Httle room the children in their fancy live through parties, wash 
days, and house cleaning time. One has only to hear these Httle 
people as they call " Can we play today?" to realize how happy this 
play is. 

This little home has proved an ideal place for the Camp Fire girl 
to demonstrate her abiHty to buy provisions and prepare and serve 
meals in order that she may become a Firemaker or a Torchbearer. 
Many of the honor beads have been earned here. 

On holidays, the cottage makes it possible for many to enter into 
the joyous spirit of the time in a way that would be impossible in 
dark dirty homes of several rooms with noisy, ill-cared-for children 
and uncongenial neighbors. At Christmas time, for instance, the 
bows of red crepe paper in the lighted windows, the sprays of holly 
which the girls have placed, the open fire and the groups of eager 
workers about the house, tell the neighbors of the cheer and good 
will for which our little house stands. For days before, each of the 
girls is busy planning and preparing the Christmas dinner. Then 
comes the choosing of a favorite friend as a guest and last of all, 
comes the day when the httle Christmas tree stands in the middle 
of the table and these girls have a real Christmas party. For a week 
before Christmas each afternoon and evening the cottage is gay 
with the Christmas party of some group of girls. 



1915] HIRAM HOUSE MODEL COTTAGE 187 

But the cottage is not for girls alone. One of the most successful 
cooking classes was composed of boys from the neighborhood. The 
neighborhood visitor found a number of boys who were compelled 
to do the cooking and keep house for the rest of the family. This 
was sometimes due to the fact that the mother was dead, sometimes 
that she went away to work, or sometimes because she neglected 
her home. These boys were very willing and glad to have a cooking 
lesson once a week. We supplied them with butcher's aprons and 
they cooked, washed dishes and did the same work which was required 
of the girls. Often one of the boys would ask to cook some certain 
thing, saying, "We like it so well and nobody at our house knows how 
to make it now." A hike for the Boy Scouts brings with it visits 
and consultations at the cottage. Provisions are planned and bought. 
Practical recipes are sought and advice for the preparation of their 
meals is given the boys. 

The mothers of our girls have formed a club which holds its meet- 
ings in the cottage each week. These meetings help to win the 
mothers' approval of the work that the girls have done. Tired 
mothers, working against what seem to be hopeless conditions, meet 
and are "company" in a clean, attractive little cottage. Sometimes 
these women patch quilts, sometimes they are tired and enjoy play- 
ing children's games or hearing a good story. After refreshments 
have been served, and they are ready to leave for their homes, one 
hears them remark, "Not nearly so tired as when I came." Last 
summer automobiles were supplied which took this club through 
the parks and boulevards. This was a different world to them, for 
they seldom venture beyond the market. 

Scarcely is the laughter of the afternoon clubs gone when the 
older girls come from the candy and bag factories or the laundries 
to prepare their supper and spend the evening. Each girl pays 
seven cents which does not cover the cost of the supper but is as 
much as the girls can afford, for the majority do not earn over S5 
a week and often they must help support some one else. These 
girls want to find out how everything is done and the desire of each 
girl is "A cottage just Hke this for mine." In the evening the girls 
dance, sew, or, if tired, they like to sit around the fireplace. A nurse 
from the Babies' Dispensary gives a nimiber of lessons in infant 
hygiene each winter. 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

On Sunday afternoons the cottage is an open house and tea is 
served to the girls and their friends. 

Nine years ago, seven Bohemian girls organized a cooking class 
at Hiram House. Today, the same class continues with the same 
leader. Five of these girls have married and have attractive homes 
of their own. Once a month they come back to the cottage and 
prepare the supper, and their husbands come from work to enjo}' 
the goodies made to surprise them, and to spend a happy evening. 
The influence that this cottage has upon the hves of the girls, who 
have been in touch with it for several years, is plainly seen when 
the girls are old enough to make a choice and have homes of their 
own. 

A GIRLS' TRADE SCHOOL COURSE IN DRESSMAKING 

MARY H. SCOTT 

Instructor in Sewing, Milwaukee Public Schools 

Believing that the Milwaukee Public School of Trades for Girls 
stands as a representative of what any school system may pro- 
vide for the girls who do not enter high school, or who leave the 
grammar grades for various reasons, I am giving a detailed account 
of one of the courses of study as given at the present time in that 
school, hoping that it may be helpful to others interested in this 
Hne of work. Much that has been written upon vocational work 
for girls has been put in such general terms that it is difiicult to 
obtain therefrom definite, practical ideas. 

The aim of this school is to train the girl for homemaking and 
for a trade. For homemaking, by teaching her household sanita- 
tion through the actual work of caring for a model five-room flat 
which is a part of the school; by teaching her cooking through the 
actual planning and preparation of food eaten daily by teachers 
and pupils; by giving her ideas on furnishing a home through the 
study of the model flat, and the study of interior decoration in the 
Art Department. For a trade, by giving training in the technique 
of a given trade, and developing those quahties of character which 
enable the girl to command a higher wage than the untrained girl 
in the same line of work. The whole training aims to develop re- 
sponsibihty, adaptabflity, and, to a certain degree, efficiency. 



1915] TRADE SCHOOL COURSE IN DRESSMAKING 189 

In this school two trades are taught, dressmaking and millinery. 
The school is in session five days a week, and eleven months a year. 
The school hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. with one hour 
for lunch. Five hours are spent in trade, two hours in supplemental 
work. With each course supplemental work is given in academic 
studies, drawing and design, drafting (dressmaking only), cooking 
and household arts, and physical training. Two years is the time 
required by the average girl entering at fourteen to complete the 
work. Girls taking the dressmaking course spend the entire time 
in the school; those taking the milUnery course spend a year and a 
half in the school, and must have two successful seasons in trade 
before graduation. 

This article deals only with the course in dressmaking. Before 
a girl learns dressmaking she must have some knowledge of plain 
sewing. When a girl selects this trade, she must take the elementary 
sewing work unless she has had some training in this line before 
entering. The course in dressmaking as given at the present time 
is as follows: 

I. Elementary Sewing and Underwear: Pincushion, sewing bag, 
apron, towel, nurse's bag or belt, cooking apron (two), drawers, 
bloomers, corset cover, princess apron, nightgown, small princess 
slip, large princess sKp, petticoat, kimona. 

II. Children's Department: Rompers, child's first dress, child's 
second dress, child's third dress, boy's suit, baby's sKp, baby's dress, 
child's lingerie dress. 

III. Cotto7i Dresses: Two plain house dresses, two fancy house 
dresses. 

IV. Waists: Two middy blouses, four lingerie waists, two tailored 
waists. 

V. Advanced Dressmaking: Tight-fitted lining, two silk or wool 
dresses, two fancy dresses. 

VI. Tailoring: For personal use, suit, or coat and skirt; for cus- 
tom work, suit, or coat and skirt. 

VII. Advanced Millinery: Hat and accessories of ribbon, chiffon, 
etc. 

At the completion of this course, the girl is given an examination 
which consists of making a child's dress, a simple house dress, a silk 
or woolen dress, and her graduating dress, entirely upon her own 
responsibility without the supervision of the teacher. She is usually 



190 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

allowed three weeks in which to complete these garments. In the 
marking of these garments, skill and speed are two most important 
factors. Accuracy, neatness, judgment, honesty of work, color, and 
design also are considered. 

Throughout the entire course, the girl works part of the time to 
make garments for her personal use and part of the time for the 
school. The order work is most important as it is by means of this 
that the girl has the opportunity of getting experience in handling 
fine materials as silks, velvets, nets, lace, and chiffons. 

The teachers of the various departments have been consulted 
and the consensus of opinion is that the girls should be taught to 
think quickly, to understand directions, to execute well, and to be 
reliable. 

In the elementary sewing and underwear, class lessons are com- 
bined with individual instruction; but a girl's advancement depends 
solely upon her ability, and apphcation to her work. It seems more 
profitable in this work to have the girls make a number of simple 
garments, even if in an imperfect way, than to exact perfect work- 
manship from beginners, as that is always discouraging to the pupil 
and often positively harmful. Experience has proved that the teacher 
in this department should herself first work out the problems by 
actually making the garment so that she may know the diflSculties 
and how to meet them. Such preparation means economy of eft'ort, 
saving of time, and better results. 

Each department has its own special problems but the methods 
used are similar, consisting of lecture or demonstration by the teacher 
and practice by the pupil under supervision. 

Very early the girl learns that "a smart effect depends upon work- 
manship, cut, and material, designed for and adapted to a given 
personaHty." Carefulness and neatness in handhng material, and 
proficiency in detail must be emphasized during the entire course, 
but in the advanced classes the girls must acquire a dehcacy of touch 
that will preserve the crispness and freshness of very fine materials. 

The supplemental work is correlated very closely with the trade 
work in the class room. Simple problems in fractions become con- 
crete when given as tucking problems. Drafting becomes more inter- 
esting when the girl can study costumes, and work out her own 
patterns. The study of color harmony, design, and decoration is 
very real when applied to stencilhng curtains and draperies or em- 



1915] POTTERY GLAZES AND THEIR SOLUBILITY 191 

broidering pillow covers, or to costume design and decoration in 
advanced dressmaking. 

The appreciation of color, form, and workmanship can be devel- 
oped to a large degree, even when natural ability is lacking. To 
the ambitious girl more difficult problems are given. As far as 
possible, work is adapted to the ability of the girls. Every effort 
is made to develop character and those qualities which make for 
wholesome and happy hfe. 

The teacher's knowledge of her subject must be such as will com- 
mand the respect of her pupils. It is in the daily association with 
the girl that neatness, cleanHness, good taste, obedience, kindness, 
helpfuhiess, responsibihty, and honor are taught.. The teacher's ap- 
pearance, care of the class room, and her attitude toward her work 
and her pupils are the silent forces that influence character at this 
age. A demand has been created for the pupils of the school, and 
girls who have received this training do command a higher wage 
than the untrained girl in the same line of work. 

The Milwaukee PubUc School of Trades for Girls is but five years 
old. During that tune the registration has increased from thirty 
pupils to four hundred. It has now more than one hundred names 
on the waiting list of appUcants for entrance. These facts clearly 
indicate the need of such a school in Milwaukee. 

POTTERY GLAZES AND THEIR SOLUBILITY 

C. F. LANG WORTHY 

United Slates Department of Agriculture 

The glazes used on tableware exhibit a great diversity of composi- 
tion; they range from the hardest porcelain glazes, wliich consist al- 
most entirely of felspar and quartz, to the softer earthenware glazes 
which contain siUca and boric acid combined with alumina, lead 
oxide, lime, soda, and other bases. 

There is Uttle evidence to show that from the nature of their chem- 
ical composition the hard felspar and quartz glazes which are used 
on the better grades of tableware would be appreciably affected by 
dilute acids or by mild alkalis such as would ordinarily be present in 
soaps and the more common detergents. The wear upon the glaze 
through scratching by cutlery or through scrubbing with sand soap 



192 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

or other gritty detergents, where this is done, would probably be 
greater than the solvent action of the soaps or any mild alkaline 
solution. There appears to be, however, some tendency for the 
soft borosihcate glazes to wear away under constant friction, which 
is not the case with the true porcelain or felspar glazes. Wherever 
the action due to washing is unusually severe, ware should be selected 
which is coated with the true porcelain glazes. 

The solvent action of dilute acids upon the lead glazes, applies 
more especially to raw glazes before they are fused on to the ware. 
The fused mass or frit which contains the lead in an insoluble form 
is ground and applied to the ware like the raw glaze. 

The glaze used upon common red and brown wares in many coun- 
tries is obtained by coating the unfired clay vessels with powdered 
lead compounds. On firing, a glaze is formed which often contains 
considerable uncombined lead oxide. In the case of such ware and 
that coated with the ordinary lead glaze which has not been fritted 
there is a possibility that lead may be extracted from the glaze in the 
finished article by vinegar or fruit acids. This is especially true in 
the case of culinary ware, and a German enactment of 1887 required 
that eating, drinking, and culinary vessels should not yield lead 
when boiled for one-half hour with 4 per cent acetic acid. As lead 
glazes are not used on the tableware generally sold in the United 
States except in the form of fritted glazes in which the lead is present 
in insoluble form, the danger of lead poisoning from this source is not 
at all serious in this country. 

A serious defect which may occur in glazed ware is the so-called 
crazing in which a network of fine cracks spreads over the glaze. 
This crazing may not develop for some months after the ware is 
finished and is due to a difi'erence in the expansion of the biscuit 
ware and the glaze or to imperfect adherence of the glaze to the bis- 
cuit ware. There is a possible objection in the case of table and 
culinary ware that these small cracks may harbor disease germs 
as well as the fact that they allow the moisture to penetrate the 
glaze and cause it to split off in some instances. Fat will also pene- 
trate through these minute cracks, as well as through larger ones, 
into the porous ware underneath, as will also soapy dish water. All 
know the result — the bad odor of such plates and dishes, and the 
taste imparted to foods cooked in them. Most of the potteries in the 
United States now manufacture tableware from biscuit ware having 



1915] INDOOR HUMIDITY 193 

an absorption of not more than 3 or 4 per cent and to these the glaze 
adheres perfectly. Where the conditions of use are very severe, 
white ware made from biscuits having a greater absorption than this 
should not be used. 

INDOOR HUMIDITY 

L. R. INGERSOLL 

Associate Professor of Physics, University of Wisconsin 

It is a commonly recognized fact that the air in our houses is too 
dry in winter, especially in very cold weather. Now while it is not 
practicable, for reasons which will appear later, to produce a degree 
of indoor humidity in winter equal to that of the summer months, 
it is nevertheless possible to improve very materially on the condi- 
tions which usually exist. To this end the writer proposes, after 
a brief discussion of the physical aspects of the subject, to describe 
a system of humidifying whose convenience and adequacy have been 
proved by experience and which may be readily installed in any 
house heated by a hot air furnace. 

The terms ''relative humidity" or "hygrometric state" are used 
to express the ratio of the moisture actually present in a given space 
to the maximum amount which this volume can contain at this same 
temperature. When this maximum amount is present the air is said 
to be "saturated," that is, it is impossible for it to contain any more 
moisture: the slightest cooling under these conditions will produce 
condensation in the form of fog or dew. When the air is unsaturated — 
that is, when its humidity is less than 100 per cent — it will suffer 
a certain amount of cooling before condensation begins. This cool- 
ing is less the higher the moisture content, and so it is impossible to 
attain even a moderately high degree of indoor humidity in cold 
weather without more or less condensation on the windows. 

The degree of relative humidity is measured by instruments termed 
psychrometers or hygrometers, of which one of the simplest and 
most rehable is the sling psychrometer, an instriunent of the wet 
and dry bulb type. There is also in common use an instrument 
of this sort suitable for location on the wall of a room, but unless it 
is fanned vigorously for several minutes before taking a reading it 
is likely to indicate too high a humidity. 



194 JOURNAL OF THE HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Although the temi "air" has been used in the above discussion 
the air itself has really very little to do with the matter of humidity. 
For this reason it is perhaps better, in place of the frequently used 
expression "capacity of air for moisture," to speak rather of the 
"capacity of space for moisture." This capacity for moisture in- 
creases very rapidly with temperature, thus saturated air (space) 
at 0°F. or — 17.8°C. contains 1.1 grams of water per cubic meter, 
while at 70°F. or 21.1°C. it requires some 18.2 grams for saturation. 
This explains why the question of humidity is so important in cold 
weather, for if saturated air at 0°F. is heated to 70°F. the amount 
of moisture it contains will be sufficient to cause a relative humidity 
of only 6 per cent. Unless a considerable amoimt of moisture is 
added, then, the atmosphere in our houses in winter will be drier 
than that of the most arid regions of the earth. It also explains 
why a furnace is commonly beHeved to dry the air which is taken 
into a house. The air is not really dried in the sense that it has lost 
any moisture but by virtue of its higher temperature it is made 
relatively less humid since its capacity for water vapor is greatly 
increased. 

The amount of water which must be added to attain any desired 
degree of humidity is readily calculated. Suppose a house of 500 
cubic meters or 17,000 cubic feet (attic and cellar not being coimted); 
at 70°F. it would require, for a relative humidity of 40 per cent, 
some 7.3 X 500 grams or over three-quarters of a gallon of water, of 
which perhaps 10 to 20 per cent is already contained in the air, if 
this was originally saturated at a temperature of about zero. As, 
with good ventilation, the air is probably changed once an hour, if 
not oftener, it will be seen that some 15 gallons of water a day are 
required for this condition. 

There have been suggested almost numberless ways by which a 
considerable evaporation of water may be produced indoors. As 
the writer has rarely found a humidity of less than 20 per cent even 
in buildings where no special means exist to secure evaporation, it 
is probable that the amoimt of moisture furnished by exhalations 
of the occupants is by no means neghgible; but allowing for this 
as well as other occasional causes such as cooking operations, it is 
still evident that many gallons of water must be evaporated daily 
in a moderate-sized house in cold weather to secure even 40 per cent 
humidity. 



1915] 



INDOOR HUMIDITY 



195 



Undoubtedly the commonest way of producing this evaporation 
in a hot-air heated house is by means of a water pan in the jacket 
of the furnace. As ordinarily placed, down near the base or coldest 
part of the furnace, this hardly produces enough evaporation to be 
worth consideration, and even when located near the top it is not 
likely that it will evaporate more than 2 or 3 gallons daily — 
hardly enough to raise the humidity 5 per cent. Realizing the limi- 
tations of this method, as well as the inconvenience of any of the 
more effective schemes involving pans of water inside the registers, 
teakettles boiling in every room, and other sound but extremely 





Dooy 



Dii^rsm of HamidifieK 

impractical methods of humidifying, the writer devised and installed 
in his home some two years ago the very effective automatic system 
described forthwith. 

Inside the casing or jacket of the furnace, and right on the dome 
or hottest part of the radiator, was placed a cast iron pan {P in the 
diagram) with bottom shaped to fit closely. This is about 11 inches 
in diameter and 5 inches high and carries a 2-foot length of 1-inch 
pipe with a union on the end so located that it projects just outside 
the jacket. By means of the union, connection is made with a 
j-inch pipe which leads to a small copper can, V, which has an over- 
flow to a neighboring sink. The system is kept fuU of water by the 
drip from a faucet, F. This should be of the "gate valve" type as 



196 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

the washer of the ordinary faucet tends to swell and shut off when 
dripping or running only a very small stream. 

This arrangement automatically keeps the water up to within an 
inch of the top of the pan P. In cold weather the water is always 
at the boiling temperature and sometimes boiUng vigorously, evapo- 
rating frequently a gallon an hour. It requires no attention what- 
ever save for an occasional adjustment of the faucet so that the water 
is always overflowing just a little ; also perhaps twice during the winter 
the cleaning out of the sediment in the pan, which is accompHshed 
by disconnecting the union and removing the pan through the little 
door which is provided in the jacket. 

The results of this arrangement in attaining the desired humidity 
are extremely satisfactory. As much moisture is added to the air 
as is possible without extremely annoying condensation effects. At 
the same time it is very rarely found that this gives too much evapo- 
ration. It was originally intended to provide a cover for the pan 
in case it gave rise to too high a humidity, but this has not been 
needed. 

The actual relative humidity attained is not high: measurements 
made with an accurate sling psychrometer at various times during 
the winter seldom showed a value of over 40 per cent (at 70°F.) — 
an increase of perhaps 10 or 15 per cent over the ordinary winter 
value for most houses in this climate. As this 40 per cent humidity 
is much lower than the 60 per cent or even 70 per cent frequently 
recommended by the medical profession as the ideal value, the writer 
undertook to push conditions to the Hmit, to see if any such humidity 
was attainable, or at any rate desirable. Accordingly an auxiUary 
pan was added which almost doubled the evaporation. Under these 
conditions a humidity of 50 per cent was occasionally obtained, but 
in cold weather the condensation accompanying this value proved 
unbearable. Even the double windows were fairly running water 
and the walls themselves were occasionally foimd to be damp. The 
conclusions were that for a temperature of about 70°F. the ideal 
indoor humidity for winter in a climate such as that of Wisconsin 
is 40 to 45 per cent; also that 70 per cent would mean the atmosphere 
of a steam laundry, and that any recommendations of this value 
are either based on pure theory or else are founded on the scale of 
the old type wall hygrometer, which, as previously explained may 
be very inaccurate. 



1915] NOTES ON ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 197 

While it is impossible to prove that any especial advantages in 
health have been enjoyed as a result of this increased humidity, 
certain good features directly resulting from this condition have 
been observed. The atmosphere is remarked as being more "pal- 
atable" than in many houses, and there is a feeling of warmth and 
comfort at a temperature of say 68°F. which could not be obtained 
short of 72° to 75° in dry air. There is none of the usual winter 
dryness of the skin, and none of the annoying effects of electrification 
common to cold weather. While the condensation on single win- 
dows is a little bothersome there is no trouble with frosting or fogging 
on the double windows at the humidity recommended, that is, 40 
per cent. 

To sum up, the method described furnishes an efficient automatic 
way of raising the humidity in a hot-air heated house to the highest 
value desirable in this climate. It can be installed by any plumber 
at a cost probably between $5 and $10. If any difficulty is experi- 
enced in getting a cast iron pan such as described the writer will 
be glad to make arrangements whereby such can be secured from 
patterns in his possession. The system has been installed in two 
other houses in Madison, Wisconsin, and is giving equal satisfaction. 

NOTES ON ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 

The Trustees of the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund met in 
New York recently and perfected their organization by electing Mr. 
Frederick B. Pratt, of Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, as Chairman, and 
Prof. Benjamin R. Andrews, of Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, as Secretary. 

Many orders have come in for the student play Prince Caloric 
and Princess Pieta, which has been printed in coimection with the 
Ellen Richards Memorial Fund, and the play may very evidently 
become a source of money making by a student organization wish- 
ing to raise a contribution for the Richards Fund. It can be secured 
from the Journal office for 25 cents, or ten copies for $1. Secure 
it and plan an evening of fun in your institution or club with King 
Diet of the Kingdom of Pure Food, and his interesting subjects. 
It would prove very attractive if given out of doors. 

Graduate students in the class in household economics at Teachers 
College, Columbia University, contributed to the Household Arts 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Review an article discussing our debt to Rumford from various points 
of view in connection with Richards-Rumford day. 

New Hampshire is taking its part in the canvass under the chair- 
manship of Miss Helen B. Thompson of the State Agricultural Col- 
lege who has recently sent a circular, regarding the Richards Memorial, 
to all the schools teaching Home Economics. Contributions have 
already come in from two of these schools and others will doubtless 
soon be reporting. The students at the State College had a candy 
sale on Richards-Rumford Day, which netted $12 for the Fund. 

January first brought a $50 contribution from the Missouri State 
Home Economics Association; later $20.16 was sent from Mills Col- 
lege, CaHfornia, as the receipts from a candy sale; these, with other 
contributions, raised the total to $3000. 

The Trustees have placed the funds in a safe and guaranteed 
investment at 5 per cent, so that an income of $150 per year is 
assured. The suggestion may be made to members of the Association 
having friends of means who desire to place a sum of money where 
it will do continued good, that here is a foundation, the income of 
which is devoted to research and pubHcation for home betterment. 
Members of the Association may now by wiU devise property or 
funds to the Association with the certainty that it will be safe- 
guarded by a Board of Trustees and that the income will be used 
in the future for this cause of better homes. 



EDITORIALS 

A Permanent Bureau for the Help of the Housekeeper. In 

the current number of this Journal we print a number of papers on 
the subject of the Consulting Housekeeper. She had her origin in the 
Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor in New York 
when volunteer visitors in the families of the poor began to ask this 
sensible question, Why issue flour to women who cannot make bread? 
Why help to medicine alone when the cause of illness is the dirt and 
discomfort in the home? The records of this Society as early as 1904 
speak of "Two visiting housekeepers, untrained women, who do the 
work of a good mother." In 1907 comes the record "Miss Winifred 
S. Gibbs, a trained dietitian appointed." 

And this was the real beginning of what is now recognized as a 
new profession. The charity organizations of 19 cities now report 
one or more visiting housekeepers or dietitians, and this work is 
certain to grow. 

Among the well-to-do the larger income covers a wider margin 
for mistakes, but the greater social and professional demands and 
the more complex standards of living are making it more and more 
necessary for all housekeepers to seek the information that has been 
worked out by experts who have made a special study in the best 
domestic science departments in the country. 

We are beginning to recognize that it takes an immense amount 
of professional study and experience to master the problems of Uv- 
ing today. Progressive housekeepers are reaching out for this help 
on every side, finding that they are saved many costly mistakes in 
time, money and strength by referring their questions to reliable 
sources. Heads of the Home Economics departments of our various 
schools of household arts could spend, they tell us, their entire 
time answering over the telephone the questions of puzzled house- 
holders. So good are the questions, so evident the need, that they 
regret that their regular duties make the performance of this public 
service impossible. 

Why should not this general need be met by an organized bureau 
for the help of the housekeeper? The farmer's wife has access at 

199 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

least once a year to the force of trained teachers that conduct the 
Farmer's Week courses. The housekeeper of town or city has no 
such help. 

We should like to see a woman's club backing an enterprise of 
this kind in its trial year. What would be necessary? 

A small room in a central location fitted out with a few reference 
books, a card catalogue and the farmers' bulletins of state and United 
States, and presided over by a woman who has had modern training 
in one of our schools of household arts, also as much as possible of 
practical experience. Many questions she could answer off hand, 
other answers she would find in reference books or could learn by 
correspondence with workers in these fields. Then advertise it and 
see it grow! 

Meetings for 1915. It is planned to hold the national meeting of 
the American Home Economics Association at the University of 
Washington, Seattle, August 18-21, at wliich time a program of 
professional papers dealing with the various divisions of Home Eco- 
nomics, including elementary schools, high schools, colleges and exten- 
sion work will be offered; and to follow this with a congress of public 
meetings at Oakland, San Francisco, in connection with the National 
Education Association, August 26-28. At the San Francisco meet- 
ing it would seem in place to present papers which will make plain 
to the public the purpose and aims of Home Economics work. As 
this meeting will also take on an international character, we hope to 
secure papers from foreign countries on the history and status of 
their Home Economics work. 

For the Seattle meeting it has been suggested that the program 
should emphasize matters of distinctly professional interest. The 
Program Committee wish, therefore, to secure for immediate con- 
sideration a Hst of topics which members of the Association would 
like to see treated at either of the meetings. The suggestion may 
take the form of titles of one or more papers which an institution 
or school might be able to contribute to the program. What prob- 
lems in public school work, normal school work, college work, etc., 
should be treated? What pieces of laboratory work or field work, 
or progress in methods of teaching, could be reported? 

Kindly send your suggestions at once to Miss Martha Van Rens- 
selaer, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

CLUB WOMEN APPROVE SENSIBLE STYLES IN DRESS 

PEARIv MacDONALD 

Homt Economics Department, State College. Pennsylvania 

Miss MacDonald, Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Clothing in 
the Home Economics Department of the General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, has written a report which appeared in the March 
number of the Federation Magazitie. The Journal has received 
permission to quote from it as follows: 

We shall probably agree that American women are wearied wth the 
constant and extreme changes in the style of our garments. 

We ask: \Vho sets the styles? Who forms our fashions? What ends 
are secured in the striking changes presented every few months? What 
effect have these upon women in general? Are we bound or free? 

Certainly we should grant that it is somewhat of an absurdity to ask 
and press legislation for better made and purer fabrics when now the 
garment wears longer than the style it portrays. And we should not 
expect to lessen the economic burden relating to this division of the budget 
until we are ready and willing to adopt those measures which will secure 
the same adjustments and values as men have already sensibly attained. 

We want art and beauty in our clothes. To a degree these have been 
given us in the past two or three years. There have been special com- 
mendable features in the garments we have so recently been wearing. 
Freedom about the neck, throat and chest is as hygienic as freedom about 
the waist, and we have had both. The plain, close fitting, short skirt is 
sanitar}', economical and convenient. Short sleeves are useful in many 
ways and are, when admissible, a source of great comfort and saving for 
many who must work with hands and arms at office or house work. Yet 
already full skirts, long sleeves and high collars are being pressed upon us. 

There are many reasons why we urge upon all club women not alone 
a study of this situation as it presents itself at this time, but a determina- 
tion to meet it in sane and proper ways. 

First, because we earnestly believe that this is one of the vital steps in 
securing that standard of refined and womanly liv-ing which should mark 
this period of our club life. 

201 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Second, we know it to be necessary to the lessening of the economic 
pressures burdening so many thousands in our great and beautiful and 
fertile land. 

Third, we are our sisters' keepers. The habit of following extreme and 
quickly vanishing styles creates great hardship for those who produce 
as well as wear ready made garments. The women who demand the ultra 
fashionable in dress should be brought to consider the effects of this upon 
the hves of those who must wear what can be bought and whose clothes 
are worn until they wear out. 

Out first suggestion is a study of the budget and its five main divisions, 
rent, operating expenses, food, clothing and higher Hfe. What part of 
our income can rightly be spent for clothes? How can we secure them 
at that price?-* How purchase? WTiat purchase? VvTiy? 

A SHORT STUDY OF TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 

Any part of this can be taken for a detailed study outline or for a single 
program. 

1. Materials used in early times: Branches, skins, grasses, rushes, leaf 
fibres, treated bark, wool, cotton, flax. 

(a) Purposes: Floor coverings; roof coverings; carriers; hangings; 
garments. 

2. Development of textile industries. On request, detailed outlines 
will be sent by Miss MacDonald, State College, Pa. 

3. A study of garment making industry^ in America: Work of the Con- 
sumers' League; women and children in the textile and garment-making 
industry; sweat shop labor; tenement house work. 

4. The ethics of shopping: A knowledge of the appropriateness of a 
material to its intended use; a definite purpose in shopping; responsibility 
toward shop girls and the purchasing public. 

5. A study of materials: (a) w^ool, silk, cotton, linen and adulterations 
of these; (b) what constitutes good materials; how to select; the factors 
of judgment; (c) color and design; (d) a study of trimmings — laces, em- 
broideries, etc. 

6. The hygiene of clothing: (a) general health requirements and con- 
ditions; (b) thermic properties of clothing; (c) the infection and steriliza- 
tion of clothing and fabrics; (d) choice of material for underclothes; 
(e) choice of material for dress; (f) appropriate costuming; (g) healthful 
dress. 

7. Economic aspect: (a) the cost of clothes; (b) wearing qualities of 
materials and durability; (c) beauty of fabric in relation to cost; (d) 
appropriate dress. 



1915] THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN 203 

8. The responsibility of the consumer: (a) in selection; (b) in care; 
(c) economy in "ndividual income — cost of fabrics, relative cost, home 
made or ready made, effect upon efficiency of individual, economy in use, 
cleaning, laundry and use problems. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Women's share in Primitive Culture, Mason; The Beginnings of 
Art, Mason; What Dress Makes of Us, Quegley; Magic of Dress, 
Grace Margaret Gould; Talks on Successful Gowning, Elizabeth Lee 
Bates; Household Textiles, Gibbs; Textiles, Woolman and McGowan; 
Why Women Are So, Coolidge; The Woman Who Spends, Richardson; 
Reducing the Cost of Living, Nearing; Women and Industry, Abbott; 
Women and the Trades, Butler; Standard of Living, Chapin; Wage Earn- 
ing Women, MacLean; Pure Textiles, Journal of Home Economics, June, 
1914; Better Dress Standards, Journal of Home Economics, December, 
1912; Textile number of the Journal or Home Economics, June, 1911; 
Uniforms for Women, Atlantic Monthly, November, 1914. 

The committee, through Miss MacDonald can supply the following pam- 
phlets for ten cents each: Hints on Clothing, Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman; 
Hints on Choosing Textiles, Bertha E. Titsworth; Choosing Textiles, 
Charlotte W. Gibbs; Study of Textiles, NeUie Crooks. 



THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN IN THE SPENDING OF 

MONEY! 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

Some of US may have been cultivating the disease with which 
Eugene Fields was afllicted — that of ''incurable childhood." If so, 
we are so much further advanced in that knowledge which means 
adjustment between the adult and the childish world. 

As man's inherent right is to be a man and woman's is to be a 
woman, so the child's right is to be a child. That we interfere with 
this presumptuously and blindly many are beginning to realize, but 
how to avoid it and yet train the child is one of the problems of the 
age. 

The most frequent accusation brought against the youth of today 
is that it is irresponsible, but how can a sense of responsibility be 

1 Extracts from an address presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, Cleveland, 1914. 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

developed except by sharing responsibility? There is no real equality 
in too many present day homes — no sharing of work as well as of 
pleasures — no tasks — no responsibilities — no opportunities afforded 
for the training of self-control and self-restraint — in all these things 
which develop the will. 

Two years ago at the close of a talk to a Mothers' Club, this ques- 
tion was asked: "Would you give a 15-year old girl an allowance 
with which she should buy all things wanted and needed outside of 
her housing and food?" With it, under guidance, it was inferred that 
she was to pay for all her clothes and her pleasures; supply her needs 
and her wants in those things which are strictly personal. I un- 
hesitatingly replied "Yes." 

The consumption in every home has its impress upon all our 
economic and sociologic problems. It is not enough that girls should 
return to their homes from school and college with a knowledge that 
such problems are somewhere in the world, and seek philanthropic 
or other outside work in order to help solve them. The key to the 
secret of the solution of all these things lies in the home whose keeper 
and guardian is the woman. If it is true that the business of the 
woman is consumption, she needs to be taught to consume and this 
must begin with the first allowance. This allowance, a certain amount 
for certain things, should begin as soon as the child begins to recog- 
nize money as a means of exchange. The difiiculties are many. 
The freedom necessary for expression of self and the training in 
knowledge and control are not easily gained but they may be met 
by the use of one rule — the child should be treated as an equal, 
shown the same consideration and confidence as would be shown an 
adult in the same place. The greatest test of wise parenthood comes 
in that place where the development of the child's own personahty, 
rather than the impress of yours upon it, is the thing. 

Mathematics is an exact science. Its study outside of practical 
uses is believed to inculcate truth and uprightness. I am not going 
to argue this, but I am going to say that no other lessons are more 
valuable than those which prove that one from one leaves nothing; 
that you cannot eat your cake and have it too; that having chosen 
one thing, you cannot have this other desired object also. But I 
realize that I am not advocating any easy thing. Growth, physical 
development, is in a very large way conditioned upon peace. Nature 
has given to the child a most wonderful power of removing itself 



1915J THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN 205 

from external disquietude about it and betaking its mental self into 
its own place. Then what do we do? Interfere, correct, disturb, 
drag it back into the land of the Olympians, a land of non-under- 
standing ideas, furniture and door knobs all out of reach and mostly 
out of vision. Instead of interference should be cooperation. In 
place of correction should be that sense of responsibility only devel- 
oped by holding the child responsible for the result of his acts. 

The strongest constructive factor in the education of a human 
being is the settled quiet order of a peaceful, well conducted, real 
home. The child's actual participation in this should be as great 
in every way as it is possible to make it in justice to every member 
of the family whose individual and communal rights should be asserted 
and maintained. The right to actual privacy — to the privilege of 
work — the sharing of pleasure and responsibilities must be recognized 
by parents and such a plan of living formulated as to make these 
things possible. These children should be met and taught and devel- 
oped and trained on the same plane with their parents. Being 
Olympians and giving is not meeting the child as one's equal. With 
seriousness and sincerity these children must be permitted to share 
our lives, learning the indispensable lesson that faults, wrong doing, 
mistakes and false actions cannot be atoned for or blotted out, but 
must always have their consequences. Only suffering the conse- 
quences of a wrong use of money can teach the lesson wrong use 
brings. Only realizing the returns of right use can establish right 
values, and this use should begin with the first penny. 

The first thing we have to confront in the everyday world about us 
is that something has to be expended for something; or that we buy 
everything we get by giving something for it. A child learns this 
quite early, and barters obedience, or clean hands and face, or keep- 
ing quiet for a desired thing. You may not come to the table until 
your face and hands are clean, is but the price you have placed on 
the satisfying of a need called hunger. Now the basis of economics 
is needs and wants. As our wants are transformed into needs the 
world advances. As we learn to sacrifice immediate gratification to 
ultimate satisfaction, our character and life develop. 'The mark of 
child and savage ahke is that each cannot wait." Only as civiliza- 
tion advances can man be taught to forego a present seeming good 
for a future ideal. 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

How are we going to teach these economic truths and values? 
Is there any possible, direct, forceful way, except by allowing the 
child to experience them? Devotion to duty, sense of honor, a knowl- 
edge of truth, are not childish traits. They are developed through 
training and education. 

MORE ACCURATE MEASURES FOR THE KITCHEN 

One who has been throui/h a house furnishing store and noted 
the great number of imentions that apply to every possible house- 
hold process may well be incredulous as to the suggestion that any 
more are needed. 

But what the scientist calls "instruments of precision" are sadly 
lacking in our kitchens. Our measuring cups and spoons, for instance, 
are so imperfect that only an experienced person can successfully 
use them in putting together a recipe where accuracy is important. 
One half-pint tin cup may hold 2 or 3 tablespoons more than another, 
and the crease which marks it into quarters and tliirds is an abomina- 
tion, for it can not be kept clean easily. As to the teaspoon and table- 
spoon they have been adopted as measures simply because they are 
in every household already at hand. But suited to how different a 
use! Shallow and flat they may well be for putting Hquids into the 
mouth, but their shape is wholly wrong for measuring since a scant- 
ing or a heaping over so broad a surface results in a serious differ- 
ence in the measurement of small quantities. A measure for any- 
thing should be at least as deep as its diameter and it should stand 
without upsetting. When are we going to demand the right measures 
for cooking, stamped to insure uniformity? 

An accurate oven thermometer is another greatly needed instru- 
ment. A thermometer is fixed to the oven of certain ranges and 
although it does not register correctly, it is generally faithful to itself, 
that is, if 350° has been found to register a good temperature for 
baking bread today, the same can be used tomorrow, and it is there- 
fore of some assistance. But we should Kke to ask of the manu- 
facturer whether it is impossible to make for the home range a ther- 
mometer accurate enough so that the proper baking temperature 
as set down in a cook book may be followed. 



1915] SERVING WITHOUT A MAID 207 

SERVING WITHOUT A MAID 

A guest at the Pratt Institute Practice House gives the following 
description of the serving of luncheon — and it carries a suggestion 
to the housewife: 

In this house were hving six students who were performing on 
successive days the duties of cook, assistant cook, laundress, chamber- 
maid, waitress, and hostess. A teacher has charge of the house and 
eats with the group. The hostess alone of the student group eats 
breakfast and dinner with this teacher and two invited guests — 
different ones each meal. At luncheon there are no guests, but the 
whole family of seven sits down at table. 

We were eight at table, the students (except the hostess) wearing 
their pretty uniform of blue with white caps and aprons. The 
polished round table was set with white doilies and mats (this method 
now being approved for dinner as well as for luncheon). In the 
center on a heavily weighted standard about 6 inches in height was 
mounted a circle of plate glass on which stood salt, pepper, sugar, 
cream, butter, rolls and other accessories to the meal, and in the 
center a rose glass with a single rose. This "servette" ($10) revolved 
and it was a helpful part of the table service. The soup had been 
placed on the table before we entered and when it was eaten, those 
who were distant from the hostess, who presided, placed the empty 
plates on the servette. She removed them to a double-decker japanned 
wheeled tray ($18) which stood at her right. She then served the 
next course, the main dish of which had been placed on the table 
in a heated covered platter before the meal began (the other dishes 
being on the wheeled tray), and it was passed with the aid of the 
servette. By the same method was served a cold dessert which 
had been placed ready on the lower shelf of the wheeled tray. At 
any time during the meal anyone could help herself to anything from 
the servette without troubling anyone else at table. A touch whirled 
it about. No one arose from the table and the serving was orderly 
and quiet, and did not interrupt conversation. At the close of the 
meal everyone helped remove dishes to the wheeled tray and the 
doilies to their proper drawers. In a twinkhng the table was cleared 
and the wheeled tray carried everything to the kitchen. 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

TIME SAVING METHODS IN HOUSEWORK 

There are many methods in vogue in the household which are 
not the most efficient but which pass notice because in each instance 
the loss of time or material is so slight. What might well be held 
in the imagination is the enormous aggregate sum of the household 
waste of the community taken together. 

An interesting illustration has been furnished by Mrs. Dewey of 
the Lake Placid Club who computed the saving of time in making 
beds that had been opened the night before in two different ways; 
first according to the ordinary practice of taking off the counterpane 
and folding it, and second by doubling it back over the foot of the 
bed. Mrs. Dewey says: 

The difference in time between methods of bed opening is about one 
minute, the larger part being in replacing spread in the morning ac- 
cording to first method; there is also extra wear and more frequent 
laundering from its being tumbled more. 

We had something over 850 guest beds occupied during August, and with 
one minute a day wasted on each, 850 minutes = 14 hours (omitting 
fractions) a day, 434 hours a month or 54 days of 8 hours each. With 
a private family and a half dozen beds it would mean only about 3 
hours a month which would hardly be considered. It is in the large in- 
stitution work where margins of time must be most carefully considered. 

THOROUGH FUMIGATION FOR BUFFALO MOTHS^ 

"The tacked-down carpet habit is a bad one from more than one 
point of view," says the U. S. Department of Agriculture's entomolo- 
gist, and the Buffalo moth (or carpet beetle) is only one household 
pest that thrives under this securely-fastened floor covering. 

Such housekeepers as prefer to keep their carpets fastened over 
the entire floor along with the attendant inconveniences must use 
strenuous measures to be rid of the carpet beetle. Thorough fumi- 
gation with bisulphid of carbon or sulphur dioxid is the best measure. 
If bisulphid of carbon is used, great care must be taken that there 
is no fire in the house when the fumigation is in progress, as the 
gas is very inflammable. The vapor should not be inhaled. The 
burning of sulphur in the form of candles, which can be obtained at 

1 OflSce of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



1915] VENTILATION 209 

any drug store, has been effectively used for many years to destroy 
other insect pests, as the bedbug, and will also kill the Buffalo moth 
if the fumigation is thorough. Two pounds of stick sulphur have 
proved sufficient for every thousand cubic feet of space. The chief 
objection to sulphur fumigation arises from the strong bleaching 
action of the fumes in the presence of moisture. Hangings of deli- 
cate color must be removed. 

The carpets should be taken up, thoroughly beaten, and sprayed 
out-of-doors with benzine, and allowed to air for several hours. The 
floors must be washed with hot water, the cracks carefully cleaned 
out, and kerosene or benzine poured into the cracks and sprayed under 
the baseboards. The extreme inflammabiHty of benzine, and even 
of its vapor, when confined, should be remembered and fire care- 
fully guarded against. 

Where the floors are poorly constructed and the cracks are wide, 
it will be a good idea to fill the cracks with plaster of Paris in a Kquid 
state ; this will afterwards set and will lessen the number of harboring 
places for the insect. Before relaying the carpet, tarred roofmg 
paper should be laid upon the floor, at least around the edges, but 
preferably over the entire surface, and when the carpet is relaid 
it will be well to tack it down rather lightly, so that it can be occa- 
sionally lifted at the edges and examined for the presence of the 
insect. Later in the season, if such an examination shows the insect 
to have made its appearance, a good though somewhat laborious 
remedy consists in laying a damp cloth smoothly over the suspected 
spot of the carpet and ironing it with a hot iron. The steam thus 
generated will pass through the carpet and kill the insects immedi- 
ately beneath it. 

A new Farmers' Bulletin (No. 626) entitled "The Carpet Beetle 
or Buffalo Moth" may be had free on appHcation to the Editor, and 
Chief, Division of PubHcations, Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C, by the housewife who desires more information about 
this pest. It contains illustrations of the full-grown beetle and the 
larva which causes the damage. 

VENTILATION 

In the light of more modern studies in ventilation it would seem 
that the real explanation of the ill effects of bad ventilation is not to 
be found in the chemical composition of the atmosphere breathed. 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Pure air contains nearly 21 per cent of oxygen. Except in extreme 
conditions the amount of oxygen in the closest halls crowded with 
people practically never falls below 20 per cent. Oxygen will, there- 
fore, take care of itself and may probably be wholly left out of con- 
sideration in ventilating systems. 

Again, the carbon dioxide of expired air does not become harmful 
to man until it accumulates to above 1 per cent, or nearly forty times 
its usual amount and the air in crowded rooms very rarely reaches 
0.4 per cent. 

The long-debated idea that expired air contains organic matter 
v/hich is toxic has been abandoned by most physiologists. We may 
conclude with reasonable certainty that the discomfort in a badly 
ventilated place is due to the physical condition of the air in respect 
to temperature, humidity and movement, and not to any chemical 
properties. [Note the rehef afforded by the electric fan.] The symp- 
toms noted in closed, crowded rooms — restlessness, headache, dizzi- 
ness, nausea, etc. — are to be attributed to heat retention. Over- 
heating is the chief evil to be guarded against in ventilation at pres- 
ent. The chief danger of our torrid summer days is not the heat 
alone, but the combined heat and humidity; the same factors are 
responsible for the evil effects of the confined air of rooms. There 
is no doubt that the air of our American Uving-rooms and many 
schoolrooms and other assembly chambers is kept too warm. 

Further investigations of the conditions actually existing in the 
midst of what is assumed to be inadequate ventilation are called 
for, according to The Journal of the American Medical Association. 

To the statements in the above extract might be added the fact 
that, in ill- ventilated rooms, odors from clothes packed with moth balls 
or cleaned in gasolene and odors from unwashed bodies or bad teeth 
affect us unpleasantly. The effect may be psychological rather than 
material but it is not noticeable in well-ventilated-rooms. 

WHAT IS THRIFT? 

The American Society for Thrift offered a prize to school children 
for the best definition of thrift. The prize was won by Hazel Haag, 
of Warren, Pennsylvania. Her definition was: "Thrift is manage- 
ment of one's affairs' in such a manner that the value of one's posses- 
sions is being constantly increased." 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Foods 

Available Food Supplies. J. F. Lyman, Pop. Sci. Mo., 85 (1914), no. 2, pp. 180-184. 
The Slaughtering and Meat Packing Industry. Bur. of Ike Censm [U. S.], Manjrs., 
10 (1913), pp. 331-353. 

Rice Cleaning and Polishing. Bur. of the Census [U. S.], Manjrs., 10 (1913), pp. 

451^59. 

Rice Polishings or Tiqui-Tiqui (Darac). Ann. Rpt. Bur. Health Philippine Islands, 
14 (1912-13), pp. 20, 21. (A brief summary is given of a study of the possible use of 
rice polishings as porridge.) 

The Chemical Composition of Paddy [Rice] Mill Products. F. J. Warth and D. B. 
Darabsett, Dept. Agr. Burma Bui., 10 (1913), pp. 11. (Rice miUing is described and 
analytical data including mineral constituents are reported of the different milling prod- 
ucts and by-products.) 

Migration of the Constituents of Maize Grains into Water and Aqueous Solutions. 
E. Poppe, Bui. Soc. Chim. Belg., 27 (1913), no. 4, pp. 103-109; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec., 31 

(1914), no. 4, p. 357. 

The Problem of the Food Supply as to Breadstuffs and Kindred Articles. Chamber 
Com. U.S.A. Bui, gen. ser., 84 (1914), pp. 220-223, figs. 2. 

Score Cards for Judges of Cooking. Jour. Agr. and Hort., 18 (1914), no. 4, p. 88. 
(Provided by Macdonald College.) 

Caffein and the Other Alkaloids Found in Tea. C. D. Hope, Indian Tea Assoc, 
Sci. Dept. Quart. Jour., 1912, no. 2, pp. 31-41; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 31 (1914), no. 4, 

p. 358. 

Canning and Preserving. Bur. of the Census [U. S.], Manfrs., 10 (1913), pp. 379- 
401, fig. 1. (Statistics are presented for the year 1909 in comparison with other years 
for the canning and preserving industry as a whole.) 

Foods from the Grain Sorghums. Feterita Products. C. K. Francis, Oklahoma Sta. 
Circ, 27 (1914), pp. 8, figs. 3. 

Flour-Mill and Gristmill Industry-. Bur. of the Census [U. S.], Manfrs., 10 (1913), 
pp. 403-426. 

Nutrition 

Report of the Local Government Board Upon the "Biological Properties" of Milk, 
both of the Human Species, and of Cows, Considered in Special Relation to the Feeding 
of Infants. Janet E. Lane-Claypon, Rpts. Local Govt. Bd. [Gt. Brit.], Pub. Health and 
Med. Subjs., n. ser., (1913), no. 76, pp. 95. 

Contribution to the Experimental Study of the R6le of the Spleen in Digestion. L. 
L. Rusca, Gaz. Med. ltd., 63 (1912), nos. 35, pp. 331-333; 36, pp. 341, 342; abs. Expt. 
Sta. Rec, 31 (1914), no. 4, p. 361. 

The Effects of Light upon Metabolism. L. Pincussohn, Berlin. Ktin. Wchnschr.. :>0 
(1913), no. 22, pp. 1008, 1009; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 31 (1914), no. 6, p. 563. 

Gastric Digestion of the Proteins of Bread and Raw Meat in Man. E. Zunz and M. 
Cerf, Bui. Acad. Roy. Med. Belg., 4 ser., 27 (1913), no. 6, pp. 552-581; abs. Expt. Sta. 
Rec, 31 (1914), no. 2, p. 161. ^^^ 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Zeism or PeUagra? P. A. Nightmgale, Brit. Med. Jour., 1914, no. 2771, pp. 300-302. 
(The author describes in detail the pathological conditions noted with prisoners when 
Indian com meal, from which the bulk of the bran had been removed in grinding, was 
used as a sUple article of diet in place of ground "rapoko," or African Millet {Ehusina 
coracana), from which the husk had not been removed before grindmg.) 

Some Factors .\ffecting Fetal Development. J. M. Ev\ard, Trans. Iowa Acad. Set., 
1913, p. 325. 

The Dietetic Treatment of Urticaria. H. Salomon, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 147 (1914), 
no. 5, p. 757. [From Wien. Klin. Woch., 26 (1913), p. 1399.] 

Nutrition and Growth. L. B. Mendel, N. Y. Med. Jour., 100 (1914), no. 24, pp. 
1168-1169 (abstract of Harvey Lecture). 

The Influence of a Vitamin-Free Diet on the Carbohydrate Metabolism. C. Funk 
and Count Schonbom, Jour. Physiol., 48 (1914), no. 4, pp. 328-332. 

Is PoUshed Rice Plus Vitamin a Complete Food? C. Funk, Jour. Physiol., 48 (1914), 
no. 2-3, pp. 228-232. 

Contributions to the Physiolog>' of the Stomach, xvii. On the Chemical Control 
of the Gastric Hunger Mechanism. A. B. Luckhardt and A. J. Carison, Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 36 (1914). no. 1, pp. 37-46. 

The Feeding of Mal-Nourished Infants. D. J. M. Miller, Arch. Pediat., 31 (1914), 
no. 10, pp. 772-781. 

The Influence of the High-Calor>- Diet m the Respiratory Exchanges in Typhoid 
Fever. W. Coleman and E. F. DuBois, Arch. Internal. Med., 14 (1914), no. 2, pp. 
168-209. 

The Specific Role of Foods in Relation to the Composition of the Urine. N. R. 
Blatherwick, Arch. Internal. Med., 14 (1914), no. 3, pp. 409-450. 

Caloric Value of the Diets of Sick Infants. J. C. Gittings, Arch. Pediat., 31 (1914), 
no. 9, pp. 696-706. 

The Diet in T>T)hoid Fever. L. F. Barker, Jmir. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), no. 

11. pp. 929-932. 

Miscellaneous 

How to Live on 2d. a Day. F. J. Cross, Cassell's Mag., n. ser., (1914), no. 23, pp. 
223-228, figs. 3. (A brief note, based on the author's experience, on the possibiUty of 
procuring a day's food for 4 cents.) 

How to Live on 3d. and 4d. a Day. F. J. Cross, Cassell's Mag., n. ser., 1914, no. 22, 
pp. 161-170, figs. 8. (On the basis of his experimental study of the question, the author 
discusses the possibilities of economical Uving.) 

Concrete Cellar Steps and Hatchway. Jour. Agr. and Hort., 18 (1914), no. 4, pp. 
78, 79, figs. 2. (.\n illustrated description with plan and estimates.) 

Net Weights and Measures Laws. A. H. Jones, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and 
Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 61-65. 

Retail Prices, 1890 to October, 1913. F. C. Croxton, U. S. Dept. Labor, Bur. Labor 
Statis. Bui. 138 (1914), pp. 160. (This pubUcation is No. 12 of the Retail Prices and 
Cost of Living Series.) 

Electric Cookmg. W. H. .\labaster, Elect. Rev., 73 (1913), no. 1869, pp. 451-454, 
figs. 5; abs. Sci. Abs., Sect. B— Elect. Engin., 16 (1913), no. 192, p. 590. (The author 
discusses and summarizes in tabular form data regarding the amount of energy required 
with electrical ovens of different makes to secure a temperature of 400 deg. F. and main- 
tain it for U hours, and regarding the comparative efficiency of different sorts of hot 
plates when used to raise the temperature of 3 pints of water to boiling, as well as the 
weekly cost of cooking for a family of 2 adults and 2 children when different cooking 
devices are used.) 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

Planning and Furnishing the Home. By Mary J. Quinn. New York: 

Harper and Brothers, 1914, pp. 190. $1. By mail of the Journal, 

$1.06. 

The object of Miss Quinn's little book is to be of practical help to 
the every day homemaker and this object is fully realized from the begin- 
ning of the first chapter to the very useful hints given in the "Handy 
Man's" chapter at the end. 

The fundamental principles of design and color are stated so clearly 
and simply that they are easily comprehended and the practical appUca- 
tion made of these principles to the problems in furnishing and planning 
the home makes the book singularly helpful. The subject of historic 
furniture is treated in a unique manner — fully enough to give an under- 
standing of this interesting subject but not in the usual detailed and 
e.xhaustive way which is intended for the connoisseur and which the aver- 
age homemaker finds confusing and discouraging. 

While the book is intended primarily for homemakers, teachers of 
domestic and applied arts will find it an exceedingly helpful book. It is 
written in an interesting, intimate style and is well illustrated. 

Domestic Science Principles and Application. By Pearl Bailey. St. 

Paul: Webb PubUshing Company, 1914, pp. 343. $1. By mail of 

the Journal, $1.12. 

In Domestic Science Principles and AppHcation, Miss Bailey has con- 
tributed generously to the needs of teachers of domestic science. 

The book is organized on the basis of a two-year course of study of 
sixty-four lessons. The sequence is logical. 

The series as outlined includes, in addition to cooking lessons, lessons 
on waitress work, planning of menus, school luncheons, home manage- 
ment and household accounts and invalid cookery. 

The recipes given as application of principles are varied, permitting 
choice by the teacher. Specific assistance in difiicult lessons is given the 
teacher, e.g., in the bread lessons, "Suggestions to teachers on the method 
of conducting bread lessons in 2^-3 hours." 

213 



214 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The book is decidedly practical in its trend, with strong scientific mate- 
rial as it relates to the practical. The economic and industrial phases 
are suggested rather than developed. 

In the appendix are chapters on "Emergencies and First Aid," "Equip- 
ment for Teaching Domestic Science," "Suggestions for School Lunch- 
eons," and "Score Cards for Judging." 

Helpful illustrations and .: thorough index are valuable features in the 
book. 

Laundering. By L. R.A.Y Balderstox, author and publisher, 1224 Cherry 
St., Philadelphia, Pa., 1914, pp. 214. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

Laundering has an established place among the sciences as embodied 
in household economics. An intelligent and successful treatment of the 
science of laundering demands that the teacher and the housewife, as 
well as the commercial laimdr^^man know the principles underlying chem- 
istry and the manufacture of textiles as apphed to this question. Other- 
wise such fundamental problems as are concerned with stains, soaps, 
etc., cannot be properly treated. 

Miss Balderston presents the necessary scientific facts in a clear and 
concise form, yet in terms which are intelligible to the housewife who 
may be imtrained technically. The social and industrial responsibilities 
connected with the industr\% which rest ahke on teacher, manager, and 
housewife, are sympathetically suggested in the problems of preventing, 
by sterilization, the spread of disease and in the labor problem as it affects 
employes of commercial laundries, as well as those in the private home. 

Ever>' aspect of the laundry problem is discussed. Fabrics, with care- 
ful description of each type, and the reactions that occur under changes 
of temperature, and by the presence of chemicals. Methods of cleansing, 
with the different types of soils and stains carefully classified, and the 
various kinds of stain reaction given clearly and in detail by means of a 
table arranged for ready reference. Under washing agents, soaps, starches, 
blues, etc., are discussed according to their special uses; and the directions 
are unmistakably clear. 

The actual laundering process is described from the home laundry view- 
point. There follow directions for cleansing woolens, silks and other 
delicate fabrics. Various types of laundry- machinery are described, and 
illustrated, with an equipment hst for home and institutional laundries. 

As a final dixision of the subject, there is a chapter for the teacher. It 
is full of practical suggestions, for application to indi\adual teaching con- 
ditions. These, with the lesson outlines, and a classified bibliography, 
bring to a close a text-book which is of great value, and representative 
of the high standard which the teaching of this subject has attained. 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 215 

Preservatives and Other Chemicals in Foods: Their Use and Abuse. By 
Otto Folin. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1914, pp. 60. 
$0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

This is one of the Harvard Health Talks presenting the substance of 
pubUc lectures delivered at the Medical School of Harvard University. 
In it, Professor Folin summarizes, in his well-known virile style, his opin- 
ions regarding the question of the harmfulness of the so-called chemical 
preservatives and of coloring and bleaching agents in food. Notwith- 
standing the fact that this is a summary of opinions rather than experi- 
mental evidence, and that we have been surfeited with all shades of opinion 
on this subject for some years past, many readers of the Journal will 
doubtless be glad to have Professor Folin's view in the form of this com- 
pact and attractive httle book. More than one-third of the space is given 
to the benzoate controversy, and about a fourth of the remainder to the 
bleached flour cases. Naturally, one can expect to find httle that is new 
on such well-worn topics. The condimental preservatives (such as com- 
mon salt and acetic acid) which are the most used both in household prac- 
tice and in food manufacture, receive scant consideration in the present 
volume. We hope that a new and enlarged edition Avill soon be called 
for and that Professor Folin will then assemble and analyze the evidence 
on the relative preservative efficiency and physiological effects of all im- 
portant preservative substances, each on its own merits as a preservative, 
regardless of whether or not it is also a condiment. It would certainly 
be interesting if we could know whether the usual discrimination in favor 
of the condimental as against the non-condimental preservatives is well 
foimded. 

The Household Arts Review. Edited and published by students of the 
Household Arts Department of Teachers College, Columbia University. 

The December number (1914) contains the following articles: "Southern 
Giris Canning and Poultry Clubs," "Domestic Efficiency Engineers," 
"Opportmiities in the Field of Bacteriological Work; "Meerings of the 
American Home Economics Association," "Bibliography of Domestic 
Art," " Coimt Rimiford" and a complete index of the Review, volimies I-VI. 

After the December issue, the Review abandoned its own form of publi- 
cation and united with the Teachers College Record to form a new magazine 
of general and technical interest. The subscribers will receive as many 
numbers of the new magazine as will fill out their subscriptions, and new 
subscriptions may be made at the regular price of $1.50 ($1 for members 
of Teachers College Alumni Association). 



216 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

For You [rules for sanitary Iking]. New York: Tenement House Dept., 
(1914), pp. 29. 

In this pamphlet, issued by the New York Tenement House Depart- 
ment and Tenement House Conmiittee of the Charity Organization So- 
ciety, simple directions, designed largely for popular use, are given for 
good housekeeping, eliminating flies, preventing fires, and related matters. 

The Ball Canning and Preserving Recipes. (Muncie, Ind., 1914, "E" ed., 

pp. 63, pis. 4.) 

Directions and recipes are given for canning and preserving fruits and 
vegetables, together with some suggestions for the care of fruit trees, bushes, 
and vines. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Chemistry of Familiar Things. By Samuel Schmucker Sad tier. Philadelphia: J. B. 
Lippincott Company, 1915, pp. 320. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, $1.90. 

Child Training. By V. M. Hillyer. New York: Century Company, 1915, pp. 287. 
$1.60. By mail of the Journal, $1.72. 

Food InduMrics. By H. T. Vulte and S. B. Vanderbilt. Easton: The Chemical Pub- 
lishing Company, 1914, pp. \aii+309. $1.75 post paid. 

Food Products. By Henr>- C. Sherman. New York: The IMacmillan Company, 1914, 
pp. 575. $2.25. By mail of the Journal, $2.40. 

Household Accounts. By Edith Cuthbert Fleming. Ithaca, N. Y.: Department of 
Home Economics, Cornell University, 1914. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.85. 

Students' Accounts. By Edith C. Fleming. Ithaca, N. Y.: Department of Home Eco- 
nomics, Cornell University, 1913. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

Insects Injurious to the Household. By Glenn W. Herrick. New York: The Macmillan 
Company, 1914, pp. 461. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, §1.90. 

OTHER RECENT BOOKS 

The prices quoted are the pubUshers' net prices. 
Manual of Household Management. By A. Butterworth. New York: Longmans, Green 

and Company, 1914. $0.90. 
Efficiency in the Household. By T. Q. Franks. Garden City, N. Y. : Doubleday, Page 

and Company, 1914. $1.50. 
House as Home. By J. Story. New York: George H. Doran and Company, 1914. 

$1. 
Food Preparation and Combination. By I. T. Cook, Chem. Bldg., St. Louis, Mo., 1913. 

$1.25. 

Table Decorations and Delicacies. By I. L. Follett. Philadelphia: J. C. Winston Com- 
pany, 1914. $2. 

Low Cost Recipes. By E. G. Harbison. Philadelphia: G. VV. Jabobs and Company, 
1914. $1. 

Food and Clothing. By L. Osborne. Chicago: Row, Peterson and Company, 1914. 
$0.60. 

One Hundred Meatless Dishes. By A. P. Shirmer. Needham, Mass., 1914. $0.75. 

Decoration of the School and Home. By T. M. Dillaway. Springfield, Mass.: Milton 
Bradley Company, 1914. $2. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Home Economics Work in the Schools of Illinois. New outlines 
for Home Economics have been adopted by the Domestic Science Section 
of the Annual High School Conference. These outlines have a two-fold 
purpose: first, to encourage the unifying of the work in Home Economics 
below the high school; second, to indicate the kind of work in household 
arts which can be successfully done by girls in the elementary schools. 
By this means, the teachers of Home Economics in the state of Illinois 
will have available for their use not only the syllabus for high school work, 
but also outHnes for work covering the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth 
grades. It is hoped that the outlines for the elementary work may prove 
as useful as has the syllabus for high school work. 

School for Housekeepers, University of Illinois. The annual win- 
ter school for housekeepers was in charge of Miss Bevier and Miss Bunch 
who were assisted by members of the University faculty of the Depart- 
ments of Art, Physical Training, Agriculture, Music, Library Science,, 
Architecture and Sociology, of the University, members of the State Pure 
Food Commission, and also members of other university faculties. 

The program gave opportunity for the discussion of a variety of vital 
home problems. 

The topics discussed fall into four general groups, namely : Food, Cloth- 
ing, Shelter, and Social Interests. 

Extension Courses in cooking and sewing were also offered by the 
Department beginning February 1 and continuing for four weeks. 

The additions to the staff of the University for the current year are as 
follows: Miss Margaret B. Stanton, Miss Greta Gray, Miss Anna Williams, 
Miss Mamie Bunch, who has been placed in charge of the Extension work 
which, because of the Smith-Lever bill, will be enlarged and strengthened. 
In addition to its present staff of Extension workers, the Department has 
also called to its aid four of its graduates, namely, Mrs. Cecil F. Baker, 
Mrs. E. W. Donoho, Mrs. John P. Stout, and Mrs. L. V. Walcott. 

Iowa State Home Economics Association. The sixth armual meet- 
ing of the Iowa State Home Economics Association was held in Des 
Moines, November 5 and 6, 1914. 

The session was presided over by Miss Catharine J. MacKay, President. 

217 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The first topic discussed was "What is being done to prepare rural 
school teachers to meet the requirement of the law regardmg teaching 
Home Economics in the rural schools" and was responded to by Miss 
Ruth Wardall, of the Universit>' of Iowa, Miss Mabel Bently of Iowa 
State College and Miss Olive Young, of Iowa State Teachers College. 
This discussion was followed by an illustrated talk by Mr. Joseph R. 
Chittick, State Chemist, Dairy and Food Commissioner — his subject being 
"Sanitar\' Care of Foods." 

The address of the afternoon was given by Miss Zona Gale, who gave 
an original story of much merit, and a short talk on the breadth and scope 
of Household Economics. 

On the follow^ng day, three most excellent addresses were given: "Do- 
mestic Art," Miss Helen Donovan, State University of Iowa; "Relation 
of the Teacher to the Communit>%" IMiss Sophonisba P. Breckenridge, 
Chicago Universit}'; "Pedagogical Principles in Home Economics Teach- 
ing," Miss Abb> L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin. 

Education for the South. Conference for Education and Industry 
and the Southern Educational Association and Conference for Education in 
the South will have a joint session at Chattanooga, Tennessee, April 27-30. 
This conference always gives serious attention to home interests. Pro- 
grams may be obtained from Dr. A. P. Bourland, 508 MacLachlen Bldg., 
Washington, D. C. 

Nebraska State Teachers' Association. The first Home Economics 
Session of the Nebraska State Teachers' Association held at Omaha, No- 
vember 4-6 was attended by teachers of Domestic Science and Sewing from 
the High Schools and Normal Schools all over the state as well as by Home 
Economics instructors from the State University and other colleges. An 
exhibit of the work in sewing from the rural schools showed how far into the 
educational system of the state our movement has penetrated. 

Miss Alice Loomis, University of Nebraska, presided and the following 
program was presented: 

Sequence of Work and Breadth of Subject Matter in Domestic Art, 
Miss Helen Lee Da\'is, University of Nebraska; Organization of W^ork in 
Domestic Science Laboratories, Miss Neva Turner, Omaha High School; 
How Can the Home Economics Section of the State Teachers' Association 
be ^Made of Most Value to the Teachers and Schools of the State? Ex- 
hibit of Home Economics Work in the State, Miss Rose Shonka. 

Following the discussions of these papers the entire audience visited the 
Om.aha High School Laboratory, where IMiss Turner's girls, working by 
twos, gave an excellent exhibition of a 45 minutes' domestic science lesson 
in a well equipped laboratory. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 219 

Mills College, California. The Mills College Home Economics Depart- 
ment gave a half-hour on December second to a program in remembrance 
of Mrs. Richards. Previously those in the cooking classes had devoted 
several hours to making candy; a sale netted the sum of $20.16 which is 
to be added to the Richards Memorial Fund. 

Another Easterner joined our Faculty last fall — Miss Ethel E. Taylor of 
Teacher's College, Columbia University, whose direction of the Textile side 
of Home Economics has increased the strength of the Department materially. 

The proximity of the Panama-Pacific International exhibition gives the 
college an unusual opportimity this year to study educational problems. 
Members are looking forward to attending the meeting of the International 
Home Economics Association next August. 

We hope to welcome Home Economics workers to Mills College as well 
as to the Exposition. Attention is called to the Mills College headquarters 
at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition. 

Simmons College Summer School. The Household Economics De- 
partment of Simmons College will be in session from July 6 to August 
14. Courses in cookery, dietetics, sewing, chemistry, biology, and education 
will be offered. Instruction will be given by the heads of the several 
departments, by instructors who give the corresponding courses during 
the college year, and by persons of national reputation whose ser\aces 
can be secured for the college only during the summer. Lectures and 
round-table discussions on some of the broader aspects of household eco- 
nomics will be conducted by special lecturers. The list of lecturers is 
not complete, but will include the following well-kno-v\Ti authorities: Sarah 
Louise Arnold, Dean of the College, and Professor of the Theory and 
Practice of Education; George R. Bedinger, Director of the Milk and 
Baby Hygiene Association; Flora E. Dutton, Director of the Westminster 
Tea Room, Pro\-idence; Sophronia Maria Elliott, Assistant Professor of 
Household Economics, Simmons College; R. Hay Ferguson, Organizer 
of Cooperative Marketing, Extension Ser\dce, Amherst Agricultural Col- 
lege; Edna M. Klaer, Supervisor of the School Lunch, New York City; 
Jane Q. McKimmon, State Agent in Home Demonstration Work, North 
Carolina; Mar\' Moran, Director of the New England Kitchen, Women's 
Educational and Industrial Union, Boston; Martha Van Rensselaer, Direc- 
tor of Home Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York; Annie 
Weeks, Visiting Housekeeper, Associated Charities, Cambridge; Grace T. 
Wills, Head Resident at Lincoln House, Boston; Jessamine Chapman 
Williams, formerly Professor of Home Economics at the Oklahoma Agri- 
cultural College. In addition to the full equipment of the Household 
Economics Department, the facilities of the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union will be available. 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS 

Miss Helen Hollister, who was at Mechanics Institute eight years, first 
as assistant superintendent and then as superintendent of Domestic 
Science and Art, has accepted the position of Supervisor in the School of 
Household Science and Arts at Pratt Institute. 

Miss Alba Bales (Normal Domestic Science, Pratt Institute, 1909), has 
resigned her position as head of the Department of Home Economics at 
the Lewiston (Idaho) State Normal School, to accept a similar position at 
the State Normal Training School, Pittsburg, Kansas. Miss Helen M. 
Wyman (Pratt 1914) has been appointed assistant in the department. 

Miss Anna Hallock (Normal Household Science, Pratt Institute, 1910), 
recently super^dsor of domestic science in the pubUc schools of La Crosse, 
Wisconsin, has been appointed head of department at the New Rochelle 
(N. Y.) High School, to succeed Miss Mary Rausch. 

Miss Winifred Nairn (Normal Household Science, Pratt Institute, 1912), 
for two years teacher of domestic science in the pubUc schools of Brandon, 
Manitoba, has been appointed head of the Department of Home Economics 
in the new government normal school at Brandon. 

Miss Clara Youngs (Normal Household Science, Pratt Institute, 1914) 
has been appointed head of the domestic science department of the Mill- 
edgevdlle (Ga.) Normal School. 

Miss Clementine L. Bowman, recently teacher of dressmaking at the 
Newark Y. W. C. A. has been appointed instructor in trade dressmaking 
in the School of Household Science and Arts, Pratt Institute. 

Miss Mary C. Brown (Normal Household Arts, Pratt Institute, 1914), 
has been appointed instructor in trade dressmaking in the School of House- 
hold Science and Arts, Pratt Institute. 

Miss Ariel M. Ewing (Normal Household Arts, Pratt Institute, 1908), 
for two years on the staff of the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, 
and later teacher in the Overbrook (Pa.) High School, has been appointed 
instructor in sewing for normal students in the School of Household Science 
and Arts, Pratt Institute. 

Miss Lillian Baker (Wellesley 1914) has been appointed instructor in 
physics and assistant in chemistr\' in the School of Household Science 
and Arts, Pratt Institute. 

Miss Pearl MacDonald (University of Michigan, 1898), subsequently 
a student at Columbia Uni\'ersity and instructor in the Michigan Agri- 
cultural College has been appointed to take charge of extension work in 
Home Economics at Pennsylvania State College. 



Vol. VII. Xo. 5 



TIIK 



MAY, 1915 



Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. NfARY 11. .\nEL, Editor Kf.turah E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Benj. R. .Andrews Anna Barrows C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Officio Members — Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economics .Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 

Collaborainrs — The Officers, Memljers of the Council, and .Adi'isers 



CONTENTS 



AND UnI- 
Hl STORY 



th-Lever 



The Home 

The Present Situation in .\merican Colleges 

Versities with Respect to Courses on the 

OF THE Family 

The Teaching of Household Management 

Pr.actical .Application of Textile Knowledge 

Molds in the Home .... 

New York's Public Markets 

Federal Aid for Vocational Training: The Sm 

AND the Smith-Hughes Bills . 
Fannie Merritt F.armer 

Editorials 

Housekeepers' Department . 

Teaching Women How to Buy Food 

Buying the Refrigerator 

Wheat Substitutes .... 

Some Experiments in Preserving Eggs in Waterglass 

Menus and Cost in a College Practice House . 

Shall the Buyer Demand Drawn or Undrawn Poultry 

Extension Courses in Dressmaking 

Typhoid Carriers .... 
Bibliography of Home Economics 
Books and Liter.ature .... 
News from the Field .... 



Edward T. Devine 221 



WiUystine GoodseU 
Myrtie C. VanDeusen 
Charhlte Gibbs Baker 
R. E. Buchanan 

Emma A. Wiiisloiv 

A. C. Monalian 
A)i)ia B arrows 



Emma Winsloic 



Annie L. Wing 



229 
231 
235 
238 
241 

24.S 
248 
250 
253 
2.S3 
254 
255 
257 
257 
259 
260 
262 
263 
265 
269 



The Journal o' Home Economics is published ten times during the year— monthly except July and .August — by the 
American Home Economics .Association. 

S2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the .American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.AXGE IX .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should l)e sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address. 



AMERTC.VX HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCI.VTIOX 



Station N, Baltimore, Md. 



Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




,-■1 all !■— e^yj^BnPB— — — BB^^M»a«aiwt:'»3». - •>- va 



A stand of apples at 10 cents a basket 




The farmer, having unloaded his wagon, ready for business 

New York's Public Markets (see page 241) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VII ^lAY, 1915 No. 5 



THE HOMEi 

EDWARD T. DEVINE 
Director, New York School cf Philanthropy 

What kind of homes we shall have — whether normal or abnormal 
— depends largely upon our standard of life. 

When this standard becomes consciousl}' idealized, when it has 
become ingrained in the habits and instincts of the people, when it 
extends to activities as well as to pleasures, when it operates to fix 
the age of marriage, the hours of the working day, the issues of war 
and peace, of Ufe and death, of the here and the hereafter, we may 
justly call it by the phrase The Standard of Lite. 

The first material requisite to a normal standard of living is an 
adequate and regular income, earned preferably by the male head of 
the family— without assistance from his wife ordinarily, never with 
the aid of children who should be in school— earned without exhaust- 
ing the worker's strength prematurely or exposing him to unnecessary 
dangers from accident and disease. 

The second essential is that this adequate income shall be ade- 
quately used, and for this the housewife has normally the main re- 
sponsibiUty. To woman by an evolutionary process has fallen the 
task of directing how the wealth brought into the house shall be 
used, whether much or Httle shall be made of it, what values shall 
be added to it. The woman at the head of a household is as truly 
an entrepreneur (if we may drop into the terminolog}- of economics) 

I One of a series of lectures on The Normal Life of Man, given in Baltimore during 
Februar>' and March, 1915. The lecture on The Home is here given in part. The series 
in book form may be obtained from The Survey .■\ssociate<=. 105 E. 22d St., New York 
City, about J^Iay 1. Price $1. 

221 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

as her husband at the head of a factory; she is as truly a producer 
of wealth when she broils a chop or washes the dishes, thereby in- 
creasing the utility of those commodities, as is her son when he helps 
build a bridge or repairs a drain-pipe or blacks someone's boots. Of 
still greater importance is the contribution she can make by deter- 
mining a wiser consumption of wealth, not only by choosing more 
intelligently each separate article of food and clothing and furniture, 
but also by bringing about such a relation among all the different 
material elements of the home that the result is a harmonious unit 
instead of a haphazard assemblage of necessities of Hfe. The person 
who arranges and groups commodities in such a way that their com- 
bined utility is greater than the sum of their separate utihties per- 
forms an economic service which is of equal importance at least with 
that performed by the one whom we call technically a producer. 

Improvements in consumption which bring about greater harmony 
of combinations and consequently actually create a sort of excess 
value, hold the greatest immediate possibilities for advancing the 
general prosperity. In other words, and to be concrete, household 
management — or, to be still more concrete, every-day housekeeping 
for an every-day family — deserves and will repay, even from the 
point of view of the national welfare, the application of the best 
brains and the best educated brains of the land. 

Under normal conditions, however, the wisest housewife, with an 
adequate income, is apt to be thwarted in her attempts to provide 
intelligently for her household unless society does some intelligent 
planning on its own account. 

Even in the daily marketing there is scope for social cooperation, 
now that our market gardens extend from Key West to HaHfax, and 
our poultry yards reach beyond the Mississippi. The cheapening of 
sugar, the development of cold storage transportation, and the in- 
vention of the art of canning fruit and vegetables have transformed 
our diet, but safely so only if the government inspects the canned 
goods, debars authoritatively poisonous preservatives, and makes the 
labels tell the truth. 

Take the fundamental matter of choosing a home, that is, the 
physical dwelUng-place of the family. For the great majority of 
families, choice is restricted to houses that have already been built 
by someone else. Where they have been built and what kind of 
houses thev are has been determined not with reference to the needs 



1915] THE HOME 223 

of the people, for homes as such, but by the real estate system, the 
tax system, the transportation system, and other things resting upon 
laws and the administration of laws, all of which have ordinarily had 
in view business interests, civic interests, perhaps, in a narrow and 
short-sighted sense, but not the welfare of the average family. 

In a sound program of social construction the streets and parks 
and car-lines will all be looked upon as elements in the problem of 
domestic housekeeping. Transportation facilities will be developed, 
actively and consciously, into an adequate system, making it pos- 
sible to get quickly and comfortably from home to work and back 
home again, and opening a variety of different residence districts to 
persons employed in the same estabhshment. Factories will be lo- 
cated in accordance with a consistent plan, based upon consideration 
of social welfare and worked out with scientific wisdom and prophetic 
insight. The city will be divided on what is called the zone system — 
not necessarily into concentric zones, but into districts suitable for 
its geographical contour and social needs, for the purpose of securing 
diversity in the character of buildings in the different zones, discour- 
aging speculation in land, and preventing the duplication in outlying 
portions of bad conditions already established in the center. Direct 
legislation will ensure, furthermore, that all buildings intended for 
homes — at any rate, all congregate dwelhngs — shall have certain 
minimum requirements which have come to be regarded as essential. 

In many places now the laws ensure that all tenements which are 
built shall be model tenements, that is, shall be as good in the essen- 
tial features of light, ventilation, sanitary conveniences, security from 
hre and other similar dangers, as the dwellings erected but a few years 
ago, partly from philanthropic motives, and called "model" tene- 
ments or dwcUings. On no other subject perhaps have we gone so 
far in putting into the form of laws or ordinances our social standard 
as we have in some cities on the subject of housing; and this is well, 
for the character of our domestic hfe is enormously influenced by the 
character of the houses in which we live. Think, for example, of the 
tremendous social and economic effects of such minor features as a 
garden, an attic, a cellar (with a cellar-door for a slide) and pantries, 
fences and a gate to swing on and a post to sit on. and roofs and 
\erandas, to sa}- nothing of more serious matters, like the size and 
number and arrangement of rooms, ventilation and water-supply and 
fire-escapes. 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Before our discussion runs, as it inevitably must, into the destruc- 
tive influences menacing normal home life, it is expedient to empha- 
size once more the positive resources for creating an affirmative home- 
life, that we may not draw the mistaken inference from these 
discussions, that painstaking defensive measures against the dan- 
gers represent the best social tactics. 

There is no sociological recipe for family affection: for that con- 
tinuing and ever strengthening love of man for wife and of woman for 
husband, without which there is no family in the true sense; for that, 
if need be sacrificing, but in any event always uncalculating love of 
parent for offspring, and that reciprocal attachment of child for par- 
ent which, beginning in physical dependence, may ripen into a con- 
scious loyalty matching mother love itself; for all those, as we rightly 
say, "natural" ties of brother and sister, and other relations, extend- 
ing into collateral Unes indefinitely according to circumstances. 

Common religious interests are among the strongest influences to 
support, develop, and maintain these natural domestic relations. 
The family altar is not so often outwardly visible in the modern 
home — partly perhaps because rents are high— but unless there is set 
up in the hearts of children a reverence for things really held sacred 
by the parents, one of the most ancient and the most essential of in- 
tangible family bonds is broken. 

Economic equahty within the family, amounting to the communis- 
tic formula, from each according to his powers, to each according to 
his needs, is another foundation stone of family solidarity. We ac- 
cept that principle within the family as axiomatic. All the income 
is of course for the benefit, the wisely and justly apportioned benefit, 
of the whole family. If differences in education are made among the 
children, it is because of some real or assumed differences in their 
aptitudes, or because of changed conditions. Girls and boys share 
equally, eldest sons have no rights of primogeniture, youngest sons 
no exclusive claim to affection. The welfare of each, broad-based in 
the welfare of all, is our ideal, and even the persistent attempt at a 
practical realization of that ideal becomes a bond of union among 
the members of the family. No doubt that ideal fails in practice 
often from miscalculation. 

Such failure will be less frequent when the practice of budgetary 
standards becomes common, in lieu of the haphazard spending of what- 
ever is in sight without regard to future or even present competing 



1915] THE HOME 225 

needs. As incomes increase, families have it in their power to pass 
over from forced standards to deliberately planned budgetary stand- 
ards. On the lower plane they pay for rent, food, and clothing more 
or less what they must. There is no margin for long range planning, 
for saving and investment, as in building and loan societies, or life 
insurance (except for burial expenses). On a higher plane of income 
many famihes continue just the same method of expenditure, not 
having adjusted their psychology to their earning power. Any Ameri- 
can skilled workman or office man can ordinarily plan his budget on 
a monthly or annual basis, or his wife can do it for him if she has 
the chance, as of course she should, and such careful planning of ex- 
penditure, such matching up of expenditure to income, taking account 
of common family needs, and also of the changing individual needs 
of its individual members, will become a bond of union and strength 
in the family household. 

Common interest in the physical and mental development of child- 
ren, from the day of birth, through infancy, kindergarten, school, 
apprenticeship, college, professional school, wherever the destiny of 
the individual guided by parental care and encouragement and all 
other complex influences may lead him, what subject is so engrossing 
in Ihe family circle, what elastic and invisible bond more secure to 
hold together forever those who have shared the anxieties, the tri- 
umphs of such an interest as that of the education of the growing 
members of a family? 

Common interests of any kind— such household pets as a horse or 
a Ford, a dog, a kitten, an aquarium of gold fish, a canary, a Victrola 
—family parties at the theatre or elsewhere outside the home, or 
within its circle, and all the multitude of miscellaneous socializing ex- 
periences—each makes its special contribution towards that unique 
and indissoluble whole, the home life of the family. 

Let us think now of the pathological aspects of adult life in the 
home. 

Among the vicious habits which impair or destroy normal family 
life, none other compares in devastation with the appetite for strong 
drink. 

Alcoholism is no doubt sometimes an inherited taint, the outcrop- 
ping of a degenerate germ plasm, certain to take some form of mental 
or nervous instabiUty— if not inebriety, then some other less or more 
harmful. Sometimes it is no doubt a disease, even if not inherited, 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

akin to insanity. Sometimes no doubt it is a mere weakness of the 
will, an indulgence in pleasure, like overeating, or extravagance of 
any other harmful kind. 

Primarily, however, when considered in its effect on individual and 
family welfare, alcohoHsm is to be looked upon as a habit, easily 
formed under favoring conditions, easily prevented at the outset 
under favoring conditions, beginning in youth or early manhood, in- 
creasing by easy stages, undermining gradually economic efficiency, 
the sense of family responsibiUty, personal and social standards, cre- 
ating fleeting delusions of power and resourcefulness for which there 
is no substantial basis, and leading on, just as temperance reformers 
have always said, straight to destruction, physical, economic, social, 
and moral. 

Bad associations and good advertising lead, I suppose, most often 
to the drink habit. The light and warmth of the saloon, its convivial 
sociabihty, its wide-open hospitaUty, its omnipresence where it is pres- 
ent at all, its business-hke efficiency for its own ends, its brilhant 
advertising signs, its substantial backing by distilleries and breweries, 
by journaHsm and politics, and the feebleness of competitors in the 
kind of social service which it renders, are surely enough to account 
for the steady supply of victims of the early stages of this pernicious 
habit. 

Another factor in the destruction of family life is disease. The 
high death-rate of early infancy from congenital causes and intestinal 
infections is followed by a relatively low death-rate in the years from 
five to twenty, though health has remained a prime object of solici- 
tude at every period of life. 

Most tragic of all diseases of adult life are those which cause the 
ahenation of the mind. 

Of early mature Hfe the great scourge is of course tuberculosis. 
The principles of the world-wide campaign against this leading cause 
of death are far too familiar to need recapitulation. It is in all ways 
a health campaign. Its gospel of pure air and sunhght, plain and 
substantial food, cleanliness, abstinence from the use of stimulants, 
early diagnosis and rest from injurious occupation has certainly been 
one of the chief elements in the general sanitary progress of the past 
two decades. The enthusiasm which the anti-tuberculosis campaign 
has aroused is no doubt largely due to this fact, that nearly all its 
features of which the lay public tak.es account are equally features 
of any health campaign. 



1915] THE HOME 227 

Tv-phoid, pneumonia, malaria, rheumatism, colds, and headaches 
all interfere with normal Hfe in the home, as of course also with in- 
comes and efficiency at work. Elementary policies of social con- 
struction demand consideration of each, to examine how they may 
best be controlled, how their economic and social effects may be 
reduced to a minimum and most judiciously distributed. They are 
not private, personal matters but social phenomena. No man has a 
right to have a headache even, if society can prevent it, much less 
typhoid, pneumonia, a cold, or any other communicable disease. 
The rights of others are involved in so many ways that the most 
unsocialized egoist must recognize that his diseases are affected by a 
public interest. The time has apparently come to concentrate on 
personal hygiene some of that same kind of attention that we have 
given to sanitation. There is not need to diminish the one in order 
to increase the other. Probably the next great step ahead in the 
protection of public health is the working out of some plan by which 
every person shall be periodically examined. The Life Extension 
Institute presents one plan to carry this idea into effect. Health 
Departments may come to offer such examinations free to those un- 
able to pay for them. 

Sickness insurance seems a more pressing problem in this country 
than old age insurance or unemployment insurance, more necessary 
than mothers' pensions or any other form of public rehef . It should 
cover, as it does in European countries, maternity insurance and life 
insurance on an ampler scale than our present industrial insurance 
companies provide. The expense should be divided between the in- 
sured and his employer, who will have the same opportunity to pass 
his part on to consumers in the form of slightly higher prices than 
he has in the case of compensation for accidents. If necessary, the 
state can assume a part of the cost, as the prevention of sickness and 
the distribution of its burdens is properly a public function. 

Sickness insurance does not of necessity mean sickness prevention, 
but it is easy to unite the two harmonious and closely related poHcies 
into a consistent poHcy of sickness insurance and prevention. A 
Federal Health Department, vigorous state Health Departments, 
even more energetic and well supported local municipal and rural 
health boards — all engaged in a well-knit campaign of prevention 
and education — will be outward and visible signs of that pubhc health 
ideal of which sickness insurance is another normal expression. 



228 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Disruption of the family by divorce or desertion, intemperance and 
crime, insanity and disease, %vidowhood, overcrowding in tenements 
and alleys, unemployment and irregular employment, uncompen- 
sated accidents, sweating and exhaustion from overwork, disaster, in 
a word, from exploiting industry on the one hand and from broken 
homes on the other are the tragedies of maturity, as neglect is the 
tragedy of infancy, the lack of nurture of childhood and the perver- 
sion of character of adolescence. The aim of normal life is to antici- 
pate and prevent these tragedies, the aim of social work is to mobihze 
the forces of society for honest, straightforward, persistent, compre- 
hensive attack upon them as pathological abnormahties which any 
self-respecting society will never deliberately tolerate. 

The home which occupies the center of our attention just now, has 
wonderfully changed in its outward physical aspects in recent years. 
Hospitals, kindergartens, restaurants, and factories, have taken over 
on a large scale functions once performed in the home. Society has 
organized somewhat on horizontal levels, taking children as well as 
adults out of the home for some activities, some enjoyments, some 
mere conveniences for which our fathers had no parallels. I hear of 
a defensive parents' league, a sort of trade union to withstand what 
are felt to be the unreasonable demands of school and society on the 
time of young children. 

How are these changes as a whole affecting the home? Are they 
making it perhaps superfluous? Are they destoying its unique char- 
acter, transforming it into at worst merely a mechanism for perpetu- 
ating the race, and at best a high class boarding house or a sort of 
club in which a few congenial, but by age rather ill assorted, people 
preserve the vestiges of an obsolete institution? 

A closer analysis will lessen such apprehensions. What is it after 
all mainly that the home has lost by the revolutionary changes so 
much in our minds? Mainly disease and noise and dirt and drudgery. 
The factory and the office are better places in every way for active 
work than the home ever was. A well managed hospital is often if 
not always a better place to be sick in than a family sleeping room if 
the illness is serious, requiring medical attention and nursing. The 
theatre and the "movie" are after all more entertaining than back- 
gammon and puzzle pictures. The rivals of the home are rivals in 
very Umited spheres. Its unique sphere remains untouched, the more 
distinctly its own because of the speciaUzation of functions. Home 



1915] PRESENT SITUATION IN AMERICAN COLLEGES 229 

is not a boarding house but a complex of relations, physical and 
spiritual, which were never more beautiful, more enduring, or more 
ennobling than in the modern family. Romance has not departed 
from it, though a clearer recognition of ethical obligations has come 
into it. Religion still creates its atmosphere, though it is a milder, 
freer, healthier religion than the austere faith of ancient Rome or 
that of the Mosaic law, both of which have made such a lasting im- 
press upon the family. 

We may look to the transforming, emancipating influences of the 
future without apprehension. The family will survive, and the home 
will survive as its habitat, the more wholesome and the more efficient 
for all the new resources of civilization, for the normal and not the 
abnormal is the fit to survive. 

THE PRESENT SITUATION IN AMERICAN COLLEGES AND 

UNIVERSITIES WITH RESPECT TO COURSES ON 

THE HISTORY OF THE FAMILY 

WILLYSTINE GOODSELL 

Assistant Professor of the History of Education, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Some time ago the writer became interested in discovering how 
many of the American institutions for the higher education of young 
men and women were offering courses specifically designed to enlighten 
their students concerning the history and functions of the family 
and the forces now at work to disintegrate it. The results of a brief 
study of college catalogues proved that most of our universities and 
colleges, those exclusively for men or women, as weU as those state 
universities that are co-educational, relegate this subject to general 
courses in sociology or social ethics where it plays a subordinate role. 
Relatively few institutions offer thorough courses in the evolution of 
domestic customs and laws as introductory to a consideration of 
modern problems centering about family Hfe. This means, of course, 
that thousands of young men and women are being graduated from 
our colleges of Hberal arts yearly with only some very general notions 
of the family as a social institution, gained from general courses in 
sociology even where these are required. Thus imperfectly equipped, 
if they are equipped at all, these young Bachelors of Arts or Science 
go forth into the world of living human experience with Uttle insight 



230 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

into the causes of the family friction that they see around them and 
of which they read in almost every periodical they open. One of 
the chief benefits which should be derived from a sound course on 
family history and problems is the abiHty to evaluate the various 
schemes of reform so confidently promulgated in our magazines by 
radicals and conservatives of every shade. Yet this valuable training 
the students of our higher schools are in many instances receiving 
indirectly or not at all. 

But it is an encouraging sign that several American universities 
have adopted courses definitely treating of domestic institutions from 
a historical and analytical point of view. Thus Brown University 
ofi'ers a strong course on ''Ancient Society and its Institutions" 
which is speciaHzed with respect to marriage, family organization 
and the development of domestic relations. This is supplemented by 
a course on ''Social Problems and Conditions" in which the modern 
family receives consideration along with other social institutions. 
The University of Indiana likewise aft'ords its students an opportun- 
ity to study "Domestic Institutions;" and Kansas University offers 
a full and carefully outlined course on "The Family." Likewise Xew 
York University has for several years furnished a valuable course 
on "The Family and Eugenics." Other institutions offering special- 
ized courses on "The Family" are Adelbert College of Western Re- 
serve University, Ohio State University, the University of Puget 
Sound (course called "Domestic Sociology"), Santa Clara College, 
Simmons College, Teachers College of Columbia University, Vander- 
bilt University, Washington University (St. Louis), Willamette Uni- 
versity (Oregon), the state universities of Wisconsin, Wyoming and 
Nebraska, and Yale University, which offers in its Graduate School 
an advanced course called the "Self Perpetuation of Society." It is 
rather striking that amid all their rich oft'ermgs in the fields of history 
and sociology neither Harvard nor Cornell furnish courses definitely 
specialized with reference to the family institution. On the other 
hand a few of our normal schools are waking up to the need of such 
courses and they are already introduced into the State Normal 
Schools at Los Angeles, Cahfornia, and Moorhead, Minnesota. 

But the most significant thing is the fact that not one of the lead- 
ing colleges for women is offering a course on the history and present 
status of the family. The young women of Smith, Barnard, Welles- 
ley, Radclifife, Mt. Holyoke, Bryn Mawr, Ehnira and Goucher Col- 



1915] THE TEACHING OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 231 

leges receive general instruction in economics and sociology and in 
some instances may even specializeon the'* Labor Problem"or "Social- 
ism" or "Charities and Corrections." But such enlightenment as 
they may get with respect to the social institution which most inti- 
mately concerns themselves comes more or less incidentally in con- 
nection with courses in sociology. Yet sooner or later each of these 
young women will probably be called upon to make up her mind on 
such questions as the causes and regulation of divorce, the part which 
women must play in the campaign agamst vice, the decUning birth- 
rate, the tendency, in certain classes of our population, toward the 
postponement of marriage, the effect of modern industrial conditions 
upon the home— and a host of allied problems. Are we fitting our 
graduates to meet these questions with intelligence and in the open- 
minded spirit of the sincere student of social institutions? 

THE TEACHING OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 

MYRTIE C. VAN DEUSEN 

Slate Normal School, Kirksville, Mo. 

We should think of Household Management as a survey course. 
The manager of the household needs a thorough knowledge of her 
home, a knowledge of all the activities within it, and a knowledge of 
all the relations of her home to the world at large. 

Our oldest treatise on the subject, Xenophon's "Economics," shows 
how similar throughout the ages has been the work of the household 
manager within her home. Can anything express it more simply 
than his own words, ''Whatever is brought into the house, you must 
take charge of it; whatever portion of it is required for use you must 
give it out; and whatever should be laid by, you must take account 
of it and keep it safe, so that the provision stored up for a year, for 
example, may not be expended in a month." 

But this was written long before the materials for home consump- 
tion were manufactured outside of the home. A very different phase 
is added to our study of the subject now. One of the most interest- 
ing parts of our term's work at the Kirksville Normal, in the liouse- 
hold management course, lies in the reading, the discussion, and 
above all the thought which makes a young woman realize the posi- 
tion in the world of the modern homemaker. 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

She then proceeds to study the management of the home. First, 
she becomes business manager. She has selected for her problem 
throughout the course, the study and management of a home for 
some family, preferably her own or one with whose income and con- 
ditions she is famiHar. 

She decides what standard of life this family has and gives such 
social facts about it as will determine whether money is spent to the 
best advantage. Next she plans or selects an appropriate dwelling, 
decides whether they should rent or own this property and enumer- 
ates its furnishings and their cost. She divides the family income, 
deciding what should be spent for food by planning and calculating 
the exact cost of two weeks' meals, and what should be spent for 
clothing by planning and calculating the cost of the wardrobe of each 
member of the family. She also plans and organizes the work of 
this family, deciding what household service is required and how it 
can best be secured. 

Inquiry- made in any class of our Normal School students will show 
that few have allowances or keep any record of their expenditures. 
Their mothers make similar statements for themselves when house- 
hold accounting is discussed at their Home Economics club. They 
seem to feel that an allowance would be an insult. They know nothing 
of many of the household expenditures, for their husbands pay all 
the bills. They seem to prefer the position of dependence in financial 
affairs and state as proof of their wise buying, the fact that their 
husbands have never questioned the wisdom of a purchase. 

The daughters of these mothers need more than a study of budgets 
and bookkeeping to convince them that the home needs business 
methods appHed to it. Therefore, the students are asked to make 
arrangements for a definite allowance to cover some classes of expend- 
itures for a month, and to keep account of this money for that length 
of time. A few usually can arrange to act as business managers of 
their homes during the month. Girls who board in the city apportion 
an allowance for themselves and keep such accounts without much 
difficulty. Others do light housekeeping and, as mistresses of their 
own homes, cooperate in this plan willingly. It is with these stu- 
dents that some of our most interesting work is done. 

Frequently, the budget and the accounts cannot agree closely but 
this teaches the need of experience in apportioning incomes. As a 



1915] THE TEACHING OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 233 

matter of fact a budget for so short a period can not represent the 
year but frequently interest is aroused to continue the work longer. 

We use classified account books for keeping these records. One 
which can be recommended for the use of those keeping personal 
accounts is the Young Women's Christian Association account book 
which costs 15 cents and which is small enough to slip into a hand 
bag. 

During the time that accounts are kept a study of class expendi- 
tures is made. Considerable discussion is devoted to the amount 
which is necessary in order to secure efi&cient living. Opinions vary- 
but each student makes her own decision and apportions such an 
income. The same is done for a self-supporting woman. 

Throughout our course we use for study the conditions of our own 
community as far as possible. We have interesting discussions of 
the cost of building certain houses in the city and of the cost of rents. 
The price of building lots in the different sections is found out. Next 
operating expenses are studied. What is the cost of gas, of elec- 
tricity, of the heat furnished by the city heating plant? WTiat are 
the available fuels and what their relative efficiency? This frequently 
calls for a knowledge of reading meters and a study of heating and 
lighting fixtures. The students are then ready to decide whether it 
is best to ow^n property or to rent it in Kirksville. 

In a similar manner they compare the cost of Ught housekeeping 
with the expense of board and room. The profit in keeping boarders 
is also reckoned. 

In studying the cost of clothing each student makes a budget of 
her own clothes for one year. She also decides what furnishes a de- 
sirable wardrobe for student or teacher and what sum must be spent 
yearly for such wardrobes. 

The expenditures for higher life offer opportunities for discussing the 
cost of a college or normal school education and of investments and 
ways of saving. We try to find what are some of the safe investments 
and what a reasonable rate of interest for such investment. The 
care of money resources requires also a knowledge of banking and of 
business forms. 

For conclusions regarding domestic service, comparisons are made 
between the average income of the factory girl in Kirksville who re- 
ceives $5.50 a week, and the domestic employe who receives $4 with 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

board. Factory ser\'ice as compared with domestic service reveals ad- 
vantages in each, and shows what is needed to improve conditions of 
household emplo}Tnent. 

The household manager, however, must be the buyer of household 
supplies as well as the business manager and organizer of work. 
But first, since it is impossible to separate the organization of work 
from efficient execution, she must learn to select the equipment that 
will help most in performing the work she has organized. 

What shall be the arrangement of stove, work table, cabinet, sink 
and ice box? What shall be their size and height? What materials 
should be used in their construction? How can we improve a kitchen 
improperly constructed? These are some of the questions the house- 
hold manager must answer. She must then decide upon the labor 
saving devices, and tools which will help her in her work. Do they 
fill a need? Are they constructed on scientific principles and of dura- 
ble materials? We study them by inviting agents to demonstrate 
them to us, by visits to the stores, by preparing exhibits of our own 
school kitchen apparatus and by posting on a bulletin board illustra- 
tions and descriptions of tools which should appeal to the household 
manager. 

For selecting food the purchasing agent needs to know what the 
federal and state food laws require, and whether any municipal regu- 
lations protect food. She needs to cultivate the habit of measuring 
and weighing, of reading labels and learning trade names for good 
quality brands. One way of fostering this habit is to collect labels 
in a scrapbook or on a bulletin board, grouping together labels 
representing honest goods and those representing poor quaHty or 
adulteration. 

The purchasing agent should also know what causes are contribut- 
ing to increase the cost of living. How practicable are cooperative 
stores, cooperative buying in large quantity and buying direct from 
the producer? Perhaps the plan of some local store is worthy of her 
study, such as the one w^hich can undersell its neighboring markets 
because it makes no dehveries. 

Certainly she should know how sanitary are the methods of deaUng 
with food in her city and what needs remedying. It is disgusting to 
notice the way many butchers, bakers, grocery men, fruit dealers and 
candy merchants handle the food they sell. A few appeals to the 
women of our citv seem to have had little effect. Next term each 



1915] PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF TEXTILE KNOWLEDGE 235 

member of our household management class is to remonstrate with 
one dealer about this and to report her experience to the class. 

Lastly the household manager needs to be supervisor of the indus- 
tries and activities within her home as well as guardian of the mate- 
rials which enter it. Hardly a treatise on Home Economics comes 
to us today without some reference to the changes in home industries. 
So many of the speakers at the Home Economics conference in Cleve- 
land last summer referred to this that it became a joke and the later 
speakers apologized for this part of their papers. 

Through courses in cooking, cleaning and sewing, students learn 
the home industries of today. In this, their survey course of the home, 
they acquire the foundations for scientific home management. But 
as the industries of old are passing from under their paternal roof, 
the homemaker of the future needs increasingly more knowledge of 
the materials made outside the home. As the Brueres say in their 
book on home efficiency, a lover today does not ask "Can you brew, 
bake or churn?" but: 

Are you up on the pure food laws afifecting the manufacture of canned 
soup? 

Can you assure me that you know the conditions governing the sanitary 
production of pastry? 

Can you bring enough influence to bear on public opinion so that the 
family clothing will not have to be made in a sweat-shop? 

Do you know how to get honest government inspectors appointed, to 
assure me of the purity of the milk and butter you promise to serve me? 

PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF TEXTILE KNOWLEDGE 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

Several years of study and experience in buying textiles makes one 
feel that every woman should have the knowledge which makes her 
an intelhgent buyer, and the pleasure which comes from intelhgent 
buying of fabrics; yet the same years of connection with a school 
system makes one realize the increasingly great number of things 
which must be crowded into the curriculum. 

The study of textiles is greatly enriched by a background of his- 
tory and art, as well as by botany and chemistry, and the subject 
itself leads us into sociolog}-, economics, physiolog>- and hygiene. 



236 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The grades, the high school, the college, do not give us time enough 
for the things we must know in order to be broadly educated, but 
since so large a per cent of our number are fortunate if they even 
linish the high school, we must do the best we can for them while 
they are with us. Usually textiles in the high school is taught in 
connection with sewing, and is given one or two recitation periods 
a week at most. 

What then, from our field of textile knowledge, is appUcable to 
this period of the student's training? Perhaps the most important 
thing, in the consideration of this subject in the high school, is the 
development of an appreciation of materials. The girl of high school 
age is intensely interested in clothes, she loves pretty things, and 
she is imitative. There is a real opportunity for the teacher who 
is capable of using this interest, and of developing it along right 
lines. 

If the girl can be made to appreciate the beauty of good materials, 
to feel the pleasure of a Httle exquisite ornament, to experience the 
satisfaction to be had from an artistic garment, well made and suited 
to her needs, something worth while has been accomplished. 

Novelty materials, extreme fashions, over ornamentation, are be- 
ing exploited on all sides. The designer and the manufacturer are 
not helping us to become more sane in our personal adornment and 
in our homes. In a lecture by an interior decorator from one of 
our big furniture stores, the reason given for most methods of decora- 
tion was, "They are doing it this year," they, being, of course, the 
decorators. When asked for some real principle to explain a certain 
window treatment, his only resource was, ^'they are doing it." In 
the same way women of sallow complexion wear yellow greens, be- 
cause ''they are wearing them this season." Materials, fleeting in 
color, lacking in durability, but effective when new, are made into 
garments, because ^Uhey won't be wearing these tunics, or puffs or 
what-not long." 

Because of rapidly changing fashions the demand for cheap mate- 
rials is great. It becomes more difficult each year to buy wisely. 

As it is impossible to see what the manufacturer will offer next, 
the best preparation for the buyer would be to make one's self fa- 
miliar with the standard fabrics, with the materials and prices, which 
do not change rapidly, and then with the adulterations practiced; 
to study briefly the nature of the fibers used, their manufacture into 



1915] PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF TEXTILE KNOWLEDGE 237 

cloth, and the characteristics of the finished cloth. The amount of 
detail to be considered in these processes will depend somewhat upon 
the time allowed. It is not necessary for the average girl to under- 
stand the mechanism of gill boxes. She can, however, know that 
when cotton has been freed from seeds and dirt it is brushed into a 
thin sheet, somewhat like cotton batting, which sheet is condensed 
into rope; that this rope, after many drawings and twistings, becomes 
the fine yarn which is woven into cloth; that this yarn must be sized 
to hold it together in weaving. She may know the various weaves 
that are used, the method of finishing, including bleaching, dyeing 
and printing. It will be interesting to her to find out that the dif- 
ferent qualities of cotton cloth are due to differences in quahty of 
fiber, in twist of yarn, in amount of sizing, in kind of weave, in method 
of finishing, and that the price also varies with these things. In the 
study of linens, emphasis may be laid on the difi"erence in the nature 
of the cotton and Unen fiber. This difference makes linen so much 
more desirable for towels, table Unen, etc.; makes it necessar>' to 
bleach linen in a different manner from cotton, if we are to retain its 
strengm; and also accounts for the ease with which linens dye. 

Wool, a fiber for which the demand is greater than the supply, is 
capable of adulteration in a number of ways. Because of the nature 
of the fiber, a great variety of materials may be made from it, and 
because of its durability the fiber may be used a second time. Wool- 
ens, worsteds, felt shoddy as well as mixed goods, must be studied 
in the manufacture and in the finished product. 

SUk, by nature a long, fine fiber, requires but little treatment to 
produce a thread, but that must be done by skilled fingers. The 
practice of weighting silks is new to most women, who wonder why 
their silks wear shiny and crack before the}^ should. If each fiber 
is studied carefully, its adulterations and imitations discussed and 
the pupil's interest thoroughly aroused, a beginning, at least, will 
have been made. Simple chemical tests to distinguish fibers may be 
shown by the teacher or made by the class. Burning tests, and tests 
by breaking the thread should be made. 

The pupils should be encouraged to coUect samples to bring into 
class, samples of materials which have worn well, and of those which 
have not. 

Trips to factories are interesting and beneficial, as are trips to 
stores, and when possible, to art collections. A collection of good, 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

illustrative material should be made. The bargain counter should 
be discussed, and reasons given for marking down material. 

In short, every possible effort is to be made in the given time to 
famiharize the girl with fabrics, and to develop an interest which 
may remain with her when she has greater opportunity for buying. 
In the end practice makes the good buyer, practice backed by 
knowledge. 

The intelligent buyer should know something of color and design, 
and of the hygiene of materials. She should know that such an or- 
ganization as the National Consumers League exists, and that there 
are child labor laws, and need for more and better laws, and especially 
for their enforcement. 

Material for courses in textiles is not lacking. The teacher has 
opportunity to develop a very vital subject, a subject which has 
greater possibilities than have in all cases been realized. 

MOLDS IN THE HOME 

E. E. BUCHANAN 
Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa 

The thrifty housewife instinctively disUkes molds and mildews, 
whether they occur on the bread in the breadbox, on the fruit canned 
for winter use or on the apples and vegetables stored in the cellar. 
They always seem to charge her with lack of care, even with slovenH- 
ness. She has learned by experience that molds thrive in dampness 
and in the dark, and that they are vanquished by dryness, air, and 
above all, by sunlight. She regards them as at least undesirable; 
she probably considers them to be dangerous to health, even poison- 
ous. But in how many cases does she know what a mold really is, 
or in what ways it may directly affect the health of herself and family? 

The molds met by the housewife are in a very real sense to be 
regarded as weeds, for they are truly "good plants out of place." 
Plants they certainly are, for the botanist tells us that they grow from 
minute beginnings, produce seeds (he calls them spores), and die. 
To be sure, the microscope shows them to be tiny plants, but are 
they "good plants out of place?" Strange as it may seem, the bene- 
fits produced by molds in their growth in nature far outweigh the 
damage in the home. They are always actively at work in the soil^ 



1915] MOLDS IN THE HOME 239 

decomposing plant and animal remains, and through them enriching 
the soil. Molds and bacteria working together are responsible in 
large measure for soil fertility, for the ability of the soil to produce 
abundantly. The sterile, infertile soil harbors few or none of these 
microscopic plants; in the fertile, productive soil, they are present in 
great numbers and in endless variety. Useful as they are in the 
field, however, we can agree that they are out of place in the home; 
our point then is established, the molds are the weeds of the house- 
hold. 

The botanist who has studied the molds will tell us that several 
thousand different kinds have been described, of the most varied 
shapes, sizes and colors. The prospect of any person other than a 
specialist knowing and recognizing any considerable number of these 
forms is evidently remote, but that should not discourage us from 
making the acquaintance of some of the commonest among them, 
or at least from being able to recognize several at sight. The fact 
that there are thousands of kinds of flowering plants in our country 
does not prevent us from knowing the ones that grow in our garden 
or in our dooryard. Nine-tenths of the molds that are met in the 
home belong to a very few (not more than half a dozen) distinct 
types. Most of them can be recognized as readily at a glance as the 
pigweed or the purslane of the garden. One does not need to know 
the scientific name of a plant to be on familiar terms with it; the com- 
mon name serves just as well. Unfortunately common names have 
been given to a very few only of the molds, and the Latin names 
must perforce be used. But these should not bother one, none are 
as awkward as hippopotamus or rhinoceros. 

All molds are made up of a mass of more or less tangled and branched 
threads. When young, that is, before they have begun to fruit they 
often resemble each other as closely as do different kinds of grass 
before the flowers and seeds appear. Very soon they produce spe- 
cial branches which in time bear spores. These spores serve the same 
functions as do the seeds for the corn or the oak; they dift'er from seeds 
in being extremely small and much simpler in structure. When 
they fall upon a favorable spot they germinate and form a new plant 
or mold. When in fruit the molds can usually be identified easily. 
Anyone who possesses a good microscope will fijid a study of these 
forms a most fascinating pursuit, for many of them are exquisitely 
beautiful when viewed under the lens. 



240 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Three-fourths of the molds observed by the housewife are green, 
or bluish- or yellowish-green. The great majority of these belong 
to one general type. They are the ones that produce the. green or 
bluish velvety areas upon lemons, oranges, bananas, apples and other 
fruits, that thrive on the surface of preserves and canned fruits im- 
perfectly sealed, or that are common on bread and pastry; in fact 
it is difhcult to name a food substance upon which they will not 
appear in time. For lack of a better designation they are sometimes 
called the blue-green molds, although they are often deep olive, light 
green, even yellow, orange, brown or white. The botanist calls them 
Penicillium, meaning a httle brush. The microscope shows many 
erect, slender threads, branched, and with chains of tiny spores pro- 
jecting from the tips of the branches, the whole having the appear- 
ance of a broom or brush, whence the name. These spores are easily 
detached and blown about by every breath of wind. They are every- 
where present in dust, and always ready to begin growing when op- 
portunity offers. 

A second mold that is relatively common is the Mucor, sometimes 
termed the black bread mold. Everyone has seen the masses of cob- 
webby white mold that appear on stale damp bread and on decaying 
vegetables such as sweet potatoes and squash. Careful inspection 
even with the unaided eye will show the presence of minute black 
dots here and there on the tips of the erect threads. The lens shows 
these black bodies to be spherical cases filled with brown or black 
spores. When touched, the outer wall of the case is shattered and 
the spores are freed, ready to grow in the presence of moisture and 
food. 

The third mold, somewhat less common than the preceding, is 
Aspergillus. At first glance this has somewhat the appearance of the 
Penicillium, but is rarely green ; usually the body of the mold is white 
and the spores black or of some bright color. The stalks which pro- 
duce the spores stand erect, each with a swelling or bulb at the tip. 
Tiny protuberances grow out from this bulb until it is studded over 
with spikes like an old war club. From the tip of each of these 
spikes are pinched off spores one after another; these cling together in 
chains. A view of the whole reminds one of the long handled fans 
seen in Egyptian carvings. Under the microscope they appear as 
forests of palms with clusters of radiating leaves at the extreme tops 
of the long naked trunks. 



1915] NEW York's public markets 241 

One other mold, the Alter naria, a brown form, is common on de- 
caying starchy foods. It is not a conspicuous mold to the unaided 
eye, but under the microscope is one of the most beautiful. The 
spores in this form are brown, clubshaped and produced in long 
chains. 

Molds are not always undesirable in food. Some of our most 
delicious cheeses, such as the Roquefort and Camembert, for exam- 
ple, owe their texture and flavor to the growth of certain kinds of 
Penicillium. Usually, however, they are undesirable. They spoil 
flavors, destroy texture and probably in some cases even poison foods 
or other materials on which they grow, and they are regarded as 
being in some obscure manner generally "unhealthful." 

The fact that molds spoil the flavor of foods in many cases cannot 
well be denied, in fact this is the most important source of loss and 
annoyance from their growth. But more important still is the fact 
that some of them produce substances that are definitely poisonous. 
Just what these poisonous substances are is not known in all cases. 
One that has been definitely shown to be present in some instances 
is oxalic acid, a deadly poison when eaten in any considerable quan- 
tity. Moldy silage and moldy hay have repeatedly been shown to 
be fatal for horses; the e\'idence is not quite so positive regarding 
poisoning from moldy food in man, but is sufficient to show that 
every precaution should be used to avoid eating such food. Quite 
as important is the fact that breathing the dust or spores from moldy 
material may be directly injurious to health. Fortunately many 
kinds of mold spores are not dangerous to man, but many cases are 
on record of infection of the lungs with Aspergillus. This occurs 
very commonly indeed in lower animals and particularly in birds fed 
on moldy food. It is evident that every reasonable precaution should 
be used in eliminating such molds from our food and from the home. 

NEW YORK'S PUBLIC MARKETS 

EMMA A. WINS LOW 
Lecturer in Marketing, Teachers College, Columbia University 

New York City has the reputation of being a city where living 
expenses are high. Rents would naturally be high because of the 
small size of the island on which the city is buUt, but there would 
seem to be no reason for high food costs in a city which receives, by 



242 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

land and by sea, such large shipments of food from all parts of the 
world. Food is low in price, investigators tell us, when it reaches 
New York, but by the time it is received by the consumer it is high 
in price, for New York has the poorest market system of aU the 
large cities of the world. It is so poor that out of each dollar that 
the consumer pays for food, thirty-three cents goes, not for food, but 
for the expenses connected with its handling and sale. 

The retail pubHc markets in the city until recently have been few 
and inaccessible ; practically all purchasing had to be done at the small 
retail stores with their high "overhead charges," except in certain 
parts of the city where pushcarts were allowed. 

Last August Mayor Mitchel appointed a Food Supply Committee 
with George W. Perkins as Chairman : this committee immediately be- 
came very active, as did also the Committeee on Open Markets which 
had been previously organized with Borough President Marks of Man- 
hattan as Chairman. 

Four places in the city were opened September first as temporary 
open markets to which any farmer or dealer could come, without 
expense, for the purpose of selling his goods directly to the consiuner. 
The plan, however, has apparently not as yet appealed to the farm- 
ers as much as to the purchasers, for ordinarily there have been 
only thirty or forty farmers' wagons among the thousands of wagons 
and stands belonging to city hucksters and dealers. 

One of the markets which was located on the lower East Side was 
not successful, largely, it is felt, because it was in competition with 
the pushcarts rather than with the retail stores with their high oper- 
ating costs. The other three markets have continued to flourish in 
spite of many handicaps. It was estimated that about 100,000 peo- 
ple were coming to the three markets on each of several days in the 
week, in January, the fifth month after their opening. This num- 
ber represents a regular increase from the beginning and would seem 
to promise a much larger attendance during next spring and summer. 

The markets themselves have been ver}"- crude affairs; each seller 
displays his goods according to his own individual tastes, with the 
exception of meat and fish which are required to be kept covered. 
The Fort Lee Market is a busy trading center and has appealed to 
the dweUers in the apartment houses on Riverside Drive as well as 
to the tenement dwellers of Harlem. One of the chief attractions is 
its nearness to the quay at which fishing boats sell their fish, a few 
hours from the water and very cheap. 



1915] NEW York's public markets 243 

A liberal education in food selection is given to its patrons by the 
free market, if they will take advantage of the opportunities. In 
one of the markets, for instance, in October over fifty different kinds 
and varieties of vegetables were displayed, and as many fruits. There 
are also many different grades of the same article distributed through 
the market, and the housewife soon learns not to depend upon the 
judgment of the individual dealer with reference to his own wares, 
but to go from place to place until she can decide where it is best to 
buy. A skillful buyer who knows how to judge relative values would 
have plenty of chance to find bargains at the market, but there is 
need for a background of knowledge if full advantage is to be taken of 
the opportunities offered. 

The saving in food costs has, of course, been chiefly instrumental in 
making the markets successful. Butter, eggs, meat and poultry have 
been selling in the markets for between 10 and 20 per cent below the 
prices asked in the retail stores. Potatoes cost about 25 per cent 
less, that is, when they are selling at fifteen pounds for 25 cents in 
the stores, they can be purchased at the market twenty pounds for 
25 cents. On onions, cabbages, beets, apples, bananas and lemons, a 
saving of fifty per cent has been frequently reported. The average 
saving on a list of 34 articles upon which store and market prices 
were collected, was 38 per cent, the range of saving being from 12^ 
to 60 per cent. One woman who traded at the Fort Lee Market for 
two months, during which time she kept itemized, comparative ac- 
counts, found that she had saved from two to three doUars a week 
on her food purchases, and at the same time had been securing very 
fresh goods of excellent quality. 

The question of delivery from the markets has been a difiScult one 
to solve and at present it is being solved by the individual purchasers 
rather than by the market itself. At first, arrangements were made 
with various privately operated delivery systems, to carry packages 
from the market for a small fee to be varied according to the size of 
the bundle and the distance over which the goods were taken. It 
was soon foimd, however, that people who lived near by preferred to 
carry their own goods home and save the money, even though it 
meant several trips with the help of aU their children and their neigh- 
bor's children who were large enough to have abiUty as "carriers." 
A baby carriage made a good market basket as did also a child's ex- 
press cart or a wooden soap box mounted on roller skates. The most 



244 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

popular article for this purpose proved to be a large black bag which 
was sold in the markets by peddlers, often at the rate of two hundred 
a day. Under these conditions, deUvery systems were not patron- 
ized except for large and heavy bundles taken for long distances; 
this was not a very profitable line of business and the private dehvery 
systems are no longer found at the markets. Instead, if you do not 
want to do your own delivering, your only recourse is the huckster 
who is willing to bring your package "on his way home" for a small 
remuneration. 

As will be seen from the above descriptions. New York's free mar- 
kets are for those who have the time and the strength to "go to mar- 
ket" and bring their purchases home. The actual time required to 
buy in these markets is usually greater than in the retail stores and 
several trips are often necessary to make purchases which would be 
made at once if dehvery were possible. Greater skill is often required 
in order to secure goods which are up to a certain standard, than if 
dependence for selection is placed upon a well-trained clerk. You 
save at the markets in actual dollars and cents, but you do not have 
the benefits of deliveries, of buying many different kinds of goods in 
a single order, of refunds if goods are not satisfactory, of credit, 
of quick emergency servdce, and of immaculate cleanhness in the 
handling of foodstuffs — all of which we can get in the ordinary retail 
store if we are willing to pay the price. 

The free markets have been worth while in New York, if for no 
other reason than that they have aroused pubhc interest in what can 
be easily and quickly done in reducing food costs. However, much 
besides the estabhshment of free markets is needed before the food 
costs of all the people can be reduced, and under the new Market 
Commission attention is being given first to the reduction of waste 
in the wholesale handling of foods as they come to us from outside, 
as it is felt that here perhaps most can be done of really universal 
value. Then attention is to be given to building up the food supply 
marketed here, to arranging for a better plan of local distribution in 
the city, and for less wasteful retailing methods. Previously but 
little serious thought was given to the estabhshment of many retail 
markets throughout the city, as it was felt that they would not be suf- 
ficiently well patronized to pay. The present experimental markets 
have at least shown that great numbers of people in New York are 
willing to sacrifice time and convenience and to purchase regularly 



1915] FEDERAL AID FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING 245 

at an open market if they find there good food at low prices. Doubt- 
less future market plans for the city will lay far greater emphasis 
upon the retail markets than if this attempt had not been made. 
Whether or not the markets become permanent institutions they 
certainly have been of tremendous value in reducing food costs dur- 
ing the present time of serious unemployment and unsettled financial 
conditions. Much credit should be given to them for this reason if 
for no other. 

FEDERAL AID FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING: THE 
SMITH-LEVER AND THE SMITH-HUGHES BILLS 

A. C. MONAHAN 
U. S. Bureau of Education 

Much confusion has been created by the two measures which have 
been before the U. S. Congress during the past half dozen years pro- 
posing Federal aid to assist in education in agriculture, household 
arts, and the trades which are closely related to each. The confusion 
has been due largely to the similarity in the names of the bills and 
to the fact that the provisions of one were at one time included in 
the other. These two bills are the Smith-Lever Bill, introduced into 
the Senate by Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia and into the House by 
Representative Lever of South Carolina, and the Smith-Hughes Bill, 
introduced by Senator Hoke Smith and Representative Hughes, both 
of Georgia. The Smith-Lever Bill has been enacted into law, being 
approved by the President on May 8, 1914. The Smith-Hughes Bill 
was before the 63d Congress, which ended March 4, 1915, but received 
little consideration on account of many other pressing measures 
which took the time. It undoubtedly will be re-introduced in the 
64th Congress at the proper time. 

The Smith-Lever Bill provides Federal aid to the State Agricul- 
tural Colleges for cooperative agricultural extension work with the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. By extension work is meant giv- 
ing instruction and practical demonstration in agriculture and Home 
Economics to persons not attending or resident in the Agricultural 
Colleges. This work is given in various communities throughout the 
states through farmers' meetings and organizations, county extension 
agents, field and house demonstrations, boys' and girls' clubs, 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

"movable" schools, and in other ways usually understood to be 
included under the term of extension teaching. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill would provide Federal aid to cooperate 
with the various states in the maintenance and support of vocational 
schools of agriculture, Home Economics and the trades and indus- 
tries for persons 14 years of age and over, and in the maintenance 
and support of schools for training teachers for the vocational sub- 
jects in these vocational schools. This would provide vocational 
education in regular day schools of high school grade and part-time 
day schools for youths not employed, and in continuation courses in 
evening schools for youths and adults regularly employed. 

The Smith-Lever Bill provides $10,000 annually to each state for 
its Agricultural College beginning July 1, 1914. For the year begin- 
ning July 1, 1915, it provides $600,000 additional to be allotted to 
the various states in the proportion which the rural population of 
each state bears to the total rural population of the United States; 
and for each succeeding year for seven years, an additional amount 
of $500,000 allotted on the same basis. By July 1, 1923, this will 
amount to an annual appropriation of $4,100,000 in addition to the 
$10,000 to each state. None of this amount will be paid to any 
state (excepting the $10,000 annually) unless the state makes an 
equal appropriation. Both the fund received from the Federal Gov- 
ernment and the equal fund from the state government to balance 
it must be expended on extension schemes approved by the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill would provide three separate appropria- 
tions any one of which a state might accept, the first for the training 
of teachers of agricultural, trade and industrial, and Home Economics 
subjects; the second for agricultural education, including Home Eco- 
nomics; the third for education for the trades and industries. The 
amounts proposed are as follows : 

For the training of the teachers, $500,000 the first year, increasing 
to $700,000 the second, $900,000 the third, and $1,000,000 the fourth 
and each succeeding year; to be divided among the states in the 
proportion that their total population bears to the total population 
of the United States. 

For education in agriculture (including Home Economics) $500,000 
the first year with an annual increase of $250,000 for six years, fol- 
lowed by an annual increase of $500,000 for two years at which 



1915] FEDERAL AID FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING 247 

time the appropriation would become $3,000,000 which amount would 
continue as an annual appropriation to be divided among the states 
in the proportion which their rural population bears to the total 
rural population of the United States. 

For education in the trades and industries, an amount equal to that 
proposed for agriculture; to be divided among the states in the pro- 
portion which their urban population bears to the total population 
of the United States. It is understood, of course, that women's 
trades and industries, including household arts and Home Economics, 
may be included under this appropriation. 

None of the moneys might be used for building and equipment 
purposes, but must be used for salaries only. In order to receive 
any part of these appropriations, the states, or local communities in 
the states, would be required to appropriate an equal amount to be 
expended under the same conditions as those governing the expendi- 
tures of the Federal appropriation. 

The original bill proposing Federal assistance to the extension 
teaching in Agricultural Colleges was introduced by Congressman 
McLaughlin of Michigan about six years ago. The original bill pro- 
posing assistance to the states for vocational schools was the Davis 
Bill introduced by Congressman Davis of Minnesota a fev/ years 
previous to the introduction of the McLaughlin Bill. In 1910 these 
two bills were united into one known as the Davis-Dolliver Bill and 
this was succeeded in 1911 by the Davis-Page Bill, which still in- 
cluded the provisions for extension work. During the 62d Congress, 
this was known usually as the Page Bill. While the Page Bill was 
before Congress, the Smith-Lever Bill was also under consideration. 
Special confusion resulted because the Page Bill, in addition to its 
other features, provided for Federal aid for the same purposes as were 
provided by the Smith-Lever Bill. The Smith-Lever Bill was fin- 
ally passed, as has been stated, and approved May 8, 1914. This 
made it necessary to recast the Page Bill. Early in January, 1914, 
Congress passed a resolution authorizing the President to appoint a 
Commission on National Aid to Vocational Education, which Com- 
mission should investigate the subject and report back to Congress. 
The President appointed a Commission of nine persons, consisting 
of two senators, two representatives, and five other persons not con- 
nected with Congress. Smith and Page were the two senators named. 
The Commission organized April 2, 1914, with Senator Hoke Smith as 



248 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Chairman. It made an investigation and submitted a report to 
Congress on June 1, 1914, which was the date set for the report by 
the resolution of Congress. The report is in two volumes of prac- 
tically 400 pages and is printed as a Congressional Document, entitled 
Report of the Commission on National Aid to Vocational Education. 
In Vol. I of the Report is included a bill prepared by the Commission 
incorporating its recommendations for Federal aid. This bill was in- 
troduced by its Chairman, Senator Hoke Smith, and by the Chairman 
of the Education Committee of the House, who was also a member of 
the Commission, Representative Hughes, and takes its name from 
them. The Smith-Hughes Bill is the unanimous recommendation of 
the Presidential Commission on Federal Aid to Vocational Education. 

FANNIE MERRITT FARMER 

T^NNA BARROWS 

Miss Fannie Merritt Farmer died in January, 1915, in Boston, where 
she was born less than sixty years ago. 

The family plan was that this oldest daughter should go to college, 
but in the senior year of her high school course, she suffered a shock 
of paralysis which led to the physician's veto on further schooling. 

As health returned she naturally assisted her capable mother in 
the home and became especially interested in cookery. 

In 1889 she was graduated from the Boston Cooking School and 
returned to the same school the next year as assistant to Mrs, Carrie 
M, Dearborn. As opportunity offered she studied in different direc- 
tions, among others taking a summer course at the Harvard Medical 
School. After Mrs. Dearborn's death a few years later, Miss Farmer 
was chosen Principal of the school and held the position for thirteen 
years, when she resigned to open her own school which has been in 
existence eleven years and probably will be continued under her name 
by some of her pupils and assistants. / 

During this teaching period of nearly a quarter of a century. Miss 
Farmer sent out many efficient women as teachers in public and pri- 
vate schools and as dietitians in hospitals, and they are to be found 
from Montreal to Denver and beyond. 

Her school was especially headquarters for hospital lecturers on 
invalid cookery; nearly twenty New England hospitals were on the 



1915] FANNIE MERRITT FARMER 249 

list. To these hospitals Miss Farmer and her assistants went yearly 
for short courses with the nurses. There was also a constant call 
from the women's clubs for courses or single demonstration lectures. 
The weekly demonstration lectures at Miss Farmer's School were 
attended by large numbers of ladies and reports of these lectures 
were widely copied from the Boston papers. 

Ten or twelve years ago Miss Farmer went to the Pacific coast, 
visiting her graduates en route and giving lectures in twenty-five or 
more of the principal cities. 

Large as is the number who came in personal contact with Miss 
Farmer's careful work through her school and lectures, a still greater 
number knew her through her helpful books. The twenty-first edi- 
tion of the "Boston Cooking School Cook Book" is now in press; 
the edition often has numbered 50,000. 

Her other books have also been well received. Among these was 
one on the use of the chafing dish, "What to Have for Dinner, "Ca- 
tering for Special Occasions," "Food and Cookery for the Sick and 
Convalescent," and "A New Book of Cookery." 

For nearly ten years, assisted by Mrs. Perkins, her sister, Miss 
Farmer conducted a popular department in the Woman's Home 
Companion. This is one of the longest periods known of the con- 
tinuous conduct of such a page and proves its acceptability to pub- 
lishers and the public. 



EDITORIALS 

Teaching Home Economics. A high school teacher of Home 
Economics, asked to state the problems of her field, made the follow- 
ing reply: 

First of all it is an applied science field, which means that you are ex- 
pected to be scientist and technician also. But your subject is the apph- 
cation of several sciences, not one alone, and art and ethics as well. You 
must give to girls who will never go to college the application of principles 
and details to the ordering of a household, and you also may have to teach 
all that is taught regarding food, clothing, and shelter. 

More than that, you will meet the necessity for expert technical knowl- 
edge of all sorts and for executive ability in organizing practical instruction 
in a wide field. Further, not being engaged in the profession of home-mak- 
ing yourself, you are likely to get out of touch with changing conditions 
and so lose facility and skill. You are to work in a field, too, in which 
problems have as yet been worked out imperfectly or not at all, and in 
which sources of information are widely scattered, often practically inac- 
cessible to one who has not the best of Hbraries and much time for study. 

This picture of difi&culties in teaching Home Economics every 
thoughtful critic will acknowledge is not over-drawn. The impor- 
tant thing is for the Home Economics teacher to reahze these difiicul- 
ties and react to them vigorously. On the practical side, much is 
possible. The teacher must reach into the homes of the students for 
real problems and send them back there to make practical applica- 
tion. She must also keep on the look-out for new facts and master 
them as soon as they are collected— one Journal reader reports to us 
that the article on losses of mineral matter in cooking vegetables in 
a recent issue has changed theory and practice for her. The teacher 
must obtain for herself opportunities for actual housekeeping in va- 
cation time, if she can not during the year, and she should realize 
that in the conscientious teaching of her subject, even with her pres- 
ent deficiencies, there is community benefit that should challenge her 
best effort and give her a solid satisfaction. 
250 



1915] EDITORIALS 251 

But there remains a greater difficulty. The teacher of Home Eco- 
nomics who is honest and thorough in her mental processes is filled 
with despair at times as she reflects how superficial is her grasp of 
the fundamental sciences on which the improvement of the practices 
of every-day Ufe is based, these practices which we are trying to 
raise to higher standards. But the same is true to a degree of all those 
who work in appHed science. The physician who meets in his prac- 
tice diseases whose diagnosis and treatment call for knowledge that 
does not exist can only try with intelligence some more or less doubt- 
ful measure while he urges on his brother of the laboratory greater 
diligence in his search into physiological conditions and new means of 
cure. The sociologist, however deeply read in the history of condi- 
tions in the past, and using the most modern methods of survey and 
classification, is painfully aware that the knowledge he has to apply, 
let us say, to the great problem of unemployment, is far from com- 
plete; the engineer who has graduated at one of our best schools real- 
izes as he meets the varied conditions of his profession that there are 
problems on which he can find little help from his own experience or 
the ordinary source of reference. The idea before all of these men — 
the physician, the sociologist, and the engineer — is to do one's best, 
turning whenever one can to the source of such knowledge as is avail- 
able, the hospital, the post-graduate department, the convention or 
annual meeting, the new and authoritative text-books, and the peri- 
odical literature of the subject. 

This constant return to the sources of knowledge is, however, only 
practicable when there is already firm ground under the feet, when 
principles have been grasped and their application well studied; when 
there has been thorough training not alone on the technical side, but 
in the foundational exact sciences. Only such preparation can give 
a basis of progress for the future career. 

There is every reason to hope that it is to be the rule and not the 
exception that teachers of Home Economics are to have this deep 
and broad training; they may have it now, indeed, if they are willing 
to make the sacrifices to gain it. As we look back ten years, we see 
that our schools of instruction have made vast improvement in 
methods and in subject matter. But unfortunately the demand for 
teachers has been greater than the supply, and now the requirements 
of the Smith-Lever bill are close upon us, still further emphasizing 
our lack. As a result, a normal and healthy development of the 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

movement has been rendered difficult, and young people in many cases 
have been drawn into a career, not only without thorough training, 
but also without the consciousness of their deficiencies Without that 
consciousness, without firmly fixed standards, how are they to direct 
their later course of study? Must not the leaders of this movement 
in season and out of season call for better equipment in all training 
schools, more time given to the study and a frank and fearless facing 
of present deficiencies? 

The Domestic Service Question. The Y. W. C. A. of New 

York, has entered upon a systematic inquiry into the conditions of 
domestic service. They sent out an all-embracing questionnaire and 
the returns will be discussed at the Y. W. C. A. national meeting in 
May. A few of the questions are here reproduced. 

1. Is there among the housewives of your community any general dis- 
satisfaction as to the present conditions in domestic service? If so, what 
are the reasons most often given for this condition? 

2. Do you know if there is general or any dissatisfaction among the 
domestic servants of your commimity? Have you ever heard what rea- 
sons are most often given for this? What do you consider is the reason? 

3. Has there been any effort on the part of the women in your com- 
munity (either in individual homes or by any organization) to regulate, 
improve, or make any change whatever in the conditions of domestic serv- 
ice? If so, what has been attempted or accomplished? 

4. Do you believe there is any possibility of placing domestic service 
on a footing parallel with other industrial occupations for women? 

5. Has there ever been any discussion of such points as hours of work, 
free time, vacation, training, promotion, wages, place of living, social life, 
etc. ; or any agreement between the housewives of the community on such 
matters? 

6. Have any organizations in your community ever been interested in 
working out a plan of this character? Can you give any details of failure 
or success and the reasons assigned? 

7. What do you beUeve we can or should do to better this special line 
of household administration? 

Reprints. Many calls have been received for material concerning 
the work of the Visiting Housekeeper. In our April Journal we 
printed a number of papers on this subject and now have these 
papers in a single reprint which may be obtained for 15 cents. It 
is listed with all other reprints in the back of the Journal. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S DEPARTMENT 

TEACHING WOMEN HOW TO BUY FOOD' 

EMMA WINSLOW 

The Mayor's Food Supply Committee at first devoted its atten- 
tion to investigating the cause of the sudden rise in the price of food- 
stuffs. Public hearings were held and much publicity was given to 
the testimony offered. Little evidence was found, however, of any 
combination formed for the purpose of securing higher prices for cer- 
tain staple foods. The work of the Committee then became largely 
educational for it was felt that perhaps the greatest immediate benefit 
could be secured if people were trained in "How to Buy." A series 
of leaflets on the subject were prepared and have been distributed 
through the pubHc schools, settlement houses and women's clubs. 

The first leaflet gave general buying directions, placing the em- 
phasis on buying for cash, buying in large quantities, and buying 
"where you can do best." Low price, we were reminded, does not 
always obtain good quality or full weight, and it is well to buy for 
quality and quantity. 

The next bulletin was on the buying of beef. It contained a 
diagram of the beef and a hst of the different cuts and their prices. 
Suggestions were made as to ways of using the less expensive cuts and 
advice was given concerning the selection of good beef. At the 
bottom of the page was printed in large type "You work hard to 
earn a dollar. Use the information in this circular to help save part 
of that dollar." 

The selection of vegetables was next considered, in both a circular 
and a special pamphlet, "Preparation of Vegetables for the Table." 
The use of other meats has been also taken up, the use and selection 
of fish, the use of left-overs, and the meat substitutes. All of these 
bulletins may be secured free of charge by addressing Mayor Mit- 
chel's Food Supply Committee, City Hall, New York City. Addi- 
tional bulletins are in preparation dealing with other phases of food 
buying, and will be sent out on appUcation when pubUshed. 

^ See also page 241. 

253 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

These "buying leaflets" have been prepared especially to meet 
the local needs, but much that is contained in them is of universal 
value. The interest shown in them here would certainly indicate 
that it is a line of instruction upon which more and more emphasis 
should be laid in Home Economics teaching. 

BUYING THE REFRIGERATOR 

, At this time of the year comes up the question of the new re- 
frigerator. Of what make shall it be? What are the principles 
that imderlie its construction? What shall be its lining? Is the 
cheaper "ice box" to be considered? 

An excellent authority on the subject of kitchen equipment, Miss 
Helen Louise Johnson, says: 

An ice box is merely a receptacle for ice around which the food is placed 
and that gives no opportunity for circulation of air. Therefore it is waste- 
ful of both ice and food material. But when we come to the matter of 
air circulation we meet a principle of physics whose application is little 
understood by some housekeepers. .... 

The aim of refrigeration is the keeping of food — not ice. This is done 

by retarding the action of the inevitably present bacteria 

There are two factors required for this, one, low temperature, the other, 
dryness. The low temperature is attained by the use of ice and main- 
tained by means of insulation; the dryness is a matter of proper circula- 
tion of air in the refrigerator To be efficient, the refrigera- 
tor must not only produce and maintain a low temperature, it must also 
have a good circulation. The objects in view are accomplished best, in 
all probability, when the ice compartment is at one side rather than extend- 
ing over the entire top of the box. The cold air should be carried to the 
bottom of the box, that is, it will fall underneath the ice before it rises, 
and then it should travel to the top of the refrigerator before passing again 
over the ice. Therefore, if the openings are not sufficiently large at both 
top and bottom to permit free passage of air the efficiency is reduced. 

Insulation. The lining should be noted with care. There are many 
good linings now made, but the chief points to note are absence of any 
possible place where bacteria can lodge, or that might be difficult to clean. 
The food chambers must be Hned with a smooth, hard, non-rusting mate- 
rial, easy to keep clean and sanitary in every respect. Metal, unless pro- 
tected by porcelain, is not to be recommended for the lining of the food 
chambers, although it is required in the ice compartment. Paint cer- 



1915] WHEAT SUBSTITUTES 255 

tainly is quite out of place, and so the many dififerent kinds of glass and 
porcelain linings should be studied. 

Sanitation. The last point is the drain pipe, a matter requiring care 
and attention if the sanitary condition of the refrigerator is to be kept at 
the highest. It should be provided with a water-sealed trap to prevent 
the entrance of sewer gas, or warm infected air or insects. It should be 
so made and placed that it is easily accessible and may be removed for 
cleaning. 

Running the refrigerator. There should be a metal lined compartment 
for ice and this should be kept practically filled. Like a kerosene lamp, 
the device will yield the best result when kept full. When the ice cham- 
ber is refilled only after all the ice has melted, there is a fluctuating tem- 
perature most injurious to the food. When a good-sized refrigerator is 
purchased, having an ice compartment with a capacity of fifty or seventy- 
five pounds of ice, and the user provides only fifteen or twenty pounds at 
a time, she must not complain about the efficiency of the refrigerator, for 
it is her ignorance of how to use it that is to blame for the result. Keep 
the ice chamber well provided with ice, and never place anything but ice 
in the ice chamber One cannot buy a really good refrigera- 
tor for a cheap price. 

For a cheap, sanitary refrigerator built according to scientific 
principles, we would refer our readers to the article on Refrigerators 
by Hermann T. Vulte which appeared in the Journal, April, 1913. 
A reprint may be had for 5 cents. 



WHEAT SUBSTITUTES^ 

Scientists in the United States Department of Agriculture suggest 
that if wheat remains at its present high figure or continues to rise 
in price and if there is a corresponding increase in the price of bread, 
the ordinary household will find it advantageous to eat more pota- 
toes and less bread. With potatoes at 60 cents a bushel, ten cents 
worth — or ten pounds — will give the consumer a little more actual 
nourishment than two one-pound loaves of bread at five cents each. 
The protein and fat are present in appreciably larger amounts in 
the bread, but the potatoes will be found to furnish more carbohy- 
drates, and more heat units. 

Like other foods relatively rich in carbohydrates, however, pota- 

* Office of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

toes should be eaten with foods correspondingly rich in protein, 
such as milk, meat, eggs, etc., and with foods Hke butter, cream 
and meat fat to supply the fat that the body needs. 

In addition the potato, like many vegetables and fruits, helps to 
neutraHze an acid condition in the body. This is another reason 
for its being eaten in combination with meat, l&sh, and other animal 
foods. 

Suppose a shortage in wheat should develop in the next three 
months, what would be the situation? There is a great surplus in 
other food crops in the United States, a number of which can be 
used as substitutes. WTieat does not constitute more than 12 per 
cent of the normal diet, about the same as poultry and eggs. Meat 
and dairy products constitute 48 per cent; vegetables 11 per cent; 
fruits, nuts, sugar, fish and other items, the remaining 19 per cent. 
There were larger suppKes of corn and other grains, meat animals, 
dairy products, potatoes, and fruit at the opening of 1915 than for 
many years. The potato production in the United States averages 
3.8 bushels per capita. This year the available supply is 4.1 bushels. 
The average price of meat animals was 7 per cent cheaper in January 
than a year ago, butter 2 per cent lower, the price of chickens shghtly 
lower, of potatoes 35 per cent lower; and of apples it was 37 per 
cent lower. 

It would seem that the United States is not Hkely to be threat- 
ened with a shortage of foodstuffs. The increased cost of living 
throughout the world has emphasized the fact that flour made of 
other substances than wheat, or of these substances mixed with 
wheat, might provide people with healthful food quite as nutritious 
as the pure wheat flour, and at the same time cheaper. 

Austrian bakers are now compelled by law to use at least 30 per 
cent potato-meal in making their bread. The Bureau of Chem- 
istry's potato-meal bread has been baked with from 25 to 30 per 
cent potato-meal and the remaining percentage wheat. The most 
satisfactory loaves in combining economy and appearance were those 
made with the minimum percentage allowed in Austria or less. 

The question has been raised as to whether the ordinary cooked 
potato might not be satisfactorily substituted for the prepared 
potato-meal. The experimenters beHeve that it might serve the 
same purpose if used in just the right proportion, but this would be 
difficult for the average housewife to determine as there is great 



1915] MENUS AND COST IN A COLLEGE PRACTICE HOUSE 257 

danger of using too much and producing a very soggy loaf. How- 
ever, the custom of adding a very little potato is already used by 
many housekeepers to keep their bread moist and this practice can 
very well be recommended for more general use. 

SOME EXPERIMENTS IN PRESERVING EGGS IN 
WATERGLASS 

ANNIE L. WING 

For the last ten years I have been preserving eggs in waterglass 
with satisfaction and profit, putting down from 30 to 180 dozen at a 
time. I have frequently varied the amount of waterglass, with 
results that seem to me of sufficient importance to warrant my 
writing about them, especially as I have seen no record of similar 
experiments. 

I began with the United States Government rule of 10 per cent, 
and have gradually lessened the strength of the solution, with in- 
creasingly good results, until for the last five or six years I, and a 
number of friends through me, have settled, some on 4 per cent and 
others on 5 per cent, and have put down successfully in this way 
over 1000 dozen. I tried one dozen in a 2| per cent mixture and 
opened them a year from that day, to find them perhaps the most 
nearly perfect of all. 

// is good to hear of such experiments on the part of the housekeeper, but a 
caution must here be noted. The condition of the egg when put into the pre- 
servative is of great importance. An egg placed in a clear cool container di- 
rectly after it is laid will keep for a long time without the help of any preserva- 
tive. Probably the use of 10 per cent of waterglass, as in the United States 
Department of Agriculture recipe, is considered the only safe mixture to be 
used to preserve ordinary commercial eggs that have been perhaps soiled in the 
nest or whose exact age may not be knowti. For the method of using a 10 per 
cent solution see the June (1914) Journal, page 290, or Farmers' Bulletin 
128, United States Department of Agriculture. — Editor. 

MENUS AND COST IN A COLLEGE PRACTICE HOUSE 

A description of the management of the Mississippi Practice 
House for Students which appeared in the December (1914) Journal 
called forth inquiries as to the low cost of food. These prices will 
not seem impossible when it is remembered that some of the pro- 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

visions were bought at wholesale prices from the college storeroom 
or secured at reduced rates in other ways that might not be possible 
for the ordinary family. 

In their reports for 1913 the $1.84 given as the greatest amount 
spent per person per week for food did not include the cost of fuel 
used in cooking it. Some tvpical menus are given: 

BREAKFAST BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream Baked Apples 

Bacon Fried Apples Cream of WTieat Cream 

Bread Butter Light Omelet 

Cocoa Toast Butter 

Cocoa 

LUNCHEON LUNCHEON 

Escalloped Potatoes Pork and Beans 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches Potato Salad 

Bread Butter Bread Butter 

Apple Whip Preserves Iced Tea 

DINNER DINNER 

Cream Tomato Soup Vegetable Soup Croutons 

Baked Fish Broiled Meat Cakes 

Com Pudding Peas Creamed Asparagus 

Bread Butter Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Jellied Vegetable Salad Crackers Bread Butter 

Orange Bavarian Cream Pickles 

Cake Coffee Fruit Salad Crackers 

Sponge Cake Sauce 

Coffee 

More inclusive figures have been received recently and are here 
quoted. 

November group {11 persons) November 1 to 30, 1914 

Groceries and meat $84 . 20 

Milk 8.50 

Lights 4.50 

Gas 1.12 

Laundry 11.00 

Coal 6.00 

Total nmning expenses per month $115 .32 

Total expenses per person per month $10 . 48 

Total expenses per person per day .34 

Total expenses per person per week 2 . 38 

Food (groceries, meat and milk) 

Food per person per month $8 . 42 

Food per person per day .28 

Food per person per week 1 .96 



1915] SHALL THE BUYER DEMAND DRAWN OR UNDRAWN POULTRY 259 

Coal used for cooking dinner, and sometimes for breakfast. Gas 
for breakfast and lunch. 

Laundry includes personal and house laundry done by the college 
steam laundry. 

April group {11 persons) April 1 to 30, 1914 

FOOD ACCOUNT 

Groceries *7**6 

Milk ^-^^ 

$80.41 

Per person per month ♦/ . .51 

Per person per day -^^ 

Per person per week ^ - °* 

Some of the menus given were used in this month. 

About one-half the groceries were bought at the college dormitory 
store room where a wholesale price is obtained. The other gro- 
ceries were bought from grocers and such reduction obtained as pos-. 
sible — canned goods by the case, perishable goods in small quan- 
tities, and bread from college bakery, wholesale, 2| cents a loaf. 
Oleomargarine was used for cooking, good butter for table; Wesson 
oil for salad dressing. 

SHALL THE BUYER DEMAND DRAWN OR UNDRAWN 

POULTRY? 

The answer to this question once seemed easy. Drawn, of course. 
It was not pleasant to think that the intestines wholly or partly 
full of undigested and faecal matter should remain longer than 
necessary in the fowl destined for our table. If the fowl is brought 
to our door by the countryman who raised and killed it, it would 
seem that it should be brought dressed, that is, head, feet and intes- 
tines removed, and the Hver, fat and cleaned gizzard returned to 
the body cavity. The price would in this case be for net weight, 
for the proof of what was the weight before dressing is not in evi- 
dence. This would seem the most satisfactory way of buying any- 
thing, but the countryman tells us that the buyer shows a strange 
reluctance to pay the added price per pound over what is asked fof 
undrawn. 

Comphcations arise when we consider the question of "market" 
poultry. The U. S. Bureau of Chemistry undertook in 1910 a six 



260 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

months' study of all the factors involved, and the report is to be found 
in its Bulletin No. 70, under the title — "The Comparative Rate of 
Decomposition in Drawn and Undrawn Market Poultry." The fowls 
were all well bled, dry picked, and air cooled. Part were drawn,- 
part remained undrawn. All were chilled immediately after dress- 
ing and shipped in iced cars over a haul of 1700 miles, the jour- 
ney taking on the average seven and one-half days. On arrival the 
now frozen fowls were examined for acidity of the fat and for increase 
of bacteria in the body wall but all were found to be in perfect con- 
dition. From the wholesaler's chill room, they were sent in boxes by 
wagon to the retailer who kept them in his ice box or hung them 
in his show window. Here the difference between the lots began to 
show. After five days the stock in the hands of the retailer was 
all edible, three days hav'ing been necessary to thaw them, but two 
days later what was left of the drawn poultry was in "bad order," 
while the undrawn was still good. From that time deterioration 
was rapid in both. The result stated is: "Undrawn poultry de- 
composes more slowly than does poultry which has been either wholly 
or partially eviscerated." 

There might also be an advantage in not having the head and 
legs removed, as their condition usually indicates the condition of 
the fowl before being killed. 

The practical market man or huckster will tell you that he will 
bring his poultry drawn only to those who have ordered it. If he 
must keep it exposed for sale it must be undrawn, that there may 
be no access to the interior of the fowl for flies, hot air, or any form 
of contamination. 

But the bird with full crop should always be rejected, and a con- 
stant demand be made that for twent3'-four hours before killing no 
food, only water, be given. 

EXTENSION COURSES IN DRESSMAKING 

According to The Country Gentlejnan, a great work is being done in 
Minnesota by Mrs. Harry G. Krum who is helping to bring to the 
women in their homes the assistance obtained by others in the Home 
Economics Departments of the Universities. 

Mrs. Krum began at the bottom. The first thing she did was to bring 
a sewing set with her and to discuss informally with the women the homely 



1915] EXTENSION COURSES IN DRESSMAKING 261 

task of sewing on buttons and making buttonholes. The next thing the 
county home agent did was to introduce the dress form. She explained 
that with its silent aid the housewife could make her own clothes and still 
have well-fitting, stylish garments. 

"The men save money on their field seeds by combining their orders. 
Why couldn't we follow the same plan with the dress forms?" she suggested. 

The women assented readily, and the next day Mrs. Krum visited a 
large department store in St. Paul and received an offer that made a form 
cost just half of what it would have cost if bought singly. She reported 
back to the women and closed orders for five forms. 

Mrs. Krum believes that as a household necessity a properly padded 
dress form comes next to a good sewing machine. It adds much to the 
pleasure of doing one's own sewing, saving much time and energy and elimi- 
nating all worry and uncertainty regarding the final fit of the garment. 
There is no reason why, with its use, every housewife may not have sensi- 
ble, stylish clothing. 

As the housewives became expert in the use of the dress forms they de- 
veloped an astounding desire for information regarding the purchase of 
materials, cutting of garments, selection of up-to-date styles, and the 
many other details known to the dressmaker. To meet this new demand 
Mrs. Krum devised an unusual demonstration outfit. She carried with 
her fashion magazines and stylebooks, sewing implements, and dresses in 
all stages of making — everything packed in an ordinary suit case. 

The most important garment in her sample bag was a simple one-piece 
dress with a reversible front, fastening without any buttons or buttonholes, 
neat and of simple but pleasing design. This dress was made on an origi- 
nal pattern worked out by Mrs. Krum herself. It has proved very popu- 
lar, and last fall it was incorporated in the stylebook of a large pattern 
firm. 

"Everyday clothing, because it is worn the most, should be attractive, 
yet simple," declares Mrs. Krum, "and it should be easy to care for as well 
as inexpensive. The one-piece garments for women and children require 
little material, are quickly made and, if tasteful designs and becoming 
materials are used, make attractive dresses." 

Among the other samples that she carried with her were two aprons, 
each covering the entire dress, with caps to match; waist with skirt un- 
attached, to show method of adjusting the skirt; one-piece underwear for 
children; maternity gown, designed for ease and comfort; and a baby's 
complete outfit in one-piece clothing. 

In her own county Mrs. Krum loses no opportunity to press home her 
slogan. Sensible, Yet Stylish Clothing, and in this way she is doing much 
to acquaint the women with the latest styles. She has made arrangements 



262 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

whereby many of the fashion, women's and agricultural magazines will 
be taken by the clubs. One of the pattern companies has offered to make 
a special rate on patterns to the clubs. 

"With the right sewing equipment, proper patterns and the requisite 
knowledge of suitable materials," said Mrs. Krum, "the woman on the 
farm home can be well dressed with the same expenditure th^t would 
otherwise be made for slovenly, formless clothes." 

"The lessons in the value of cooperative buying which the women are 
learning through the collective buying of dress forms and other articles 
are going to be of vast importance," continued the county home agent. 
" I feel that the encouragement of this spirit of cooperation will be one of 
the greatest benefits to come from the work that we are doing in Ramsey 
County. It is in the exchange of ideas that we profit. It is not so much 
that I bring information to the women of the clubs as that I act as a clear- 
ing house for ideas." 

TYPHOID CARRIERS 

Now that the quality of public water supplies has been greatly 
improved and the practice of milk pasteurization has been widely 
introduced, outbreaks of typhoid attributed to typhoid carriers are 
becoming more conspicuous than formerly, although probably they 
are not really more frequent. A remarkable epidemic due to food 
infected by a carrier was recently reported by Sawyer in a recent issue 
of The Journal of the American Medical Association, and while this 
was perhaps exceptional in the number of persons infected at one time, 
it emphasizes the grave danger of allowing carriers to have to do 
with the preparation or handling of food intended for general con- 
sumption. The still more recent typhoid outbreak at Lehigh Uni- 
versity with more than fifty cases and several deaths has been traced 
likewise by the Pennsylvania State Department of Health to a 
kitchen employe who proved to be a carrier. Such instances — and 
they are multiplying fast — suggest that wherever feasible, employes 
handling foods liable to spread infection should be examined for 
possible t>p»hoid reaction in the blood. In case the reaction is 
positive, and even when it is negative but there is a definite history 
of typhoid fever, bacterial examination for tjphoid germs should be 
made. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Foods 

Coloring Matter of Raw and Cooked Salted Meats. R. Hoagland, Jour. Agr. Research, 
3 (1914), no. 3, pp. 187-205. 

Changes in Composition of Peel and Pulp of Ripening Bananas. H. C. Gore, Jour. 
Agr. Research, 3 (1914), no. 3, pp. 187-205. 

Transplanting Japanese Oysters. (Illus.) M. VJooWcy, Forecast, 9 (1915), no. 1, pp. 
31-34. 

Ripe Olives as a Food. J. B. Harrington, Forecast, 9 (1915), no. 1, pp. 9-13. 

Coffee and Coffee Substitutes. A. McGill, Lah. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada, Bui. 290, 
1914. (Analyses.) 

Confectionery (Marshmallows). A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui. 292, 
1914. (.\nalyses.) 

Iron in Tomatoes. C. A. Brantlecht and G. Crawford, /ozir. Indus, and Engin.Chem.. 
6 (1914), no. 12, pp. 1001, 1002. 

Egg Albumin in Baking Powder. H. L. Jackson, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chetn., 
6 (1914), no. 12, pp. 998-1001. 

Bleached Flour. F. L. Haley, 5wcAm. £«/., 3 (1914), no. 11-12, pp. 440^143. 

Nutrition 

Ductless Glands, Internal Secretions, and Hormonic Equilibrium. F. H. Garrison, 
Pop. Sci. Mo., 85 (1914), no. 6, pp. 531-540. 

Relation Between Chlorid Retention, Edema and "Acidosis." M. H. Fischer, Jmir. 
Amer. Med. Assn., 64 (1915), no. 4, pp. 325, 326. 

The Value of the Proteins of the Cereal Grains and of Milk for Growth in the Pig, 
and the Influence of the Plane of Protein Intake on Growth. E. V. McCollum, Jour. 
Biol. Chem-., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 323-335. 

Gastro-Intestinal Studies, iii (Studies on Water Drinking xxi). Direct Demonstra- 
tion of the Stimulatory Power of Water in the Human Stomach. O. Bergeim, M. E. 
Rehfuss and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 345-373. 

Influence on Growth of Rations Restricted to the Com or Wheat Grain. E. B. Hart 
and E. V. McCollum, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 373-397. 

The Action of Rennin on Casein. A. W. Bosworth, Jo^ir. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914). 
no. 3, pp. 397-399. 

-Acidosis in Omnivora and Herbivora and Its Relation to Protein Storage. H. Stein- 
bock, V. E. Nelson and E. B. Hart, Jotir. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 399-421. 

The Action of Caffeine Substances, ii. Histological Modifications of the Kidney Pro- 
duced by Caffeine. G. Vinci, Arch. Farmacol. Sper. e Sci. AJf., 17 (1914), pp. 503-528; 
544-580. (Cf. Chem. Abs. 9 (1915), no. 2, p. 224.) 

The Feeding Value of Sanatogen Compared with Commercial Casein with Respect 
to Maintenance and Growth. J. P. Street, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), no. 21, 
pp. 1831-1835. 

Whey in Infant Feeding. A. W. Bosworth, H. I. Bowditch, and B. H. Ragle, Amer. 
Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 2, pp. 120-126. 

263 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Relation of Methods of Disposal of Sewage to the Spread of Pellagra. J. F. 
Siler, P. E. Garrison and W. J. JMacNeal, Proc. Soc. Expt. Biol, and Med., 11 (1914), no. 
3, pp. 94, 95. 

A Consideration of Certain Foods and of Pro.ximity to a Previous Case as Factors in 
the Etiology of Pellagra. J. F. Siler, P. E. Garrison and W. J. MacNeal. Proc. Soc. 
Expt. Biol, and Med., 11 (1914), no. 3, p. 94. 

Clean Milk and Safe Milk. C. E. A. Winslovv, Mo. Bui. N. Y. Stale Dept. Health, 30 
(1914), no. 5, pp. 157-161, fig. 1. 

Flies and Diarrheal Disease. D. B. Armstrong, N. Y. Assoc. Improving Condition 
Poor Pub. 79 [1914], pp. 29, pis. 3, figs. 3. (This bulletin reports investigations of the 
Bureau of Public Health and Hygiene of the Department of Social Welfare.) 

So-Called Chesti.ut Blight Poisoning. G. P. Clinton, Connecticut State Sta. Rpt. 
1914, pt. 1, pp. 30-42. 

One Reason Why Canned Foods Should be Dated. J. T. Seidel, Pure Products, 10 
(1914), no. 5, pp. 227-231. 

The Use of Models in a Sanitation Exhibit. C. J. Stoiey, Mo. Bui. N. Y. State Dept. 
Health, 29 (1913), no. 11, pp. 327, 328. 

Bacteriological Findings in Baltimore Oysters. M. Joseph, 5;//. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 
15 (1914), no. 278, pp. 128-131. 

Metallic Tubes and Caps Used for Dental Pastes and Liquids. Richaud, Ann. Falsi/. 
7 (1914), no. 63, pp. 53, 54. 

The Anaphylactogenic Activity of Some Vegetable Proteins. The Biological Reac- 
tions of the Vegetable Proteins, v. H. G. Wells and T. B. Oshome, Jour. Infect. Diseases, 
14 (1914), no. 2, pp. 377-384. 

The Immunological Relationship of Hordein of Barley and Gliadin of Wheat as Shown 
by the Complement Fixation, Passive Anaphylaxis, and Precipitin Reactions. The Bio- 
logical Reactions of the Vegetable Proteins, iv. G. C. Lake, T. B. Osborne and H. G. 
Wells, Jour. Infect. Diseases, 14 (1914), no. 2, pp. 364-376. 

Education and Social Work 

Canning Clubs in New York State. Part II, Principles and Methods of Canning. 
Part III, Canning Equipment. Flora Rose and O. H. Benson, Cornell Reading Courses, 
3 (1914), nos. 69 and 71. 

[Work for Women.] Penn. Dept. Agr. Bui.. 229 (1912), pp. 126-148. (Papers pre- 
sented at the ninth annual meeting of the Farmers' Noitnal Institute, including Home 
Hygiene, by Mary A. Bumite, and Sanitation and Hygiene in the Public Schools, by A. 
L. Russell.) 

Domestic Science. [School Lunch ^^'o^k in Gary, Indiana.] Calla Krentel, Mo. Bui. 
Ind. Bd. Health, 17 (1914), no. 1, p. 7. (A brief account, with menus, is given of school 
lunch work designed to be instructive as well as to provide suitable food. The prepara- 
tion of the lunches is in the hands of the domestic science classes.) 

Home Economics. Helen L. Johnson, Gen. Fed. {Women's Clubs) Mag., 13 (1914), 
no. 5, pp. 16, 17. 

Suggestive Outlines for Club Study. Compiled by Pearl Macdonald, Wauwautosa, 
Wis.: Wis. Fed. Women's Clubs, pp. 12. (Household management, household expendi- 
tures and accounts, foods and practical cookery.) 

Suggestions for Girls' Contests in Sewing and Cooking. Frances L. Brown, Agr. Ed. 
[Kansas Agr. Col.], 2, (1910), no. 7, pp. 30. 

Tentative Course of Study in Industrial Subjects for the Public Schools of Indiana. 
C. A. Greathouse, Dept. Pub. Instr. [hid.], Ed. Pubs. Bui. 2 (1913), pp. 61. (Outlines for 
teaching and information regarding the equipment of a typical small school.) 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

The Practical Garden Book. By C. E. Hunn and Liberty Hyde Bailey. 
New York: The Macmillan Company, pp. 250. $0.50. By mail of 
the Journal, $0.55. 

The simplest directions for the caring of the commonest things about 
the house and garden are given in this book. It has been prepared by C. 
E. Hunn, an expert gardener, and by L. H. Bailey, an experienced editor 
of many books on horticulture. The book is made up on the plan of alpha- 
betical arrangement in which each plant, whether herb, shrub, or vine, is 
described in simple, straightforward language and where all the essentials 
in connection with each plant are discussed in the briefest possible manner. 

To people who want specific information on particular kinds of plants 
this book will prove to be a valuable reference; to the person who is look- 
ing for the principles of horticulture or plant management, it will prove a 
disappointment. The Practical Garden Book is one for amateurs and 
not for experts. 

A Study of Chicago's Stockyards Community— III, Wages and famUy 

budgets in the Chicago stockyards district. By J. C. Kennedy et al. 

Chicago: Univ. Chicago, 1914, pp. 80. 

This study was carried on under the direction of the Board of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago Settlement, the results being considered in connection 
with wage statistics from other industries employing skilled labor. Many 
nationalities were represented but out of the 184 families 88 were Polish 
and 68 were Lithuanian. The following quotations are from the summary. 

"One hundred and thirty-one families rented their quarters. The av- 
erage rental per family was $107.83, or 13.2 per cent of the total expendi- 
ture. One hundred of the 131 renting families occupied flats of four rooms. 

"The 68 Lithuanian families had on an average 4.12 lodgers per family. 
In one case 13 people were crowded together in four small basement rooms. 

"The average expenditure for foodstuffs and liquors was $441.83 per 
family, or 53.62 per cent of the total expenditure, [the amount expended 
for acoholic liquors being 4.42 per cent of the total expenditure in 180 
families using it]. 

"The minimum amount necessary to support a family of five efficiently 

in the stockyards district is $800 per year, or $15.40 per week." 

^ 265 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Foods and Household Management. By Helen Kinne and Anna M. 

CooLEY. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1914, pp. 401. $1.10. 

By mail of the Journal, $1.22. 

The large subject of foods and home management has been most ad- 
mirably dealt with by the authors in this book. The chapters on food 
present the material in a systematic manner, and while definite lessons are 
not given, the sequences are natural and the subject is treated in such a 
way that there is ample opportunity for the study of foods to be developed 
in any way which will best fit the needs of the students. The nutritive 
value of the different foods is an important part of the chapters dealing 
with foodstuffs and is well applied in the chapter on Menus and Dietaries, 
(which was contributed by Professor Rose of Teachers College). 

The chapters on the Budget, and System in Household Management 
are imusually dear and definite. A brief space is also given to House- 
wifery, Laundering and Dry Cleaning. 

Altogether the book is in every way a suitable companion to Shelter and 
Clothing pre\aously written by the same authors. 

The teacher of Home Economics in the grades will find it a valuable 
reference book for herself; the high school teacher a most excellent text 
book for her classes in cooking and home management, and the college 
teacher ^\ill frequently find it advisable to use it as a text or reference for 
special classes. Moreover, last, but by no means least, the homemaker-vfT\\ 
find in this book unusually clear and concise information on all subjects 
pertaining to foods and the management of her household. 

The authors are to be congratulated on getting out two such useful 
books. 

Foods and Sanitation: a text-hook and laboratory manual for high schools. 

By Edith Hall Forster and Mildred Weigley. Chicago and New 

York: Row, Peterson and Company, 1914, pp. 396. $1.25. By mail of 

the Journal, $1.40. 

It is one of the avowed aims of these authors to develop scientific princi- 
ples underlying food work as a point of departure in teaching recipes, ma- 
nipulation, dietetics, sanitation, etc. Certainly they have succeeded ad- 
mirably in carrying out this intention, and have in addition, supplied much 
good material on food production and manufacture, practical housewifery, 
and sanitation. For not only have they devoted about 80 pages of the 
text explicitly to sanitation (theories of disease, habits which will help 
avoid disease, dissemination and prophylaxis for a dozen or two common 
infections, house site, indoor air, house heating, lighting, plumbing, sewage 
and garbage disposal, fire prevention in the home, water supply, clean food, 
dust prevention, disinfectants), but they have also included much impor- 
tant material in sanitation in their discussions of food production, for ex- 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 267 

ample, in the chapters on milk and meat. All of their work gives evidence 
of familiarity with recent progress in the sciences of bacteriology and 
physiology, as well as in other science; and is marked by great carefulness 
and a high degree of accuracy. The subject of ventilation, is treated from 
the modern standpoint, in a text for school children. In fact, we know 
of no other high school te.xt in Home Economics in which the subject of 
sanitation is presented to any great extent, successfully and in thoroughly 
up-to-date fashion. 

The book has been successfully tried out with high school students who 
have had no previous science training and no special training of any kind 
to fit them for the course; yet many teachers will doubtless prefer to use 
it with classes which have had some work in chemistry, or physics, or both; 
or with first-year normal or college classes. Wherever it may ultimately 
find its largest field of usefulness, however, it must invariably prove a 
soiurce of inspiring suggestion to teacher and to student. 

Modern Cities. By Horatio ;M. Pollock and William S. Morgan, Ph.D. 

New York: Funk and Wagnalls Company, 1913, pp. 418. Illustrated. 

$1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

The authors' purpose has been "to give students and others interested 
in social progress and civic betterment a comprehensive view of the best 
modern features and ideals of municipal life without burdening the pages 
with details." The book is the fruit of a pilgrimage made during the 
summer of 1910, by two men famiHar with American municipal problems, 
to a large number of European cities most of which had been visited be- 
fore and could therefore be studied in the light of recent progress. There 
are chapters on town planning; house planning; conservation of human 
life; the value of parks; developments in education; the social evil and 
many other topics which are occupying the attention of persons interested 
in municipal progress. No subject is treated exhaustively but all are pre- 
sented fearlessly, readably and suggestively. 

The Farm Kitchen as a Workshop. By Anna Barrows, U. S. Dept- 

Agr., Farmers' Bui. 607, 1914, pp. 20, figs. 6. 

Such subjects are discussed in this bulletin as the relation of the kitchen 
to other parts of the house; the size of the kitchen; the finishing of floors, 
walls, and ceiling; lighting, ventilating, and heating; porches and screen- 
ing; permanent equipment of the kitchen; and the kitchen as laundry. 
Particular attention is given to the arrangement of the kitchen stove, 
cooking table, and other kitchen equipment, so that the journeys more 
frequently made in doing the kitchen work are short. The importance 
of adequate equipment is pointed out and suggestions made for labor- 
saving equipment and expedients. 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Woman's Congress [and Exhibits of Interest to Housekeepers]. Mich. Farm- 
ers' Insts., Inst Bui. 19, 1913, pp. 225-275, 277-280, 284-287, figs. 19. 

Among the papers presented were the following: Planting the Home 
Grounds, by C. P. Halligan; How Can We Solve the Problems of the 
Farm Home, by Ilena M. Bailey; A Discussion on How to Solve the Prob- 
lems in the Farm Home, by Mrs. F. D. Saunders; The Roasting of Meats, 
by Agnes Hunt; Using Sale Patterns, by Ora G. Yenawine; and Cooper- 
ation among Woman, by Jennie Buell (including data on cooperative 
laundries). 

Domestic science bacteriology formed a part of the bacteriological exhibit, 
and H. H. Musselman had arranged a household power plant exhibit. 
Both of these are described in considerable detail. 

Mechanics oj the Sewing Machine. Monograph Five, Joint Committee 
Series, National Education Association Edition. Published by Singer 
Sewing Machine Company, New York, pp. 80. Illustrated. 

This monograph will interest teachers of applied physics and every 
teacher of sewing who uses the sewing machine. Copies may be had 
free from J. A. Randall, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. Dr. David 
Snedden, speaking of this bulletin, says, "The novelty of such a study 
is still sufficient to occasion the student of education a keen thrill of 
satisfaction." 

The Etiology of Pellagra. By J. Goldberger, Puh. Health Rpts. \U. S.], 
29 (1914), No. 26, pp. 1683-1686. 

The epidemiological observation that nurses and attendants in institu- 
tions where there are numerous cases of the disease are themselves exempt 
from it may be explained, in the opinion of the author, by the difference 
in diet. It is here pointed out that the disease is distinctly rural and 
generally associated with poverty. It has previously been shown by stud- 
ies of institutional dietaries and dietaries of rural regions that cereals 
make up a much greater portion of the dietaries of the poorer classes than 
of the more well-to-do. While the author does not believe that the con- 
sumption of corn or corn products is necessary for the development of 
pellagra, he believes that the presence of cereals and vegetables in too 
great a proportion in the diet is objectionable. In conclusion, he urges 
on account of the uncertainty as to the true cause of the disease a "reduc- 
tion in cereals, vegetables, and canned foods that enter to so large an ex- 
tent into the dietary of many of the people in the South and an increase 
in the fresh animal food component, such as fresh meats, eggs, and milk." 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Conference of Charities to Discuss Educational Topics. Announce- 
ment has been made from the headquarters' office of the National Conference 
of Charities and Correction of the preb'minary program for its forty-second 
annual meeting at Baltimore, Maryland, May 12th to 19th. The confer- 
ence will meet under the presidency of Mrs. John M. Glenn, of New York, 
the second woman president it has ever had. 

The program contains the names of over fifty leading charity workers 
and penologists, and it is anticipated that the unprecedented social situa- 
tion of the present year will result in a conference of unique values. The 
program on "The Family and the Community" will result in considerable 
discussion of methods of treating individual cases of poverty, as, for ex- 
ample, in a study of the "Psychology of Cooperation." Prof. Henry R. 
Seager of Columbia University will give an address on the "Causes and 
Remedies of Unemployment." 

A series of unique discussions from an educational standpoint is being 
arranged under the committee on education for social work, under the 
chairmanship and \ace-chairmanship, respectively, of Porter R. Lee of the 
New York School of Philanthropy, and Miss Edith Abbott of the Chicago 
School of Civics and Philanthropy. There has been an enormous increase 
in recent years in the number of people engaged professionally and on a 
volunteer basis in the solution of practical social problems, and this com- 
mittee is attempting to determine the standards of this young profession 
and to give it a logical and proper adjustment to the other longer estab- 
lished professions. The discussion will include a treatment of the curricu- 
lum for training social workers and the relation of social theory to practical 

situations. 

The program on "Children" will include a study of comprehensive com- 
munity plans in work for children and practical results of children's agen- 
cies in respect to rehabilitation. It is the expectation of the chairman 
of this section, Mr. C. C. Carstens of Boston, to make as clear a statement 
as possible of the relations of social agencies in treatment of children to 
other agencies for constructive and preventive work. 

Other di\isions of the program relate to the following subjects: correc- 
tions, health, public and private charities, social hygiene, social legislation, 
and state care of the insane, feeble-minded and epileptic. Among the 
.speakers are: Prof. Edward T. Devine of Columbia University. Dr. Wil- 

269 



270 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

liam H. Welch and Dr. Adolf Meyer of Johns Hopkins University, Dr. 
Charles P. Emerson of Indiana University, Dr. H. H. Goddard of the 
Training School for the Feeble-minded at Vineland, N. J., and Dr. C. B. 
Davenport of the Eugenics Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y. 

Extension Work. The Department of Home Economics at Cornell Uni- 
versity made the following report concerning the extension work for the 
year ending October, 1914: meetings attended, 173; addresses given, 314; 
extension letters written, 2,671; extension schools held, 34; demonstra- 
tions given, 195; readers enrolled, 37,732; clubs enrolled, 93. 

The Homemakers' Conference in connection with Farmers' Week was 
held at Cornell University February 8-13. The lectures were given by 
professors at the University and well known Home Economics lecturers 
from elsewhere. 

The women who attended were instructed in cooking, sewing, launder- 
ing, canning, household accounting and home furnishing. Besides this 
definite instruction there were lectures and discussion on many subjects 
relating to the home such as: Women as Workers in Industries, Human 
Rights, Social Hygiene, Force of Heredity, Training for Girls, and Re- 
sponsibility of Parents. 

Nebraska Home Economics Association. The tenth annual meeting of 
the Nebraska Home Economics Association was held at the State Univer- 
sity Farm, Lincoln, Nebraska from January 19 to 21 inclusive. 

The forenoons were devoted to the study of foods. Prof. Alice M. 
Loomis, Head of the Department of Home Economics, gave three lectures 
on Food for the Family in which she considered composition and prepara- 
tion of foods and their combinations in meals. The Misses Rokahr and 
Scott of the Extension Department had charge of the laboratory work, 
which consisted of the preparation and service of typical examples of the 
important classes of foods. The problem taken up on the third day was 
the preparation and service of a three course luncheon prepared from left 
overs. Dinner for thirty was served in the practice dining-room in Home 
Economics Hall. 

The afternoon meetings were held in Agricultural Hall. The first after- 
noon was given over to the work of women in Clubs. Mrs. Emma Reed 
Davisson, president of the Association gave an address of welcome. Mrs. 
Harry L. Keefe, Walthill, spoke on the National Federation; Mrs. A. G. 
Peterson, Aurora, on the State Federation; Mrs. Elizabeth ]M. Campbell, 
Bethany, on The City Club; and Mrs. Lulu Kortz Hudson, Simeon, on the 
Rural Cub. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 271 

The second afternoon was devoted to Art in the Home. Miss Sara S. 
Hayden of the Department of Fine Arts gave a paper on Art in the Home. 
Mrs. Jas. T. Lees of Lincoln spoke on Nebraska Artists. The assembly 
room had been decorated with pictures from Nebraska artists. Some of 
our Nebraska Birds (illustrated) was the subject of the talk given by Mrs. 
A. E. Sheldon of Lincoln. 

The Home on a Business Basis was the subject for consideration on 
the third afternoon. The following program was given : The Budget Sys- 
tem, Mrs. Geo. A. Loveland, of Lincoln; Kitchen Equipment, Miss Mabel 
C. Daniels of the Extension Department; How the Little Folks and I did 
the Work, Mrs. W. G. Whitmore, of Valley; Economics of Dress, Miss 
Helen Lee Davis of the Home Economics Department; and House Prac- 
tice as a High School Study, Miss Maud Mathes Wilson of the Home 
Economics Department. 

Home Economics Association of Washington, D. C. The February 
meeting was held on Thursday the fourth. Miss Barrows was the speaker 
of the afternoon. She first referred to the beginning of the Home Eco- 
nomics Movement and the individual eJEforts of Mrs. Richards and Mrs. 
Lincoln as essential factors in that beginning. 

She spoke of the Lake Placid meetings as among the first steps of united 
efifort. Later came the organizing of the American Association in 1909, 
under the leadership of Mrs. Richards, and although that organization 
has progressed so splendidly it needs, or should have, still more hearty 
support. 

Continuing her address she spoke of the application and value of Home 
Economics, and the results to be obtained by applying the quotation of 
"Freeing the home from the dominance of things." 

In the study of Home Economics the selection, preparation and cooking 
of food seem to have first place, and the underlying facts are cleanliness, 
wholesomeness and understanding. 

She advised the selection of kitchen appliances and utensils which may 
be used for more than one purpose, and those which may be kept clean 
most easily. Emphasis was also laid on the need of reducing the number 
of utensils used, as a means of saving time and strength. This means the 
preparation of fewer dishes, or simplified menus. 

Intelligent selection of foods has a direct influence on the high cost of 
living. The value of bread and milk, or composite dishes with a bread 
and milk foundation, was discussed as one practical solution of the problem. 

In closing Miss Barrows spoke of the necessity of business management 
in the home. 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The Texas Home Economics Association. The second annual meeting 
was held on November 26, 19 14, in San Antonio, in connection with the 
Texas State Teachers' Association. 

The morning session was devoted to the art phase of our work. Miss 
Elsie Jonas, teacher of Domestic Arts in the San Antonio High School led 
the discussions and read a ;-)aper on The Educational Value of Domestic 
Art. 

The principal speaker of the afternoon was Miss Mary E. Gearing, Di- 
rector ot the Department of Domestic Economy in the University of Texas. 
In her talk on teaching Home Economics in Texas, Miss Gearing especially 
emphasized the fact that we must utilize Texas foodstuffs to build up our 
home industries and also that we must create a demand for more diversi- 
fied foodstuffs to be grown in Texas. 

George Peabody College for Teachers, Nashville, Tennessee. 

George Peabody College for Teachers has just received the gift of thirteen 
scholarships for the session of 1915-16 from Montgomery Ward and Com- 
pany, of Chicago. This well known firm offers one scholarship of $150 in 
the Seaman A. Knapp School of Country Life for each of the following 
states: Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missis- 
sippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and 
West Virginia. 

These scholarships will be awarded by the college authorities in cooper- 
ation with the State Superintendent of Education, to young men and 
women who have given evidence of ability as teachers, superintendents, 
or community workers in rural districts. 

In offering this generous gift, Mr. Charles H. Thorne, the president of 
the company, makes the following cordial statement of approval to the 
administration of George Peabody College for Teachers: 

The scholarships for which we are to be sponsor, convey better than any other way 
we can think of, our appreciation of what you and your work mean to the South It 
seems to us that a program as wide in scope and as comprehensive in its aims as that 
which you have set yourselves to accompUsh, is worthy of the most sincere praise. WTiere 
men and women have set their minds to a task so vitally important, the undertaking 
calls for encouragement and support, and it affords us genuine pleasure to further your 
work in a substantial, concrete way. Knowing something of the necessity of an intelli- 
gent and broad working out of the pressing social and economic problems of the South 
only serves to enhance in our mind, the value of your efforts as men and women and 
as an institution. 



Vol. Ml, No. G 



THE 



JUNE-JILY, 1915 



Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Mary H. Ahkl, luUlor Keturah E. Baldwin, Mananini^ Editor 

Elilorial B lard 
Kenj. R. Andrews Anna Barrows C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Officio Mtmhen — Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Econom-'cs Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 

CollaboriUnrs — The Officers, Members of the Ciuncil, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 



ExTEXsioN Tkaching IN Louisiana 

Home Ini)istry for the Country Girl 

The Visiting Teacher in the Farm Home . . . . 
The Need of the Visiting Housekeeper in Rural Districts 
Some Conclusions Regarding Food Products 

Sequence of Subjects 

Effect of Foods Upon .\luminum Cooking Vessels 

Infant Feeding 

Executive Secretary's Report 

.\n Explanation 

The Girls' Canning Clubs 

Editorials .... 

Housekeepers' Department 

The Home Canning of Meats and Vegetables 

A Comparison of Home ant) Commercially Can 

A New Method of Canning 

Housekeepers' Reference Circle . 

Food Value of Milk 

Iced Tea 

CLEAxaNG Aluminum Ware 

Protection from the Clothes Moth 

Economy of Double Windows . 

The Folding Go-Cart 

Danger of Using Left Overs . 

The Health of our Summer Resorts 
Bibliography of Home Economics . 
Books and Literature .... 
News from the Field .... 



NED Goods 



Elizabeth Kelley 

Jane Z. McKimmon 

. Mildred M. Veiled 

Mrs. Henry M. Diinlap 



John GJaistcr 
Ruth Wheeler 



Grace Dietz 



Lula MacDermott Price 
Alice E. W hi taker 



Susannah Usher 
Minna C. Dentoi. 



27.3 
276 
279 
284 
287 
303 
304 
310 
313 
316 
316 
317 
319 
319 
322 
322 
323 
324 
325 
326 
328 
328 
329 
329 
330 
331 
Hi 
337 



The Journal o* Home Economics is published ten times during the year — monthly except July and .August — by the 
American Home Economics Association. 

J2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN S2.25 SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on .\"ew York, E^r>rcss Order or Postal .Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a re:;istered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.\.\GE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in a-ldr>;ss should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The suljscrilier's Old Address s o Id be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCI.\TION 



Station N, Baltimore, Md. 



Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




A Canning Club Girl on her Tenth Acre Plot 




A County Agent Holding a Demonstration at the Home of a Club Member 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII JUNE- JULY, 1915 No. 6 

EXTENSION TEACHING IN LOUISIANA^ 

ELIZABETH KELLEY 

Univenily of Wisconsin. Formerly, University of Louisiana 

To understand the work that we have tried to do in the South it 
will be necessary to know something of Louisiana and Louisiana 
conditions. Farms for generations have raised the same crop year 
after year. In the northern part of the state it was cotton and in 
the southern part it was sugar. All the large plantations have had 
plantation stores at which all the small planters traded. Practically 
everything for the maintenance of the stock and the family of the 
planter was imported. 

A few years ago when the boll weevil destroyed the cotton crops 
the Dean of our Agricultural College, Professor Dodson, sent his 
men through the state to talk diversification. But it was a hard 
thing to convince the farmer that the days of large returns from 
cotton were over. At a farmers' meeting at which Professor Dodson 
talked diversification, one splendid looking old gentleman said, "I 
shall never diversify. My grandfather planted cotton, my father 
planted cotton and I have planted cotton for forty years, and I intend 
to go right on planting cotton." He was asked if he had not lost the 
last four crops of cotton and he answered, "Yes, but I am going to 
put i^iy last dollar into cotton this year." In the southern part of 
the state where the crop was sugar we met practically the same 
opposition to diversification. 

' Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. 

273 



274 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

With this attitude of the older people toward the methods of agri- 
culture we found that our hope lay in the children, and so we formed 
them into clubs. The working of all these clubs is practically the 
same. The corn club is well known. Louisiana was the first state 
in the Union to form pig clubs and the work of the pig clubs under 
the splendid management of Mr. Wm. H. Balis has had marvelous 
success. New Orleans, which five years ago imported 95 per cent 
of its pork, today imports less than 20 per cent. 

I remember attending one of the parish fairs in the northern part 
of the state and a little club boy drove his pig to the fair to exhibit 
it. The men in that community were accustomed to making pens 
to fit the pigs of the community and when this lad drove up his 
pig it was so large that they were obliged to put it in corner- wise. 
When I saw the lad in the morning he was standing by the pen, a typi- 
cal, underfed, neglected little farm lad. His hat was dragged down 
over his ears and he wore a coat that he had inherited from an older 
brother two degrees removed. While he stood there several men 
came up and asked "Why, whose pig is this?" "Well how did you feed 
it to get it to look like this?" etc. At first the boy was diffident in 
answering the questions, but as one question after another was fired 
at him he began to stand more erect and answer promptly. Wlien 
I came back in the afternoon I would not have known it was the same 
boy that I had seen in the morning. His head was high, his shoulders 
tossed back and his eyes were fairly sparkling. Even his coat seemed 
to fit him. The boy had about him the look that comes from success. 
He had done more than any boy in that community or even any 
man in the community, and it had left its stamp upon him. I 
could not help but think, as I looked at the child and looked at the 
pig, "If I could only get my mothers to feed their children as scienti- 
fically as this lad has fed his pig, what a splendid race of people we 
would have in Louisiana," and in my girls' club work the first aim 
that I put before my girls is to so attend to their gardens and can 
their products that they wall be able to give the family an adequate 
and varied ration the year round. The second aim is to teach the 
girls the dignity of work well done, to make the girls feel their own 
econoirdc worth in the world. The third aim is to give the girl a 
reward for her efforts, money with which to buy the things that go 
to make life worth living. This last is accomplished by assisting the 
girl to get markets for her surplus produce. 



I 



1915] EXTENSION TEACHING IN LOUISIANA 275 

The girls' club consists usually of not more than ten girls and 
each pledges herself to raise one-tenth of an acre of tomatoes and 
other vegetables, to keep a record of her operations and send it to 
us at the end of the year, to sell the surplus products while they 
are fresh, to can the rest and, when the supply for the family is laid 
aside, to sell the surplus mainly in her own community. 

We are encouraging girls along the lines of their own development. 
For this we offer the twenty to thirty girls who make the highest 
records in the state a short course of two weeks at the university in 
which we try to give them lessons in those things that are of para- 
mount importance on the farms. 

Besides this club work we have conducted short courses among 
the children of the state. The children of one parish are invited 
to come to a town where there is a good school and where the people 
of the town will entertain them for a week. Then the heads of de- 
partments of the university go there and conduct a regular school 
for these children. We have sometimes had as many as two hundred 
boys and girls attending these courses. Aside from giving them the 
practical instruction that will make them better farmers and farmers' 
wives, we try to add something that will bring beauty and culture 
into their Hves. We have talks on pictures and on books and music 
and I carry with me a victrola. At the end of a long hard day when 
we are all worn out we sit and listen to the strains of some grand 
opera or a simple folk song and when a waltz or two-step is played, 
old and young dance to the strains. 

Another form of extension work is done by the teachers of Home 
Economics in the state. We have endeavored to get the teachers, 
sixty-five and over, to work with the mothers in the communities 
in which they are located. The course of study that we have written 
out for these schools has been made along the lines of cooking and 
sewing to be done in rural communities. Our emphasis has been 
placed on making the best out of the materials at hand and encourag- 
ing the boys and girls to have a home garden. Every domestic science 
class was obliged to have a school garden and this was cultivated 
by the girls of the Home Economics departments, each class giving 
one period a week. The fruits and vegetables of this garden were 
used in the work in the schools and the surplus was canned, to be 
used during the winter months. 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JlinC-July 

Another feature of the course of study is that pertaming to the 
care of children. In every school a model outfit for a baby was 
made, consisting of a basket and little mattress and bedding and the 
proper clothing for an infant. Lessons were given on the care of the 
infant. In many cases a doll was used, bought by the money earned 
by the girls. 

This extension course of study was made especially to fit condi- 
tions in Louisiana, and required three years of study and planning 
before even a tentative course was made, but we have something 
now which fits. This is the most satisfying work I have ever done, 
and if you are looking for large returns of enthusiasm and pleasure 
in your work come to Louisiana. 

HOME INDUSTRY FOR THE COUNTRY GIRL^ 

JANE Z. McKIMMON 

Farmers' Cooperative Demonstration Work, North Carolina 

We do not often think of the country girl as being in the business 
world, but in North Carolinii canning clubs have been organized in 
order to give an industry to our country girls, and they are making 
good. We ask the girls if they do not want to come together in clubs, 
grow a tenth of an acre in tomatoes or string beans and learn to can 
them so that they may be used in the home or put upon the market. 

In writing about their work, many of the girls say: "I joined the 
canning club to make some money for myself, and I do not think 
it is an unworthy ambition." We had two little girls, each of whom 
cleared $107 on a tenth of an acre, but they did not have one cent of 
that $107 to spend and so we made out a blank requiring the girl 
to do certain things before she was enrolled, and at the end was 
printed: "The father is asked to sign this blank saying that the girl 
shall have everything that she clears in this canning work." The 
oldest of these two Uttle sisters had written to me: "I cannot be your 
little tomato girl any more ; Pap says he won't sign that paper because 
he needs the money to run the farm." I wrote to him: "I do not 
believe that you understand what we are trying to do with this 
club work. We are not making money for you to spend; we are gi\'ing 

' Presented at the Seventh .Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. 



1915] HOME INDUSTRY FOR THE COUNTRY GIRL 277 

the girl some means for earning and spending for herself. We want 
to train her to spend money and the only way is to give her the 
money to spend; let her make her own mistakes and she will profit 
by them. Now, I believe you are just the kind of a man who is 
going to do the best thing for your daughter. If every father should 
say he would not let his girl spend the money, we would go right 
out of the business because we are not making money for you but for 
the girl." I had a letter from the little girl: "Pap signed the paper. 
Your glad-at-heart httle Tomato Club Girl." 

We promised these girls to assist them to a market. At the end 
of the year 70,000 quart cans of tomatoes were dumped on us in 
October and every little girl wrote to please sell them right away for 
she wanted her money. But we said to our girls: "If you cannot 
sell in your own county we cannot ask outsiders to buy. Get busy 
and get a market in your own county; cut open your cans and let 
the people see the contents and perhaps you will get a market." 
One little girl at Jamestown walked into a store, cut a can open, 
and said: "Mister, I want to sell my tomatoes to you." He said, 
"Oh I have plenty." But, she said: "I want to go to school." 
He looked at the can and saw that it was full and contained red, 
ripe tomatoes, and he paid that girl $40 for 400 cans. When the 
neighborhood began to use the cans there was no sale for the com- 
mercial product, and so the merchant told her he would give her an 
order for everything she could produce the next year. One girl 
produced 1000 cans of uniform measure and quality. 

We have found out that, if we are going to sell, standardization is the 
very cornerstone of our business. If we can say that we have a 
certain standard we have no trouble in getting a market. The 
Pure Food Commission told me that I must either do business as a 
corporation or an individual. As a corporation I would not have a 
hold on each individual girl. If I let the girl do business as an indi- 
vidual I must know what she was doing, and this is possible if every 
girl puts her name and address on her can label. I require every girl 
to write her name and the date when the can is put up. I am ask- 
ing every agent in the county to stamp the weight on the can at 
some time during the summer. She must stamp on a number 3 
can that it weighs not less than 38 ounces, and on a number 2 can, 
26 or 28 ounces. The women in charge of this work took it for little 
or no money; the first year $150, and that meant work all the year 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

around. They worked for two months continuously when they 
were canning, and they also taught the girls how to plant and prune, 
how to spray, how to stake, and yet received but two months' pay. 

We have our girls di\dded into classes. An agent has 30 girls in three 
clubs and she reaches the clubs 3 days a week. She sets up the 
canning apparatus in a school house. She apportions the work so 
that there is one girl to look after the fire and the cooking, two to do 
the peeling, two the packing, two the capping, and so on; and of 
course, these are changed about so that a girl learns every process. 
We do not allow her to can at home until she knows how to do these 
things well. We are encouraging each girl to buy a canner for her- 
self provided she has been in the work a year or two. We have a 
great many of them canning at home, but the county supervisor 
visits the homes sometime during the season, and is at liberty to 
cut open a can and test it at any time. If it is not a sufficiently 
good grade, our label does not go on the can. You will realize that 
we cannot see every can put up by 1500 girls but we are trying to 
make the girl feel the responsibility of what she puts in, and we are 
trying to build up organizations in the county. If the county has 
been organized for three years, there is an agent in that county, 
and she has sub-agents. She demands standard from these sub- 
agents, and I demand standard from her. 

They produce only two crops in the tenth of an acre — string beans 
and tomatoes. We want them to do one thing well. We will not 
sell anything but string beans and tomatoes for a first year girl; 
peaches, berries and fruits for a second year girl; and we are teach- 
ing the third year girl to pack jams and jelHes. We have to have 
very strong supervision for all of this, and we tell the girl that her 
standard depends on the weight of a can, the flavor of the product, 
her cleanly methods, and how neat and clean the label is. When 
Mrs. Heath, the President of the Housewives' League, came to Raleigh 
last year we had one team give a demonstration and afterward Mrs. 
Heath said: "If that is the cleanly method you use I can recommend 
you to all of my housewives all over the United States," and that 
meant a great deal to us. Last winter when I took an exhibit into 
New York State at the soHcitation of these housewives they gave our 
girls $500 worth of orders of fancy stuff, and I am filHng that order 
in the following way. I am saying to each of 31 girls who know how 
to sterilize: "Here is an order for $16. It is your responsibihty ; if 



1915] THE VISITING TEACHER IN THE FARM HOME 279 

you fill this so that it is acceptable to the person who has ordered it, 
she is probably your customer for life." They realize that it is their 
responsibility. Then of course we ask the county agent to super- 
vise those girls. We grade in the commercial world as extra standard. 
There is but one higher and that is Al, and we can never reach that. 

We want the girl to market at home, and so we put a little ad- 
vertisement in the home papers in the county. "A case of tomatoes, 
24 cans, delivered at your door, for $2.40." And we have had many 
responses to these little advertisements. The housewives of the 
towns will send in to the agent and ask her to send out 2 dozen cans, 
and she tries to get enough orders to make it pay to take them into 
the town. We sometimes hang an advertisement on the gate post 
so that the hungry automobilist passing by may see what we have 
for sale. 

This work is big with possibilities, and every woman in the United 
States can help the girls and the canning in this way. If you will 
realize that they are inexperienced girls, and that it is going to take 
some time to fix their standards you will see that it is kindness to us, 
if you get their products, to let us know when they are not good; 
it is one way in which you can help us, and I believe it is the best 
way. , 

THE VISITING TEACHER IN THE FARM HOME^ 
mildr|:d m. veitch 

Agricultural College, North Dakota 

It is almost three years ago that a group of men prominent in the 
business and commercial affairs of the state launched the Better 
Farming Association of North Dakota. The purpose of the organi- 
zation was to bring about better ideals and methods of agriculture. 
North Dakota is one of the most thoroughly agricultural states in 
the Union, but like many an older state, it has been passing through 
the period of a one crop agriculture which so exhausts and impover- 
ishes the land. 

The method of carrying on the work of the association was by the 
means of field agents located in the various counties which had 

1 Written for the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June-July 

made application for an agent. By living in the community, he is 
enabled to know the people as neighbors, their ideals and the con- 
ditions with which they are struggling. The work as organized was 
carried on only to make the farm more productive and to give greater 
financial returns. 

It was Thomas Cooper, Director of the Association, who realized 
that the ultimate ideal of so much of the agitation for better rural 
conditions is lost sight of, because the farmer and his interests which 
are concerned only with money returns, have been the center of atten- 
tion, and the home, which is the real end, has received only secondary, 
if any attention. The Better Farming Section of the State Experi- 
ment Station is now employing a field woman to go into the individual 
homes. 

The average farm woman has to work much harder, under more 
trying conditions, and with poorer tools than does the average sub- 
urban or city woman. Let us consider the four principal reasons 
why this is a fact. First and most important, the wrong conception 
of an investment. The money spent for a water system, which is 
used every day during the year and which costs about $500, has not 
been regarded as an investment, but a traction engine, to be used in 
actual labor about thirty days during the year and costing $1500, is 
an investment because it realizes a cold cash income. A happy, 
contented, satisfied wife who has time to keep in touch with what 
is going on about her and a family of boys and girls who love the 
farm because it offers more than any town can possibly offer, has 
been entirely disregarded in the attempt of the farmer to possess a 
large bank account. 

Second, the old opinion, that whatever went into the house which 
was not absolutely necessary was a luxury, and was to be paid for 
by the farm woman out of the butter and egg money. But although 
she sells the butter which she makes herself and the eggs from the 
chickens she has taken care of, yet by the time Johnnie's new suit 
and father's shirts, and the sugar and raisins are purchased, there 
is little left for the good woman to squander on a new-fangled ar- 
rangement to mix bread in and thereby save her strength and energy. 

The farmer differs from the business man in town because he must 
maintain a commissary department and a lodging house. In town 
the boarding houses take care of the help and even the family but 
these have never found their way into the country. 



1915] THE VISITING TEACHER IN THE FARM HOME 281 

There is a third great reason often given for meagre equipment in 
the country home, namely, that the home is not permanent. Often- 
times farmers have said to me, "Oh well, what's the use of putting 
five hundred dollars into a water system, when we don't intend to 
stay here always. It will be left for some renter who won't take 
care of and appreciate it." This is the ideal of a great many, in fact, 
I might almost say of the average farmer, to work hard and hoard 
up a lot of money and as soon as possible go to some town or city 
to retire. This retired farmer, you will find when he does go to town 
maintains his same old ideals of getting along without this or that 
convenience, with this excuse, ''Oh well, I've Hved all these years 
without a sink in the kitchen, and guess I don't need one now." 
Thus the farmer who Hves in the idea of one day retiring, has yet 
to discover that hving each day is the secret of life. 

Commercial interests have done much for the woman in town 
which they have not done for the woman on the farm. The average 
house in the town or city has a heating plant, hot and cold water, 
gas for cooking, electricity for lighting, all taken care of by com- 
mercial interests or the municipality. Then too, the house-planning 
for towns has been pretty thoroughly worked out, but is sadly neg- 
lected for the farm. If a farmer wants to build an expensive and 
convenient house, probably he will erect some very fine house suit- 
able to the town, but unsuited to Ms needs; or if on the other hand 
it is an inexpensive house, it will be merely a kitchen and dining 
room, parlor and bedroom, put together to suit the whims and fancies 
of some carpenter. 

At present, there is a great agitation about social centers and 
recreation for the farm woman. But what good would be a modern 
and beautiful club house within walking distance of every farm home 
if the woman was so tired and worn out at the end of the day that 
she could not enjoy it, and was obliged to go to bed as soon as the 
day's work was over in order to be ready for the next day's round 
of monotonous labor. No, the average farming community is thor- 
oughly capable of taking care of its own amusement, and we would 
have as much right to be dictatorial in regard to the way that its 
leisure time should be spent as to dictate the color of the roses in 
their parlor carpet. 

This does not mean that there is no recreation problem in the 
country, but it is due to the lack of time to take leisure and plan for 



282 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

it rather than the inability of the country man and woman to plan 
their o\^^l pleasure. 

Often the aesthetic and cultural ideas of the farm women are criti- 
cised, but again it is a matter of being too busy in getting meals for 
hired hands and doing the family mending to be greatly concerned 
over a too \ividly colored picture on the walls of the sitting room. 

Thus it was with this ultimate ideal in mind that we felt that the 
first thing was to obtain more efficient tools and working conditions, 
which means more time and contentment, and this resulted in our 
focusing our attention upon, (1) efficient arrangement of working 
equipment and utensils in the kitchen with a view to saving time 
and energy; (2) encouragement and aid in purchasing the best labor 
sa\dng devices suited to the particular needs of the individual; (3) 
better sanitation, including cisterns, water systems and methods of 
sewage disposal. 

The first part of the eight months was spent in getting the situa- 
tion and problem in hand and in becoming acquainted with com- 
munities in a friendly and neighborly way. It was during this time 
that a Country Woman's Club was organized by the farm women 
in the section tributary to one of the larger to\vns in the central part 
of the state. The object of their organization was the maintenance 
of a club room in this town which would be used as waiting and 
rest room when the farm women came to town to do their shopping. 
The project was planned out and financed entirely by the women of 
the surrounding country. 

The winter is a difiicult time to get about from farm to farm in 
doing actual field work. This gave a fine opportunity, however, 
to \'isit some of our farmers' clubs, of which there are about three 
hundred and eighty organized by the Field Agents of the Better 
Fanning Section of the State Experiment Station. At the clubs 
the women discussed subjects pertaining to more efficient methods 
of doing housework and the matter of expending money in labor 
saving devices for the house which were regarded in the Hght of invest- 
ments and putting them on the same plane as the farmer puts the 
newer types of machinery' for his farm. The men were urged to do 
their part in this campaign for developing better farm homes. 

Spring work over, work in and with the individual home has been 
taken up. In one place it might be a request to come and help 
design a cupboard to fit into a specific place in the wall, or it might 



1915] THE VISITING TEACHER IN THE FARM HOME 283 

be that some one was contemplating putting in a water system but 
had no idea of the cost or how to go about it. Inquiries come into 
the office such as these, ''Which is better, a wick or a wickless oil 
stove," or, "Which would you advise as the greatest labor saving 
device, as I can only afford to buy one, a bread mixer or an oil stove." 

Realizing that quite often people cannot build a new kitchen or 
even put much money into fixing over the old inconvenient one, 
we have made it our special interest to rearrange a poorly planned 
kitchen. It was in this regard that one of the Field Agents sent 
word that a woman was planning to put in a water system but there 
seemed to be no possible place for the sink in the kitchen. Would 
we go out and see if there could not be something done? Of course, 
the plumber had suggested the most impossible place in the room 
for the sink, but by changing the position of the stove and putting 
the sink there, in its logical place, one kitchen was saved from being 
the most inconvenient one to be imagined. 

We are quite often asked to suggest changes in plans for new houses 
to be built. Such an experience comes to my mind in this regard. 
A certain man was determined to build a square house, and he insisted 
that all the rooms down stairs must be of equal size, with the chim- 
ney in the center of the house. It was only by showing him a cata- 
log of houses that we proved that the interior of square houses did 
not necessarily need to be entirely spoiled just to accommodate an 
ordinary brick chimney. 

Among more efficient methods of doing housework, dishwashing 
is one of our hobbies. People never talk about drudgery in dish- 
washing if it is done properly. So out here in North Dakota we 
are making more efficient dish-washing one of our slogans, and within 
a short time we hope to be unable to find any right-handed woman 
draining her dishes to the right side, or with her dishpan on a table 
so low that more energy is lost in stooping over it than in washing 
the dishes. 

Thus the work which has been attempted with the farm women 
of North Dakota has been mainly in regard to things which in the 
town and city are taken care of by commercial and educational inter- 
ests. When the farm home has been placed on a more efficient basis 
and some of the conveniences found in the city homes have been 
placed in it, not a few of the problems which are today puzzling 
social workers will have been solved. 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June-July 

THE NEED OF THE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER IN RURAL 

DISTRICTS' 

MRS. HENRY M. DUNLAP 
Savoy, III. 

The term Visiting Housekeeper has a very significant meaning and 
purpose \'iewed from the farm woman's standpoint. We have in 
the state of Illinois thirteen county visiting farm advisers or experts. 
They are pro\dded ^vith an automobile and an office and go forth to 
instruct the farmers, individually or in numbers, in better methods 
along all farm activities. They seem to have made a success of it 
and the demand is increasing for these trained experts. 

But there is no trained visiting housekeeper in our state. We 
have a few trained visiting nurses that are doing good work in the 
large cities. We need trained visiting housekeepers as much as, if 
not more than, we need trained visiting farm advisers. Why more? 
Because the housekeeper is dealing with human life and she makes 
or mars life according to the amount or lack of scientific and correct 
knowledge she possesses. 

Why have we not the interest and progress in the visiting house- 
keeper that we have in the visiting farmer? The answer is — woman's 
lack of financial independence and her inabihty, through years of 
practiced self-denial, to expect and demand the proper help in solving 
the economic and living problems in the home. 

There are many difficulties to be encountered in this visiting house- 
keeper's movement. 

First, the difficulty of finding trained workers even if the financial 
support was secured. A successful worker must be equipped with 
not only science and theory but also wdth practice and tact above 
everything else. The level head with a broad sympathetic charity 
should be a predominant requirement in the training for a visiting 
housekeeper. 

Second, the difficulty of overcoming woman's conservatism and 
sensitiveness in regard to her home and the methods she uses. There 
are but few homes, whether of high or low degree, that do not need 
expert advice if it can be given in the right spirit. 

■^ Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Cleveland, 1914. 



1915] NEED OF VISITING HOUSEKEEPER IN RURAL DISTRICTS 285 

A young woman whose house had just been remodeled was estab- 
lishing herself in the new kitchen and dining room. She had not 
grasped the possibilities of the two rooms as to the arrangement of 
her working equipment to save steps. A friend asked, "Don't you 
want me to help you arrange and make convenient your kitchen and 
dining room?" She looked up with the most astonished and hurt 
expression and said: "No, thank you, I think I am capable of doing 
that for myself, and am glad to say that I am not such a crank on 
order and system as you are and so do not need any assistance." 
This was simply a case of lack of tact. It is difficult to secure success- 
ful workers in our Farmers' Institutes because they go with the 
feeling that they must impress their hearers with their superior 
knowledge, and not so much with the desire to give the knowledge 
they possess in such a way that it can be applied at once to the 
everyday affairs of life. 

Just one instance of how criticism acted and has reacted many 
times upon me in my home. For a number of years I had been work- 
ing in an old inconvenient kitchen, and laying the blame upon every- 
one but myself. It was my pri\dlege to listen to a lecture on Home 
Economics wherein the speaker made this statement. "Nine times 
out of ten when a woman is w^orking in an inconvenient kitchen it 
is her own fault. She has not put enough thought and effort upon 
it to have it different." I never entered my kitchen after that with- 
out thinking of it. The result was that the inconvenient kitchen was 
made into a convenient one and with very little expense. 

Just this last winter I was gi\'ing an evening talk on Home Eco- 
nomics to men and women in a church of a small village. I spoke 
of how women were made to dislike housework because of our many 
architectural failures and lack of forethought as to the requirements 
of a kitchen and dining room to save steps. The next morning before 
I had finished my breakfast a little girl appeared with a note from 
her mother, asking me if I would come to her home before taking 
my train and see if I could make any suggestions in regard to her 
kitchen and dining room. I found that she was mistress of a new 
house which was a great burden to her with her five children and all 
her work to do; a burden because of an architect's failure and her 
own inability to know what she should have. Only with many 
changes and considerable expense could it be made convenient. If 
we had a woman in every state, or better still, one in every county 



286 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june-July 

who could be consulted on such matters before such mistakes were 
made how much better it would be. 

Again, the power for good that a visiting housekeeper could do in 
establishing a more simple hygienic form of living would be inesti- 
mable. Every child born and reared in the country should be 
healthy and efficient because its environment can be ideal if there 
is only a trained brain and hand at the helm. 

As a director in our two-room country school for a number of 
years I recognized how little the education provided for our boys 
and girls was fitting them for real Ufe. It never directed the girls 
toward the w^ork of the home and a love for it, nor the boys toward 
the farm and all its wonderful opportunity, but left them to form 
the same habit of thinking and doing that their fathers and mothers 
possessed. And so in order to make some connection between the 
home and school a weekly card was planned to be distributed by the 
teacher, whereon all the work done by the boy and girl while at home 
was recorded. Our problem has not been in getting the teacher 
interested in the plan and willing to do the extra work, but it has 
been to get the mothers and fathers interested enough to assume 
the work of aiding their boys and girls in doing systematic work and 
recording it. If we could have in our coimty an expert visiting 
housekeeper as well as an expert \'isiting farmer, she could do almost 
as much good as our county superintendent of schools in helping to 
put the mother and father in touch with the work that the schools 
are tr}ing to do for their boys and girls. There is no class of women 
that so much need the help and inspiration of a Httle club life as the 
farm women but they need the help of the visiting housekeeper to 
organize them and to establish working methods. She might also 
get the husband and wife to cooperate in the best equipment of a home 
in order that the work may be performed with the least expenditure 
of time and energy; get them interested in beautifying the home and 
its surroundings, by studying harmony of color within the home and 
the best planting of vine, shrub and tree for a beautiful inspiring 
outlook; get them interested in a good fruit and vegetable garden 
that will be of untold value to them. Unlimited possibilities present 
themselves to one who is hoping for the time when our \'isiting house- 
keepers will be as numerous as our ministers and school teachers. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 2<S7 

SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 

The recently published volume, Food Products/ by Prof. H. C. 
Sherman, is of particular interest to students of Home Economics 
since it brings together a large amount of valuable data on food in 
relation to diet and dietetics and so supplements the discussion of 
food and nutrition from the chemist's standpoint as presented in his 
earlier volume on The Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

The author evidently has drawn upon the material which he has 
collected for class-room purposes but in addition to that which is 
more familiar has included much of the important data which have 
accumulated so rapidly during the past few years, and has rendered 
valuable service to the teacher and pupil who wish results of research 
interpreted for them. It has been the general plan in this volume 
to devote a chapter to each of the important types of food, taking 
into account production, preparation for the market, statistical and 
economic data, approximate composition, general food value, and 
sanitary inspection and standards of purity, as well as special charac- 
teristics of composition, digestibility, nutritive value and place in the 
diet. A basis for comparison is always needed. The study of milk, 
the author notes, "affords opportunity for the correlation of aU these 
aspects and may therefore serve to set standards for the study of the 
other types of food." 

Through the food, it is pointed out, "the body obtains the sub- 
stances which enter into its structure, which yield energy for its 
activities, and which regulate the processes essential to life and 
health," which is essentially an amplified definition of food. In 
another place the matter is stated in another way, namely, that the 
functions of food are (1) to yield energy, (2) to build tissue, and 
(3) to regulate body processes. The author's statements regarding 
the functions of food are more detailed than those commonly found 
in the older texts. For instance, after speaking of the fact that the 
greater part of the total sohds (both nitrogenous and non-nitrogen- 
ous constituents) is burned in the body to yield energy for the sup- 
port of its activities, he makes the following statements : 

Part of the protein of the food is used as a source of body protein, or, 
as it is often expressed, is used to build tissue. Several elements not con- 

1 Food Products. By H. C. Sherman. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1914, 
pp. ix -f- 594, figs. 36. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC^July 

tained in most proteins are also essential to the tissues of the body and 
these are derived from the so-called ash constituents of the food. The 
calcium and phosphorus of the bones, the potassium and phosphorus of 
the soft tissues, the iron of the red blood cells are just as necessary "build- 
ing materials" as are the proteins, though the amounts required are much 
smaller. 

Upon the presence in the body of salts derived from the food, either 
directly or as the result of its oxidation in the tissues, depend such impor- 
tant properties and processes as the solvent power and osmotic pressure 
of the body fluids, the elasticity of the muscles, the maintenance of the 
normal neutrality or slight alkalescence of the blood and tissues. 

These latter fimctions, and many others which might be mentioned as 
primarily dependent upon water and the salts, are hardly suggested by 
the phrase "tissue building," since they have to do not so much with the 
actual construction or repair of the tissues as with the regulation of the 
processes on which the nutrition of the body depends. 

It is not to be inferred that any given food substance can be assigned 
once for all to some one of these three general functions. Thus the protein 
digestion products may serve both to build tissue and to yield energy; 
phosphates may serve both to build tissue and to assist in regulating the 
neutrality of the blood and tissues. 

In this place he also speaks of the recently discovered food con- 
stituents \dtamins and lipoids which occur in foods in very small 
amounts yet which are apparently extremely important. Of special 
value to the student are the author's summaries of the values of 
protein, fats, etc., which are concise yet accurate. 

There are many features of the book w^hich might be dw^lt upon 
but perhaps the most interesting are some of the author's conclusions 
with reference to the place and value in the diet of food stuffs of 
different sorts. 

After pointing out the fact that milk is a fairly economical food 
compared wdth others of animal origin he notes that: 

The proteins of milk are of high nutritive value. Whtn milk is taken 
\mder normal conditions (even in relatively large quantity and in connec- 
tion with only a small amount of bread and other solid food), about 97 
to 98 per cent of the milk protein is digested and absorbed. Numerous 
recent digestion and metaboUsm experiments indicate that under normal 
conditions it is as completely digested and absorbed as any of the food 
proteins, and has the advantage of not containing the substances which 
yield uric acid in the body, nor being readily susceptible to intestinal 
putrefaction. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 289 

Taking into consideration the many and important factors which in- 
crease the value of milk as food, above that indicated by its mere proxi- 
mate composition and fuel value, and also the fact that it requires no 
preparation and has no waste, it is believed to be true economy to make 
liberal use of milk in the diet so long as the milk does not cost any more 
than twice as much in proportion to the energy it furnishes as the average 
of the food eaten. On this basis families who must live on as little as 16 
to 20 cents per person per day for food may wisely use reasonable quan- 
tities of milk at 8 to 10 cents per quart, balancing this by a larger use of 
such food as bread, which furnishes energy much more cheaply than the 
average food of the diet. Those who are able to spend 30 to 40 cents 
per person per day for food are practicing true economy when they buy 
and use liberally the best milk obtainable even at a price of 15 to 20 cents 
per quart. 

Especially in the feeding of children should milk be used freely, because of 
its many advantages as a "tissue -building" and "growth-promoting" food. 
"A quart of milk a day for every child," is a good rule easy to remember. 

In no other way can the food habits now prevailing, especially in the 
cities, be so certainly and economically improved as by a more liberal use 
of good milk. 

In the discussion of milk products it is noted that "generally speak- 
ing cheese sells at no higher price per pound than the ordinary cuts 
of meat, while it is considerably richer in both proteins and fat." 

Cheese is very rich, not only in protein and fat, but also in calcium and 
phosphorus, since these elements in milk are largely in combination in or 
with the casein and so are concentrated ^^^th the casein in the process of 
cheese making. The iron-protein compounds of the milk are also retained 
in the cheese. 

As the food value and digestibility of cheese become better known it 
should come to occupy a much more prominent place in the typical dietary 
than it does at present. 

With reference to buttermilk and other fermented milks it is pointed 
out that they possess the same general advantages as milk which 
has not undergone fermentation. In \iew of the prominence which 
has been given to the theory that such products have special value 
the following conclusion is of interest: 

The evidence at present available leaves the therapeutic value of fer- 
mented milks somewhat uncertain, but there is no doubt that they are 
valuable foods especially for those who either relish or digest the fer- 
mented m.ilk better than the unfermented. 



290 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Junc-Julv 

In discussing evaporated and condensed milk the author notes the 
fact that evaporated milk is "less perishable than fresh milk [which] 
is a decided advantage to purchasers who use milk for the manu- 
facture of other products for which there is a fluctuating demand, 
such as ice cream and special bakery products." 

In discussing cream it is noted that "market cream is apt to be at 
least half a day older than the corresponding grade of market milk 
and almost invariably has a higher bacteria content." 

In the case of eggs the following generalizations are made: 

There can be no doubt that the nutrients of the egg when absorbed from 
the digestive tract are of exceptional value in the nutrition of the body 
tissues. The richness of eggs in protein and fat and in compounds of 
phosphorus, iron, and calcium, all in forms especially adapted for conver- 
sion into body tissue, make the food value much greater than a compari- 
son based simply on amoimts of protein and energy would indicate. 

Eggs are more nearly interchangeable with milk in nutritive value than 
is any other food, and they are richer than milk in iron. On account of 
this richness in iron (as well as the nature of the proteins and fats), eggs 
are among the first foods to be added to the milk diet of the young child, 
and if circumstances should arise in which no form of milk enters into the 
child's diet, the egg will come nearer furnishing a satisfactory substitute 
than will any other food. Normally, however, eggs should only supple- 
ment the milk of children's dietaries and should not be allowed to displace 
the milk to any appreciable extent. For the same reasons that it is adapted 
to the needs of the growing organism, the egg is also a very valuable food 
for adults who need to be "built up;" hence eggs are usually prominent in 
well-arranged dietaries for undernourished anemic people and especially 
for tuberculosis patients. 

In addition to their well-known nutritive value, eggs are popular for 
other reasons. They are easily cooked in a variety of ways and by their 
admixture it becomes possible to make many modifications in the texture, 
flavor, and appearance of other food materials. Doubtless it is largely 
because the egg facilitates so many things in cookery which would other- 
wise be difficult or impracticable, that the demand for eggs keeps the price 
almost always higher than their food value, for general use, would seem to 
warrant. We have seen, however, that the real food value of eggs is much 
greater than a mere statement of the protein and fat content and energy 
value would indicate. When all the factors of food value are taken into 
account, a dozen eggs may fairly be considered worth as much in the dietary 
as two pounds at least of meat, so that, except in times of special scarcity, 
eggs are apt to be more economical than meat though not so economical 
as milk. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 291 

Much interesting matter not easily accessible to students is in- 
cluded in the chapters on meat, game, fish, and similar animal foods 
and the products made from them. Although meats differ greatly 
in the nutrients which they contain it is pointed out that "these 
differences are due in the main to simple variations in fatness." In 
addition to discussing the constituents of meat which are most com- 
monly considered, the author devotes some attention to creatin, 
purines, and ash constituents. 

With reference to meats and their place in the diet the following 
statements are of particular interest: 

There is a decided excess of the acid-forming over the base-forming ele- 
ments. For equal degrees of fatness, the different kinds of meat appear 
to be practically alike in this respect. 

It is difficult to balance the advantages and disadvantages of meat as 
a food and to reach a confident conclusion as to just how prominent a place 
it should have in the diet, both because so many factors enter into the 
problem and because so many of those who have studied the subject and 
published their conclusions appear to have been more or less influenced 
by controversial bias engendered by the vegetarian propaganda. 

On the whole it seems reasonable to the author to conclude from 
general conclusions which have been reached, such as Tigerstedt, 
from which he quotes as well as from results of statistical and experi- 
mental studies "that the average meat consumption in the United 
States is somewhat higher than is desirable on both economic and 
physiological grounds. 

"When one-sixth instead of one-third of the total expenditure for 
food is for meats, the dietary is usually both more economical and 
better balanced." 

In discussing gelatin it is noted that this is not simply a protein 
sparer as was commonly said before its chemical nature had been 
studied in connection with that of other nitrogenous constituents of 
animal and vegetable foods. 

Gelatin is a true protein, but not ''complete" as a protein food, the 
"incompleteness" of food value being doubtless due to the absence of 
certain amino-acid radicals, conspicuously tryptophan, in the gelatin mole- 
cule. If one were to depend very largely upon gelatin as food, it would be 
important that some other proteins, such as those of milk, rich in the par- 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC-July 

ticular amino-acids which gelatin lacks, should also be represented in the 
diet. 

In the discussion of poultry it is pointed out that it has the same 
general composition as meat. With reference to special character- 
istics the author points out that : 

The impression that light meat furnishes less of the substances which 
give rise to uric acid in the body does not seem to have been confirmed. 
Neither have we any evidence that the ash constituents differ in any im- 
portant degree either as between light and dark meat or as between chicken 
meat and that of other animals. 

[Poultry, game, fish, and shellfish] may be regarded as interchangeable 
with the ordinary meats. The comparative economy of these different 
types of flesh food varies widely with locality and season. While game has 
become so scarce and costly as to be no longer an important factor in the 
food supply, the prices of poultry, fish, and shellfish appear at present to 
be rising less rapidly on the whole than the price of beef. The breaking 
up of the great cattle ranges into small cultivated farms naturally tends 
toward a relative (perhaps not absolute) decrease in beef production and 
an increase (both absolute and relative) in poultry culture. Oyster culture 
is becoming systematized so that, while oysters will doubtless remain an 
expensive food, the supply will probably increase. The fishery industries 
are also capable of great development both by improved methods of han- 
dling the species now regarded as important and by utilizing as food the 
flesh of species which in the past have been neglected. Thus it is said 
that a few years ago sturgeon was so little prized as food that much of it 
was used as fertilizer, while now smoked sturgeon is in good demand, and 
that still more recently the garfish, formerly regarded merely as a pest, 
has begun to find a market as a food fish. 

Since in the natiu^e of the case the meat production of the country can 
not be greatly increased except at the cost of a restricted output of other 
farm crops, we may anticipate a constantly increasing tendency towards 
better conservation and more economical utilization of the fishery products 
as food. 

Following the chapters devoted to animal foods are those devoted 
to grain products, vegetables, fruits, and nuts. The characteristics 
of the different grains are pointed out, and milhng, bread making 
and cereal breakfast foods are discussed, while much recent work 
regarding the nature of the grains and their proteins is summarized. 
The work of Osborne and Mendel upon the grain proteins the author 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 293 

characterizes as a "successful correlation of the chemical structure 
and nutritive function of the proteins, an accompHshment of the 
greatest importance in the scientific development of food chemistry," 

[Each of the staple grains (wheat, barley, and maize) and the staple 
nulling products made from them] contains a mixture of proteins, and the 
other proteins with which gliadin, hordein, and zein are always mixed in 
wheat, barley, and maize do not show these same peculiarities of chemi- 
cal structure, so that we have no reason to fear that either lysin or tripto- 
phan would ever be wholly lacking in any staple food product made from 
grain. Thus glutenin, which is always present in wheat flour, has been 
shown to be adequate for both maintenance and growth even when it was 
the only protein in the diet. It is, however, only reasonable to expect 
that the mixture of proteins found in corn meal or even wheat flour will 
be of somewhat less value in nutrition than an equal weight of the mix- 
ture of proteins which we find in milk, eggs, or meat. Experimental obser- 
vations confirm this inference and indicate that when bread is the sole 
source of protein in the diet, a larger amount of protein is required for 
equilibrium than when milk or meat is eaten. 

Fortunately the proteins of milk are relatively rich in those amino-acid 
radicals in which the grains are poor. ... If bread be made with 
skimmed milk instead of water, or if breakfast cereal or even corn meal 
mush be eaten with cream or milk, it is possible that the protein of the 
combination may have fully as high a value in nutrition as the average 
protein of ordinary mixed diet. 

Following are some of the statements with reference to fine wheat 
flour and other types: 

Regarding the coarser and finer flours simply as sources of protein and 
energy, they are so nearly equal both in digestible nutrients and (at pres- 
ent, to the individual consumer) in pecuniary economy that they may be 
regarded as substantially equivalent and interchangeable. They are, 
however, quite different in the ash constituents which they contain and 
somewhat different in their effect upon the digestive tract. 

The coarser wheat products stimulate peristalsis more than do the fine 
flour products, an effect which is desirable in some persons and undesirable 

in others The wheat kernel contains two distinct substances 

reported as having laxative effects which are largely rejected in the prep- 
aration of fine flour. These are the oil of the germ and the phytin (one 
of the phosphorus compounds) which is especially abundant in the bran. 
It is probable that in man the stimulation of peristalsis by whole wheat 
products is due in part to direct mild laxative action by one or both of 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC-July 

these constituents, and in part also to the mechanical effect of the fibrous 
particles. 

The ash constituents of the grains are largely concentrated in the germs 

and outer layers Doubtless the loss in digestion is somewhat 

greater for the coarser than for the finer products in the case of the ash 
constituents as of the proteins, but there is no reason to suppose that the 
loss in digestion would in any case approach the loss involved in the ordi- 
nary milling process. The body probably absorbs from a pound of genuine 
whole wheat bread at least twice as much phosphorus, iron, and calcium 
compounds as from a pound of white bread. 

It follows that the coarser flours contain more of the ash constitu- 
ent than the finer. With reference to this fact and the pecuniary 
economy of grains we find the following: 

Some writers and teachers treat the losses incurred in the ordinarj' 
milling processes as a matter of indifference or even object to any serious 
discussion of the problem, calling it a "fad" on the ground that with the 
mixed dietary prevalent in the United States there is no danger of the 
"deficiency diseases" from any mode of milling the grains. This is prob- 
ably true as regards the pronounced diseases such as beriberi, but it is also 
true that many American family dietaries show little margin of safety as 
regards iron, phosphorus, and calcium, which makes it only reasonable 
that we should wish to include in the products used for human food as 
much as is practicable of those parts of the grain which are rich in these 
elements. Moreover, one should not overlook the great wastefulness of 
making from 100 pounds of wheat only 70 to 75 pounds of white flour 
when the same wheat wfll yield 85 to 95 pounds of flour practicaUy equal 
pound for poimd if the ash constituents be ignored, and more than equal 
if these constituents be considered. 

The data regarding the composition and characteristics of fruits, 
vegetables, and nuts, as was the case in the chapters on other foods, 
supply much information not readily accessible to the student. The 
author points out that experimental evidence indicates that a fruit 
and nut diet is almost as completely and readily digested as an ordi- 
nary mixed diet, and further that "the fact that consistent fruita- 
rians, both adults and cliildren, maintain a well-nourished condition 
on diets of fruits and nuts which are of moderate total food value 
and low protein content is strong evidence that the nutrients of the 
fruits and nuts must be well digested and also efficiently utilized 
in metabolism." 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 295 

From such data and a discussion of the nature of the proteid con- 
stituents of nuts the author concludes that: 

Fruits and nuts are to be regarded as staple articles of food and by no 
means as simply relishes or accessories. By a consideration of composi- 
tion and cost it will also be found that many of the fruits and nuts are 
quite economical as compared with many other staple foods 

Not only the roasted peanuts but the best grade of almonds or of care- 
fully prepared peanut butter is plainly a much more economical food than 
the steak, even when the latter is not charged with the cost of preparing 
it for the table. 

With reference to the different fruits and vegetables it is pointed 
out that: 

Differences in food value are due largely to the wide variations in water 
content, but also to the different quantitative proportions which the nu- 
trients bear to each other, and in some instances to the presence of char- 
acteristic substances. 

Considered as sources of energy potatoes and dry beans and peas are 
at ordinary prices about as economical as grain products and much more 
economical than the meats; while the dried fruits are comparable in econ- 
omy as fuel with milk, butter, and the fatter and cheaper kinds of meat. 
Even those fruits and green vegetables which are eaten for flavor with 
little thought of food value and which are often thought of as luxuries 
because of their high water content will often be found to furnish energy 
at no greater cost than many of the famihar cuts of meat when account 
is taken of the extent to which the fat of the meat is usually rejected or 
lost in cooking or at the table. 

That the dry legiunes are both absolutely and relatively rich in protein 
is a fact so well recognized as not to require elaboration here. Less gen- 
erally reaUzed is the fact that while the green vegetables contain too much 
water to show high absolute values or percentages by weight of protein, 
yet they show as much or more of the total food value in the form of pro- 
tein as is customary or desirable in ordinary dietaries. In fruits, on the 
other hand, the relative proportion as well as the absolute amount of pro 
tein is usually low 

Taking the fruits and vegetables as a whole, while often more economical 
as sources of energy and protein than is generally considered, yet they 
are probably even more significant for their ash constituents than for the 
organic nutrients which they contain. 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june-July 

Much of interest is brought together regarding the mineral con- 
stituents of this group of foods; a matter of special interest since 
summaries of this sort are none too abundant. 

As sources of iron the green vegetables are perhaps the most important 
of all our foods, while other vegetables and many fruits are also very impor- 
tant sources of food-iron 

Since there has been among dietitians of the older school a tendency to 
regard meats as the main source of food-iron, a brief comparison of meats 

with vegetables and fruits from this standpoint may be desirable 

In proportion to cost the fruits and vegetables furnished much more iron 
than the meats and fish. 

The question, however, is one of kind as well as amount. The iron in 
meat is chiefly due to the blood remaining in the small blood vessels with 
which the meat is permeated. The iron compounds of blood do not yield 
readily to the digestive ferments as do those of vegetables and fruits, so 
that the iron of the latter is better absorbed and becomes more completely 
available for nutrition than the iron of the meats. 

Moreover the use of too much meat (especially by persons of sedentary 
habits or indoor occupation) tends toward excessive intestinal putrefac- 
tion with resulting absorption of putrefactive products which are detri- 
mental to the red blood cells and probably in other ways interfere with 
the economy of iron in the body. Fruits, and vegetables, on the other 
hand, have the opposite property and their use in liberal quantities tends 
to prevent or correct intestinal putrefaction, both by stimulating peristal- 
sis and by furnishing a medium less favorable to the activities of the putre- 
factive bacteria 

The mild laxative tendency of many fruits and vegetables depends in 
part upon the fact that they furnish to the digestive tract a sufficiently 
bulky residue (largely of cellulose and related substances) to stimulate 
mechanically and render effective the peristaltic action, and in part upon 
the occurrence in many fruits and some vegetables of substances which, 
aside from the mechanical considerations, exert a mild laxative effect. 
Sometimes the raw fruit is found to be more laxative than the same fruit 
when thoroughly cooked. In some cases the astringent substances in the 
skin may counteract the laxative effect of the raw flesh of the fruit; thus 
some persons find the flesh of raw (or even stewed) apples too laxative, 
but experience no inconvenience when the skin of the apple is eaten with 
the flesh and the whole is thoroughly chewed. 

Another important effect of eating fruit is the introduction of an acid 
substance into the digestive tract which later yields an alkaline or basic 
substance in the blood and tissues. This acidity of fruits is largely due. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 297 

not to free acids, but to acid potassium salts, of which the acid potassium 
tartrate (cream of tartar) of grapes may serve as an example. 

It will be noted that in all the fruits and vegetables the percentage of 
potassium (expressed as K2O in the table), is high either absolutely or as 
compared with the other ash constituents in the same food. Like the 
calcium, magnesiiun, and sodium, the potassium exists in the foods in part 
as neutral inorganic salts. In many cases, however, it exists to an even 
larger extent in combination with organic acids or other organic matter. 
. . . . Those parts of plants which are used for food in the form of 
fruits and vegetables yield, on burning, a basic or alkaline ash due to the 
fact that the base-forming elements predominate over the acid-forming 
elements in these foods, chiefly because of the presence of the organic 
potassium compounds just mentioned. The surplus of base-forming ele- 
ments which remains as carbonate and makes the ash distinctly alkaline 
when the food is burned at a high temperature in the air will, when the 
material is oxidized in the body, remain as bicarbonate, which is a prac- 
tically neutral substance, yet capable of neutralizing acids such as the 
sulphuric acid produced in the protein metabolism. 

A table showing potential alkalinity or excess of base-forming ele- 
ments in various fruits and vegetables forms a valuable part of this 
discussion. Of particular interest to the housekeeper, if she accepts 
the author's conclusions, is the following generalization: 

Since meats and eggs show a distinct excess of the acid-forming elements, 
while in vegetables and fruits the base-forming elements predominate, it 
follows that the greater the amount of meat, fish, and eggs eaten the more 
important is it that fruits and vegetables be also used liberally. A 100- 
calorie portion of potato furnishes just about the amount of base to neu- 
tralize the acid arising from the metabolism of a 100-calorie portion of 
steak. To serve a 200-calorie portion of steak with only a 100-calorie 
portion of potato is out of proportion. The grain products have an excess 
of acid-forming elements, not large enough to be objectionable when the 
diet is otherwise well balanced, but which may result in the diet as a whole 
becoming too strongly acid-forming if grain products are allowed to take 
the place of vegetables. Rice and potatoes are sometimes considered 
interchangeable, but from this standpoint cannot be so considered. When 
rice instead of potato is served with meat, not only is the excess acid from 
the meat left unprovided for, but more acid is added by the rice. Hence, 
even though the rice furnishes as much energy and protein, it cannot 
properly be regarded as of fully equal food value with the potato which 
it displaces. 



298 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JlUlC-July 

In order to avoid too great an excess of acid in cases in which no dietary 
calculations are made, it is well to allow at least as much money for the 
purchase of vegetables, fruits, and milk (in which base-forming elements 
predominate) as for the purchase of meats, fish, and eggs (all of which are 
distinctly acid-forming). 

WTiile not yet fully understood, the vitamin content seems likely to prove 
a factor of some importance in the role of fruits and vegetables in the diet. 
The "antiscorbutic property" of these foods is well recognized. The evi- 
dence has seemed to favor the view that this property is chiefly due to the 
predominance of base-forming ash constituents, but recent work indicates 
that vitamin must also be taken into account in this connection. 

Some of the advantages of fruits and vegetables as food cannot be ex- 
pressed in quantitative terms, but even the factors which can be so ex- 
pressed show that these foods, even when bought, as is usual, wdth refer- 
ence to flavor rather than food value, are more economical than is gen- 
erally supposed 

The percentages of nutrients give an inadequate expression of the true 
value of fruits and vegetables as food. In fact the low protein, fat, and 
carbohydrate content which causes some of the fruits and green vegetables 
to be regarded merely as luxuries may at times be an actual advantage in 
enabling one to balance a dietary by adding these foods wnthout either 
making protein or energy intake excessive or necessitating a restriction of 
the consumption of foods already in use. 

Unquestionably the more general and more liberal use of fruits and 
vegetables is to be encouraged. Where the cost of food must be strictly 
limited, the dietary may often be improved by diminishing the expendi- 
tures for meats and sweets in order that vegetables and fruits may be used 
more freely. 

Although the author's discussion of sugars, sirups, and confection- 
ery does not immediately follow that of vegetables, fruits and nuts 
it seems interesting to take it up in connection with them. As in 
other sections the manufacture, chemical nature and other similar 
topics are considered. With reference to the place of sugars in the 
diet the author points out that dogmatic statements are apt to be 
seriously misleading, the problem being a complicated one and evi- 
dence in many respects being still obscure. 

Until relatively recent times sugar was too expensive to be used freely 
by most people but with the development of the industry and the cheapen- 
ing of the product the consumption of sugar has increased at an exceedingly 
rapid rate. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 299 

The thoughtful student of food problems must regard this development 
with mixed emotions. The cheapening of a staple article of food, which 
is almost universally popular and which, like the refined sugar of com- 
merce, is of uniform and well-known composition and practically free 
from danger of adulteration or harmful deterioration, would be a source 
of great satisfaction but for the fact that refined sugar constitutes an ex- 
treme case of a one-sided food, its sole nutritive function being to serve 
as fuel so that, as the energy requirement of the body is met to a larger 
and larger extent by the consumption of refined sugar there is a constantly 
increasing danger of unbalancing the diet and making it deficient in some 
of the substances which are needed for the building and repair of body 
tissues and for the regulation of physiological processes 

If the per capita energy requirement be estimated at about 2000 calories 
per day it follows that about one-fifth of the energy requirement is being 
met by eating sugar (of course not all of this sugar appears on the table 
as such) and that the intake of protein, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, 
iron, and other essential elements, and of such important though imper- 
fectly understood substances as the lipoids and vitamins is on the whole 
about one-tenth lower than would be the case if the sugar were reduced 
one-half and the energy now derived from sugar were supplied by an in- 
creased consumption of the other articles of food. Are we to assume that 
the ordinary dietary of the people of the United States furnishes such an 
abundance of all the essential elements and each specific necessary com- 
pound that a difference of 10 per cent in the intake is of no consequence? 
The investigations of recent years indicate clearly that no such assumption 
is justified. As regards some of the elements such as calcium and phos- 
phorus there is very little margin of safety in the majority of American 
dietaries. From this standpoint it would be an improvement if without 
other change in dietary habits the sugar consumption were reduced, say 
to one-half the present rate, and the same amount of energy obtained by 
increasing the consumption of other food materials 

The objection to the too free use of sugar, on the ground that it serves 
only as fuel and may replace to an undue extent other food materials which 
meet other nutritive requirements, applies equally to commercial glucose 
and to most candy. It does not hold to the same extent as regards molasses 
and those sirups which contain the natural ash constituents of the plant 
juices. Probably the most desirable of all materials with which to satisfy 
a desire for sweet-tasting foods are the fruits several of which contain from 
10 to 15 per cent of sugars in the fresh state and from 50 to 75 per cent 
when dried 

In addition to the question to what extent sugar may be allowed to 
displace other foods without danger of making the diet one-sided, there 



300 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june-July 

are several other considerations which should be kept in mind in attempt- 
ing to assign to sugar its proper place as a food 

The fact that sugar may have a disturbing influence upon digestion does 
not imply that the sugar itself is at all likely to escape digestion. . . . 

Athletes and farm laborers at hard work have in many instances been 
observed to take large quantities of sugar, often as lemonade or in admix- 
ture with other fruit juices, without any apparent ill effects. In such 
cases the sugar is employed to furnish the extra energy required for the 
muscular activity and so does not necessarily tend toward a sub-normal 
intake of the foods which are valuable for their ash constituents as well as 
their energy. In fact when the sugar is taken with fruit juices the con- 
sumption of the latter may thereby be increased. 

As in other cases the summaries of data regarding the manufacture, 
composition, characteristics, etc., of fats and oils, though concise, are 
full of useful information. 

Edible fats and oils of animal and vegetable source are separated 
on a commercial scale from a great variety of food materials, "butter 
from milk; oleomargarine, lard, and suet from meat fats; corn oil from 
grain; olive oil from a fruit; peanut (arachis) oil from a legume seed 
of nut-like character; cocoanut oil from a true nut; cotton-seed oil 
from the seeds of a plant of still a different family. Of the various 
food fats of commerce, butter is, in America at least, by far the most 
prominent, and the butter industry will therefore be treated more 
fully than the other fat and oil industries." 

The following statements are of especial interest as they refer to 
a type of culinary fats which has recently come on the market and 
become common. 

In recent years the transformation of liquid glycerids of unsaturated 
fatty acids into the corresponding saturated compounds which are solids, 
with resultant thickening or hardening of the fat containing such glycerids, 
has been developed on a commercial scale. Cotton-seed oil is the mate- 
rial chiefly used in this country, and the "hydrogenation" is accompHshed 
by heating with hydrogen in the presence of nickel as a catalytic agent, 
the process being carried to such a point as to yield a product of the appear- 
ance and consistency of lard. 

The well-known fact that fats have an energy value twice that of 
protein or carbohydrates is pointed out together with the fact less 
commonly thought of that most food materials which contain a mix- 
ture of nutrients owe their energy value largely to their fat content. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 301 

With reference to the place of fat in the diet the author notes that: 

The food fats which appear in commerce in an approximately pure state 
are closely similar to, if not identical with, those which have already en- 
tered into our consideration. Hence there is no occasion to question the 
general wholesomeness and food value of such staple food fats as butter, 
oleomargarine, lard, olive oil, cotton-seed oil, etc., and we need only con- 
sider whether these are of equal value with each other and whether their 
liberal use is likely to make the total fat content of the diet excessive or 
the diet one-sided in any way. 

The fats ordinarily used as food by man do not differ greatly in the 
extent to which they are absorbed from the digestive tract under normal 
conditions. Such differences as have been found seem to be explained 
by the differing hardness or melting points of the fats. 

As regards "digestibility" in the more popular sense of relating to the 
ease, comfort, and rapidity with which the digestive organs carry on their 
work, it may be said that the fats generally retard the secretion of the 
gastric juice and tend to make the food stay longer in the stomach. To 
the extent that the ease of digestion is inferred from the rapidity with which 
a meal passes from the stomach into the intestine the eating of fat appears 
to retard the process, and this is true to a greater extent the higher the 
melting point of the fat. 

While the eating of much fat may thus prevent the digestion of food 
in the stomach from going forward as promptly and pleasantly as it other- 
wise might, it is unlikely that the fat will exert any direct effect tending 
toward discomfort except in the sense that if fat is overheated in cooking 
it may in part be decomposed with the production of irritating substances. 
It should also be remembered that if foods are cooked in or with fat in 
such a way as to form a coating of fat over the other constituents of the 
food, the digestion of the proteins and carbohydrates may be retarded, 
since the materials which are coated with layers of fat will not be per- 
meated readily by the saliva or the gastric juice. These latter possibiUties 
of unfavorable action of fat are not properly chargeable to fat itself, but 
rather to the uninteUigent way in which it is sometimes cooked. 

Fats are less susceptible to objectionable decomposition by the bac- 
teria of the digestive tract than are proteins and carbohydrates. 

In metabolism fat can serve interchangeably with carbohydrate as fuel 
within very wide limits. The different food fats have nearly the same fuel 
\alue when in the same state of purity. . . . 

Recently it has been discovered that the energy value of its fat content 
does not express the entire food value or nutritive function of butter. 

Fat, being a very compact form of fuel, properly finds its largest place 



302 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

in the diet in those cases in which the energy requirement is high, as in 
persons doing large amounts of muscular work or exposed to severe cold. 
In such cases there is largely increased need for fuel without corresponding 
increase in the need for protein or for other specific nutrients. Here a 
large part or even all of the extra energy requirement may be met by 
feeding practically pure fats, and it has been found the organism, whether 
at hard muscular work, or cnly moderate exercise, is able to digest quite 
large amounts of fat. 

While it is true that the average consumption of fat is not excessive and 
that those who need an especially abundant fuel supply can use with ad- 
vantage amounts of fat much greater than the average, it is probably also 
true that many persons of only average activity and energy requirement 
are using considerably more than the average amount of butter, which as 
already stated amounts to less than an ounce per person per day. A con- 
sumption of one pound of butter per person per week is more than twice 
the average amount, but instances of families in which butter is thus 
liberally used will doubtless be famihar to many of the readers of this 
book. In such instances, it vdll be well to consider whether some of the 
money spent for butter might not more wisely be expended for milk. 

A pound of butter is equal in energy value to 5 quarts of milk, but in 
view of the proteins and ash constituents, which the milk contains, it 
would probably be wise to consider that 3 quarts of milk fully equal 1 
pound of butter as an asset in the dietary, except perhaps in those cases 
in which the energy problem distinctly predominates. To pay much if 
any more for a pound of butter than for 3 quarts of milk will usually mean 
either that an extravagant price is being paid for butter or that the milk 
used is below the quality which the consumer can afford and should demand. 

If any considerable number of consiuners should decide to buy less 
butter and more milk, the diminished demand for butter and increased 
demand for milk would result in bringing to market some of the milk now 
used for butter-making. This would not appreciably disturb agricultural 
conditions and would plainly tend toward a better conservation of re- 
sources for the community as a whole, because vmder present conditions 
the skimmed milk of the butter factories is not generally utilized to good 
advantage. Economically therefore the making of butter should, for the 
most part, be carried on in regions which are adapted to dairy farming, 
but too remote from cities and towns to send their milk to market, or in 
districts in which it is feasible to make good use of the skimmed milk. 

Following the chapters on foods is a chapter dealing, with food 
adjuncts and some unclassified food materials, including spices, mince- 
meat, tea. coffee and cocoa, yeast, vinegar, flavoring extracts and 
herbs. 



1915] SOME CONCLUSIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS 303 

Fruit juices, sometimes classed as beverages, are about equally entitled 
to recognition as foods with the fruits from which they are obtained. 

The statements regarding the condiments as food adjuncts are in 
most cases limited to descriptive matter, since such articles are not 
of great importance economically or as part of our food supply. 

In the appendix much information is given regarding the enforce- 
ment of the food and drugs act, the federal food inspection decisions, 
methods and standards for the protection and distribution of certified 
milk, and federal meat inspection. A table of 100-calorie portions is 
also given, which includes not only the weight of the material both 
as purchased and on the edible portion basis but also the protein, 
energy supplied by the protein, the calcium phosphoric acid, and 
iron content and the excess of residual acid or base. 

The index and numerous illustrations add to the usefulness of the 
volume. 

In making such an extended summary as the above, other passages 
might have been quoted which the reader would find of value also, 
but enough has been given to show that as a reference handbook 
the volume will prove very useful. 



SEQUENCE OF SUBJECTS 

An experienced teacher of Home Economics furnishes the follow- 
ing story. She was visiting a class which was in charge of a very 
attractive and very fluent young woman. She says: 

In trying to find out the basis for her work, I wondered whether she was 
making her division of foods according to the seasons, as was sometimes 
the custom in public schools, or according to the classification of batters, 
doughs, etc., or whether she was taking the types of food that belong to 
one of the principles, such as protein or fat or carbohydrate and grouping 
her work around those principles. I asked two or three questions without 
making any progress in finding out what I wanted to know. Evidently, 
the instructor did not understand my language. Finally, she produced a 
pamphlet of recipes with this remark, " We don't all follow the same order, 
but all the recipes we use are in this book." I grasped eagerly^at that 
word "order" and felt at last that I was arriving and said, "Now tell me 
what order do you follow." She replied, "I begin with potatoes, and after 
we have had potatoes awhile, we make chocolate and that leads, naturally, 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

to creamed cabbage and creamed soups." I fairly gasped in my amaze- 
ment. Of all the varied suggestions that have come to me in the years, 
no one had ever said that chocolate suggested creamed cabbage. I felt 
that in fairness to the girl, I must get her viewpoint, that I was certainly 
misinterpreting her, so I made one more attempt to unc erstand her method 
of procedure, and said, "Tell me, why did you take chocolate after pota- 
toes?" She replied, "Well, you know, potatoes aren't very interesting. 
The girls get tired of them, and then we make chocolate and they drink it, 
and they like it, and that arouses their interest." I felt rewarded. I 
understood now that that woman had been told that it was essential that 
she should interest her pupils and she had done it and arrived at creamed 
cabbage from potatoes by drinking chocolate! I regard this story as a 
wonderful illustration of sequence in subjects and understand the criti- 
cism of our pedagogical friends who used to say that the material of Home 
Economics was not so classified and arranged as to have pedagogical value. 

EFFECT OF FOODS UPON ALUMINUM COOKING VESSELS 

JOHN GLAISTER 

Regius Professor of Forensic Medicine and Public Health in the University of Glasgow 

In accordance with instructions of The Aluminum Castings Com- 
pany, Limited, Greenock, I have submitted to severe tests the alumi- 
num cooking vessels sent to me, and also the pieces of rolled metal 
aluminum, with a v^ew of discovering whether or not during the 
process of cooking of foods any, and if any, what amount of that 
metal is so dissolved, and, further, whether any aluminum exists in 
the soluble form as aluminum chloride. These experiments covered 
a period of about three months, and very great care has been ex- 
pended upon them to secure accuracy. 

Two sets or series of experiments were made: Series A which deal 
with the effects of such foods as fat bacon, dripping, milk, oranges 
and lemons to form marmalade, brussels sprouts, and tomato sauce, 
all cooked as they would be in the kitchen; while Series B consisted 
of laboratory experiments with square pieces of the metal and their 
exposure to such substances as solutions of common salt, acetic acid, 
bicarbonate of soda, a mixture of common salt, tartaric acid, and 
citric acid, as well as distilled water, soft water (Loch Katrine), and 
hard water of 38 parts per 100,000 of hardness from an artesian well. 
The results are duly noted with respect to each experiment. 



1915] EFFECT OF FOODS UPON ALUMINUM COOKING VESSELS 305 

The aluminum cooking vessels used in the following experiments 
grouped under Series A consisted of the following: Frying pan of 
9" or 24 cm. diameter; lipped milk saucepan, of 6" or 15.8 cm. diam- 
eter, capacity 2 pints; deep stewpan, 5^" or 14 cm. diameter, capacity 
2| pints; pudding bowl, 3^" or 8.9 cm. diameter, capacity ^ pint. 
Experi.Tients were undertaken to ascertain if aluminum is taken 
up by foods during the process of cooking, and, if so, in what quan- 
tity, and whether or not as a soluble compound (for example, alumi- 
num chloride) of aluminum. 

Method employed in estimating aluminum compounds in foods. After 
cooking, the food used was incinerated in a platinum capsule. The 
resulting ash was then extracted with hydrochloric acid, and filtered. 
Ammonium hydrate in excess was then added in order to precipi- 
tate the phosphates. 

Acetic acid was then added in excess; thus dissolving all but alumi- 
num and iron phosphates. 

The aluminum phosphate and the iron phosphate were next filtered 
ofi^, and the filter washed with hot distilled water rill free from solu- 
ble salts. 

The filter containing the aluminum and iron phosphate was then 
dried, ignited, and weighed. 

The residue was dissolved in hydrochloric acid, diluted to a definite 
volume vnih. disilled water, and the iron estimated by a colorimetric 
process. The amount of iron found was calculated in terms of iron 
phosphate, and its weight together with the weight of the filter ash 
when subtracted from the total weight, gave the weight of aluminum 
phosphate present. The amount of this aluminum phosphate was 
then calculated in terms of aluminum hydroxide (AI2O3.3H2O), in 
which form the results are stated. 

Series of experiments. Two series of experiments were carried out. 
In the first series, the food employed was cooked in the aluminum 
vessels after the manner of the kitchen, and the total aluminum 
compound present (if any) in the foods was estimated. 

In the second series chemical substances likely to attack aluminum 
were used, and a search thereupon made for soluble aluminum com- 
pounds. Control experiments were employed in each case. 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

FIRST SERIES OR SERIES A 

I. Bacon. A piece of fat bacon weighing 100 grams (approxi- 
mately I lb.) was fried in an aluminum frying pan till thoroughly 
cooked. The cooked bacon was then incinerated ina platinum cap- 
sule and treated as before described. The superficial measurements 
of the bottom of the cooking vessels were 298.6 sq. cm. 

Result. No aluminum compounds were found. A control test 
with 100 grams of bacon (uncooked) incinerated in a platinum cap- 
sule also gave a negative result. The possibiUty of aluminum com- 
pounds being present in the materials used in curing and preserving 
bacon and ham must be kept in mind. 

II. Dripping. 100 grams of dripping was melted in an aluminum 
frying pan until it smoked. 

It was then allowed to cool and to remain in the pan for three weeks. 
At the end of this period it was melted, poured into a platinum cap- 
sule, ignited to ash, and examined for aluminum. 

Result. No aluminum was found. A control test with 100 grams 
of dripping uncooked also gave a negative result. 

III. Milk. Milk amounting to 250 cc. was boiled for 10 minutes 
in an aluminum pan, the milk afterwards being evaporated to dry- 
ness in a platinum capsule, incinerated, and tested. 

Result. No aluminum found. 

rV. Oranges and lemojis. As these two fruits are used together in 
certain recipes for making marmalade, in order to facilitate subse- 
quent incineration before testing for aluminum the fruits were used 
as follows: 

The juice was expressed from two oranges and one lemon, the rinds 
and pulp chopped up, and the whole covered with about 700 cc. 
boiling distilled water, and thereafter macerated for 24 hours. The 
liquid therefrom was then strained off and the remainder of the juice 
expressed from the rind and pulp by a tincture-press. To the com- 
bined fluids distilled water was added to bring up the total amount 
to 1000 cc, which was then divided and used as follows: 

(a) 500 cc. were placed in an aluminum pan and boiled for one 
hour, then evaporated to dryness in a platinum capsule, incinerated, 
and tested for aluminum. Superficies of surface of aluminum vessel 
exposed to food = 310 sq. cm. (b) 250 cc. were used as control and 
were treated as in (a), (c) Portion of remainder was titrated for its 
acidity ^ NaHO. 



1915] EFFECT OF FOODS UPON ALUMINUM COOKING VESSELS 307 

Results. From (a) which was equivalent to one orange and haK 
a lemon, AIPO4 = 0.0489 gram; AI2O3.3H2O = 0.066 gram = 1.018 
grains. From (b). Control. Aluminum = none. 

From (c) acidity of total 500 cc. used in (a) in terms of crystallised 
citric acid (H3G6H507.H20) = 2.1 grams. 

V. Brussels sprouts. An extract was made as in experiment IV. 
300 grams of the vegetable was cut up, covered with 700 cc. of dis- 
tilled water, and boiled in a glass vessel till vegetable was cooked. 
This was allowed to stand overnight. An extract was obtained as 
in the previous experiment, which was made up to 1500 cc. and used 
as follows: 

(a) Control. 500 cc. were evaporated to dryness in platinum cap- 
sule, incinerated, and tested. 

(b) 300 cc. with 3 grams of common salt added were boiled in an 
aluminum pan for 20 minutes, were evaporated to dryness in plati- 
num capsule, incinerated and tested. 

(c) 500 cc. with 3 grams of common salt and 2 grams of sodium 
bicarbonate added were treated as in (b). 

Results, (a) Control. No aluminum found, (b) AIPO4 = 0.0073 
gram, AI2O3.3H2O = 0.0096 = 0.148 grain. (c) AIPO4 = 0.0067 
gram; AI2O3. 311.0 = 0.0088 gram = 0.135 grain. 

Superficies of surface of aluminum vessel exposed to food = 310 
sq. cm. 

VI. Tomato sauce. This was made as follows: Tomato = 200 
grams (approx. | lb.); malt vinegar = 70 cc. (approx. 2| fl. oz.); 
common salt =14 grams (approx. ^ oz.). The above, mixed to- 
gether, was stirred in an aluminum pan for one hour. The product 
was allowed to remain in the pan for 5 hours. It was then weighed 
into equal portions. One portion was dried, incinerated, and tested 
for aluminum. The second portion was returned to the aluminum 
pan for 19 more hours (it was thus in contact with the aluminum 
vessel for 24 hours altogether) and was then treated as before. 

Results. Sample treated for 5 hours. AIPO4 = 0.0161 gram; 
AI2O3.3H2O = 0.0212 gram = 0.327 grain. 

Sample treated for 24 hours. AIPO4 = 0.018 gram; AI2O3.3H2O. 
= 0.0242 gram = 0.373 grain. 

Superficies of surface of aluminum vessel exposed to food = 236 
sq. cm. A control experiment was made of the above in which half 



308 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fjlUie-July 

the foregoing quantity was employed, but without exposure to alumi- 
num vessel. 

Result. = No aluminum found. 

Acidity of above mixture. 50 grams of tomatoes were mashed, 
covered with distilled water and left overnight, then filtered and 
washed several times with boihng distilled water. To the filtrate 
17.5 cc. of malt vinegar and 3.5 grams of common salt were added, 
and the mixture made up to definite volume. A portion of this was 
titrated with t^ NaHO, and the acidity of the total 200 grams of 
tomatoes, 70 cc. of vinegar and 14 grams of common salt (used in 
experiment) calculated. Total acidity = 4.608 grams in terms of 
acetic acid. 

SECOND SERIES OR SERIES B. QUALITATIVE EXPERLMENTS 

The qualitative experiments in this group were undertaken as a 
result of what was found in Series A, aluminum in small amounts 
having been found from cooking experiments where there were pres- 
ent organic acids, common salt, and sodium bicarbonate. The ex- 
periments in this series were essentially of the laboratory type as 
opposed to the culinary type in Series A. 

The special object of the experiments in this series was to demon- 
strate the presence or absence of soluble compounds of aluminum. 

The method employed was to place a square of aluminum rolled 
metal measuring 58.15 sq. cm., thus giving an exposed surface of 
metal of that superficies, in a platinum capsule, and to cover it with 
solution of the substance to be treated, or, if fluid, the fluid itself. 
The contents of the capsule were then boiled, distilled water being 
added from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. At 
the end of the time of exposure, the fluid was filtered, and the filtrate 
tested for soluble compounds of aluminum. Insoluble aluminum 
compounds, if any, were retained on the filter. The aluminum 
squares used were smooth and polished on their surfaces except at 
the edges which were rough. The action (if any) which took place 
was always most marked along the rough edges of the metal plates. 

I. Common salt. A 1 per cent solution of common salt was used 
and the boihng process kept up for 3 hours. 

Result. No soluble aluminum compound was found. Traces of 
suspended aluminum insoluble compounds were found. In this ex- 



1915] EFFECT OF FOODS UPON ALUMINUM COOKING VESSELS 309 

periment the action of the solution was practically confined to the 
rough edge of the metal plate. 

II. Acetic acid. A 1 per cent solution of glacial acetic was used, 
and the boiling continued for one hour. 

Result. Neither soluble nor insoluble aluminum compounds were 
found. 

III. Sodium bicarbonate. A 1 per cent solution of this salt was used 
and the boiUng maintained for one hour. 

Result. Traces of aluminum detected in solution. 

IV. Common salt, tartaric acid, and citric acid. A solution con- 
taining 1 per cent of each substance was used and boiled for 3 hours. 

Result. No soluble aluminum compound found, but traces of 
insoluble compounds found. 

V. Experiments with different kinds of potable waters. 

Method. An aluminum vessel, filled with the water sample, was 
placed on top of a radiator and kept there 24 hours, the pan and 
contents being therefore under conditions such as are commonly ex- 
perienced when a vessel is left standing on a kitchen range. The 
water thereafter was concentrated and tested. 

Distilled water. No aluminum compounds. 

Soft water (Loch Katrine). No soluble aluminum compounds; 
minute traces of insoluble aluminum compounds. 

Hard water from artesian well. Total hardness = 38 parts per 
100,000. No soluble aluminum compounds; very minute trace of 
insoluble aluminum compounds. 

General results. The largest amount of aluminum was found in 
experiment No. IV. The proportions of fruit used would give, after 
the necessary addition of sugar and water, 2 lbs. of marmalade, ac- 
cording to the recipe used. This amount of marmalade, would con- 
tain 0.066 gram or 1.018 grains of aluminum hydroxide, which is 
perfectly harmless even if the whole 2 pounds of the preserves were 
eaten at one time, which is highly improbable. No aluminum chlo- 
ride was found in any of the experiments, and the largest amount 
of hydroxide found would, if converted into chloride in the stomach 
still fall far short of the medicinal dose of aluminum chloride. 

From the foregoing experiments, therefore, I feel justified in say- 
ing that the use of aluminum cooking vessels for culinary purposes is 
not attended by any risk to the health of the consumers of food cooked 
therein. 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

INFANT FEEDING' 

RUTH WHEELER 

University of Illinois 

The importance of the first year of a baby's life can hardly be 
overemphasized. In this fact there is a warning but there is also a 
great opportunity; for during the long period of frailness, while the 
tissues, even the bones and especially the nervous system, are plastic 
and still in the process of formation, any hereditary weakness can be 
corrected by proper care and diet to an extent impossible with other 
animals. The health, strength, and even the rate of growth through 
the whole life may depend upon the diet and other factors of the 
first year of life ; for while slow growth in early life is often entirely 
made up later, this does not always follow. 

It is not safe to base judgment as to whether the baby's diet is 
satisfactory entirely upon gain in weight, for this may mean simply 
that fat is being deposited in the tissues, whereas a proper growth 
must involve proper development of the tissues themselves. Long- 
continued gain in weight at a proper rate is a good criterion, but we 
dare not wait a year or so for this test and we can not analyze the 
baby's tissues and so the next best thing is to find out as much as 
possible about the foods that are available and about the ways of 
judging whether a given diet is doing what it should for the child. 

Among the studies of various foods as to their usefulness in pro- 
moting normal growth and development, experiments with animals 
are of importance ; for while it is never safe to infer that a food will 
have the same effect on one species of animal, a baby for instance, 
that it has on another, as a young cat or mouse or pig, certain funda- 
mental principles can be established when we choose animals with 
a digestive system similar to that of human beings; it is surprising 
how similar the results often are. In most of the cases recorded, 
foods that allow normal growth of babies also allow normal growth 
in young animals of certain other species. 

If the mother is healthy and normal no artificial food can compare 
with mother's milk. In the first place, it is adapted to the natural 
growth of the baby. The close relation between the composition of 
the milk of various species of animals and the rate of growth of their 

^ A lecture delivered at the Winter School of the University of Illinois, January, 1914. 



19151 



INFANT FEEDING 



.^11 



young was pointed out long ago by Proscher^ and is shown in the 
following table. 



Composition of milk and rate of growth of animals 


ANIMAL 


PROTEIN 


ASH 


TIME TO DOUBLE 
WEIGHT 


Human 


per cent 

1.6 
2.0 
3.5 
3.7 
4.9 
5.2 
7.0 
7.4 
14.0 


per cent 

0.2 

0.4 

0.7 

0.78 

0.84 

0.80 

1.02 

1.53 

2.50 


dayi 

180 


Horse 


60 


Cow 


47 


Goat 


22 


Sheep 


15 


Pie 


14 


Cat 


9.5 


Dog 


9 


Rabbit 


6 







In the second place, mother's milk is especially adapted to the 
baby's digestive organs, as cow's milk is especially adapted to the 
digestive organs of the calf. Cow's milk differs from human milk 
in the character as well as in the relative proportion of the food sub- 
stances present as is shown in the following table 

Comparison of human and cow's milk 





KIND OF MILK 


PROTEIN 


SUGAR 


FAT 


ASB 


Human . 


1.2 

3.5 


5.8 
4.8 


3.4 
3.7 


2.4 


Cow's 


0.7 









The tougher curd formed in cow's milk in digestion, easily disposed 
of by the relatively large four-fold stomach of the calf may be a 
difficult matter for the stomach of the baby. 

Third, mother's milk is perhaps especially adapted to use by the 
tissues after absorption. It is possible that the greater resistance to 
disease shown by breast fed infants is partly due to the absorption 
with the milk of definite immune bodies. 

Fourth, a child nursed by its mother is almost certain to receive 
closer care and greater watchfulness than an artificially fed baby. 
As one nutrition specialist put it: "You can't replace a mother's 
love and care with a steam sterilizer." 



2 Ztschr.f. Physiol. Chem., xxlv, pp. 285-305. 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

In a careful study made with guinea pigs Moros' found that those 
artificially fed from birth had the slowest rate of growth; that there 
was an increasing rate of growth with those left with the mother 
two, three, five, seven, etc., days; and that the rate of growth after 
weaning was greater in the animals that had the mother's milk for 
the longer period. 

All these considerations emphasize the tremendous advantage 
which the baby has as a result of even partial nourishment with the 
mother's milk. In some cases, however, artificial feeding is necessary; 
for example, if the mother is tuberculous or syphilitic or very frail 
or if the milk poisons the baby. In these cases milk modified to 
resemble human milk and to satisfy the changing nutritive require- 
ments of a growing child, is generally the best food. Babies fed 
various flour foods exclusively have been shown to be especially sub- 
ject to such conditions as infantUe scurvy. The milk used must, of 
course, be clean and pure and in general from a herd rather than 
from one cow. Some responsible person should examine the dairy 
from which the milk is obtained to be sure that sanitary conditions 
exist. The milk should receive the most scrupulous care, should 
be fed before it is twenty-four hours old, and should be kept cool 
untU just before feeding time. Even on ice, deterioration has been 
known to take place in milk before it sours.* At higher temperature 
the change is more rapid. It should, therefore, not be kept at the 
temperature at which it is fed. Thermos bottles if used at all should 
be used to keep the milk cold, not warm. All bottles used to hold 
milk should be carefully sterilized, for bacteria, harmless in small 
numbers but multiplying rapidly in unclean bottles, may mean poison 
by feeding time. Several systems of modifying milk are in general 
use, and so well known as to need no detailed discussion here. The 
substances added serve two special purposes: to lower the high pro- 
tein and salt content of cow's milk and to prevent the formation 
during digestion of the characteristic hard curd. 

In judging whether the diet is agreeing with the baby, the follow- 
ing criteria are valuable. First, improvement in weight and gen- 
eral appearance and behavior, second, the character of the faeces. 
The mother can learn to judge from the faeces which part of the food 
is not being digested but she should seek from a physician informa- 

' Pennington, et al: T. Biol. Chem., 16 (1913), p. 331. 

* Experimentelle Beitrage zur Frage der kiinstlichen Sauglingseraahrung, Munch, med. 
Wochenschr., 54, (1907), p. 2225. 



1915] EXECUTIVE secretary's REPORT 313 

tion on this point. Often a milk diet is given up and dangerous 
experimenting is begun with first one food and then another when 
a simple lessening in the amount of fats or of sugar in the milk fed 
is all that is necessary. 

If the baby actually is unable to digest milk, other foods, in gen- 
eral less desirable as well as much more expensive must be resorted 
to. Some studies of commercial infant foods now in progress in this 
department indicate that some of these foods fed as an exclusive 
diet to young animals (white mice) result in a normal rate of growth, 
while others do not support life for any great length of time. Added 
to milk, some of the otherwise unsatisfactory foods promote rapid 
increase in weight, but how far the mixture is superior to some more 
simply modified milk is not yet certain. The increase in cost in- 
volved in the use of these prepared foods is considerable. 

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY'S REPORT 

After the opening of the war it became apparent that the Executive 
Secretary chosen at the Cleveland meeting could not begin an active 
campaign for additions to the Richards Fund. The council, at the 
meeting in October, withdrew that plan, and advised visits to as 
many sections of the country as possible, with the purpose of arousing 
interest in the American Home Economics Association as a means 
for united effort. 

To that end a brief notice appeared in the Journal stating that the 
services of the secretary could be secured by schools, clubs, etc., ready 
to pay expenses of travel and entertainment. To equahze these, a 
careful estimate was made fixing the sum at $25 for two days, the 
American Home Economics Association being responsible for the 
secretary's salary. This rate afforded a slight surplus which paid 
expenses at two or three educational conferences. Several schools 
have been visited that bore no share in expenses. 

On this basis a three months' trip has been made covering nearly 
ten thousand miles and including visits to over forty schools in 
seventeen states. 

It is evident that the teachers and club women appreciate the need 
of the American Home Economics Association and are ready to be 
shown how to help it most. The army of students in these schools 
and colleges will, in a few years, be the strongest supporters of the 
Association and its Journal. 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

In several colleges junior Home Economics clubs are already in 
existence, and more are to be formed. Such clubs will train students 
to be efficient workers for Home Economics whether they become 
teachers or not. 

At nearly every place there was some special reception or student 
dinner arranged especially in honor of the Secretary but it is impossi- 
ble to give special recognition here for each entertainment. 

Everywhere the Home Economics courses attract a good proportion 
of the students. Perhaps some more general courses should be pro- 
vided for the girls who do not wish to speciaUze in this direction. 

The teachers are doing good work, but need just the help the 
Journal can give. All the great training schools may be proud of 
the women they have sent out. These are working together — often 
half a dozen schools are represented in the force of teachers in a single 
city or institution— to adapt their courses to the conditions they have 
to meet. 

The itinerary of the trip worked out as follows : 

February 1. Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Farmer's Week; 
Demonstration Lecture; Address on Home Economics. 

February 2. Parkersburg, W. Va. Woman's Club. 

February 3. Hood College, Frederick, Md. 

February 4. Washington, D. C. Home Economics Club. 

February 5. Winston-Salem, N. C. College Students at Chapel; 
Demonstration lecture. 

February 6. Greensboro, N. C, Normal College. Talks to several 
classes and to student body at Chapel. 

February 8-9. Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C. Chapel; Lectures 
and demonstrations. 

February 11-12-13. Newcomb College. New Orleans, La. Demon- 
strations and talks to classes; Meeting of city teachers; Reception and 
address at Woman's Club. 

February 16-17. Tallahassee, Fla., College for Women. Talk at Chapel; 
Demonstrations and lectures before students and county agents of canning 
clubs. 

February 18-19. Jacksonville, Fla., Woman's Club. Four lectures and 
demonstrations. 

February 20. Ocala, Fla., Woman's Club. Two lectures. 

February 23. Lake City, Fla. Talks in two schools; Demonstration 
lectures. 

February 24-25. Stetson University, Deland, Fla. Lecture; Talk at 
Chapel; Demonstration. 



1915] EXECUTIVE secretary's REPORT 315 

February 26. Gainesville, Fla., Woman's Club; Lecture and demon- 
stration. 

March 3-4. Savannah, Georgia. Talks in three schools; Lecture and 
demonstration for club. 

March 5-6. Raleigh, N. C. Talks at schools; Lecture at Meredith 
College. 

March 8. Salem, Va. Talk at High School. Roanoke Woman's Col- 
lege; Chapel address; Demonstration lecture. 

March 9-10. Harrisonburg, Va., Normal School. Two mornings in 
Chapel; Two demonstration lectures and two others. 

March 15. Albany, N. Y., Woman's Club. Lecture on Business of 
Living. 

March 19. Providence, R. I. Address to Teachers of Household Arts. 

March 22. Detroit, Mich. Demonstration lecture under auspices of 
City Home Economics Club at Thomas Training School for Teachers. 

March 23-26. University of Illinois, Urbana. Department of House- 
hold Science; Talks and demonstrations to students and extension workers. 

March 29. DeSoto, Mo., High School. Demonstration lecture; Address 
in evening. 

March 30-31. University of Missouri, Colimibia. Lecture, Demonstra- 
tion lecture. 

April 1. ELirksville, Mo., Normal School. Talks in Chapel, and with 
classes. 

April 2-3. Kansas City, Mo. Demonstration at Y. W. C. A. Hall; 
Talk for city teachers. 

April 5. Independence, Mo. Demonstration lecture. 

Liberty, Mo. Talk to students and other women. 

April 6. Webb City, Mo. Demonstration lecture. 

April 7. Joplin, Mo. Talks to classes; Evening address. 

Aprils. Maryville, Mo. Demonstration lecture; Address. 

April 9. Omaha, Neb. Address to students at Brownell Hall; Address 
to students and club. High School. 

April 10-12. University of Nebraska. Talks to students and Omicron 
Nu Club; Two demonstration lectures. 

April 13-14. Manhattan, Kansas, State Agr. College. Demonstration 
lecture; Talks to students and extension workers. 

April 15-16. Lawrence, Kansas, State University. Lecture to students 
and public; Demonstration lectures. 

April 17. Warrensburg, Mo. Address at Teacher's Institute. 
April 19. Nashville, Tenn. Talks to classes, Ward Behnont College; 
Address at Chapel, etc., George Peabody College. 

April 20-21. Knoxville, Tenn. Conference of Southern Mountain 
Workers. 



316 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

April 21. University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Talk to students. 

April 22-23. Athens, Ga., Normal School. Two demonstration lectures; 
Talk at Chapel and before classes; Talk at Lucy Cobb College. 

April 24. Milledgeville, Ga., Normal and Institutional College. 

April 27-29. Chattanooga, Tenn. Southern Conference for Education 
and Industry. 

April 30-May 1. Spartanburg, S. C, Converse College. 

May 4. Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

Anna Barrows, Executive Secretary. 

AN EXPLANATION 

A Comparison of Methods of Cooking by Cornelia French, pub- 
Hshed in the April (1914) Journal, was a piece of independent 
student work, done at Pratt Institute, and unrevised. It was printed 
as offering some interesting and suggestive data, but not as authori- 
tative, and the footnote explained that it was taken from a stu- 
dent's thesis. 

As some of our readers have taken exception to the results, we 
are glad to explain that while the figures given were worked out 
accurately, other experiments show that the methods used were 
extravagant. Had more economical methods been used the com- 
parative results would have been quite different. 

THE GIRLS' CANNING CLUBS 

A movement designed primarily to help girls on the farm to earn 
money by canning vegetables and fruit has grown amazingly in the 
last few years under the United States Department of Agriculture, 
the state departments of agriculture and state agricultural colleges. 
The work has been helped by funds granted by the General Educa- 
tion Board, and this work will now be broadened and carried on by 
the Department of Agriculture under the Smith-Lever Bill grant for 
extension education in agriculture and Home Economics. 

These canning clubs are offering a golden opportunity for the 
teaching of Home Economics in rural districts, the organization being 
already effected on the natural basis of a greatly needed industry. 
What is now called for is that the canning club directors should receive 
the best training in Home Economics that they may teach these girls 
the latest knowledge appUcable to the improvement of life in the 
farm home. 



EDITORIALS 

Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. Following the trend of travel in 1915, the American Home 
Economics Association has appointed the 1915 meeting on the Pacific 
Coast. 

The first sessions will be held at the University of Washington, 
August 19 to 21, and an adjourned meeting at Oakland, California, 
August 26 to 29, in connection with the National Education Asso- 
ciation. A program is in preparation for both meetings, which will 
embrace subjects under science, art, methods of teaching and exten- 
sion projects. Specialists in these subjects from western institutions, 
with a few speakers from the East, have been invited. The program 
will be formed in the interests of the western field of Home Economics 
as far as possible. 

The program for August 26, at Oakland, will be in connection with 
a Congress on Vocational Education and Practical Arts in combina- 
tion with the National Educational Association. The program of 
the Congress is to be full of interest to persons interested in Home 
Economics. The date of this Congress was changed to meet the 
needs of the Home Economics teachers, who are fortunate in having 
the benefit of the program prepared for the Vocational Educational 
Conference. 

The department of special events of the Panama-Pacific Interna- 
tional Exposition, has designated August 27 as International Home 
Economics Congress Day. 

Section meetings in science, extension and institution economics 
will be appointed at hours not to conflict with general meetings. 

A detailed program of the meetings of the Association will be printed 
in a future number of the Bulletin of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

All persons who are planning to attend these meetings are asked 
to write to the President of the Association, Miss Martha Van 
Rensselaer, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, Chairman of the 
Program Committee; or to Dr. Benjamin Andrews, Teachers College, 

317 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June-July 

Columbia University, New York City, who is in charge of general 
arrangements of travel. The chairman of the local committee at 
Seattle is Miss Effie Raitt, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash- 
ington; the chairman at Oakland is Miss Ellen Bartlett. Public Schools, 
San Francisco, California. 

Institution Economics Section. The Institution Section of the 
American Home Economics Association will meet at the Lake Placid 
Club, Essex County, New York, June 25 to 29, 1915. 

The program as being prepared, promises to be of the greatest 
interest to dietitians, lunch room managers, college dormitory direc- 
tors, and to all others interested in the management of institutions 
or in instruction relating to institution management. 

The opening session will consist of an address of welcome by the 
Chairman, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold of Simmons College. This 
will be followed by reports of the special committees who have been 
at work during the year, and will include reports on laundry, school 
lunches, waste, food sanitation, college dormitor}^ management, etc. 
At this opening session members wUl also report upon special fea- 
tures of their work during the past year. 

The subject of one session will be Cost of Foods from Prison to 
Palace Hotel. 

One session will be devoted to Standard Per Capita Costs, with 
reports by Mr. Melvil Dewey, President of the Lake Placid Club; 
Prof. William Morse Cole, Harvard University; and Mr. Donald 
English, Cornell University. 

The important problem of Housing of Women in Large Cities will 
be discussed; other subjects will include Cafeteria Management, under 
the direction of Miss Anna Hunn, Cornell University; Courses of 
Instruction in Institution Economics, under the leadership of Miss 
Sarah Louise Arnold; Dietitians, with Miss Flora Rose of Cornell 
University as Chairman. 

For matters relating to rooms, address "Conference," Lake Placid 
Club, Essex County,, New York. For programs or any other infor- 
mation regarding the conference, address the Secretary, Miss Emma 
H. Gunther, Teachers College, New York City. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

THE HOME CANNING OF MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

GRACE DIETZ 

Firth, Nebraska 

The general experience has been that meats and many vegetables 
like corn, squash or pumpkin cannot successfully be canned in the 
home without some outfit which will secure the higher temperatures 
required to sterilize these products. Owing to their dry nature and 
compact structure heat does not penetrate vegetables and meat as 
readily as fruits. Many homes located at some distance from markets 
find it difficult or expensive to have on hand at all times a supply of 
fresh meat during the summer season. With a satisfactory method 
for the home canning of meats, however, a supply sufficient for the 
entire family during the summer may be packed during the winter 
months. 

The author and her sister have had considerable experience in can- 
ning both meats and vegetables. Using the outfit described below, 
which is only one of several types found on the market, they have 
not only canned meats and vegetables for their own use for several 
years, but have put up these products for the market and have also 
been paid to do this work for neighbors and friends who did not 
possess an outfit of their own. Others have followed suit and have 
found that this work offers a good chance to earn "pin money." 
The report of a Canning Club of which the author is secretary showed 
that during the year 1914 the members, including both farmers and 
some town gardeners, canned 121,500 quarts of meats and vegetables 
in glass jars for home use. Many members also put up a good many 
cans for the market in addition to their usual work. 

The secret for the successful canning of meats and vegetables is 
to subject the contents of the jars or cans to a sufficiently high tem- 
perature and for a long enough period of time for the heat to pene- 
trate and sterilize them, and then to seal the jars so that they will 
be air tight. No chemicals, secret mixtures or complicated recipes 
are necessary. There is no necessity whatever for the use of any 

319 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

of the preserving powders on the market if the contents of the jars 
are properly sterihzed. 

Nine years' experience together with a careful study of equipment 
and methods have convinced the author that the use of steam under 
pressure to sterilize the contents of the cans or jars is much more 
satisfactory than the use of other methods employing outfits of the 
"open boiler," "water seal, ' or "steam jacketed" types. The prin- 
cipal advantages of this method are as follows. It secures steriUza- 
tion without the use of preservatives, and all vegetables and meats 
can be sterilized in from 30 minutes to one hour. With it it is possi- 
ble to obtain easily the higher temperatures 240°-250° F. which are 
necessary for the sterilization of some vegetables and meats, whereas 
in an open boiler it is impossible to secure a temperature higher than 
the boiUng point of water, 212° F. The shorter time required by the 
steam pressure method results in a great saving of fuel over the 
amount used in sterilizing for several hours or on three successive 
days as is necessary with the open boiler method. Experience has 
also shown that when other methods were used the losses of labor 
and material from spoilage due to insufficient sterihzation and also 
the breakage of jars was considerable, but this was practically elimi- 
nated when the steam pressure method was used. The experience 
of a number of others engaged in home canning has been similar to 
that of the author. 

The outfit may be easily carried from place to place and can be set 
up in a shed, on a porch, or under a tree as desired. It consists of 
a boiler or retort 12 inches by 18 inches in size made of boiler plate 
which is provided with a cast iron cover, fastened on with eye bolts 
and thumb screws and fitted with a steam gasket to make it tight. 
In this retort the jars or cans are placed, and the steam is generated. 
The retort also is fitted with a steam gauge, which indicates the pres- 
sure per square inch and the temperature in the retort, as well as a 
safety valve which may be set so as to hold the pressure at any desired 
degree and which also prevents danger from explosion. It is possible 
to secure with this boiler a pressure of 30 pounds per square inch 
which corresponds to a temperature of about 274° F. An outfit of 
this size, which will hold 14 quart or 22 pint jars, is most generally 
satisfactory for farm or home use, and may be purchased for about 
$15. Larger sizes suitable for hotel or factory use may be purchased 
if desired. The boiler may be heated by setting it on the kitchen 



1915] HOME CANNING OF MEATS AND VEGETABLES 321 

range or other stove. No special heater is necessary although wood 
or gas burning heaters are manufactured especially for heating the 
boiler and may be purchased if desired. 

Other necessary equipment for home canning is a reliable clock 
for timing the period of sterilization; accurate scales for weighing 
materials used in canning; an abundant supply of clean water, both 
hot and cold; and plenty of pans, pails, and cutting and paring knives. 
It is absolutely essential that everything used shall be scrupulously 
clean. All raw materials used for canning must of course be in 
good condition and perfectly wholesome when packed in the jars or 
cans, for no amount of processing will improve the flavor or condition 
of tainted meat. Meat which is strictly fresh when packed will have 
a rich and wholesome flavor. Glass jars are recommended for the 
packing of both meats and vegetables and only the best quality of 
rubber rings should be used, as inferior grades give trouble through 
leakage of air which spoils the product. 

The following recipe will serve to illustrate the method employed 
in canning meats, although it is only one of the many used. 

Recipe for canned roast beef. Cut hind or front quarters into pieces 
weighing 3 to 4 pounds, rejecting flank parts. Place in roasting pans, 
season to taste, add water and cook in hot oven for 25 minutes, then 
turn the meat and cook 25 minutes more. Remove meat from oven 
and slice at once or when cold as desired. When only partly cooked 
as this meat is, it packs better than if thoroughly cooked. Put into 
the jars, i to ^ cup of broth (made by boiling bones, flank, etc.) and 
pack the jars solidly with the sliced meat. It is much easier to put 
the broth in first. Place the rubber bands on the jars, put on screw 
caps loosely (or fasten only one spring if using spring top jars) and 
put jars in the retort. Fill the retort to a depth of 2| inches with 
water, fasten the cover of the retort tightly, set the weight of the 
safety valve at 15 pounds pressure and place retort on the stove. 
When the heat rises so that the steam gauge registers 15 pounds 
pressure or the thermometer registers 240° F. begin to count the time. 
Cook quart jars 50 minutes and pint jars 40 minutes. At the end 
of this time remove the retort from the stove and let the pressure go 
down slowly without raising the safety valve or opening the pet 
cock. If the pressure is released suddenly the contents wiU be forced 
out of the jars. After the pressure has gone down open the retort 
and finish sealing the jars. 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

The above method offers a means of extending the field of home 
canning to include all kinds of meats and vegetables and this would 
naturally lead to a wider use of these wholesome products which have 
heretofore been difhcult to prepare at home. In addition to being 
used for canning meats and vegetables, this method is equally well 
suited to the canning of fruits. 

A COMPARISON OF HOME AND COMMERCIALLY CANNED 

GOODS 

Those who read the article in the June (1914) Journal, by Miss 

Grace Stevens on Home Canning may be interested in some of her 

figures given below. 

Comparison of Cost 

Product Home canned Best cotnmercially canned 

Grape juice, I pt SO. 077 SO. 25 

Peaches, 1 qt 0.20 0.35 

r.eans (string), 1 qt 0.14 0.25 

Jeliy, 1 glass 0.05 0. 10 

Anyone who has compared the home and commercially canned 
grape juice knows the superiority of the fonner; peaches, beans, etc., 
from the two sources do not differ greatly in quality, only in price. 

The following bulletins on home canning may be had free: Preser- 
\'ation of Food in the Home, Miss Louise Stanley and Miss May 
McDonald, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.; and Farmers 
Bulletins 521, 203 and 359, United States Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 

A NEW METHOD OF CANNING 

LULA MacDERMOTT PRICE 
Parkersburg, W. Va. 

I am anxious to have my method of canning tried out as it is such 
a saving of time over the hot stoves. I tried it at first on a small 
scale last year. I canned peaches, red raspberries, black raspberries, 
cherries, blackberries, and pears. I have not lost a can. The color 
and flavor are very fine and the fruit firm and solid. 

My first step is to put the jars (glass top jars preferred) on to 
sterilize; while my jars are steriHzing, I prepare my fruit, and make 



1915] housekeepers' reference circle 323 

a syrup of 1 part sugar to 2 of water, or not quite such a heavy syrup 
according to what the fruit may require, and I boil the syrup thor- 
oughly. Put the raw fruit in the jars, pour over this the hot syrup, 
tilling the can full, put on the rubbers and screw tight. Set these 
jars down in a tub or wash boiler, and pour in boiling water up to the 
top of the cans. This is often done on the back porch. I cover the 
tub or boiler and throw over it a rug or blanket and let stand over 
night; take out the jars the next morning, wipe off and put away. 

HOUSEKEEPERS' REFERENCE CIRCLE 

ALICE E. WHITAKER 

Four years ago the members of the Housekeepers' AUiance of 
Washington, D. C, came to the conclusion that the written reference 
has practically no value as given to the domestic worker when leaving 
a place. The employer as a rule, has not the moral courage to refuse 
a reference that will carry some weight in securing a new position even 
when the facts do not warrant a good word. To promote an inter- 
change of information among members of the AUiance a reference 
circle and registry of workers was established and has continued to 
the present time. No fees are paid and the use of the registry is 
limited strictly to members. 

Brief records are kept on cards for ready reference giving name, 
address, kind of work, price per hour, day or month, quahfications 
and any special deficiencies together with name and address of one 
or more Alliance members who recommend the worker and who are 
ready to give more particulars if needed. 

Regarding those who go into the homes as permanent workers yet 
more definite information is given. This record includes such points 
as name, address, nationality, approximate age, single or married, 
personal appearance, church affiliations, disposition, reUability, kind 
of work and efficiency, punctuality, lost time and the wages expected, 
whether room is furnished at employer's home, how long employed 
at the last place and reason for leaving. This record is dated and 
signed by the housewife who gives also the size of her family. This 
paper is filed for consultation if need be but is never shown to the 
employe concerned nor to the merely curious; hence the questions are 
answered fully and honestly by the housewives. 



324 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June -July 

The list at present includes general houseworkers, companions, 
nurses for adults and for children, house and window cleaners, laun- 
dresses, cooks, men and women waiters, care takers, mother's helpers, 
milliners, ladies tailors, carpenters, painters, packers and movers, 
house men and maids, men for outdoor and indoor repairs, for care 
of grounds, furniture repairs, furnace men, electricians, seamstresses, 
and entertainers. 

To secure a worker the secretary, called by telephone, gives one or 
more names of those most fitted for the demand, together with the 
card record. Then by telephone, postal, or personal visit the house- 
wife completes the transaction. She is expected to report success 
or failure to secure the worker in order to keep the registry up to 
date. 

The larger amount of placing is among what is called auxihary 
workers who go by the hour or day or parts of every day in the week. 
The demand for help in general housework is often more than can 
be met. No man or woman is ever given a written reference or card 
to carry to a place. 

Many workers have been on the list during the four years and 
have come to be valued highly, especially for emergency work. Alto- 
gether the plan may be called successful and has led to a better under- 
standing of some of the relations of employer and worker. 

FOOD VALUE OF MILK 

Milk is an invaluable food and also cheap at 12 cents a quart. 
But apparently because it is Hquid and not soHd, people in general 
do not give it this value. 

The following taken from an article by Carohne L. Hunt in the 
Philadelphia North American gives a meatless dietary: 

A half-pound of bread, 2| ounces of butter, 3 pints (about 52 
ounces) of milk, ^ pound of vegetables and 1 pound of fruit make a 
generous daily allowance for a woman, and furnish three ounces of 
protein or tissue-forming material and a fuel value of about 2800 
calories. Note that we are not recommending this allowance nor this 
list of goods; we are simply saying that there is no difficulty about 
getting a balanced ration from these foods nor about taking them in 
quantities large enough to satisfy the advocates of a Hberal diet. 

Take the allowance of food we have mentioned and cut it down all 



1915] ICED TEA 325 

along the line, take off a little bread and butter, a little milk and cut 
down the allowance of fruit and vegetables somewhat and you still 
have a balanced ration, but one which comes nearer satisfying those 
authorities on food who think we all eat too much. But leave out the 
milk, and we take away at one fell swoop more than half the material 
that goes to the repair of our bodily machinery. 

But someone says: "Granted that the food value of these mate- 
rials is all right, could they be so combined as to make attractive 
meals?" That depends upon whether a person hkes these particular 
foods or not. To those who do, it would not be much of a hardship 
to breakfast off of 2 glasses of milk, 3 sUces of toast (about 2 ounces) 
with butter, an orange (5 or 6 ounces net) and a fig or two. For 
dinner a mealy baked potato (4 ounces), a generous dish of peas 
(4 ounces net), a slice of bread (1 ounce), a glass of milk and a baked 
apple would not be so bad. For supper bread and milk and dates 
would go very well and a country appetite could easily dispose of a 
pint and a half of milk, 3 slices of bread and a half dozen dates. Or 
for those who do not care to take so much milk as a beverage, at least 
a cupful could be made into a soup and another one or two could be 
used in the form of scalloped potatoes (the kind in which a small 
amount of thinly sliced raw potatoes is cooked in a large amount 
of milk) or milk gravy or junket or in any number of other ways. 

It is dangerous to make dietaries for other people. We have only 
been trying to show that milk figures up very rapidly even in the 
dietary of a grown person. It msists on being taken into account 
and not treated as a supernumerary. 

ICED TEA 

SUSANNAH USHER 

All kinds of teas are not equally suitable for making iced tea. Some 
teas, especially the heavy-bodied India varieties, make infusions that 
turn turbid on cooHng. This turbidity may be so prominent that 
one might think skimmed milk had been added. 

An interesting experiment may be made by brewing small amounts 
of several teas, as, Enghsh Breakfast, India (Orange Pekoe, Assam, 
or Darjeehng), Ceylon, and Formosa Oolong, then chilling and not- 
ing those that remain clear. 



326 THE JOURNAL OF H01^£E ECONOMICS [June-July 

When iced tea is served to large numbers of people, it is often made 
several hours in advance, cooled, and then iced as needed. Under 
these conditions this tendency to turbidity is especially troublesome, 
as it has time to show itself to its full extent. 

The heavy-bodied teas may not make attractive and sparkling 
iced beverages but they are delicious served hot with cream. 

Do not expect one and the same tea to be equally palatable and 
attractive served hot or cold, with cream or with lemon. 

CLEANING ALUMINUM WARE 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Ohio State University 

1. ''Boiling out" ivith water. This does, of course, help soften 
adhering masses of burnt food material; but hot water itself causes 
a darkening of aluminum, which in my experience (Lake Michigan 
water used) shows plainly on heating clean water in a clean vessel 
even before the boihng point is reached. This blackening or "tarn- 
ish" is very troublesome to remove. Any coating which perceptibly 
roughens the aluminum surface will make it difi&cult to keep clean, 
and is therefore insanitary. (To remove the tarnish observe No. 4. 
below.) 

2. Boiling with soap or alkaline detergents. The action of alkali 
{e.g., sodium, ammonium, and potassium compounds) will ruin the 
vessel in time. Such neutral soap as Ivory may be used if there is 
grease to be removed, but aluminum vessels should be kept out of 
the usual soapy dishwater. 

3. Rubbing with metal polishes. It is impossible to make a state- 
ment which would cover all kinds of metal poHshes. I notice that 
aluminum manufacturers recommend the use of some of them, and 
I have found them satisfactory, although the labor involved when 
rubbing is done ^^^th cloth, chamois, or sponge, as directions usually 
indicate, is very tedious. 

4. Cleaning by use of abrasive materials. I have found the use of 
steel wool No. the quickest and most efi&cient means of removing 
the black tarnish which soon makes aluminum so unsightly. It does 
make fine scratches, which show with close inspection particularly 
upon a shiny surface (e.g., outside of a vessel), much less upon a harder 
dull finish (inside of same vessel). But so does the finest silver polish 



1915] CLEANING ALUMINUM WARE 327 

make very similar scratches, as can easily be demonstrated with a 
lens. The housewife will not find it difficult to decide whether she 
considers these objectionable. 

The steel wool may be bought occasionally in house furnishing 
stores, put up in small packages but the best place to buy it is at a 
hardware store or perhaps at a paint store, where I have found it 
at 50 to 60 cents a pound. If your dealer does not carry this finest 
grade, he will usually order it. 

This steel wool, either No. or coarser grades, by the way, is ex- 
ceedingly efficient in scouring iron (frying pan, oven floor, garbage 
pail, etc.). It must not, however, be used upon a vitreous enamel 
ware. 

Another abrasive cleaner has a twine mesh basis, its threads being 
wrapped with fine copper bands. It has appeared rather recently 
in household furnishing stores, being originally an importation from 
Germany, and sold at first under the name "Heckel's pot cleaner." 
It is amazingly efficient in removing adherent crusts of food mate- 
rial from almost any sort of cooking vessel, but does not take the 
black tarnish from aluminum; and if used with too much force in the 
effort to make it do so, may scratch the aluminum badly. It does 
not seem to do as much harm to enamel ware as does the finer steel 
wool — does not "take hold" of it so intimately. 

Still other examples of gritty or abrasive materials sometimes 
recommended for aluminum are emery paper 00, and bath brick; 
they may be used on a hard finished surface if not on a softer one, 
but to my thinking, the steel wool, used alone or in combination wath 
a soap or metal polish, is preferable to them all. 

5. Cleaning with acids. It has been noted that when a highly acid 
food, as rhubarb, is cooked in an aluminum kettle, any dark coating 
vanishes, as if by magic. Authorities^ differ as to the harmfuhiess of 
the small amount of water-soluble aluminum salts that would thus 
be taken in the food. Extreme caution would suggest that such foods 
be cooked in porcelain fined kettles. 

The action of acid fruits suggests their use and the use of other 
acids as cleaning agents, but experiments show that the harmless 
commercial acids would be very expensive when used in quantities 
sufficient for satisfactory results. 

' For the results of Dr. Glaister's experiments see page 304. 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

PROTECTION FROM THE CLOTHES MOTH 

Where the cost of cold storage is not an item to be seriously con- 
sidered, the adoption of this method for protection of goods during 
the hot months is strongly recommended. 

Recent experiments made at the instance of Dr. L. O. Howard of 
the U. S. Bureau of Entomology have shown that the larvae of the 
clothes moth can be killed by an alternation of a low temperature 
with a comparatively high one, and this procedure should be adopted 
by cold storage companies. 

A merchant who stores furs at ordinary temperature has found the 
following method successful: 

"Furs when received are first most thoroughly and vigorously 
beaten with small sticks, to dislodge all loosened hair and larvae or 
moths. They are then gone over carefully with a steel comb and 
packed away in large boxes lined with heavy tar roofing paper, or in 
closets similarly lined with this paper." 

For the home keeping of woolens and furs the work must be 
started in the first warm days; careful beating, airing and brushing 
is of first importance; only in this way can the possible eggs and 
larvae be dislodged. If packed away with the garment they are sure 
to develop, no matter to what extent camphor, tobacco or napthaline 
balls have been used. These repellants are only disagreeable to the 
parent moths who are less likely to deposit their eggs where the odor 
is strong. 

When clean, the garments should be sealed in well made bags of 
linen or paper or in pasteboard boxes whose openings are pasted over 
with strips of paper. 

ECONOMY OF DOUBLE WINDOWS 

When new or old houses are being screened for the summer in 
the latest approved style which fastens a wire screen on the outside 
over the entire window space, owners would do well to obtain at the 
same time estimates for double windows on at least the most exposed 
side of the house — windows that shall screw into the same grooves and 
replace the screens when they are removed. 

There seems to be no doubt that the initial cost of these windows is 
soon paid by the saving of coal, and that they insure an even temper- 



1915] DANGERS IN USING LEFT OVERS 329 

ature in the house, while there need be no lack of fresh air if one 
window in each room is fitted with the best form of ventilator. 

The report from one house is that with double windows an equable 
temperature of 70° was maintained with the same amount of coal 
formerly necessary for 60°. The cost of putting double windows on 
all first story windows it was calculated would be paid for in five 
winters by the saving in coal. 

THE FOLDING GO-CART 

Mrs. Max West, author of a bulletin sent out by the Children's 
Bureau, brings out the limitations of this convenient and popular 
baby carriage. 

Mrs. West recognizes the advantages of the folding go-cart, which can 
be taken on the street car when getting baby from place to place. But 
she finds it extremely bad for baby when he is left in it for any length of 
time. It is too small and cramped, does not allow for proper wrappings, 
she thinks, and keeps baby so close to the ground that he gets nothing but 
the lower and colder air currents, which are much more likely to be laden 
with street dust and germs. 

The proper carriage for general use should be two feet high, should have 
room for the baby in any position with his proper wrappings, should have 
strong, well balanced springs, should rest squarely on four wheels, and 
should have an adjustable cover. Moreover, it is better to let the 
baby take his airing quietly in one place than to move him around too 
much. 

DANGER IN USING LEFT OVERS 

An experience of last summer when the thermometer stood in the 
nineties may point a moral for the coming hot term. What was 
left of a dish of stewed celery with cream sauce was placed over- 
night in the refrigerator and reheated for the luncheon next day. 
The one member of the family who ate of it reported afterward that 
it tasted "a Httle queer." Four hours later he was taken \dolently 
ill with all of the symptoms, according to the physician, of "ptomaine 
poisoning" (though it is more correct to call it bacterial poisoning, 
since it is due to bacteria sometimes present which grow rapidly and 
are not all killed unless cooking is very thorough) , and did not fully 
recover for three days. As this reheated celery was the only dish of 
which he alone had eaten, and no one else in the house was ill, it 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC-July 

was suggested that ptomaines had developed m the cream sauce over 
night, as there was some uncertainty as to how long it had stood in 
a hot kitchen before it went into the refrigerator, whose temperature 
was also unknown. 

This experience would indicate that in hot weather we should 
plan to have few "left overs" and should be sure that foods which are 
to be used again are placed at once in a well-iced refrigerator. Spe- 
cial care must be given to foods of a high protein content, as milk, 
meat, peas and beans. Remember that pasteurization of milk has 
not yet become so perfect in all of our cities as to place it above sus- 
picion when the thermometer is in the nineties. 

THE HEALTH OF OUR SUMMER RESORTS 

Vacation typhoid is becoming known as a serious hazard. The 
prudent recreation seeker now finds out in advance whether or not 
this infection prevails at the place he has in mind, and furthermore 
learns what sanitary measures are being taken there to safeguard 
the health of the summer colony. The town of York, Maine, has 
recently taken steps that at once place it in the forefront of progress 
as far as health is concerned. The way the problem was met may 
well serve as a model for other summer resorts. Last year there 
were a number of cases of typhoid fever at York. No attempt was 
made to conceal the fact of the existence of the disease and its extent. 
The authorities very properly felt that the way to meet any danger 
was to face it in the open. An expert was invited to come to York 
and make a sanitary survey. The chief recommendation of the 
expert was that York needed a full time health officer. The town 
appropriated $2500 a year for this purpose and is now spending one 
dollar per capita per year for health, a larger sum than is appropriated 
by any other American city directly for a like purpose. "Pubhc 
health is purchasable," the price is moderate, and York shows by its 
action that it intends to enjoy the best attainable protection from 
disease. Other summer colonies will find it to their advantage to 
follow the example of York, and take the necessary measures to safe- 
guard their citizens and the strangers within their gates. The Journal 
of the American Medical Association strongly advises the pubHc to 
demand the security of health that only a well-ordered sanitary de- 
partment can furnish. Our sea-shore and mountain resorts can no 
longer depend on nature and luck for a clean bill of health. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

NUTEITION 

Menus for Children. Boston Cooking-School Mag., 18 (1914), no. 10, pp. 790, 791. 
(For children in an institution having a "home table.") 

On the Protective and Curative Properties of Certain Foodstuffs against Polyneuritis 
Induced in Birds by a Diet of Polished Rice, II. E. A. Cooper, Jour. Hyg. [Cambridge], 
14 (1914), no. 1, pp. 12-22. 

A Shop-Girls' Restaurant [in Copenhagen]. Edith H. Sellers, Corithill Mag., n. ser., 
37 (1914), no. 221, Nov., pp. 656-665. 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach, xviii. On the Sensibility of the 
Gastric Mucosa. A. J. Carlson and L. H. Braafladt, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 36 (1915), 
no. 2, pp. 153-171. 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach, xix. Reflexes from the Intestinal 
Mucosa to the Stomach. E. H. Brunemeier and A. J. Carlson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 
36 (1915), no. 2, pp. 191-196. 

Studies in Endogenous Uric Acid Metabolism. G. VV. Raiziss, H. Dubin and A. I. 
Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 4, pp. 473-485. 

The Excretion of Creatinin by Human Individuals on a Prolonged Creatin-Free Diet. 
A. I. Ringer and G. W. Raiziss, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 4, pp. 487^92. 

The Energj' Metabolism of Ten Hospital Children, between the Ages of Two jVIonths 
and One Year. J. R. ]\rurlin and B. R. Hoobler, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), 
no. 2, pp. 81-120. 

The Reaction of Cow's Milk Modified for Infant Feeding. W. M. Clark, Jour. Med. 
Research, 31 (1915), no. 3, pp. 431-453. 

Infantile Scurvy: The Blood, the Blood Vessels and the Diet. A. F. Hess and ^Mil- 
dred Fish, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 8 (1914), no. 6, pp. 385-406. 

A Respiration Incubator for the Study of the Energy Metabolism of Infants. J. R. 
Murlin, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 1, pp. 28-43. 

Foods and Cooking 

Inspection of Foods, Dairy Products, and Feeding Stuffs. W. D. Saunders, et al. 
Quart. Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr. Va., 1913, pp. 68; Bui. 30. (This report contains the 
result of the sanitary inspection of dairies, creameries, bakeries, groceries, markets, 
slaughterhouses, hotels, restaurants, and ice cream and confectionery stores.) 

Canned Snails. Pure Products, 10 (1914), no 5, p. 244. (Data are given regarding 
the production and marketing of edible snails, fresh and canned.) 

Is Cooking an Error? Lancet [London], 1914, I, no. 12, pp. 841, 842. 

Gas Cooker Efficiencies. Jour. Gas Lighting, 126 (1914), no. 2662, p. 493. 

Medieval Cookery. L. F. Salzman, Blackwoods Mag., 196 (1914), Dec, pp. 765- 
773; LitteWs Living Age, 7 ser., 66 (1915), no. 3765, pp. 218-225. (Interesting espe- 
cially for one who does not have access to more extended works of reference.) 

The Cooking of Vegetables. C. H. Senn, Jour. Roy. Horl. Soc. [London], 39 (1914), 
no. 3, pp. 523-529. 

331 



332 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

Testing Market Values in Coffee. Georgia Finley, School Set. and Malh., 14 (1914), 
no. 8, pp. 718, 719. 

Tropical Vegetable Foods. H. H. Rusby, Jour. N. Y. Bot. Card., 15 (1914), no. 173, 
pp. 107-112. 

Milk— Its Milk Sugar, Conductivity and Depression of Freezing Point. [Fresh and 
Cooked Milk.] Lilias C. Jackson and A. C. H. Rothera, Biochem. Jour., 8 (1914), no. 1, 
pp. 1-27. 

Food Value of Milk and its Products. R. Harcourt, Ontario Dept. Agr. Bui. 221 (1914), 
pp. 20. (Recipes are given for cheese dishes and also data regarding their relative cost 
as sources of protein and energy in comparison with meat dishes.) 

Electric Cooking on the Battleship "Texas." Electrical World, 63 (1914), no. 20, pp. 
1099, 1100, figs. 3. (Menus are given showing the food prepared for one week.) 

Electric Cooking. Austral. Mining Standard, 50 (1913), no. 1291, p. 116. 

Hygiene and SANixAnoN 

The EfiFects of Nitrogen Peroxid on the Constituents of Flour in Relation to the Com- 
mercial Practice of Bleaching Flour with that Reagent. B. Moore and J. T. Wilson, 
Jour. Hyg. [Cambridge], 13 (1914), no. 4, pp. 438-466. 

UnsteriUzed Vessels in Restaurants. Brit. Food Jour., 16 (1914), no. 181, pp. 3, 4. 

What Attitude Toward the Supervision of Sanitary Conditions in Restaurants, Hotels, 
etc. C. D. Woods, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 
85-90. 

Enameled Utensils Used in the Preparation of Food. F. Bordas, Ann. Falsi/., 7 
(1914), no. 63, pp. 49, 50; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec. 31 (1914), no. 3, p. 260. (This arricle calls 
attention to the possible danger in the use of enameled ware in which meat is chopped, 
in that small particles of the enamel may become detached and thus find their way with 
the food into the digestive tract, causing damage to its walls.) 

The Neutralizing Power of Saliva in Its Relation to Dental Caries. J. A. Marshall, 
Amer. Jour. Physiol., 36 (1915), no. 3, pp. 260-279. 

Bacteriologic Standards for Drinking Water. Editorial, 7(?wr. A7ner. Med. Assn., 63 
(1914), no. 26, p. 2294; Pub. Health Rpt. [U. S.\, 29 (1914), no. 45, pp. 2959-2966. 

Ice Cream Studies in Cincinnati. C. Bahhnan, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), 
no. 11, pp. 1009-1015. 

The Future of the Milk Indust^\^ F. E. Fronczak, A mer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), 
no. 11, pp. 1021-1025. 

Second Report of the Committee on Cold Storage. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), 
no. 11, pp. 1101-1106. 

An Epoch-Making Law. N. Y. Milk Legislation as a Model for National Food Stand- 
ards. M. I. MacDonald, Forecast, 9 (1915), no. 1, pp. 13-20. 

Resume of Work on Tuberculosis in Children for 1914. May Michael, Amer. Jour. 
Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 2, pp. 135-181. 

How War Has Been Waged in Mexico Against the Mosquito. E. Liceaga, Amer. Jour. 
Trop. Diseases and Prev. Med., 2 (1914), no. 2, pp. 117-123. 

Observations upon the Bacteria Foxmd in Milk Heated to Various Temperatures. 
W. W. Ford and J. C. Prv-or, BzU. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 25 (1914). no. 283, pp. 270-276. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

.\ny book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JouKNAi OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

The General Education Board. An account of its activities, 1902-1914. 
New York: General Education Board, 1915, pp. 240, ills. 32, maps, 31. 

Home Economics teachers who are thinking in terms of the wider state- 
manship of their field will wish to see this fascinating story of wealth de- 
voted to welfare, particularly as some of its enterprises, the southern farm 
demonstrations and canning clubs have been directly related to home 
betterment. This work has aimed at raising the financial status of the 
farmer, improving his home and farm buildings, and awakening a vital 
agricultural interest among the children. Cotton, corn, and grass crops 
have been greatly increased, and resulting financial profit to the commun- 
ity has enabled the farmers to support a comprehensive school system, and 
in general there has been an almost incredible growth of vigorous social 
and civic interest. The bringing into the home of a profitable industry 
like canning is not only a source of financial profit, but it stimulates better 
living. The General Education Board has aided in the establishment of 
well-equipped secondary schools in rural districts; has assisted higher 
institutions of learning which promise to reach the largest number of indi- 
viduals, and recently has turned its attention to impro\ing medical schools. 
The policy throughout has been one of cooperation with the district or 
institution — and in no case of dictation or interference. 

Social and Labor Needs of Farm Women. U. S. Dept. Agr. Rpt. 103 (1915), 
pp. 100. 

Domestic Needs of Farm Women. U. S. Dept. Agr. Rpt. 104 (1915), pp. 100. 

Ediuational Needs of Farm Women. U. S. Dept. Agr. Rpt. 105 (1915), 
pp. 88. 

Economic Needs of Farm Women. U. S. Dept. Agr. Rpt. 106 (1915), pp. 

100. 

These valuable documents, which were edited by G. W. WTiarton, Chief, 
Ofl&ce of Information, are based upon extracts from letters received from 
farm women in response to an inquiry "How the Department of Agri- 
culture can better meet the needs of Farm HouseNvives," with special 

333 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

reference to the provision of instruction and practical demonstrations in 
Home Economics under the Act of May 8, 1914, providing for Cooperative 
Agricultural Extension Work, etc. The National Government, particu- 
larly through the Nutrition Investigations and other activities of the 
Department of Agriculture which touch the home, has already contributed 
a great deal of valuable material of use in solving the various problems of 
farm women. This is shown by the references to such work made very 
largely in the form of foot notes. Of great value to the teacher and stu- 
dent are the appendixes to the bulletins which contain fuller descriptions 
of Government activities with lists of Department of Agriculture publica- 
tions of interest to Farm Women for gratuitous distribution, and other 
Government documents. 

The Home Garden in the South. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Farmers' Bulletin 

647 (1915), pp. 28. 

In this bulletin the fact is brought out that a garden of i to ^ acre is 
sufficient for an average family and should produce enough vegetables for 
use throughout the entire year. 

Sweet Potatoes: Culture, Storing and Studies in Fertilizing. By H. P. 

Stuckey. Georgia Sta. Bui. 107 (1914), pp. 30, figs. 24. 

Storage houses are discussed, also questions which have to do with 
more particular sweet potato culture, and the relation of fertilizer to flavor 
and texture of sweet potatoes and to their size and smoothness. 

Crop Production: An Agricultural Text for High Schools. By Clarence 
M. Weed and Willlam E. Riley. New York: D. C. Heath and Com- 
pany, 1914, pp 252, ills. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.85. 
In following the plan of this book, crop production would be taught 
by allowing the pupil to experiment and observe for himself. The seeds 
are planted and as the plant grows the pupil learns its structure, its ene- 
mies, diseases, etc. Additional instruction is give afterward. The study is 
divided into vegetable crops, flower crops, fruit crops, and farm crops. 

Canning, Preserving and Pickling. By Marion H. Neil. Philadelphia: 
David McKay, 1914. pp. 284, figs. 12. $1. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.08. 

The book is largely made up of recipes, under the headings — Canning 
Fruits and Vegetables; Jellies, Jams and Preserves; Pickling; Chutney s, 
Catsup and Relishes; Beverages, Vinegars and Syrups. Preceding each 
set of recipes there are general instructions in regard to utensils, methods, 
and selection of fruits, vegetables, etc. 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 335 

Preserving and Canning. By Emily Riesenberg. Chicago and New 
York: Rand, McNally and Company, 1914, pp. 104. $0.50. By mail 
of the Journal, S0.60. 
Directions are given for the canning of fruits and vegetables, together 

with recipes for the preparation of jams, preserves, jellies, marmalades, 

pickles, and beverages. 

Food Industries. By H. T. Vulte and S. B. Vanderbilt. Easton: The 

Chemical Publishing Company, 1914, pp. viii + 309. $1.75 postpaid. 

This volume embodies the valuable experience of its authors for a period 
of years. Dr. Vulte's work as a practical chemist outside the teaching 
laboratory has given him a first hand knowledge of manufacturing proc- 
esses that makes his statements authoritative. The facts in Food Indus- 
tries are well attested, and true to the case. Miss Vanderbilt has been a 
co-worker with Dr. Vulte for many years, and her thorough and practical 
habits of teaching are evidenced in this book. 

The various manufacturing processes are well and clearly described, and 
the style is simple and interesting. The chemical background is made clear, 
and the whole subject is treated in a broad and effective way. 

It must prove valuable as a text, or reference book in the normal school 
and college, and all elementary and high school teachers may find in it reli- 
able material for their pupils. 

The volume is attractive in appearance with excellent type, and many 
good and unusual illustrations. 

Food Products. By H. C. Sherman. New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1914, pp. ix -f 594, figs. 36. $2.25. By mail of the Journal, 
$2.40. For an extended account of this volume, see page 287. 

Your Child Today and Tomorrow. By Sidome Matzner Gruenberg. 

Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1913, pp. 234. $1.25. By 

mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

The sub-title of this book explains its general scope: ''Some problems 
for parents concerning punishment, lies, fear, imagination, obedience, will, 
reasoning, ideals, and ambitions, work and play, social activities, adoles- 
cence, heredity." It is a type of book of which it is high time, there were 
more, dealing as it does with the intellectual and moral development of 
the child. In the preface, the author mentions her debt to her opportunities 
for work in the Federation for Child Study under the guidance of Prof. 
Felix Adler, leader of the Ethical Culture Society of New York, and an 
introductory chapter is contributed by Bishop Vincent of the Methodist 
Church and founder of Chautauqua. The book is this year one of the 



336 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

volumes of required reading in the Chautauqua Reading Course. Bishop 
Vincents' characterization of it is just as "an exceptionally sane, practical, 
and valuable treatment of the problem of problems suggested by our 
present American civilization, namely, the training of the on-coming 
generation." 

Home Economics workers must recognize the importance of the home 
training of the child. 

Physical and Chemkal Tests for the Housewife. By Sadie B. Vanderbilt. 
Teachers Col. [N. Y.] Bid., 4 ser.. No. 16 (1913), pp. 16. 

A number of tests are described which deal with gas and liquid fuels, 
water, food materials, food adulteration, soap, and soap powders. 

Selected List of Municipal ajid Civic Books. 2 ed. New York: The 
American City Bureau, 95 Nassau St. Pp. 66. Free. 

Students of Home Economics who are awake to the municipal relations 
of the household will do well to secure this list of publications. 

RECENT BOOKS 

The publishers' prices are quoted. 

Cooking Book. By L. P. Frich and I. M. Robinson. Muncie (Ind.) : Normal Institute, 

1914, pp. 198. $1. 

Principles of Food Preparation. By M. D. Chambers. Boston: Boston Cooking School 

Magazine Company, 1914, pp. 251. $1. 
Sick-room Cookery Simplified. By Mabel Baker. New York: The Macmillan Company, 

1915, pp. 152. $.60 net. 

Small Family Cook Book. By M. D. Pretlow. New York: McBride, Nast and Com- 
pany, 1915. S.75 net. 

Every Woman's Flower Garden. By Mary Hampden, New York: Duffield and Com- 
pany, 1915. $1.50. 

Gardening Blue Book. By L. B. Holland. Garden City (N. Y.): Doubleday, Page 
and Company, 1915. $3.50. 

Joy in Gardens. By M. E. Brown. New York: Mrs. J. C. Brown, 36 East 37th St., 

1914, pp. 308. 

First Book of Physiology and Hygient. By G. D. Cathcart. New York : The Macmillan 

Company, 1915, pp. 158. $.50. 
Physiciogy and Hygiene. By E. S. Chesser. New York: The Macmillan Company, 

1915, pp. 231. $.70 net. 

Chemical Examination of Water, Sewage, Foods, and other Substances. By J. E. Purvis 
and T. R. Hodgson. New York: Putnam, 1914, pp. 228. $2.75. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Annual Conference of State Leaders in County Agent and Boys 
and Girls Club Work. The annual conference of leaders in boys and 
girls project work of the Northern, Central, and Western states was held 
in Chicago, December 3 to 10. At this conference fundamental policies 
were framed which will be followed this year throughout the North and 
West. 

The following projects were recommended and accepted as projects 
to be emphasized: 

Com, Potato, Sugar Beet, Home Garden, Alfalfa, and Market Garden 
Clubs. In Home Economics: Wheat and Bread, Canning, Canning and 
Marketing, Garden and Canning, Home Efficiency, Flower Garden Clubs. 
In Stock Work: Cow Testing, Baby Beef, Poultry, and Pig and Crop 
Production Clubs. For a special club project, to create interest during the 
winter months, the Farm and Home Handicraft Clubs were recommended. 

The Committee on PoUcies submitted the following recommendations, 
which summarize the principles governing Junior Extension Work: 

1. That the Boys and Girls Club Work is a back-to-the-home move- 
ment, and is the Junior Extension Service in Agriculture and Home Eco- 
nomics. 

2 That we recommend tha,t all club projects approved by this con- 
vention be supported by the Federal government through the United 
States Department of Agriculture, in every way possible. 

3. It is also recommended that simplified report blanks for all approved 
club projects be furnished by the Federal Department of Agriculture to 
the states; such reports to cover items only required by the Federal office 
in annual state reports, and that a committee be appointed to work with 
the national leaders in charge of the work in making out such reports. 

4. That we recommend the desirability of having a national and gen- 
eral basis of award on all approved club projects. 

5. That we recommend the use of progressive educational trips as a 
reward for achievement in club projects. 

6. That we recommend a uniform national progressive system of emblems 
for award, and that the 4-H brand idea be used in standardizing all club 
products and projects. 

7. That all forms, circulars, and literature to be mailed out under the 
Government frank in the general conduct of Boys and Girls Club Work 

337 



33S THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June-July 

be first submitted to the Federal ofiice of the United States Department 
of Agriculture. 

8. That we favor a uniform system of instruction, the same to be ob- 
served whenever applicable. 

9. Belie\ing that there are many boys and girls in the city destined for 
country Hfe, we recommend that an effort be made to give the city boys 
and girls equal opportunities with those of the open country in the Junior 
Extension or Club Work in Agriculture and Home Economics activities. 

10. The committee feel that county or district leadership in club work 
is very important and that such an organization should be promoted 
wherever possible, all leaders to be under the direction of the State Agent 
in Charge of Boys and Girls Club Work. 

11. We favor close cooperation in Boys and Girls Club Work with the 
public schools, through the State Department of Public Instruction. 

12. Since the club work is closely related in its administration to the 
work of the public schools we recommend that all state agents in charge 
of club work attend the meetings of the state and national teachers' 
associations for the purpose of presenting the plans and policies of the 
Junior Extension Work. 

13. We favor the plan of holding local, county, district, and state schools 
of instruction for club members, as well as for those engaged as club 
leaders. 

Canning Clubs. Daughters of southern farmers, who have been mem- 
bers of the United States Department of Agriculture's garden and canning 
clubs have been able to give their fathers practical demonstrations of the 
value of crop diversification during the present bad cotton year. The 
actual products which the girls have put up are pro\dng an invaluable asset 
in many farm homes where the cotton crop has not brought the customary 
returns and many farmers are now substituting whole acres of onions and 
tomatoes in place of cotton after seeing the success which the yoimg women 
have made with these crops. 

The Girls' Demonstration Work began wdth the Canning Clubs in 1910 
when four counties in two states were organized. The prospects are that 
in 1915 there will be an enrollment of 50,000 girls under the supervision of 
nearly 500 women agents in the 15 southern states alone. The enrollment 
for 1914 was 33,173. Of these club members 7793 put up 6,091,237 pounds 
of tomatoes and other vegetables from their tenth acre gardens. These 
products were put into 1,918,024 cans, jars and other containers. They 
are estimated to be worth $284,880.81 and nearly 8200,000 of this is profit. 
The average profit per member was S23.30. Furthermore, these girls 
put up thousands of dollars worth of other products from the farms and 
orchards. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 339 

Florida County Agents. The fourth annual meeting of the County 
Agents ot Girls Canning Clubs of Florida was held in Tallahassee, February 
16-20. The lectures and discussions were along practical lines and resulted 
in giving the agents a knowledge of what was being done by other agents, 
suggestions as to the future needs of the clubs, instruction in demonstra- 
tions, and plans for introducing new and improved methods into the farm 
homes. 

Among the speakers were county agents, members of the State College 
faculty, the secretary of the American Home Economics Association, and 
representatives from four divisions of the Department of Agriculture, 
Washington. 

Extension Work. A conference and school of housekeepers was held by 
the Extension Division and Home Economics Department of the Uni- 
versity of Washington, Seattle, February 8 to 12. 

The speakers were experts in every line of homemaking from the planning 
of the housework and the spending of the income to the care of the baby 
and the method of running a well-ordered home. 

The right combinations of food, menu making, and the way the income 
can be spent to the best advantage were special features of the discussions. 
There were demonstrations of children's clothing, sensible kitchen aprons, 
practical table and bed linen, new recipes for breakfast, luncheon and 
dinner, invalid cookery, and use of leftovers. 

Another feature was the furnishing of a room in good taste at very 
moderate cost; a rug, curtains, wall paper and furniture were shown; also 
good and bad taste in kitchen ware, china, dishes, silver, glassware and 
linen were illustrated. 

One session was devoted to ten minute talks about the greatest prob- 
lems we have in housekeeping today. 

Parent-teachers' associations, mothers' clubs, women's clubs, etc. were 
represented. The state superintendent of public instruction met the house- 
keepers, and a physician, trained nurse, household decorator, gardener, 
pure food inspector, bakery inspector and others told of their work. 

States Relations Service. A new appropriation act gives the Secretary 
of Agriculture authority to reorganize the Department of Agriculture accord- 
ing to the recommendations in his recent annual report. The change that 
will be of most interest to our readers concerns the Office of Experiment 
Stations. To quote from the Weekly A^ews Letter: 

"The newly estabUshed States Relations Service will include the present 
Office of Experiment Stations (except the Irrigation and Drainage Investi- 
gations, transferred to the Office of Public Roads and Rural Engineering) 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June- July 

and the Farmers' Demonstration Work throughout the United States, here- 
tofore conducted vmder the Bureau of Plant Industry. The scope of the 
work now conducted under Nutrition Investigations is broadened to include 
investigations on and experiments with various materials used for clothing, 
and in decorating and equipping houses, as well as such matters as the 
removal of stains, laundering and other household activities, in addition 
to the experiments with the respiration calorimeter and the more practical 
work in home dietetics. 

"The popular bulletins commonly known as 'Uncle Sam's Cook Books' 
will be supplemented by others covering a wider range of home topics. 
It is also ex-pected that these investigations will contribute in a large way 
to the development of extension work in home economics as a part of the 
cooperative extension work carried on by the department and the state 
agricultural colleges. The ofl&ce conducting the investigations will here- 
after have the more appropriate title of 'Office of Home Economics.' 
Investigations of the physiological effects of foods on the human organism 
have been transferred to the Bureau of Chemistry. 

"The States Relations Ser\dce largely has to do with the control of the 
federal funds granted to the state experiment stations and has supervision 
of the expenditure of the funds accruing to the agricultural colleges under 
the Smith-Lever Act." 

Notice. The bulletin, "Education for the Home," published by the U. S. 
Bureau of Education indicates that twenty colleges and universities now 
offer the degree of Master of Arts or Master of Science in the field of 
Home Economics. We are informed by the Department of Home Economics 
at the University of North Dakota, that this university should not yet 
be included in that list. 

Household Electricity. In connection with the formation of a Bureau 
of Home Economics, by The New York Edison Company, there will be 
a series of articles on electricity for household use in the Edison Monthly, 
the magazine issued by The Edison Company. These articles were begun 
in the April issue with the publication of a complete list of manufacturers 
of electric apparatus for the home. 

Prize Contest. A prize of $1000 is to be awarded to the author of the 
best original pamphlet on social hygiene for adolescents between the ages 
of twelve and sixteen. The contest closes July 31, 1915. For further 
information address The American Social Hygiene Association, 105 West 
40th St., New York City. 



Vol. VII, No. 7 



THE 



AUGUST-SEPTEMBER, 1915 



Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemakinji, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel, FJilor Keturah E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Edilorial Board 
liENj. R. Andrews Anna Barrows C. F. Lancworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Ojficio Members — Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economics Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 

CoUahoratnrs — The Ofl'icors, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



Gf.orgic Boyulon Child 

Ilnia Bailey 

A. C. True 



CONTENTS 

House Construction in California 

A Study of the Management of the Farm Home 

Home Economics Work Under the Smith-Lever Act 

Application of Smith-Lever J'uxds 

Life in Rural France 

The Home ant) Child Labor 

Child Labor Laws Pending 

Editorials 

Housekeepers' Department 

A Cooperative Kitchen That is Meeting a Need in its Community . Cb 



Compiled by Helen W. Alwaler 
Frederick G. Boiiser 



Pressure Cooker Versus Fireless Cooker for Home Use 

The Census "Dependents" 

Clean Food a Possibility 

Java Coffee Hearing 

Try Cottonseed Oil 

Stain Removal 

Model Kitchen to Illustrate Principles 
Bibliography of Home Economics 



Gr 



ICC Gi 



Books and Literature 
News from the Field 



lollc Talley 
or do II Hood 



341 
348 
iSi 
355 
358 
36S 
370 
371 

373 
373 
375 
379 
380 
381 
381 
382 
3»4 
385 



387 
393 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year— monthly except July and August— by the 
American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on Xew York, E.xpress Order or Postal Money Order payable 
to the .American Home Economics .'\ssociation. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk.' 

CH.\NGE I.N .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .\ddress shoi;ld be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCL\TIOX Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Raltimore Post Office 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VII AUGUST-SEPTEMBER, 1915 No. 7 

HOUSE CONSTRUCTION IN CALIFORNIA 

GEORGIE BOYNTON CHILD 
Housekeeping Experiment Station, Stamford, Conn. 

When the opportunity came to us last summer to visit California 
and to study, at first hand, the living conditions in this wonderful 
part of the country, we looked forward to our trip with unusual 
anticipation. We had heard so much about the progress of house 
construction in the far West, and of the original and resourceful 
methods developed, that we felt we could not carry out our own long 
cherished plans for building until we had seen the very best that 
CaHfornia had to offer. 

We made every effort before we started west, to find out the places 
in California which best represented these new ideas, in order to make 
the most of the Umited time at our disposal. Everyone with whom 
we talked or to whom we wrote, said at once, "Pasadena and Los 
Angeles." And so we planned to make these towns the center for 
our special study. We visited other places just for recreation or to 
be with friends. The strange part of it was that the less frequented 
places seemed to us to be more representative of the real life and de- 
velopment of California than the more talked of centers, because the 
homes were the result of native resourcefulness and not the product 
of real estate schemes. We found in these places constructive ideas 
in house building that might well be applied anyv\^here. These ideas 
are all in the direction of more simplicity and independence in house- 
building, in making the building construction subservient to the 
needs of the homemaker. 

341 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

Perhaps the most representative exponent of these ideas is Mr. 
Irving T. Gill, an architect who began to carry out his ideas first in 
San Diego and who is now located at Los Angeles. But it was not 
in Los Angeles or Pasadena that we heard of him, nor did all our in- 
quiries in these centers discover his work as anything of especial 
interest. 

The material Mr. Gill uses to carry out his ideas in house-building 
is concrete. The special type developed for either cottages or houses 
is straight-line, rectangular buildings, without ornamentation or 
broken building lines and is relieved by arches of the Mission type 
for porches. This architecture depends for its beauty upon its cor- 
rect proportions and the spirit of simplicity and permanence that it 
gives. It is part of Mr. Gill's creed that one should strive for utility 
in construction, not beauty, but Mr. Gill's definition of utility includes 
not only fitness for the needs to be served, but a pleasing efTect to 
the eye, so that it is really beautiful in the truest sense. One of the 
most beautiful houses that we saw during our stay in California, was a 
house of this type built for a wealthy woman in Los Angeles. It 
gave one the effect of an Easter lily in its dignity and stateliness of 
outline. The concrete was tinted a very delicate cream and the only 
touch of color was given by the warm, soft rose tint of the concrete 
entrance porch, which seemed to reflect a glow to the soft cream white 
of the house itself, just as a sunset touch softly lights up a bank of 
clouds. The only ornamentation was a beautifully designed door of 
mahogany, the upper part having delicate spindle work, and the 
lower part plain polished wood. 

The idea that governs the exterior design of Mr. Gill's buildings is 
that they must fit harmoniously into the landscape. Casting aside 
traditional models, and aiming to develop only such a type of con- 
struction as would best meet the needs of homemaking, Mr. Gill has 
succeeded in showing that this is the way to secure what is really 
beautiful in outline. The three ideas which have influenced every 
structural phase of Mr. Gill's work, are simplicity, utiHty, and stability. 
As he works out the plans nothing is accepted that departs from these 
three essential requirements. This omits all useless ornamentation, 
either of exterior or interior. Everything must serve a purpose, but 
the purpose of a real home is to afford rest and inspiration, as Vv^ell as 
to meet materia needs. And so, to conform to utility, it must take 
into consideration the whole range of human needs. Purity of out- 



1915] HOUSE CONSTRUCTION IN CALIFORNIA 343 

line, correct proportions, joy in natural beauty, none of these must be 
sacrificed in planning any part of the home. The house is but to 
afford protection and shelter and thus enable one to enjoy the beauty 
of the surrounding country all the more, and is, therefore, so placed as 
to conserve the sunshine, to have its porches and windows open to 
the loveliest views that can be commanded or that can be created by 
skillful laying out of gardens. Its interior is planned so that no 
wall decorations shall detract from the beauty of pictures or other 
works of art, and no ornamentation of flooring shall mar the effect of 
beautiful rugs. The third requirement, stability, is secured both by 
the material chosen for construction, and by having all the interior 
finish simple, durable and permanent. 

The building material chosen to carry out this new type of house 
construction, is concrete. The foundations and floors are solid con- 
crete, the side walls and roof are hollow tile. The roofs are re-enforced 
with steel and covered with asbestos. The finish inside and out is 
cement plaster to which a moisture-proof preparation has been ap- 
plied to prevent dampness of the walls in the rainy season. The 
favorite color for the buildings is pure white, because this seems best 
suited to the warm light of Southern California landscape, but where 
the houses are built in neighorhoods where dark stone or wood are 
used for the other houses, a delicate cream color is used instead of 
pure white plaster, in order to avoid any sense of glaring contrast. 

We were fortunate in being able to see the cottages, which repre- 
sented these ideas, carried out in the simplest form, showing that it is 
possible to build homes of moderate cost that conform to the highest 
ideals of honesty in construction and that meet every practical and 
aesthetic need. These cottages are grouped near the foot hills of 
Sierra Madre, just outside of Pasadena. From the beautiful little 
gardens in the rear of the cottages one can look off toward the moun- 
tains with their wonderful changing lights and shadows. A central 
pergola and community garden with rustic tables and chairs enable 
all the members of the cottage group to enjoy what is practically a 
beautifully laid out park. The Uttle individual gardens that are a 
part of each cottage yard satisfy a desire for a garden of one's own. 

Each cottage has a loggia — or outside sleeping porch, and the ma- 
jority have a small entrance porch, a living room, one bedroom, a 
bath and kitchenette. One or two have an extra bedroom. They 
are simply furnished, and rent for $35 a month during the summer 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept 

season, and for $40 a month during the tourist period. This price 
mcludes gas and electricity, care of the lawn and use of the garage for 
those tenants who have automobiles. This is a moderate rent for so 
complete a furnished home near Pasadena, where rents are high. 

We were so interested in studying the Sierra Madre cottages, that 
we accepted Mr. Gill's invitation to meet him at Los Angeles, and go 
with him to see how the same ideas and principles had been applied 
in designing an expensive house for a wealthy patron. It was on this 
visit that we had an opportunity to talk with him about his work 
and to see how perfectly the principle of honesty and sincerity enables 
one to meet a universal need in the matter of house building. In the 
choice of building material for instance, the best proves the cheapest 
in the long run, and so concrete was found to be the best for the 
wealthy home and the simpler cottage. This principle holds true 
for the essential details of all construction, whether for rich or poor. 
Whatever conveniences are included must be permanent and good. 
Woodwork for interior finish might be mahogany in the homes of 
the rich and a less expensive but equally durable wood chosen for the 
cottage, but in both cases the same care was taken to get the best of 
its kind. Even in the matter of flooring, if Mr. Gill were free to de- 
cide the matter, he would advise concrete floors for all his houses, 
and would have the floors throughout the house or cottage, uniform, 
the same for the parlor as for the kitchen. His idea in this is that 
the floors are primarily for utility and stability and that the material 
which best meets this need, should be used for all the rooms. The 
house is kept in the background, and if well designed and well built, 
does not obtrude its presence upon the homemaker. It is substan- 
tial, adapted to the needs of li\'ing conditions of any given locality 
and, once built, is easy to maintain and easy to care for. Any one 
moving into such a home is able to express his own individuaUty in a 
thousand ways that are not possible in a house of ordinary design. 
Whatever beautiful things one may possess in rugs, pictures, books 
or furniture, may be placed to the best advantage in such surround- 
ings. Nothing would be out of taste in such a home, except things 
of insincere design and counterfeit material. 

Such work as Mr. Gill is doing has a message for the homemaker 
in any part of the country. The materials chosen to carry out the 
ideas may differ, the interior arrangement of rooms has to be differ- 
ently planned and the coloring of walls and buildings adapted to 



1915] HOUSE CONSTRUCTION IN CALIFORNIA 345 

climates where more somber hues would harmonize better with the 
surrounding landscape, but the ideas back of his design are perma- 
nent and true for any land or any conditions. 

Another center where the gospel of sincerity and simplicity in house 
construction is being taught and lived is at Santa Barbara at the State 
Normal School.^ It seems quite fitting that such a movement should 
have for its home the environment of the beautiful Franciscan Mission 
which has preached the same message to every generation since it was 
erected by the loving hands of the early Franciscan fathers. The 
buildings of the State Normal School are on a lovely site, overlooking 
the towTi, with glorious views of the ocean and mountains. They 
were designed by one of the best architects in California who labored 
for months to embody the ideas of Miss Edna Rich, the governing 
spirit of the State Normal School. The result is a building that is 
characteristic of the best ideals of the Mission t^pe, developed in 
material that is adapted to the needs of the building and to the amount 
of money that could be used for the purpose. The tremendously 
interesting part of the work at the State Normal is that tradition 
and precedent are only followed where there is some good reason for 
doing so. OriginaUty and a determined effort to make all the home- 
making courses at the State Normal definitely fit men and women to 
go out and have the best kind of homes, is the purpose of the work. 
The graduates of the State Normal that marry and have homes of 
their own are the best endorsements of the success of the teaching. 
The students can not help seeing on every hand that nothing is done 
for appearance sake only. Everything about the buildings and equip- 
ment has been done for the purpose of utility in the same broad sense 
in which the word is used by Mr. Gill. There is a great demand for 
this kind of teaching, and the State Normal can not increase its ac- 
commodations fast enough to meet an ever increasing demand for 
larger facilities and for opening up new departments. Therefore no 
money can be spent for frills or for creating an impression. Money 
must go first for the best kind of instructors in each department and 
to assist ingenuity and resourcefulness in teacher and student who 
will then make the most of the simple, wisely chosen equipment. 
Part of the homemaking course is soon to be the construction of small 
cottages on the campus. Every detail of house construction will be 

' See frontispiece. 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

taught by the staff connected with the school and all the work will 
be done by students taking different shop courses in carpentry, mason 
work etc. When completed they will be furnished and equipped 
under the direction of college instructors, and be used to supplement 
the courses in domestic science. 

One other very interesting place for the student of home-making 
to visit is Mill Valley, one of the most charming of San Francisco's 
suburbs. Any one who does not reahze how artificial are most of the 
modern real estate schemes, ought to go to Mill Valley to see the de- 
velopment of a community along natural and ideal lines. Situated 
at the foot of Mt. Tamalpais, with glorious views of the mountain 
in every direction and wonderful views of the bay, this Httle village 
has had every natural beauty given to it to make it a tempting place 
to exploit according to the most approved modern realty schemes. 
That it has escaped such a fate and has been preserved as an illustra- 
tion of how ideal a community life can be, is a wonderful thing for 
Cahfornia. One can hardly imagine how any place could be laid out 
so that every homemaker could get a beautiful view and a little bit of 
real woodland in each yard, until one sees that it has been done. 
The paths wind about the foot hills, so that the scheme is somewhat 
like the arrangement for theater seats, affording the maximum num- 
ber of good views. Had this been laid out by a practical real estate 
man this result might not have been attained, because it makes it 
necessary to do a great deal of uphill climbing to get to the houses, 
and this might have been argued as detrimental to the quick sale of 
the land. As it has worked out, however, it has taken the place of 
the usual "restrictions" which have been thought necessary in other 
places to protect purchasers from undesirable neighbors. No one 
goes to Mill Valley to live who does not prize a beautiful view more 
than he minds a hard climb, thus the community is of "the right 
sort" as they call it in Mill Valley. 

The cottages have been mostly designed by their owners and are 
very original and picturesque. Trees are never sacrificed to house 
building. In some cases it has been necessary to build the roof of a 
porch about a tree to save the tree. Views are cherished in the same 
way. In one home the front entrance porch has been glorified by 
having a large window with an enormous pane of plate glass so placed 
that it frames in a wonderful view of Mt. Tamalpais. Who could 



1915] HOUSE CONSTRUCTION IN CALIFORNIA 347 

purchase a picture that could compare with this in beauty? Yet 
here the view was and it only remained for the resourceful homemaker 
to think of making the window in the right place and of unconven- 
tional size. Since the homemakers designed their own cottages, they 
are far above the average in meeting the every day needs of the 
owners. 

It seems a far cry from a study of such sincere models and such 
originality and independence in house construction to follow the usual 
path of the tourist in seeing houses and apartments in Los Angeles and 
Pasadena. One cannot help feeling that the spirit back of much of 
the work that is shown with pride to the visitor has been a spirit of 
commercialism rather than sincere effort to work out the housing 
problem. Over-ornamentation, cheap construction, and a tendency 
to cater to appearances are plainly expressed by many of the bunga- 
lows and apartments. We do not refer to the many beautiful homes 
of wealthy people but to the equally large number of dwellings avail- 
able for the renting class or for sale. Great ingenuity has been shown 
in making the most of space in the laying out of courts, with cottages 
grouped around a central space, and in making the most of interior 
space by studying out every type of built-in convenience and "dis- 
appearing furniture." The spirit prompting much of this develop- 
ment seems to be a desire to benefit the landlord by enabling him to 
charge a much higher price for limited space, rather than to work out 
improved construction for the advantage of all. Any one who makes 
a study of all the ingenious ideas represented in these centers can 
gain much that will prove suggestive and helpful when made prop- 
erly subservient to the right ideals in building. To study them, 
however, before one is grounded in the principles which govern sincere 
house construction, would be of very little real value. For the true 
message of California house construction we must study the work of 
men and women who are not catering to a falsely trained, superficial 
standard of public opinion, but are working toward an ideal. 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

A STUDY OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE FARM HOME 

ILENA BAILEY 
Office of Farm Management, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The study of the management of the farm home was begun by the 
Office of Farm Management of the United States Department of 
Agriculture^ in the fall of 1912. The cost-accounting studies were 
not commenced however until the following spring. Many studies 
have been made of the management of the farm, but little has been 
done toward studying the farm home, although a number of researches 
have been made concerning the cost of Uving and other phases of the 
management of the city home. 

The farm home differs from the home in the small town or the large 
dty in that the cost of its maintenance, including labor, is very largely 
affected by the business of the farm on which it is located. In other 
words, part of the work which some authorities class (except when 
speciaUzed) as minor farm enterprises, such as the poultry, the gar- 
den, the orchard, and the dairy, is carried on in the farm home. 
These same authorities also inform us that on many farms the income 
from such enterprises and the unpaid labor of the family make the 
returns of the farm business a profit instead of a loss. On the other 
hand, the farm home is supplied with meat, fruit, vegetables, trans- 
portation, and fuel at a much lower cost than the home in the city 
or small town. Probably in no other line of work are the home and 
business as closely associated as in farming. The family can work 
together and yet each member can have his own special enterprise. 
For these reasons, the farm home needs to be studied separately from 
the city home. 

While the study might be made by working out theories, it seems 
best to make the present study by collecting data from real farm 
homes. By the latter method, many of the real problems of the 
farm home would be disclosed. While it is desirable to have data 
from a large number of homes, a few studied intensively would give 
one a clearer idea of the field to be covered in undertaking extensive 
researches. Accordingly, it was decided to ask a few farm women to 

' Since this paper was presented, the Department of Agriculture has been reorganized 
and the work which the author is carr>'ing on now forms a part of the OfiBce of Home 
Economics of the States Relations Service. 



1915] A STUDY OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE FARM HOME 349 

cooperate in this study by keeping certain daily records similar to 
those used in the cost accounting studies of the management of the 
farm. 

The nearer together the cooperators were located, the more advan- 
tageously could the work be carried on and the less would be the cost. 
It was desirable that a study of this kind should be made in a typical 
fanning district, that is, one which was away from the influence of 
large cities. It also seemed desirable to undertake the study where 
agriculture was in a stable condition and not as in some of the western 
states, where the home suffers because so much of the capital must 
be used in starting the farm business. 

Such a territory was found in central IlUnois and central Indiana. 
Thirty- two farm women were interviewed, and twenty-two expressed 
a willingness to try to keep the records. Out of this number three 
failed to send in reports, and it was found after a month's trial that 
some could not keep the records satisfactorily so they were not asked 
to continue to send in reports. In three instances serious illness com- 
pelled the housekeeper to discontinue the work. These cooperators 
were located in groups which were easily accessible by short drives 
from small towns which could be reached by rail. 

The women were asked to keep the records for one year. As nearly 
as possible to the date they began the reports, an inventory was taken 
of the quantity of food supplies, including meat and canned fruits, 
laundry supplies, the poultry and the fuel on hand. The information 
would have been more complete if an inventory had also been taken 
of the clothing and house furnishings, but it was deemed unwise to 
include so much in the first study. In keeping the records, two 
blanks were filled out daily, one for the labor and one for the produce 
and finances. In making up the blank forms an effort was made to 
arrange them so that little time would be required to keep the daily 
reports, yet so that the information would be accurate and complete. 
As the farm woman's work varies greatly throughout the day it was 
thought that it would be impossible for her to keep account of her 
labor by making a memorandum of what she did. However, if her 
labor was classified it would be possible to keep the blank hanging on 
the wall in some convenient place and mark down the time at inter- 
vals throughout the day. Accordingly, on the labor blank the hours 
from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. were marked at the top of the page, and each 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

hour divided into four parts representing fifteen minutes each. All 
time was to be reported except that spent in sleep and work which 
required less than fifteen minutes to perform. 

Labor was classified under the following headings: Preparation of 
meals, Care of House, Sewing, Care of Children, Laundry, Marketing, 
Personal, Recreation, Poultry, Dairy, Garden, Orchard, Yard, Farm 
and Household Supplies. One space was left at the bottom of the 
blank for additional classifications. However, about the only addi- 
tional classification made was that for time spent in care of the sick. 
Under ''Preparation of Meals" was included not only the time spent 
in preparing the meal but also that spent in eating, serving, clearing 
the table, and washing the dishes. The time spent in going to and 
from town, as well as that spent in doing actual buying and selling, 
was reported as "Marketing." Under the heading of "Garden" or 
"Orchard" was reported the time spent in planting and weeding, and 
in picking the fruits and vegetables. "Household Supplies" included 
the time spent in canning fruit, making soap and putting down meat. 
A record was kept of the work done for the home by hired help, 
children, or the man of the house. 

On the Produce and Financial blank, the amount of produce fur- 
nished by the farm to the home was recorded and also the quantity and 
value of articles purchased. The number of extra meals served was 
reported whenever others than the regular members of the family 
were served meals. At the end of each week the records were sent 
to the office and were there checked for missing information. Letters 
were then written or visits made to secure such information. 

While much more data could have been obtained from records re- 
quiring more detail, this would have made them very complex. Even 
with the classifications used, it was found that occasionally two lines 
of work would be carried on at the same time. The information ob- 
tained should be valuable to extension workers and to students of 
Home Economics in agricultural colleges as indicative of the manage- 
ment of farm homes in the central West. However, the figures should 
not be considered an average of the farm homes in this section until 
verified by much more extensive studies. From the data now at 
hand, one of the results shown will be the length of the farm woman's 
day. Up to the present time, this information has been worked out 
for several farms where the home is managed quite differently, but in 
each instance the length of day was such that 7f to 8| hours of the 



1915] A STUDY OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE FARM HOME 351 

24 were spent in sleep. This information shows very clearly that the 
farm woman is getting a fair share of physical rest; that if she is over- 
worked, it must be the intensity of the work or a lack of time for rec- 
reation. These farm women, as a rule, began their day earlier than 
many of their sisters in the town or city, but they also retired at 8 
or 9 p.m. instead of 10 or 11 p.m. The time spent in actual work by 
these same women averaged from 9f to 13 hours per day throughout 
the year, Sundays included. However, it must be recalled that ac- 
cording to the labor classification this would include the time spent 
in eating as well as preparing meals (the housewife usually serves dur- 
ing the time she is at the table), and that the tune might also include 
some lines not always considered work. For example, if embroidery 
was made to be used on clothing or on household linen the time so 
spent was recorded under "Sewing." In nearly every home, some- 
one helped with the housework; it might have been the farmer, the 
grandmother, the daughter, the small boy, or a hired girl. 

In Mrs. A's home, for which the information is the most completely 
summarized, the total hours required on week days to do the work 
of the home were 19, although during the year Mrs. A herself spent 
only 13 hours on week days and 6f hours on Sundays in actual work. 
The family consisted of Mrs. A, her husband, and a daughter who 
was away at college nine months of the year. A dressmaker came to 
the house several times during the year to assist with the sewing, 
and a woman and girl helped for a few days during the housecleaning 
season. Aside from this, there was no other help to do the work of 
the home outside of the members of the family. During the summer 
season, a corn crib and fence were built on the farm, and the men 
who did the work took their dinner at the house. This made the 
family during this season larger than at other times of the year. Oc- 
casionally, several of the college friends of the daughter were invited 
to spend the week-end at her home. The average size of family for 
the year, guests and help included, was 2.47. 

Mrs. A had an average of nearly two hours on week days and six 
and one-half hours on Sundays for recreation. Under this heading 
was recorded the time spent in reading, visiting, attending entertain- 
ments, writing friendship letters, and going on pleasure walks and 
drives. The time credited to "Personal" was spent in rest, after- 
dinner naps, and such other ways as would not come under any of 
the other classifications and did not pertain to the work of the home. 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Scpt. 

In Mrs. A's record the time credited to "Personal" averaged the 
same for Sundays and week days, viz., one hour a day. The com- 
bined average of "Personal" and "Recreation" equaled three and 
one-half hours for the 365 days. The reports from three other women 
vary from this by less than one-fourth of an hour. For a fourth 
woman, the "Recreation" and "Personal" equaled about six and one- 
fourth hours per day. It is interesting to notice that this woman 
was ver>' active in the clubs of the neighboring town, and the de- 
mands of this work undoubtedly account for some of the extra time 
credited to "Personal" and "Recreation." Should the three and one- 
half hours reported by the three women as "Personal" and "Recrea- 
tion" and the twelve and one-fourth hours spent in actual work be 
verified by a thousand records from other farm women, then the 
problem for country women in the section studied is, how can the 
hours required for actual work be shortened and the time for recrea- 
tion lengthened? The labor records show how time can be saved by 
having certain work done outside the home, but this may increase 
the family expenses. 

Of the thirteen women reporting, six were not away from home 
during the year for a vacation of more than one day. Only two of 
the thirteen women had what might be termed a real vacation. In 
considering the length of the farm woman's day, it should be remem- 
bered that it is not a monotonous one, because while much of the 
time is spent in preparing meals there is great variety of work. Eight 
hours spent at a desk in an office or at a machine in a factory is a 
much greater strain than a mixture of dishwashing, laundry work, 
gathering eggs, picking fruit, and weeding the flower bed, for the 
same time. The woman in the home is the manager of her work, and 
as such can adjust it within certain limits. 

The Produce and Financial Record shows the amount expended for 
food, clothing, shelter, etc., the quantities and varieties of food fur- 
nished by the farm, and those purchased. It will also show how the 
cost of food can be decreased and yet the quahty of the food kept up 
to a high standard. 

Another result of this work is the determination of the essentials of 
a system for keeping accounts which will be of value to the farm 
woman who wishes to manage her home efficiently. These detailed 
studies have suggested several distinct lines for further study, most 
of which can be made by the survey method. The homes of the 



1915] HOME ECONOMICS WORK UNDER THE SMITH-LEVER ACT 353 

country may be considered as laboratories where experiments are 
constantly being made, the results from which are seldom tabulated. 
For making permanent progress, the study of existing conditions is 
the surest foundation. With this knowledge plans can be devised for 
improvement. 

HOME ECONOMICS WORK UNDER THE SMITH-LEVER ACT 

A. C. TRUE 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The Smith-Lever Act makes provision for "cooperative agricul- 
tural extension work which shall consist of the giving of instruction 
and practical demonstrations in agriculture and Home Economics to 
persons not attending or resident" in the agricultural colleges. There 
is nothing in the Act making any division of the fund between agri- 
culture and Home Economics. The money goes to the state agri- 
cultural colleges, which are to make plans for the work subject to 
the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

This Act is the outcome of the agricultural extension and demon- 
stration work which the United States Department of Agriculture and 
the agricultural colleges have been doing for a number of years. 

The work rests on an economic basis. Fundamentally it is an ef- 
fort to make farming more eflScient and remunerative. In this way 
it is hoped that the farmer and his f mily will havealarger net income, 
and will thus have the means for improving their home and commun- 
ity life. 

The Department has more than $1,000,000 annually for demonstra- 
tion work, and it has been arranged to carry on this work in coop- 
eration with the agricultural colleges. The colleges have agreed to 
bring all their funds for extension work whether derived from the 
Smith-Lever Act or other sources under a single administrative 
division which will also have the administrative control of the De- 
partment's funds cooperatively used in the state. This makes a some- 
what complicated situation in most of the states, and in order to un- 
derstand what is actually being done in any branch of extension work 
in any particular state, it is necessary to know the actual conditions 
existing there. 

During the current fiscal year each state has had only $10,000 from 
the Smith-Lever fund. 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

In many of the states a new organization for extension work had 
to be created at the college. For this reason a relatively large share 
of this fund has gone this year into administrative expenses. 

The general plan adopted for extension work in the states has the 
following features: (1) Extension agents are located in the several 
counties to carry on demonstrations, advise the agricultural people, 
and stimulate them to adopt better methods; (2) Boys' and girls' 
clubs are organized, largely i'\ connection with the rural schools, to 
conduct some simple agricultural or Home Economics project; and 
(3) A staff of speciaUsts in agriculture and Home Economics is or- 
ganized as a part of the faculty of the college and with headquarters 
at the college, to go out through the state to assist the county agents, 
to carry on movable schools, etc. 

For the present, by far the largest part of the funds available for 
extension work ar.^ being used in paying the salaries and expenses of 
county agents. Agents are now located in a Uttle over 1000 counties 
out of the 3000 in the United States. Until the other counties are 
provided for, a relatively large share of the money will go into this 
branch of the work. The County Agent is a man trained in the sci- 
ence and practice of agriculture and famihar with the conditions in 
farm homes. He aims not only to improve agricultural practice, but 
also to aid in bettering home conditions. He will assist the farm 
women in getting in touch with the Home Economics experts which 
the colleges employ, and also help them in improving the sanitary 
conditions of their homes, getting better and more convenient water 
supply, and other things which will lighten their labors. He will 
also aid the women in carrying on various home industries, such as 
the raising of poultry, bees, vegetables and fruits, in order that they 
may have more money for their special needs in the home. 

As soon as practicable it is expected that women trained in Home 
Economics and knowing country conditions will hz associated with 
the men agents in the several counties and be able to carry on a 
greater variety of work directly relating to the farm homes. There 
are already about four hundred such women employed in the South, 
where the demonstration work has been carried on longer than in 
the North and West. 

In the northern and western states the Home Economics work has 
thus far been chiefly done by women sent out from the colleges. More 
such women are now being employed throughout the country, and 



1915] APPLICATION OF SMITH-LEVER FUNDS 355 

the extent and variety of the work in Home Economics is rapidly 
increasing. 

Public interest in improving the general conditions of country life 
and the environment and management of farm homes is becoming so 
widespread and earnest both in our agricultural institutions and 
among the agricultural people that there is every reason to believe 
that extension work which will be of direct benefit to the farm women 
and girls will increase in extent and thoroughness fully as rapidly as 
the means and persons available for such work will permit. The 
conditions vary greatly in the different states as regards the funds, 
organization, and supply of trained workers for this service. The 
most important things for the friends of this movement to do at 
present are to make a broad study of its scope and requirements, 
take a sympathetic interest in the plans which are already being 
made or are in operation, and help in the framing of definite and im- 
proved plans for a broader work. The American Home Economics 
Association has been greatly interested in the defining and organiza- 
tion of the subject of Home Economics and in the working out of 
definite plans for teaching this subject in the colleges and schools. 
There is now great opportunity for the Association to help in the de- 
velopment of the extension work in this subject, and at the present 
time, particularly in the planning of the training of the persons who 
are to do this great work in the rural schools and homes. 

APPLICATION OF SMITH-LEVER FUNDS^ 

The Smith-Lever Act provides for extension work in agriculture 
and Home Economics, but it does not specify what proportion of the 
funds shall be used in Home Economics. The state agricultural 
college extension directors are beingurged by women's organizations of 
various kinds to allot a certain specific portion of the Smith-Lever 
funds for work with women. In view of this fact, it is interesting to 
note the amount of money actually being put into this work by the 
agricultural colleges, for the most part in cooperation with the United 
States Department of Agriculture. Data taken from the records of 
the department and relating exclusively to work of this kind in the 
33 northern and western states show the following distribution of 
funds: 

' Office of laformation, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

(1) For meetings and movable schools at which demon- 

strations are given in cooking, sewing, household 
conveniences, and for the organization of women's 
clubs to study Home Economics $81,555 

(2) For canning clubs to teach girls and women how to 

prevent many of the wastes of the farm by canning 
and preserving fruits, vegetables, and meats by 
cheap and rapid comn:ercial processes 56,197 

(3) For county agents who help farmers and their wives to 

increase the net income of the farm, and thus make 
possible the introduction of labor-saving conveni- 
ences and other improvements into the home 1,027,312 

From the above it will be seen that there is being spent a total of 
$137,752 directly and $1,027,312 indirectly on lines of work afl'ecting 
the farm home. The former amount is equal to 42 per cent of the 
Smith-Lever fund available this year for extension work in the 33 
northern and western states, while the latter is more than three times 
the entire Smith-Lever fund available to all of these states for the 
year 1914-15. 

NEED FOR CAREFUL PLANNING 

Extension directors in the North and West are just now concerned 
as to how best to approach the Home Economics problems of the 
country and what kind of an organization to develop for carrying on 
the work. Shall there be developed a woman county agent who shall 
work with farm women in some such manner as the county agent 
works with men? Just what, in detail, shall such a woman do? 
How shall she organize her work and how go about it? Shall it be 
required that the county pay a part of her salary and expenses, as in 
the case of the county agent? What training and quahfications shall 
be required of women agents who take up such work? Men take up 
the work as county agents as a permanent life work. Women 
agents are very likely to leave the service to manage homes of their 
own. In view of this fact, how shall the work be organized? The 
Washington office (States Relations, Service, U. S. Dept. of Agr.) will 
welcome comments and suggestions from all county agents and ex- 
tension workers who have given attention to this matter. 



1915] APPLICATION OF SMITH-LEVER FUNDS 357 

OBJECTIONS TO FARM LIFE 

The chief objections of women to country life are usually (1) the 
generally small returns in farming, (2) the drudgery of farm work, 
and (3) the social isolation. More money for home conveniences and 
greater efficiency in household management both have in view the 
lessening of the drudgery of farm work and the securing of certain 
periods of leisure to farm women which may be used in productive, 
social, and recreational ways. 

FUNDAMENTAL HOME MATTERS 

Extension work designed to be fundamentally helpful to farm 
women would seem, therefore, to include within its scope certain mat- 
ters, as follows: 

1. Plans to increase the net income of the farm. Farm women need 
more money for home purposes. The purchase of home conveniences, 
the installation of water, sewerage, Hghting, and heating systems, 
kitchen and other conveniences, and the bringing of hterature and 
music into the home are, in the majority of country homes, depend- 
ent upon greater net profits in farming. Knowledge of these con- 
veniences and other desirable things is good, but money to buy these 
desirable things is a vital necessity if country life is to be made as 
acceptable to women as town hfe. The county agent is giving es- 
pecial attention to this phase of the work. 

2. Plans to teach and demonstrate efficiency in farm home manage- 
ment. These include such matters as wholesome food properly pre- 
pared and served in adequate supply and variety, throughout the 
year, the care of the home and the family linen and wardrobe, the 
care and management of children, and sometimes the handling of 
certain farm enterprises like poultry and eggs, milk and butter, the 
garden, small fruits, etc. Efiiciency in farm home management con- 
templates the maximum of accomplishment with the minimum of 
efi"ort to the end that the farm family may find satisfaction and con- 
tentment in the home, and that the time of the farm woman may 
be conserved. 

3. Plans for leisure and development. The farm woman needs 
time for reading, self-development, child teaching, social hfe, and 
recreation. 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

A PROBLEM FOR COUNTRY WOMEN 

In the development of Home Economics demonstration work, there 
needs to be kept in mind the point of view that the problems of coun- 
try women must chiefly be solved by country women. The county 
agent movement in some sections of the north and west started out 
primarily as a city man's movement, but it has succeeded in exact 
proportion as the farmers of the county have taken hold of the work 
and made it their own. 

COOPERATION OF CITY WOMEN 

City women can help in the development of the forthcoming dem- 
onstration work in Home Economics for country women. One of 
the ways in which city women can be of direct help in the movement 
is through greater social intercourse with farm women, through direct 
purchases of poultry, eggs, butter, fresh and canned fruits and vege- 
tables, and by cooperating with them in the maintenance of rest 
rooms, nurseries, etc., for farm women when they come to town. 
But what farm women need and how to meet these needs are mat- 
ters which must be worked out chiefly by farm women themselves. 
The criticism sometimes heard with reference to much of our Home 
Economics teaching is that such teaching is done primarily from the 
standpoint of the town woman. The country woman's problems are 
the problems of the country and must be approached from that stand- 
point. 

LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 

Compiled by HELEN W. ATWATER 

United States Department of Agriculture 

So many of the books of travel and description which one takes up 
nowadays are so obviously worked up from the hasty traveller's note 
books, eked out with a few facts from Baedeker and the encyclo- 
pedia, that it is a rather unusual pleasure to come across one written 
from the fulness of knowledge and with the sympathetic understand- 
ing which comes from long familiarity with the people and places de- 
scribed. If, in addition to knowledge and sympathy, the author has 
the rich mental background of a serious student of history and social 
questions and the Hterary skill of a successful writer in prose and verse, 
the book is Kkely to give pleasure of an even less common quality. 



1915] LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 359 

Exactly such a book is ''The Fields of France" published by Mme. 
Mary Duclaux in 1903.' English by birth, and later a student at 
the University College, London, she is far from insular in her training 
and experience. She lived in both Belgium and Italy during her 
school days, and has passed her married life in France. Though 
most of her writing has been done in her mother-tongue, she is suf- 
ficiently famih'ar with that of the land of her adoption to be a fre- 
quent contributor to the Revue de Paris. One wonders if this bi- 
lingual faciUty may not be the innocent cause of what is perhaps the 
least pleasant feature (by no means a serious fault) of her English 
books on French subjects, namely, a tendency to use special French 
terms where Enghsh equivalents would seem more suitable to the 
less accompHshed reader. 

History seems to have had a special attraction for her, not the his- 
tory made up of "dates of wars and deaths of kings," but that which 
reveals the everyday life of peasants as well as nobles, and which is 
to be found scattered here and there in old memoirs and romances 
and ballads rather than in the formal treatises on past events. Nor 
is her interest confined to by-gone times. History-in-the-making, as 
it is shown in the Hves of her neighbors among the workingmen and 
farmers and wealthy landlords in France and England, seems as in- 
teresting to her as that of ancient times. Small wonder if, with this 
unusual equipment, she is able to describe the French country Ufe 
which she knows and loves sincerely, in a way that has not only 
charm but real significance for anyone interested in domestic man- 
ners and customs. 

Not all of the seven essays which make up the volume are equally 
interesting from this particular point of view. Those entitled "A 
Little Tour in Provence" and "The Forests of the Oise" give the 
impressions of the passing visitor rather than of the old famiUar resi- 
dent, but the latter mentions a dish, locust blossom fritters, common 
in that pleasant wooded country, which no one interested in what the 
world eats can afford to miss. 

O white^flowering delicate mock-acacias .... And what shall 
I say of your blossom — delicious to every sense — an exquisite rain of white 
pearls, dropping fragrant perfumes on the tree, which, plucked and deli- 
cately fried in batter, make a heignet worthy of LucuUus? 

' London, 1903, pp. VII -(- 318. Chapman & Hall, Ld. 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

The first two essays are running over with charming descriptions 
of present-day customs in rural France. One of them, "A Farm in 
the Cantal," describes the life of the people near the author's country 
home in the mountains of Auvergne, where Nature shows her wild 
volcanic mood and is none too friendly to the husbandman. The 
other, "A Manor in Touraine," tells of twentieth century country 
Ufe in the "garden of France" where kings and princes built their 
lordly pleasure houses, and the country is still as smiling and fertile 
as any in the world. 

The Auvergne home is named Olmet and is perched on one of the 
steep volcanic hillsides characteristic of the region. The family live 
in the old manor house standing above what used to be the manor 
farm; the latter has changed hands and is now leased by a sturdy and 
successful Auvergneat named Langeac. In the essay on "The French 
Peasant" we are told that he pays a yearly rent of $2000, and is en- 
vied by his neighbors for being able to secure a farm large enough to 
prosper. But let Mme. Duclaux tell of her house and his in her own 
words. 

Farm and house [manor] no longer belong to each other, but they are 
still on cordial terms; which is as well, since from our hinder terrace our 
eye drops involuntarily on all the life and business of our neighbors. The 
farm house has been recently rebuilt by its new owner, and is no longer 
the picturesque hovel we used alternately to admire and deplore. But our 
tiny mountain manor, or moorland cottage, still bears the stamp of three 
hundred years on its thick sohd walls and tower. The roof is beautiful, 
very steep, as befits a land of six months' snow, and a soft ash-grey in color, 
being covered with thick heart-shaped tiles of powdery mica-schist, which 
surmount with a pyramid either tiny solid turret : a balcony starts out of 
the tower, whence you could sling a stone into the bottom of the valley, 
for Olmet stands on a jutting rock, to the great advantage of our view. 

The house is stunted from the front, where the garden is on the level of 
the first floor; but, seen from below, there is about the place a look at once 
austere and peaceful, rustic and dignified, as befits this land of hay and 
lava, of mountain peak and cream. 

In the following paragraphs we are shown the typical home of her 
peasant neighbors and their various tasks through the changing 
seasons. 

These genial and kindly peasants live in farms roomy and solid, built of 
blocks of grey volcanic stone; the steep roof has several tiers of windows; 



1915] LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 361 

one would suppose it from outside a comfortable home. But in name and 
in fact the attics are granaries, and all the household crowd together in 
one or two rooms on the ground-floor. A huge chimney, with a hospitable 
mantle, shelters a couple of comfortable salt-box settles, reserved for the 
old; one stands on either side the cavernous hearth, where, winter or summer, 
smoulders the half-trunk of a tree; there is a tall grandfather's clock and 
the dresser is bright with painted earthenware dishes and pewter tankards; 
the best bed, high as a catafalque, stands, warmly curtained, in the corner 
under the stairs; a linen cupboard of walnut or cherry-wood, a huge mas- 
sive table of unstained oak, flanked by two benches, a straw-bottomed 
chair or so, a few rough stools; such is the furniture of a kitchen in our 
parts, seldom clean. Here all the cooking is done, and the eating; here 
the other day I saw, in a box-bed, like a ship's berth built into the wall, 
a young mother and her baby one day old, perfectly happy, while the farm- 
hands lunched at the table, and the fowls strolled in and out; here the 
masters sleep, in sickness and health; here visitors are received and farm- 
hands paid — it is, as they say in Yorkshire, the house-place. With its one 
window, its floor of dark, unsmoothed volcanic stone (swept every day, 
but rarely washed), with its ceiling hung with herbs and sausages and huge 
sides of bacon, it is a warm and homely refuge, but not, as a rule, a bright 
or a pleasant place. 

Winter is here! The daily round has narrowed its circle. A path is 
cut from the door to the gate, another to stable and drinking-trough, 
where the unfrozen ever-flowing fountain splashes over a fringe of icicles. 
The walls of snow glitter, and melt not in the sunniest noon. The farm 
kitchen is now the center of all works and days. The huge hearth-place is 
a cavern of warmth and glow. Soon after three the hilltop intercepts the 
sun; a little later, the beasts having been milked and fed, masters and men 
assemble round the fire. From the ceiling hangs the three-beaked Roman 
lamp, but the flames, leaping from the beech-trunk on the fire-dogs, give 
a brighter light. Rare are the farms as yet where a petroleum lamp en- 
livens the gloom. The farm-hands, cutting a bough of cherry or beech, 
renew the handles of their scythes, mend their tools, or knock a fresh set 
of nails into their sabots. The women twirl their distaffs and spinning- 
wheels or sew their seam. 

A scent of cabbage-soup and hot buckwheat comes up from the cottage 
kitchens. 

[In the summer], we are busy in the valleys, where the recent advent of 
the railroad has little changed the ancestral mode of life. The farm grows 
almost all the necessaries of our table. Our soil is too poor for wheat, but 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOKOMICS [Allg.-Sept . 

rye and buckwheat flourish on the mountain-sides; whole slopes and ledges, 
too dry for hay, are a garden of tall, crisp, white flowers, where the buck- 
wheat (sarrazifi) waves through August until mid-September. A little be- 
fore Michaelmas the flowers die, the seed turns gradually black, the stems 
coral-red; and then the farm-hands come and reap the har\-est, bringing 
great sheets of linen, which they spread in the neld, and thresh thereon 
the grain with high-dancing flails. Groimd into meal, the buckwheat yields 
the staple of our diet; the bourriol — a large, thin, soft, roimd crumpet, 
which, eaten hot with butter, or cold with clotted cream, or a nugget of 
cheese, or dipped in new milk, is not to be despised. Every morning, the 
housewife's earliest care is to fill the pail of hourriols which stands in ever>' 
kitchen; next she warms the milk imtil the cream clots and rises. Besides 
the buckwheat, we grow oats for the cattle and rye for bread and straw. 
The rye-bread, very black, at once sweet and sour (which makes, to my 
thinking, the most delicious bread with butter in the world") . is shaved into 
large thin slices in the two-handled porringers, or tciielles, ''pour iremper la 
soupe." Four times a day, and five at midsvmimer, the farm-hands gather 
in Madame Langeac's kitchen and take their bowl of cabbage-soup, where 
the bacon, potatoes, black bread and cabbage make a mess so thick that 
the spoon stands up in it; they eat also a cnunpet of buckwheat, and a nog- 
gin of Cantal cheese; and often a dish of curds and whey, when a cheese is 
in progress; a sausage if the pig has been lately killed; a fry of mushrooms 
in September; a tart of wild cherries in July; or carrots sliced and fried with 
snippets of bacon; sometimes a queer stew of potatoes and curds called 
trufado; or some other homely treat which, at midday, serves to mark the 
importance of dinner, always washed down with a glass of the strong blu- 
ish-red -R-ine they call Limousin, brought from the neighboring departments 
of the Lot and the Correze. Fine brawny men and buxom maids, who 
work hard and live long, are grown upon this sober fare. 

But listen ! \Miat unearthly noise is that which rises at this ver>- moment 
from the farm? No pigsticking, for we are in summer still. There goes 
Madame Langeac, followed by her two maids and a small boy; each of 
them holds high a copper saucepan, warming-pan, or kettle (ser\-ing as a 
cj-mbal), on which she clatters ^ith a key or fork. The three dogs and 
old Gaffer Langeac look on and grin. Slowly in calm procession they move 
down the lane till they reach the old walnut-tree in the field beneath our 
wall. And now I see a sort of fruit on a bough of the tree, like a black 
hanging pear or melon. It is a swarm of bees. From field to field, its 
owners have followed it with this infernal symphony, which serves, as they 
suppose, to attract the bees, or in any case to advertise the owner of the 
land on which they settle, whose property they are. See. a woman brings 
the hive. Tomorrow, the swarm will be busy in its straw-clad home on 



1915] LIFE IN RITUAL FRANCE 363 

the sunny bench beneath the south-east wall. And the bees will take rank 
as friends. On feast-days the children will deck their hive with flowers 
or colored ribbons; a bow of crape will be tied to it in times of mourning. 
So, deeming themselves beloved and associate, the bees will work and 
supply their masters with the sweet, dark honey of Auvergne, so pun- 
gently perfumed, so luscious and aromatic, filled with the scent of the 
heather and the savor of the sarra/.in. 

No one has ever invented anything like the smell of the new mown hay 
fields, which, in summer, perfumes the whole of Auvergne! Hay is our 
wealth, and — when it has suffered a transmutation into cheese and cattle 
— our only export and exchange with the valleys below. It is in order 
that we may grow our hay all summer for the winter's needs, that our cat- 
tle are sent in troops to feed on the mountain tops, leaving behind only 
the draught-oxen and the cows for milking. We need plenty of hay, for, 
in the stables during the five months of snow that follow All Saints, you 
may roughly calculate four cartloads of it to every cow. On the higher 
slopes, we cut it once in July and again in September; while, Jime, August, 
Michaelmas, and early October are haymaking time for the water- 
meadows in the bottoms, which yield four crops a year. 

At night the cattle pull through the narrow roads the primitive hay- 
wains, after the wains, the herds come tramping. Old Gaffer Langeac, the 
farmer's father, has come out to view the crop. He is five and eighty, and, 
being past work, he wears all the week his long-treasured Sunday garments 
— a sleeved waistcoat of black cloth, the full sleeves buttoned into a tight 
wristband, a white shirt of coarse hemp-linen, and dark trousers of thick 
homespun rase or frieze. His blue eyes, still bright, and his straggling 
white locks gleam under a huge soft sombrero of black felt. He is a fine fel- 
low — but is not this the very valley of green old age? An ancient goat- 
herdess comes down the lane, twirling the distaff set with coarse grey hemp, 
as she follows her flock; and as she stops to pass the time of day with her 
neighbor, her youngest grandchild runs out to meet her from the red-gabled 
cottage by the village bakehouse. 

Down in the field below, the women are busy. Every man within 
range of many miles is absent today at Aurillac for the Martinmas Fair; 
and, as the ploughs for once are left at home, the women, free from field 
work for one afternoon, have decided to restuff their mattresses. Soon 
after dawn they came and gathered the beech-leaves beneath the trees, 
raking them in heaps, piling them in sacks, and finally strewing them to 
dry and air, like hay, in the sunny fields at the base of the woods. And now, 
this afternoon, here they come with their mattress-sacks of white canvas, 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

fresh washed and speckless, into which they cram their harvest of beech- 
leaves. The weather has been fine for some weeks, so we trust their bed- 
ding may not be too damp. Now that the leaves are gathered, but only 
now, they will drive the pigs into the woods to feed on the acorns, while 
the children collect the beech-mast, "the olive of the North," carefully 
treasured for the winter's oil. 

That last is an important consideration. Oil for burning o' nights in 
the long winter evenings; oil for frying and cooking in a land where butter 
is scanty and poor, for our milk (so rich in caseum) has very little cream. 
The nut-harvest follows the gathering cf the leaves; and the walnut, of 
course, affords the richest crop. Every farm has its walnut orchard, and 
while the men knock the fruit from the trees with long poles and perches, 
the maidservants shell the nuts and prepare them for the mill. Thence 
will return the salad-oil; while the beech-mast, hazel, and hemp-grain will 
furnish the three-beaked brass liin, or Roman lamp, all winter. At Olmet, 
the fisherman (who, from his little farm down by the river, ensnares and 
nets all sunamer such trout as the otter leaves him to make an honest penny 
by) turns miller in winter, and crushes the walnut harvest, in a great cel- 
lar, between two millstones of black basalt; an ass is harnessed to the upper 
millstone, and turns laboriously round and round in the dim place, while 
the oil streams from the crushed kernels. The pulp left apparently dry, 
but still impregnated with oil and aroma, is an excellent food for fatting 
beasts, and not despised by the young of the human race. This is the 
perquisite of the miller. Would I could make you see him — a tall, lean 
peasant, full of a rough poetry as he curses his foe, the otter, who eats the 
speckled trout at dawn in the fisher's nets! 

If there is a harvest of nuts, there is also a harvest of feathers. The 
nights are getting cold, it is time to look to the bedding. Every farm keeps 
its tribe of geese, whose down (plucked from the living bird six times a 
year, at new moon) is now sufficient in quantity to make or refresh our 
idredons. The poultry yards afford material for the feather-beds; the 
flocks of brown sheep give their fleece for the mattress, and for the warm 
Auvergnat quilts of wool, sewn fast between two sheets of flowered cotton 
print. All these must be made over or renewed. Our dark and somewhat 
dingy farms have soft, clean, and ample beds piled high in their kitchens, 
wherein to brave the shudders of snowy winter nights. 

These are play-harvests; but the gathering and preparing of the hemp is 
a thing of time and patience. Every farm in the Cantal has, in some 
sunny corner of a field, a little three-cornered walled space, Vort de lo comhi 
(the hemp garden). Here the handsome sturdy plants are grown, and 
hence, in July, the male stems are torn, to make more room for the seeding 
of the female plant. A little after Michaelmas these are ripe. They are 



1915] LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 365 

torn up by the roots, and left to ferment in upright heaps well covered. 
Eight days later their martydom begins; they are shaken till the seed falls 
from the pod; they are stretched in a water-meadow to rot; they are dried 
in the oven; they are rubbed, beaten, crushed, pounded, combed with iron 
combs, till nothing is left of their sturdy green grace and rustic beauty, no 
likeness of the poor handsome female plant, only a mass of loose tow and 
formless fibre. And from this the grey thread is spun, on autumn after- 
noons and evenings, as the women follow their flocks along the lanes, or 
sit round the fire, cracking jokes with the grandfather on his comfortable 
settle in the inglenook. Every village has its weaver. When the thread 
is spun he puts it on his loom, and weaves the strong hand-made hemp-linen 
from which our farms are furnished with sheets, tablecloths, napkins, white 
shirts for the men and underwear for the women. It comes home in dreary 
lengths of grey, and must be bleached in the morning dew, before the hands, 
which have planted and prepared the hemp and spun the thread, can fashion 
and sew the tissue. Open the linen-cupboard in any farm kitchen, and 
you will be amazed at the wealth of its heaps of rustic creamy white. 

Our weavers do not weave, our women do not spin, only hemp-thread 
and linen. Every man on the countryside, of the peasant class, is clad in 
the stout rase (thick rough cloth), or frieze, which his brown flocks wore 
first of all, his own hands sheared, his wife's clever fingers spun, and which 
was woven on the village loom. Never have I seen so stout, so thick a 
fabric. One glance at the heavy cloth, striped brown and black from the 
undyed wool of our sheep, makes one understand the nipping cold of 
winter on our hills. 

Meanwhile, the buckwheat has been harvested and garnered; on sunny 
afternoons the old wives winnow the grain in sieves on every threshold. 
The poorer sort goes to feed the fowls and fatten the calves for the Mar- 
tinmas fair; while the perfect grain is set aside for the daily hourriols. 
The apples now are ripe. They should be gathered, save the later sorts, 
and laid on straw in the fruitery, before the little cowherds come down from 
the mountains. The chestnuts must be brought from the lower valleys — 
a dozen miles away, where the conjunction of a milder climate with a 
granite soil lets them grow in abundance; the potatoes must be uprooted 
from the fields. With buckwheat-meal, potatoes, chestnuts in store, the 
farm can affront the winter. And now, in this year's potato-field, the 
plough is put; and the sower, with a noble gesture, scatters far and wide 
the grain of the rye. Two women follow him, and gather in a basket 
any stray potatoes now upturned. And close after the plough hop some 
half-dozen ash-grey buntings, neat and slender, pecking the worms and 
seeds from the new-turned clods. 

A little after si.\ the supper is spread: a porringer of soup, followed by 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

the bacon and the cabbage which gave it flavor, and a nugget of cheese. 
By seven, a neighbor or so has strolled in to share the veillee. The farmer 
throws a handful or two of chestnuts to roast in the embers, and sets, may- 
hap, on the table a bottle of red wine. And the stories and the gossip begin 
again till the log, burned through, falls with a crash from the fire-dogs and 
sends up a fountain of sparks. The cricket sings a shrill song, but hark! 
without the snow-blast sings more shrilly yet. The clock strikes half-past 
eight. Master and men arise and bid each other good night. 

As in the mountains of Switzerland and Savoy, the cattle of Au- 
vergne are taken to the upland pastures in the early summer, and 
there they and their herdsmen stay until cold weather puts an end 
to grazing at those altitudes. Anyone who has seen the "Senner- 
hiitte" of the Bernese Oberland or watched the cheesemakers in 
Gruyere will feel that he is meeting old friends in Mme. Duclaux's 
herdsmen in their mountain huts. 

There are empty places tonight at the vast table in Langeac's kitchen; 
for the Vather, or chief cowherd and dairy-master, with two bouviers, or 
cowboys, and a little lad, the pdtre (whose business is to watch the cattle 
that pasture on the moor), are up on the mountain with some fifty cows, 
half as many young calves, a young bull or two, a score of swine to fatten 
on the buttermilk, and some dozen goats. At the end of May, one mild 
afternoon, the troop set out from the valley under the farmer's care and 
marched the whole night through, till the next day, in the morning, they 
reached the mountain farm, some thirty miles away. 

However we may call it, a buron expresses a little lonely habitation on 
the mountain, almost a hut, where the neatherds sleep in summer, and 
where the cheese is made, day after day, from the end of May till mid- 
October. It is a long climb from Olmet to the plateau whereon these little 
cheese-farms multiply and prosper. The road, in steep zigzags mounts the 
hill ; we leave the pasture behind us, and the fields of flowering buckwheat, 
and even the high heathery ridge of the Pas du Luc; we enter the hanging 
beechwoods and crawl up the wall of the cliff, until lo! we emerge on a 
great sea of undulating pasture-land, apparently illimited, save here and 
there by a grey mountain peak. The foreground is studded with tiny 
red-roofed burons, each shaded by its group of centenary limes. 

"The grass that grows up here, on the puys and the plateau, 
Is not like that below, it is rougher and more wholesome: 
It smells good; there you find the proud gentian 
Who displays her yellow flowers like a banner." 



1915] LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 367 

It was after four when we at last reached the buron. The cows had come 
in from the moor to the fold. The milkmen had donned their blouses of 
grey hemp-linen, which hung in stiff hieratic folds. 

After the milking time at dawn the cattle are set free, and all day long 
they pasture in the aigado, or marshy moor, where the gentian, the pink, 
the meadow-sweet and larkspur grow among the rush and the broom, the 
bilberry and heather. Here the grass is scantier, but sweet and aromatic. 
To the quantity of wild thyme and savory herbs in the aigado, the peasants 
attribute the wholesome flavor of the Cantal cheese. ■ 

A mountain farm often boasts in summer some three score to a hundred 
head of cattle, besides the pigs to fatten, and the goats, from whose milk is 
made a delicate little round cream-cheese, the cahecou. 

Cheesemaking is the great trade of our parts, for here the cheese is the 
gentleman who pays the rent {le fromage paie le fermage), say our farmers. 
Push open the door under the lime-trees. You enter a moderate-sized 
room which occupies the whole ground floor, paved with rough volcanic 
stone, dark grey, and slopped with whey. In one corner stands a primi- 
tive open fire place, with a pan or two and a cauldron for the herdsmen's 
soup; close to it are placed a rough table and a bench. The rest of the 
space is devoted to cheese-making, and is filled with narrow, man-high 
wooden measures, or gerles, each containing a hundred litres of milk or so, 
with cheese-moulds, and cheese- wrings, with tubs in which the whey fer- 
ments, producing at the end of three days a pale fat cream of which the 
herdsmen make their butter, and finally with the churn— the whole inde- 
scribably sordid and dirty. A tiny garden surrounds this primitive dwell- 
ing, and furnishes a few rough roots for the soup, turnips come well there, 
it is often too bleak and high for cabbage. But the wealth of the buron is 
stored in a cellar under the hill-top, opening to the north. There are laid, 
on a rough trellis of wood, the huge golden cheeses, each a hundred pounds 
in weight (fifty kilos). They look like so many full moons, laid under the 
earth to keep fresh till they are wanted in Heaven. These cellars generally 
join the hut; but, as their coolness and depth is of vast importance, some- 
times a cavern is hewn in a favorable spot on a solitary mountain side. 
Few things are more startling to the traveller unaccustomed to our parts 
than, while admiring the vast and melancholy landscape, so wild, so green, 
so unutterably lonely, to find himself suddenly assailed by an unmistakable 
stench of Cantal or Roquefort cheese. 

(To be concluded) 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

THE HOME AND CHILD LABOR 

FREDERICK G, BONSER 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

Child labor affects \'itally and directly the homes in which child 
workers Hve. When children go home tired out, often from insani- 
tary and immoral surroundings, their physical and mental develop- 
ment arrested, robbed of their play time and their childhood, deprived 
of education and training, filled with an attitude of bitterness because 
of the inequalities of life between themselves and their employers — 
when these conditions exist, home ^ife can be but sordid and empty. 
If the work is done in the home itself, the undermining of health, 
mentality, and morals may be even worse. To such homes the future 
ofiFers little hope. Fully ninety of every one hundred child workers 
are in occupations that are unskilled, which offer little advancement 
in themselves and lead to nothing better. In many cases the parents 
themselves are made indifferent and dependent by the fact that their 
children are permitted to support them and they become little better 
than parasites. The home, offering nothing to counteract the ener- 
vating and depressing attitude developed by the day's work, is 
abandoned for the excitement of the street or the cheap sources of 
melodramatic entertainment. The path of least resistance is almost 
wholly away from wholesome home Hfe and from wholesome recreation 
and entertainment outside the home. Some parents are pauperized, 
others are broken and dispirited by the pitiless struggle. To make 
the tragedy greater, no one seems to care — those who should care 
seem not to see and "pass by on the other side." 

Child labor is also the arch enemy of the homes in which these 
child workers will bring forth their own children in a not very distant 
tomorrow. Undermined health, low vitality, want of education and 
training, low personal efficiency, sordid and mercenary ideals of family 
hfe, these are the factors which will determine the kind of homes 
these child workers will make for the next generation. Indeed, this 
is a case in which the sins of the fathers will be visited upon many 
generations to come. 

But not alone the homes of the child workers themselves and of 
their posterity are recei\dng the baneful influence of this sacrifice 
of rich social capital. Besides the homes directly involved all other 



1915] THE HOME AND CHILD LABOR 369 

homes are indirectly affected. All of us use the products made at 
the cost of the life blood of these children. All of us have the means 
of knowing industrial and related social conditions. All of us have 
the opportunity to exert an influence for or against the practice of 
child labor. Some communities and states have stamped out child 
labor witliin their own boundaries, but in many states personal and 
corporate greed are still ruthlessly sacrificing children and fighting 
progressive legislation with every means known to the poUtical plun- 
derer. Nothing less than nation-wide control can safeguard the 
childhood of all communities. Until child life is safeguarded in all 
communities, every home must, in some measure, share the responsi- 
bility and suffer the shame. 

Home and school may cooperate in such studies of industry, of the 
social and moral well being of workers, of hours of labor, of sanitary 
and other vital conditions of production in industry, and of child 
labor itself so that the public sympathy and intelligence may be 
enlisted in a great league of consumers and citizens who will neither 
use nor sanction the use of any product made at the cost of the 
health, mental and moral development, or happiness of child life. 

Child labor is a form of social canibalism; it is even worse than 
the canibalism of savages, for it consumes the ambition, and vitality, 
and life values of its victims, leaving their broken bodies and their 
broken hearts to live on in suffering and wretchedness. Until legal 
enactment and social enforcement guarantee protection and security 
for every child in coming to a reasonable maturity with health, edu- 
cation, and an even chance, no home is permanently secure against 
the menace of child labor. It is not only that child labor is cruel to 
the w^orkers themselves, cowardly and selfish of those who practice 
it and profit by it, and shameful to those who permit it, but it is the 
very worst form of social economy — it is the sacrifice of our most 
precious social capital. By the national wealth lost every year 
through child labor, every home is made poorer. So long as every 
home shares the responsibility of child labor it also suffers the shame 
and shares the guilt. 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

CHILD LABOR LAWS PENDING 

In sixteen states campaigns are now being carried on to improve 
the Child Labor Laws. 

Some of the improvements that have been enforced are the 14- 
year age hmit, the 8-hour day and no night work under 16, the regu- 
lation of the street trades, and the issuance of work permits, includ- 
ing proof of age, educational quahfications and physical examinations. 

The regulation of street trades has been neglected, although there 
is every reason why street work should be as carefully regulated as 
factory work. 

In North and South Carolina effort is being made to secure a 14- 
year age limit and an 8-hour day. 

In Iowa, lUinois, California, Connecticut, Michigan, Minnesota 
and Missouri the Child Labor Committees are working to secure pro- 
tection for young children from the moral dangers of street trades, 
and to limit the hours of work to 8 per day. 

In Texas they are working to extend the present age limit to a 
number of occupations, not now covered and also to limit the hours 
of work. 

In Utah and Maine they are working to extend the 14-year age 
limit to occupations other than those in factories, and also to pro- 
vide an 8-hour day and no night work. 

In Vermont, they are working to extend the 14-year age limit 
to occupations not now covered and to prohibit work under 16 in 
quarries and dangerous occupations. 

In New York they are working to provide an 8-hour day. 

In Pennsylvania effort is being made to abolish the exemption law 
allowing boys of 14 to work at night in the glass factories; to regu- 
late the street trades, and to require physical examinations. 

The Survey for March 6 printed a detailed account of the Child 
Labor Laws pending in the several State Legislatures. Look for 
your own state and see what you can do to help. 

The proposed Federal law forbidding the transportation of products 
of child labor from one state to another passed the House of Repre- 
sentatives recently and all but passed the Senate. It will be re- 
introduced in December and can be enacted if all interested will 
rally to its support. All Home Economics workers should secure 
facts from the National Child Labor Committee and write to their 
United States Senators and Representatives. 



EDITORIALS 

Child Labor. We wish to call attention to the plea made by Pro- 
fessor Bonser in this number for a realization of the evils of child 
labor, a realization that, if general, would so work upon pubHc opinion 
that existing laws forbidding the practice would be carried out and 
more stringent laws passed. An editorial on the subject in the 
English Journal of Education, while citing cases where lads of 13 were 
held to a 15-hour day on Saturday and of school children who worked 
from 4.30 a.m. till school time, again at midday and after school 
until late in the evening, yet said that in carrying out the law there 
was "little progress to report." 

The reason for this apathy among the well-to-do classes, to whom 
we must look for bringing the weight of public opinion to bear, must 
be sought, we feel sure, in ignorance of the conditions that prevail 
in other classes less fortunate. There is among us a reaction to be 
noted from the former over-indulgence of our children and a reahza- 
tion that perhaps more work and responsibility would do them good, 
and without thought we apply this idea to children who need every 
favorable opportunity for physical development, for out of door Ufe, 
for the joy of play, for abundant sleep, advantages all impossible to 
children who work under conditions only reasonable for the adult. 
The remedy for this indifference is study of the facts — learning what 
are the laws in our own state regulating the employment of children 
and how far they are carried out, best of all coming in contact with 
the children themselves in order to reahze the stunting processes 
that are going on which are certain, as Professor Bonser says, to 
result in the deterioration of the homes of the future; for it is a fact 
that low standards in the home of the child are more to be blamed 
for furnishing this labor than is the factory or the cannery for taking 
it. Anyone who doubts this fact will be convinced by reading that 
remarkable social study by Professor Breckenridge, The Delinquent 
Child and the Home. 

It can not be too strongly insisted that the enforcement of child 
labor laws throws responsibility on the educator and the parent. 
Professor William A. McKeever, author of that excellent series The 

371 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMIC [Aug. -Sept. 

Home-Training Bulletins/ quotes the superintendent of industrial 
training in a large New England town: 

This new and radical child-labor law is threatening to throw society into 
great confusion and to furnish the occasion of much juvenile crime. The 
law has turned out into the streets idle, many hundreds of boys and girls 
who were employed in the various manufacturing estabhshments. As a 
rule the parents are entirely unprepared to cope with the situation, having 
little means of home employn.ent for their children and less knowledge of 
how to discipline them in idleness. 

He also quotes Judge Ben Lindsay as saying to the author just as 
the former had closed the trial of a 13-year -old boy for stealing, 

This is one of our greatest problems. At the close of the school year 
thousands of strong, energetic boys are turned loose in this city without 
anything to do and many of them fall into evil acts merely from lack of 
better occupation of their time. 

Mr. McKeever thinks that: 

Our school system is wrong in that it enforces too much discipline of one 
kind for a term of months and then too little of any kind for another term. 
Vacations should be brief. Only a week or two in length, and throughout 
the school year there should be fewer hours in the school room and these 
should be alternated with juvenile industry as well as play. 

Singularly enough we must look to the Industrial Schools (once called 
Reform Schools), where boys and girls are detained by authority of law, 
in order to find about the only example of what may be achieved by means 
of scientific occupation of the time of boys and girls. Here we observe a 
schedule of work and play and recreation which, if made a strict require- 
ment of all the boys and girls of the country, would bring well-nigh start- 
Hng results by way of eliminating crime and debauchery and by way of 
transforming society as a whole. 

To quote from a superintendent of one of these schools: 

We hold them strictly and regularly to the performance of a reasonable 
amount and a variety of work throughout the year, but along with it 
they are required to carry their school course, and they are also given 
much time and hberty for play and recreation. You may be somewhat 
surprised to learn that our boys become much interested in this insti- 
tution, finally regarding it as their home and their best friend. They also 
become so thoroughly habituated to work as to be self-reHant, and when 
they are sent out into the world they never lack for something to do. 

' Home Training Bulletins. William McKeever, University of Kansas, Lawrence, 
Kansas. Price 2 cents each; $1 per hundred. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

A COOPERATIVE KITCHEN THAT IS MEETING A NEED IN 

ITS COMMUNITY 

CHARLOTTE TALLEY 

Investigation shows that a surprising number of community kitch- 
ens have been in operation at different times in this country and 
abroad. Very few of these ventures, however, seem to have been 
successful; a kitchen in Carthage, Missouri, was in operation for 3^ 
years, another in Evanston, Illinois for 4 years. According to one 
plan in England, food was sent to the kitchen from the homes, cooked 
and returned. In some cases there is a community dining room, 
but in others meals are delivered. The ideal plan for such a com- 
munity kitchen has not yet evolved, but there seems to be no ques- 
tion as to the need for it in certain communities. 

A cooperative kitchen which has been operating for some months 
in a suburban town and which has now "broken even," has been im- 
proved in two important ways on the plans of other kitchens : by the 
selection of a food carrier and by catering to individual requirements 
in food whenever this is possible. 

The plan for this kitchen took two years to develop. Similar en- 
terprises were carefully studied, and famihes troubled with the serv- 
ant problem were conferred with and their cooperation secured. A 
society was then organized and the directors decided that at least 
$1000 should be raised by stock subscription before they would make 
even a modest beginning. Owing to pressure brought to bear by 
the stockholders, however, when $900 had been subscribed, 90 per- 
sons having taken 1 share each, the kitchen was inaugurated. 

Half of a double house was rented in a central location and two 
light rooms on the first floor were converted into dining rooms. These 
were furnished with small tables and attractively arranged as to 
table appointments, etc.; the silver and china which were provided 
were of fine quaHty, and dainty paper doilies and napkins were ob- 
tained to take the place of Hnen. The kitchen, also on the first 

373 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

floor, was simply equipped; and the storeroom and laundry facilities 
were arranged for in the basement. The plant cost $500, which was 
the amount paid in on stock before the kitchen opened. 

From the beginning the kitchen has had as much patronage as 
could be handled properly and this has steadily grown. Meals are 
served at the association dining room and are also sent out by hired 
automobile; maids are sometimes sent to serve in the homes and 
catering is done for entertainments. Prices for meals are as follows: 
to subscribers, breakfast $.25, luncheon $.35, dinner $.50. To non- 
subscribers: breakfast $.35. luncheon $.45, dinner $.65. A fee of 
$.10 is charged for each delivery. 

The deUvery of hot meals is a difScult task because great care is 
necessary in filling the containers quickly, yet in proper proportion, 
and with two automobiles going in diflferent directions, it takes about 
1| hours to deHver the dinners. The principal food-carrier is a Swed- 
ish container, consisting of a tier of enamel or aluminum dishes, 
which fit snugly into an ice cream container. In this way the food 
keeps hot for several hours. Soup, meat, vegetables, salad and des- 
sert are sent out for dinner in this manner, with the cold dishes placed 
in a separate container. 

All the food that is prepared at the kitchen is well cooked and of 
the best quality. Fancy dishes are often prepared at the kitchen for 
special occasions. Large dinners are sometimes served for organiza- 
tions; three of these netted the kitchen $50 each in one week. Part 
of the food served was cooked at the kitchen and part was prepared 
where the dinner was given. 

There are at present five workers at the kitchen, a manager, an 
assistant manager, a cook, butler and waitress; this is a small number 
considering the character and amount of work done. 

Since the kitchen is now operating without any loss, undoubtedly 
if it had a working capital it would make a profit, since the lack of 
this necessitates much buying at retail. Thirty dollars a month could 
be saved by wholesale buying of all foodstuffs. Another saving in the 
running expenses would be assured by the purchase of an automobile. 

The receipts and disbursements for one week were practically 
equal, exclusive of those for catering service, which is irregular and 
uncertain. The figures are as follows: 



1915] PRESSURE COOKER VERSUS FIRELESS COOKER 375 

Disbursements 

Wages $33 . 00 

Rent 12.50 

Fuel and light 5 . 00 

Provisions 70.00 

Delivery ^-^^ 

Advertising ^-^ 

Telephone 0-^0 

Paper doilies and napkins 1 -^ 

Total 5131-30 

A total of 420 persons were served during that week. This num- 
ber divided into $131.30 equals $.31, the cost per capita. Receipts 
for the week were $132. 

The company is now incorporated. A cash dividend of 6 per cent 
per annum will be paid to shareholders when this is possible, and any 
surplus will be used to reduce the cost of operation and the price of 
meals to stockholders. 

The demand for meals to be sent to the homes is increasing, al- 
though only a few families have three meals per day sent regularly. 
Meals are generally ordered when one servant is temporarily lacking 
in a household or on maids' days out. Sundays and Thursdays are 
the heaviest days, and as many as 58 dinners have been served od 
Sundays, with 1 1 orders refused. 

Thus the need of such service in this particular community is be- 
ing demonstrated, and if the kitchen were properly financed, as the 
Directors expect that it will be soon, more workers would be em- 
ployed and the business could then be conducted on a larger scale. 

PRESSURE COOKER VERSUS FIRELESS COOKER FOR 

HOME USE 

GRACE GORDON HOOD 
Director of Domestic Science, Lewis Institute, Chicago 

Why should the modem household more than the modern factory 
reject a tool of value? This question might well be asked concerning 
pressure cookers. One type of pressure cooker consists of an alumi- 
num kettle which is provided with a rack cover to hold food and with 
an aluminum cover, fitted with a pet-cock, safety-valve, and steam 
gauge; the cover can be clamped tight to the kettle by means of 
copper bolts. A pressure cooker is not dangerous if the valves are 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

kept clean, if a reasonable amount of water is used, if the safety-valve 
is in order, and if the fire is turned low enough to keep the pointer 
so that it indicates not more than 20 pounds pressure. The first 
three prerequisites can be insured by following the directions; the last 
comes with a little practice in regulating the fire beneath the kettle. 

The fireless cooker has been very popular in many homes for some 
time as a fuel saver and a labor saving device. What of the pressure 
cooker? How do these two household appliances compare, first, as 
to initial cost; second, durabihty, sanitation, and ease of manipula- 
tion; third, cost of operating, efficiency and scope of use; fourth, pala- 
tability and digestibility of the food when cooked; and finally, which 
is the greater labor saver? 

The initial cost of a fireless cooker would depend, first, on the size 
of the cooker; second, on the materials used in construction; third, 
on the means of appl}ang heat. There is, so far as I know, no fireless 
cooker on the market that will produce any great variety of baked 
products equal in all respects to those baked in an ordinary oven 
which has been properly regulated. In the first place, it requires 
almost as much fuel to heat the plates for the cooker, as to bake the 
products in the oven. Second, the heat can not be regulated; in many 
cases the temperature is too great at first, and too low at the end of 
the baking process, the result being, in the case of a loaf cake, a 
rather heavy product, cracked, with hard upper crust, and sometimes 
with a slightly burned lower crust. Third, few of the cookers with 
a baking compartment provide for the escape of excess steam, the 
result being, in roasted meat, for example, a product which resembles 
braised or stewed meat, both in flavor and appearance. Therefore, 
let us compare the pressure cooker with a fireless cooker which is 
used only for food cooked by steam or hot liquid, and has only one 
cooking compartment as has the fireless cooker. The average initial 
cost of a pressure cooker, family size, is fourteen dollars. A fireless 
cooker may be had for from five dollars to fifteen dollars, the price 
varying according to the factors previously mentioned. 

There is no question about the durability of the walls and cover of 
the pressure cooker, as copper and aluminum are both exceedingly 
durable. The glass cover on the steam gauge might break, or the 
spring for the safety-valve lose its strength, but both can be replaced 
for a small cost. On the other hand, unless the fireless cooker is 
lined with aluminum, and of course aluminum is to be preferred because 
it retains heat longer than do other common wares, it will rust in time ; 



1915] PRESSURE COOKER VERSUS FIRELESS COOKER 377 

unless the receptacle for food is made of aluminum it may rust or chip. 
An efficient metal-lined fireless is usually provided with plates to be 
heated. Soap-stone will break easily, iron will rust eventually. 

The pressure cooker by virtue of its round bottom is sanitary, as 
it thus has no corners nor crevices, and can be thoroughly cleaned. 
It is hard to keep the compartment of the average fireless cooker as 
clean as it should be kept, even with a metal Hning, because of the 
seams and the shape of the opening. As for the ease of manipula- 
tion, the average fireless cooker requires the following steps : the hq- 
uid in which the food is to be cooked, sometimes the food itself, 
must be heated, and the plates heated, the plates and food are then 
placed in the cooker and left for several hours. Frequently, if the 
food is to be served hot, it must be reheated before serving. With 
the pressure cooker the process is as follows: the water is added and 
placed with the kettle over the fire, the safety-valve and pet-cock are 
adjusted in about one minute, and the copper bolts tightened in from 
two to three minutes; it requires on the average about eight minutes 
to run the steam to pressure, with a moderate gas flame, after which 
the fire is turned very low during the remainder of the cooking proc- 
ess. The cook needs to glance at the dial occasionally for safety's 
sake, but as the longest time for cooking under pressure is generally 
not much more than one hour, and ordinarily less, she would probably 
be busy at the time preparing the remainder of the meal. Large 
quantities of the tough cuts of meat and other foods which usually 
require long cooking can be prepared in a period of two hours or less. 
When the food is cooked, the steam is allowed to escape by opening the 
pet-cock, then the bolts are loosened and the food served hot from the 
kettle. 

In a series of experiments in laboratory and kitchen the following 
comparisons were made with the accompanying results. Various 
boiled, steamed, and stewed foods were cooked, first, with a gas stove 
of a usual household type; second, in a hot plate fireless cooker; and 
third, in a pressure cooker. The fuel used in every case was gas, the 
amount used was carefully measured by a meter which recorded the 
amount of gas consumed to the tenth of a cubic foot, and the cost 
was calculated on the basis of the local price for gas. In every case, 
cooking with the fireless and pressure cookers consumed less fuel than 
cooking with average care under ordinary conditions. The pressure 
cooker required, on the average, about one-half as much fuel for the 
entire time of cooking as was necessary to heat the plate for efficient 



378 THE JOURKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Scpt. 

work in the fireless cooker. Cereals, meats of all kinds, vegetables, 
fresh and dried fruits, and steamed puddings formed the basis of typi- 
cal dishes prepared. In every case the food might be called thor- 
oughly done. Navy beans, for example, which required several 
hours over the fire or in the lireless cooker, cooked well in the pres- 
sure cooker in from twenty to twenty-five minutes after being soaked 
in the usual manner. 

In regard to palatabiHty. In the case of almost every food cooked 
either by pressure or lireless methods, there was an indescribable 
"closed-up taste," less in the pressure cooked meat perhaps, but still 
different from that of food which has been cooked in a vessel which 
allows some ventilation during the cooking process. This pecuHar 
closed-up odor in the pressure cooker and the fireless disappears after 
the vessel has been open a few minutes. The taste is not objection- 
able to any great degree, except in the case of strong seasonings, 
such as bay-leaf and the strong-juiced vegetables, cabbage, onions, 
etc. Parts of the same cabbages were cooked in the three ways; the 
pieces from the fireless and pressure cookers had turned a dark un- 
pleasant color, the pieces from the ventilated sauce pan retained much 
of their natural color. 

Meats from the fireless, and from the ordinary gas stove had a 
"boiled look," and a comparatively flat flavor, although in every 
case the meat was seared in a dry pan with a defijiitely measured 
amount of fat before adding the water. The pressure cooked meat 
had a delicious flavor, more like that of an oven cooked roast, and a 
savory gravy resulted. More gravy resulted than the amount of 
water added could have supplied, still the meat was not tasteless nor 
dry. Does this seem to contradict our usual rules for protein cook- 
ery? To be sure a maximum thermometer in the cooker registered 
125°C (which is about what it should have registered at that pres- 
sure), but the meat was more tender than parts of the same piece 
cooked by the other two methods. A laboratory experiment in di- 
gestibility, although hardly accurate enough to quote, seemed to in- 
dicate that, in vitro, the pressure cooked meat was as readily digested 
as the other two, if not more readily. Perhaps the statement made 
by Sherman^ will explain this result; he says, "At sufficiently high 
temperature, however, protein undergoes in water alone a change 
similar to that of peptic digestion." 

' Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. By H. C. Sherman, 1911, p. 46. 



1915] THE CENSUS "DEPENDENTS" 379 

Cereals cooked in the fireless cooker are compact, firm and solid, and 
lack in flavor, this is not true of cereals cooked in the pressure cooker 
or over the fire; they have a nutty flavor, and are light and fluffy in 
texture. Old-fashioned rice pudding and Indian pudding which re- 
quire a great deal of gas are not a success when cooked in the pres- 
sure or the fireless cooker; in the first place there is less evaporation, 
and so less milk is absorbed and the products lack richness. The fire- 
less cooker does not develop the caramel flavor, in fact, long, slow 
cooking does not tend to develop the pleasing flavors which are 
often produced at higher temperature. 

Steamed puddings and similar products cooked in the pressure 
cooker in about one-third of the time required for those cooked in 
the usual way. The product was acceptable, but not as good as parts 
of the same mixtures cooked in the fireless cooker, or in the usual 
way; probably the high temperature hardened the exterior of the mix- 
ture before it had risen sufficiently; at least from inspection it appeared 
so. However, large sized puddings cooked in the fireless cooker are 
often heavy, wet and soggy, and sometimes underdone, owing no 
doubt to the fact that the temperature does not remain high a suf- 
ficient length of time to complete the cooking process. 

On the whole the pressure cooker seems to be a greater labor saver 
than the fireless cooker. Both require some experimenting and sHght 
changes of technique from that used in the usual cooking processes. 
The average housewife could learn to operate a pressure cooker with 
ease and without danger, but the fireless cooker is better to put into 
the hands of the average kitchen employe. The initial cost of a 
pressure cooker would soon be covered by fuel saved. 

THE CENSUS "DEPENDENTS" 

The Philadelphia North American makes this interesting comment on 
the United States Census report on occupations. 

It is found that in 93| per cent of American homes no servants are em- 
ployed. Of the nearly 17,000,000 families in the United States, only 
1,000,000 can afford to keep servants. This is a conservative estimate, 
since some fortunate housewives employ two or more servants. 

Probably where five well-to-do families are able to afford a servant, in 
ninety-five homes mother does all the housework. Yet, under the law, she 
is not classed among the workers, but swells the list of dependents. 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug -Sept. 

CLEAN FOOD A POSSIBILITY^ 

Under the caption "Brains and Buying," the Chairman of the 
Food Sanitation Committee of the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs has some very pertinent things to say to the housewives who 
are the purchasers of ninety-five per cent of the food supply. She is 
right, food inspectors are necessary to invoke the majesty of the 
law occasionally, but woLien who use "brains in buying" have, 
after all, the remedy for unclean shops at their command. She 
says: 

Since the housewife usually does the buying for the family, it naturally 
follows that the housewife controls the market, not only the kinds of 
products sold but the kind of selling place. Whenever the housewife ceases 
to buy from the dirty food shop, the dirty food shop will cease to exist. 

Every club woman knows the importance of good food and the danger 
that always lurks in impure or carelessly handled food. In these days we 
are not willing that only the fit shall sur\ave, but are cutting down the death 
rate and making many abnormal children normal. In this work, nothing 
is more important than the wise selection of food. Let us select with as 
much care the materials that are to make brain and sinew as the materials 
that are to make our clothing. Can we ask for more privileges and au- 
thority unless we use the power that has been in woman's hand for ages, 
the power that Ues in intelligent buying? We need pure food laws and 
market inspection. As women are the housekeepers of the world, they 
make the best food shop housekeepers, that is, local market inspectors. 
But with perfect laws and expert inspection, if women buy dirty food the 
merchant will find a way to evade the law and dodge the inspector. The 
impure milk, the im wrapped bread, the infected meat, and fly-contaminated 
food of all kinds 'vs'ill be sold to careless housekeepers The most impor- 
tant thing for every community to do is to decide that it will have no more 
dirty food. The flies must go, the filthy milking shed must go, the food 
shops must be clean and sanitary, the people who handle the food must 
be healthy and clean. You can readily see that the success of this sort of 
campaign depends on numbers. A merchant studies his market. If clean 
food is called for, he will furnish it. If the food shops are not right, it is 
the fault of the careless buyers. 

To my mind, this better buying campaign can best be managed by fit- 
ting your work to local conditions. If you have an active civic organiza- 
tion, club, congress, or city federation, do the work through them. If 

' Monthly Bulletin, Indiana State Board of Health, 17 (1914), No. 3, pp. 29, 30. 



1915] TRY COTTONSEED OIL 381 

you have none, organize one. In any case, district the town and hold dis- 
trict meetings, in the school houses if possible, getting all the mothers out. 
Have occasionally a mass meeting when your state or local health officers 
will give you inspiring and helpful talks. Never make the mistake of 
fighting the local health officials. Help them and ask them to help in your 
work. Have instructions to mothers a part of the district meeting. Do 
not be afraid of opening the doors of your organi;^ation wide. Remember 
our work of bettering humanity will be most effective when we are in touch 
with those whose needs are greatest. 

JAVA COFFEE HEARING 

A public hearing on the labeling of East Indian cofifees was held by 
the Bureau of Chemistry, of the United States Department of Agri- 
culture, on June 4. The particular point to be discussed was the 
use of the term "Java." Food Inspection Decision 82 holds that 
under the food and drugs act the term "Java" can be properly ap- 
plied only to coffee grown on the island of Java. Representatives of 
the trade, however, assert that coffee grown on the island of Sumatra, 
is superior to much of that produced in Java, and that since the pub- 
lic has long considered the word "Java" to mean any high grade 
coffee from the East Indies, it is perfectly proper to apply it to the 
Sumatra product also. 

TRY COTTONSEED OIL 

The European war, according to specialists in the United States 
Department of Agriculture, affords the American housewife an op- 
portunity to become better acquainted with a very useful native 
product. "In the year ending June 30, 1913, nearly $40,000,000 
worth of cottonseed products was shipped to Europe in the form of 
cottonseed meal, and oils and fats used for cooking and domestic 
purposes. The latter class of products must now, to a great extent 
at least, be consumed in this country or not at all. 

"Hitherto there has been a widespread belief that cottonseed 
oil was used chiefly to counterfeit or imitiate olive oil. This has 
resulted in a prejudice which has done much to prevent cottonseed 
oil from being judged on its own merits; it is fully as nutritive as 
olive oil, and, on account of its bland flavor, is actually preferred 
by many who have never learned to like olive oil. It lacks, of 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

course, the distinctive olive flavor which many persons find desir- 
able. Italians, indeed, are frequently not satisfied with the flavor 
of the highest grade virgin olive oil, but prefer the thicker, darker, 
fruitier product derived from a second pressing. 

"Improvements in the process of manufacture have resulted in 
making the modem cottonseed table product very different today 
from that of even a few years ago." Those whose decisions against 
it is not very recent are urged to try it again. Its lack of flavor 
lends itself to the use of condiments. A very satisfactory oil can be 
made by the housewife by mixing olive oil and cottonseed oil as 
suggested by Mr. Snyder in the March Journal, page 154. 

The difference in price between the two oils has always been great. 
It promises now to be greater than ever. Aside from the small 
bottles called salad oil, whose price is as variable as the labels, the 
price in groceries for standard "cooking oils" made from cotton- 
seed is about 25 cents a quart. This seems to be a fair retail charge 
as we find on inquiry of the Office of Markets, United States De- 
partment of Agriculture that prime winter yellow and summer white 
cotton-seed oil are quoted at 53j cents per gallon in hundred barrel 
or carload lots. The various brands of cottonseed cooking oil as put 
on the market by the different manufacturers are made with these 
refined oils as a base with very Little added expense. 

STAIN REMOVAL! 

Character of Stain Reagent Method of Removing 

Fruit Boiling water. Spread stained part over a bowl, pour boiling 

water on it from a height so as to strike the 
stain with force. 
Borax. Borax will assist in removing stubborn stains. 

JaveUe (for cottons Use Javelle solution and boiling water in equal 
and linens) quantities and immerse stained portion, 

allowing it to soak a few minutes, then rinse 
thoroughly with boiling water. This is 
best for peach stains, if alcohol fails. 
Borax and ammonia Borax and ammonia used instead of Javelle 
(for woolens, silks which destroys these fabrics and colors, 

and colors) 
Oxalic acid Apply a few drops of oxalic. Rinse well with 

hot water. 

* From Laundering. By L. Ray Balderston, 1914, pp. 43-51. 



1915] 



STAIN REMOVAL 



383 



Character of Stain Reagent 

Grass Cold water (without 

soap) 
Molasses 



Grease (oil) 



Alcoholl 
Ether J 

Warm water and soap 
Javelle (for white cot- 
tons and linens) 

for delicate 
fabrics 



Alcohol 
Benzine 



Machine oil 



Mildew 



Perspiration 



Acetone \ in equal 
Benzol / quantities 
Fuller's earth or chalk 



Cold water and soap 

Turpentine 

Cold water 

Potassium permanga- 
nate and oxalic acid 
(cotton and linen) 

Javelle (cotton and 
linen) 

Soap and water (for 
white washables) 

Javelle water (for cot- 
tons and linens) 

Sodium hydrosulphite 
(for silks and wools) 





Potassium permanga- 




nate and oxalic acid 


Scorch 


Sunlight (for cottons 




and linens only) 




Soap and water 


Shoe polish: 




Black 




paste 


Lard or grease 


Bronze 


Hydrochloric acid and 




ammonia 


Tan 


Oxalic acid and am- 




monia 



Method of Removing 
Wash a fresh stain with cold water. 

Rub with molasses, let stand a few minutes. 

Wash out in warm water. 
Alcohol or ether will dissolve the green coloring 

matter, when material cannot be washed. 
Wash in warm water and soap. 
Remove traces of grease stains by bleaching 

with Javelle. 
Apply these reagents with a cloth, preferably of 

the same material, rubbing the stain lightly, 

until all the reagent has evaporated. (These 

reagents are inflammable.) 
Apply as above. 

This may be used without fear of water rings 
appearing, or of changing color. Apply the 
powder to the stain and let stand several 
hours, then brush off lightly. 

Wash in soap and cold water. 

Rub stain with turpentine. 

If the mildew is very fresh, and has not attacked 
the fiber, it will wash out in cold water. 

Apply potassium permanganate, then wash 
with warm water, use oxalic acid and then 
wash. 

Apply Javelle, then wash with hot water. 

Wash in warm water and soap, and if cotton or 
linen, place in sun to dry. 

Use according to directions on white goods given 
above. 

Apply a dilute solution of sodium hydrosulphite 
and wash in water. 

Note. — To remove perspiration stains from col- 
ored goods with anything other than soap and 
water, means, in most cases, removing color. 
Re-dyeing is the final remedy. The odor may 
be removed by chloroform. 

Use as for mildew. 

Hang in sunlight, and slight scorch will be re- 
moved. 

Wash in soap and water and place in sun. 

Note. — Scorch on woolens and silks means the 
fiber is destroyed. 



Rub in well, then wash in warm water with soap. 
Use acid and ammonia alternately. Wash with 

soap and warm water. 
Use oxalic acid and ammonia alternately. Then 

wash with soap and warm water. 



384 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fAug.-Scpt. 

MODEL KITCHEN TO ILLUSTRATE PRINCIPLES' 

A complete kitchen with a real stove, refrigerator, sink, work-table 
and other necessaries was sent by the Office of Home Economics of 
the Department of Agriculture States Relations Service to San Fran- 
cisco for the fair. This kitchen is not a "model" in the sense that 
every housewife is to try to make hers as nearly like it as possible, 
but is rather a composite C)[ many possible model kitchens which is 
designed to illustrate various essential principles of convenient kitchen 
arrangement. 

One general idea emphasized by this kitchen is that the size of 
the ordinary kitchen should be small rather than large if the room is 
to be used only for the preparation of the meals. It should be as 
compact as possible to save traveling back and forth. The stove, 
table, and sink should be as near together as is convenient, and the 
distances to supplies and to the dining room or pantry should be short. 
On the floor of the model room the distances most commonly traveled 
in preparing and serving meals are indicated by straight lines. 

"The fewer ornaments the better in a housewife's workshop" is 
the text of another lesson of this little exhibit. Corners are rounded; 
surfaces are plain; there are few moldings to catch dirt which must 
be removed with so much effort. One feature is a table with legs 
that may be raised or lowered to suit the height of the worker. 

The refrigerator, as it stands, is a composite illustrating several 
kinds. The advantages and disadvantages of each particular hning 
are explained in labels attached. 

A stew kettle is shown in several common materials in the model 
kitchen, but no particular make is recommended. The aim is to 
show sauce pans or kettles made of steel, aluminum, enamelware, cop- 
per, and earthenware, and descriptive labels explain how each mate- 
rial excels in its own way, and what are its disadvantages. 

Samples are shown of the more common floor coverings and wall 
finishes, with labels setting forth the relative merits and drawbacks 
of each. Linoleum and oil cloth have their strong points, and so 
have tinted, painted and undressed wall surfaces. Varnished wall 
paper is good for some purposes, and unvarnished for others. 

* OflSce of Information, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Nutrition 

Notes on Food and Diet in Katanga. E. Poppe, Bui. Soc. Chim. Belg., 27 (1913), 
no. 1, pp. 33-36; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec. 31 (1914), no. 6, p. 557. (T>pical food products 
are described and data given regarding the food habits and diet of Belgian Kongo natives.) 
A Nutritional Index for School Children. A. W. Tu.xford, Pub. Health [London], 
27, (1914), no. 11, pp. 377, 378. (A nutritional index calculated from the body weight 
and height.) 

The Relation of Vitamins to Lipoids. E. A. Cooper, Biochem. Jour., 8 (1914), no. 4, 
pp. 347-354. 

Food Value Required by Growing Girls, Aged Four to Fifteen. J. G. Sharp, Brit. 
Jour. Disease: Children, 11, (1914), no. 126, p. 241. 

The Use of Atophan and Radium Emanation in the Treatment of Gout and the Arthri- 
tides. A. F. Chace and M. S. Fine, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), no. 11, pp. 945- 
947. 

Nutrition as a Factor in Fetal Development. J. M. Evvard, Amer. Breeders' Assn. 
[Proc], 8 (1912), p. 549. 

The Gaseous Metabolism of Infants with Special Reference to Its Relation to Pulse 
Rate and Muscular Activity. F. G. Benedict and F. B. Talbot, Carnegie Inst. Washing- 
ton Pub., 201, (1914), pp. 168. 

The Element of Uncertainty in the Interpretation of Feeding Problems. H. H. 
Mitchell and H. S. Grindley, Illinois Sta. Bui. 165 (1913), pp. 463-579. 

The Energy Requirement of the New Bom. H. C. Bailey and J. R. Murlin, Proc. 
Soc. Expt. Biol, and Med., 11 (1914), no. 4, pp. 109-111. 

Calcium Deficiency in the Diet. R. Emmerich and O. Loew, Ztschr. Eyg. u. Infektion- 
skrank., 77 (1914), no. 2. pp. 311-328; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec. 31 (1914), no. 9, p. 860. 

Calcium and Phosphorus Supply of Farm Feeds and Their Relation to the Animal's 
Requirements. E. B. Hart, H. Steenboch and J. G. Fuller, Wisconsin Sta. Research 
Bui. 30 (1914), pp. 28, (Cf. Heredity versus Food in Development. Editorial, Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., 62, (1914) no. 23, pp. 1813, 1814.) 

Finkelstein's Foundations. A Review of Articles Appearing in the Jahrbuch fiir 
Kinderheilkunde, vols. 65-68. F. N. Wilson, Arch. Ped. 31 (1914), no. 7, pp. 496-513. 
(Studies in Infant Nutrition.) 

Studies of the Influence of Diet upon Growth. H. Aron, Berlin. Klin. Wchnschr., 
51 (1914), no 21, pp. 972-977; abs. Expt. Sla. Rec, 32 (1915), no. 3, p. 256. 

Experiments on the Carbon Dioxid Excretion with Different Kinds of Muscular 
Work. G. Becker and J. W. Hamalainen, Skand. Arch. Physiol., 31 (1914), no. 1-3, 
pp. 198-240; abs. Expt. Sla. Rec. 31 (1914), no. 6, pp. 561, 562. 

The Vitamins. P. G. Stiles, Set. Amer. Sup., 77 (1914), no. 2008, p. 420. 
Gastro-Intestinal Studies, II. The Fractional Study of Gastric Digestion with a 
Description of Normal and Pathologic Curves. M. E. Rehfuss, O. Bergeim and P. B. 
Hawk, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), no. 11, pp. 909-915. 

Studies in the Respiratory Exchange of Infants. F. G. Bienedict and F. B. Talbot, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 8 (1914), no. 1, pp. 1-49. 

385 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Scpt. 

Review of the Literature on the Feeding and Gastro-Intestinal Diseases of Infants 
for Year 1913-1914. Grace Meigs, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 8 (1914), no. 1, pp. 
58-94. 

Experiences with Whey Modified Milk in Infant Feeding. J. S. Leopold, Amer. 
Jour. Diseases Children, 8 (1914), no. 3, pp. 196-209. 

Digestive Disturbances of Artificially Fed Babies. Translation by I. M. Snow of 
Finkelstein and Meyer's Treatise in Feer's Diseases of Children, Amer. Jour. Diseases 
Children, 8 (1914), no. 2, pp. 163-177. 

Educaional and Social Work 

To Virtue Knowledge. [Home Economics versus Cultural Education.) Elizabeth 
L. Day, Smith Alumnae Quart., 4 (1913), no. 3, pp. 130-139. 

A Possible Solution. (Home Economics versus Cultural Courses.) Agnes G. Skinner, 
Smith Alumnae Quart., 4 (1913), no. 4, pp. 221-224. 

In Defense of the Cultural. Florence A. Gilbert, Smith Alumnae Quart., 4 (1913), 
no. 4, pp. 220, 221. 

A Case of Culture versus Home Economics. Kate M. Cone, Smith Alumnae Quart. 
5 (1914), no. 2, pp. 101-103. 

A Method of Presenting a Lesson Series in Experimental Cooking. Grace G. Hood, 
School Sci. and Math., 14 (1914), no. 8, pp. 714-718. 

A High School Home Nursing Course. Anne Green, School Set. and Math., 14 (1914), 
no. 7, pp. 615, 616; no. 8, p. 721. 

Some Common Errors Heard in Home Economics Class Rooms. School Sci. and 
Math., 14 (1914), no. 7, p. 617. 

What are the Colleges Going to Do About Home Economics? Ellen R. McKeon, 
Smith Alumnae Quart., 4 (1913), no. 3, pp. 140-145. 

Home Economics Courses as They are Being Arranged in Modem High Schools, 
Helen Grant., School Sci. and Math., 14 (1914), no. 7, pp. 614, 615. 

The Problem of the Woman's College. Mary L. Benton, Smith Alumnae Quart., 

4 (1913), no. 2, pp. 68-73. 

Experimental Cooking in the High School. Grace Hood, School Sci. and Math., 
14 (1914), no. 7, p. 613. 

Educational and Social Possibilities of School Luncheons. Mary E. L. Small, 4. Inter- 
nal. Cong. School Hyg. Buffalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 317-319. 

How to Obtain Home Economics Information. Helen L. Johnson, Gen. Fed. {Women's 
Clubs) Mag., 11 (1913), no. 15, pp. 14, 15. 

MiSCELLANEODS 

Concerning the Camp Fire Girls. Clara W. Newcomb, Smith Alumnae Quart., 4 
(1913), no. 3, pp. 150-154. (Home Economics is a part of Camp Fire Work.) 

A Real Dotheboys Hall. E. Malgrew, Cornhill Mag., n. ser., 37 (1914), Dec, pp. 
818-830; LitteWs Living Age, 7 sen, 66 (1915), no. 3638, pp. 345-353. (School diet is 
discussed as well as other matters of school life.) 

The Bed, Its Equipment and Care. Minna C. Denton, School Sci. and Math., 14 
(1914), no. 7, pp. 611-613; no 8, pp. 719-721. 

The Lure of Interior Decoration as a Profession. Amy Ferris, Smith Alumnae Quart. 

5 (1914), no. 2, pp. 93-95. 

A Method of Making Wall Charts. N. A. Harvey, School Sci. and Math., 14 (1914), 
no. 6, p. 516. 

Theories of Dyeing. E. A. Fisher, Sci. Prog. [London]. 9 (1914), no. 34, p . 310-330. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

The Family and Society. By John M. Gillette, Chicago: A. C. Mc- 
Clurg and Company, 1914, pp. 164. $0.50. 

This little book, which is one of the National Social Science Series edited 
by Frank L. McVey, Ph.D., President of the University of North Dakota, 
is an attempt to furnish the reader, within brief compass, some knowledge 
concerning the history and present conditions of the family as a social 
institution. The opening chapter discusses The Functions of the Family in 
its relation to the social group and seeks to make plain why the monogamic 
family "is the best agency to renew society " This ap- 
pears to the critic to be the best chapter of the book. Then follow discus- 
sions of the Origin of the Family and the Evolution of the Family in which 
the various forms of family organization, polygamous, polyandrous and 
monogamous, are briefly sketched with the causes which operated to pro- 
duce them. The reader is then somewhat abruptly introduced to a con- 
sideration of Current Conditions Affecting the Family. The problems of 
divorce, the declining birth-rate, the postponement of marriage, the social 
evil, all receive frank and on the whole accurate treatment so far as space 
permits. Finally, there comes a chapter on the Biological Phases of Sex 
which would logically seem to belong at the beginning rather than at the 
close of the work. But the author here raises the question whether or 
not " the family is a purely biological matter, whether it has arisen solely 
for the convenience of the mating of the sexes, or whether it has other 
promoting causes." And he feels that the earlier chapters of his book 
"furnish data for arriving at a conclusion relative to this question," al- 
though, curiously enough, this material is not drawn upon. Instead the 
reader is introduced to the views of Geddes and Thomson, Lester F. Ward, 
Davenport and others concerning the origin and function of sex, the na- 
ture of sex differences and the question of sex determination. 

This would seem to be a suflaciently comprehensive program. But 
when it is understood that these important and difl&cult themes are dis- 
posed of within the limits of a small, duodecimo volume of 155 pages, the 
critic may well ask himself whether such a work does not ruthlessly sacri- 
fice thoroughness to comprehensiveness. 

387 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Scpt. 

A good feature of the book is its attempt to give a solution for each of 
the evils attacking modem family life — but here again the brevity of treat- 
ment militates against the force of the statements. The wisdom of con- 
fidently presenting figures concerning the prevalence of the social evil and 
of the diseases which it spreads may well be questioned in view of the fact 
that the leaders in the social hygiene movement are themselves already 
skeptical concerning not only the accuracy of these figures but their cxira- 
tive value. 

Perhaps the above criticism has made clear enough the conviction of the 
critic that Dr. Gillette's book, although readable and interesting in parts, 
is hardly a satisfactory discussion of a very large, complex, and diflacult 
subject. It can hardly do more than serve as an introduction to a more 
thorough study. 

Women Workers in Seven Professions. A survey of their economic condi 
tions and prospects. Edited for the Studies Committee of the Fabian 
Women's Group. By Edith J. Morley. London: George Routledge 
and Sons, Limited; New York: E. P. Button and Company, 1914, pp. 
318. $2. 

This volume is the outgrowth of lectures and discussions by English 
women engaged in the professions described and is part of an organized 
attempt to set forth the present economic condition of women in England. 
The professions discussed are teaching, medicine (including surgery and 
dentistry), nursing (including midwifery and massage), the work of sani- 
tary inspectors and health visitors, of women in the civil service, as clerks 
and secretaries, and on the stage. Numerically, the teaching profession 
is the most important and the section devoted to it contains various subdi- 
visions on work in different grades of institutions and on special work in 
gymnastics and domestic subjects. The last topic covers 17 pages which 
give much specific information regarding the present attitude of the public 
toward the subject, the training offered by different schools, and the posi- 
tions and salaries available to trained workers in this field. The introduc- 
tion of the Home Economics subjects into the school and especially into 
the university curriculum has been slow in England as in this country, 
slower perhaps because the entire system of education for girls and women 
is less developed there than here. Various polytechnic and teachers' train- 
ing schools (corresponding to our technical and normal schools) offer two 
or three year courses, but the study of the specific scientific problems re- 
lated to the home and the correlation of these to general social and eco- 
nomic problems receive even less attention in institutions of university 
grade than in this country. King's College for Women, London Univer- 
sity, is the only one which so far has introduced a course planned distinctly 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 389 

along these lines. The three years' work there offered consists mainly of 
the usual academic courses in science, but during the third year these are 
directed to the study of food, cooking utensils, cleansing agents, textiles, 
household bacteriology, etc. One day a week throughout the course is 
devoted to practical work in cooking and housewifery. Two years' study 
of ordinary economics is required and also one year in the economics of the 
household. Students are encouraged to remain for a fourth year of special 
work. Like corresponding courses in this country, this innovation is sub- 
jected to double criticism; on the one hand, the science is called too ele- 
mentary, and on the other, the practical work is considered insufficient 
It is believed, however, that it will prove well-adapted to the present re- 
quirements for teachers. The better positions now call for more scientific 
training than is given by most schools of domestic arts, and more practical 
skill than can be obtained by the ordinary university science courses. 

One of the chief difficulties with this branch of teaching at present is the 
lack of uniform requirements in different schools, but it is believed that this 
will adjust itself in time, particularly with an increased number of teachers 
trained to understand the relations of the practical to the scientific and 
economic aspects of the subject. The salaries paid to teachers of domestic 
arts are similar to those in other linesof teaching; all of them run lower than 
corresponding ones in this country. 

Journal for Housewives and Woman's Life. A. Gobenoff, Editor. A 
Russian journal devoted to women's interests. 

Further proof of how wide-spread is the present interest in questions of 
Home Economics is given by this Russian periodical. It is published 
every other week, sells for fifteen kopecks (about nine cents) a copy, 
and is said to have a large circulation. It includes practical articles 
and suggestions on all phases of home life, such as hygiene, education 
of children, cooking, garment making, embroidery, etc., and a more 
abstract section in which books are reviewed and various matters of inter- 
est to women and their position in society are commented on. Its supple- 
ments include such things as paper patterns, blanks for household book- 
keeping, t^-anslations from the weU-known French women's paper Femina, 
and monthly booklet of stories, pictures, plays, etc., for children of different 
ages. 

Sunday Evenings at Catherine's (Chez Catherine Menagere) . By A. Vincent 
AND Mlle. Bat. Paris: Librairie Hachette et Cie, 1914, pp. v -f 313, 
figs. 300. 

This book, which belongs to Hachette's School and Family Library series 
and which is intended for French school-girls and housekeepers, is a col- 



390 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (Aug.-Sept. 

lection of useful facts held together by a very slender thread of fiction. 
Catherine, the owner and keeper of a prosperous farm, is described as gath- 
ering her neighbors together at her house on Sunday evenings and persuad- 
ing the village school mistress, the local doctor, or the mayor of the com- 
mune to give them simple talks about house furnishings, foods, hygiene, 
the care of babies, home and public sanitation, etc. Some of the theories 
advanced might not be considered indisputable in all scientific circles and 
the chapter on alcoholic beverages smacks a little of the over-ardent re- 
former, esecially if judged by its illustrations of diseased organs and drink- 
ing bouts. But on the whole, the book contains a large amount of useful 
information presented in a readable and systematic way and discussed 
with more common sense and practical understanding of rural conditions 
than one ordinarily meets in print. Incidentally, it gives what to the for- 
eigner are interesting details of how laundry work is done on a French farm, 
what are considered progressive arrangements for the bath-room in a house 
where there is no running water, what kinds of pots and pans are held to 
be indispensable, how a French baby is dressed and cared for, etc. Com- 
pared with th5 pictures in most American books of similar purpose, the 
quaUty of some of those here given seems rather crude, but they at least 
have the virtue of illustrating more accurately than do some more decora- 
tive ones. 

Financing the Wage-Earner's Family. By Scott Nearing. New York: 

B. W. Huebsch, 1913, pp. 171, figs. 8. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, 

$1.35. 

This book is an attempt to bring into comparison available figures upon 
the incomes of wage-earners in the United States and reliable estimates 
of the cost of maintaining a fair standard of living. 

In the matter of the cost of living, the writer estimates that between 
$450 and $650, according to locality, is necessary to maintain a minimum 
standard for an average family consisting of father, mother, and 3 children 
under 14. This provides only for the barest necessities — food, clothing, 
and shelter -and not for school books nor for the expenses attending illness 
or death. 

The cost of a fair standard of living is estimated to be from $700 to $750 
for a family of average size, in the individual towns of eastern United 
States, and $100 more in cities — significant figures from the writer's point 
of view, since he estimates that three-fourths of the males in the United 
States are earning less than that amount. 

The author urges that local comparisons between wages and the cost of 
living be made, and for those who wish to undertake such studies his book 
with its ample bibliographical notes will serve as a guide. 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 391 

The Annual Report of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in 
America Jar 1914, issued by the National Office at 105 East 22d Street, New 
York City, contains a special report of the Commission on family life on 
"the lax relations of the church and home." It criticizes the church for 
the limited influence it exerts over family life. It speaks of the lack of 
religious unity often present in the modern American family by which 
members of the family attend different churches according to their indi- 
vidual choice; it deprecates the modern lack of authority in the home, and 
the fact that the church has failed to hold heads of families to strict observ- 
ance of their duty towards the family in respect to religion. It urges that 
ministers in solemnizing marriages should urge the parties to emphasize 
religion in the home life, and the responsibilities of parents for the religious 
instruction of children, and the "importadit ofiices of religion in the home, 
as saying grace at meals, the performance of the family worship, and the 
quiet instruction of children in the fundamental truth of religion." "The 
church miust have the family if it is to have the world." 

The History of the Dwelling-House and Its Future. By R. E. Thompson. 
Philadelphia and London: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1914, pp 172. 
$1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

This little book surveys briefly the development of the house from the 
primitive tree house and cave dwelling to the modern types, and fore- 
casts possible future developments in the constructions of dwellings, sani- 
tary systems and streets, and in cooperative arrangements for household 
tasks. The most unusual part of the discussion is perhaps that which 
deals with the old hall (skali) of the Scandinavian races. This has recently 
been studied by Norwegian ethnologists from whose writings the author 
draws much of his material. It may be questioned whether this Scandi- 
navian form of dwelling affected the development of the house among the 
peoples of western Europe as much as the author believes. Nevertheless, 
his discussion of it is interesting and is especially valuable because so little 
has been written on this particular phase of the subject in the standard 
English books on the history of dwellings. 

The Lighting Book. By F. Laurent Godinez. New York: McBride, 
Nast and Company, 1913, pp. 109. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, 
SI. 35. 

Here we have a successful effort to treat an important but rarely discussed 
subject from a non-technical viewpoint. The layman in reading these 
few pages is given a new appreciation of artistic lighting effects — and more, 
suggestions for making domestic improvements in an inexpensive way. 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

The author truly accomplishes his purpose to bring "home .... 
a greater appreciation for those comforts and pleasures which artificial 
light has to bestow." 

Emphasis is laid upon the value of indirect lighting with opaque reflect- 
ors, of inclosing globes of opaque glass, and of amber gelatine films for sub- 
duing the glare of the modern incandescent bulb and gas mantle The 
half-tone prints and line diagrams, showing the comparative lighting effects 
of various types of inclosing shades and reflectors in reference to shape, 
size and material, bespeak a careful selection on the part of the author. 

Toward the close of the discussion, in the chapter entitled Light in the 
Home, a summary of the many suggestions and corrections treated con- 
sists in a trip through the home "applying our knowledge of lighting tech- 
nique wherever it can serve us best in creating an atmosphere of attrac- 
tion and repose." 

How to Save Money. By N. C. Fowler, Jr. 2d edition. Chicago: A* 
C. McClurg and Company, 1912, pp. 282. $1. 

This book ■^ill be a distinct help to teachers of the household budget 
who are interested in the saving and investment factor in household fi- 
nance. The introductory chapters urging the need of saving may be a 
little extreme, but the indixadual chapters dealing with insurance bonds, 
mortgages, stocks, banks, etc., give useful concrete material. 

Students^ Accounts. By Edith C. Fleming. Ithaca, N. Y.: Dept. of Home 
Economics (Cornell University), 1913. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, 
S0.54. 

An account book with pages ruled for bank account, receipts and expendi- 
tures with the following subdivision of expenditures — board, lodging, fees- 
dues, books, transportation, clothing, laundry, medicine, toilet articles, 
outside interests, sundry items. 

Household Accounts. By Edith C. Fleming. Ithaca, N. Y. : Dept. of Home 
Economics (Cornell University), 1914. $0.75. Bym.ailof the Journal, 
$0.85. 
An accoimt book with pages ruled for bank, cash, produce and charge 

accounts and expenditures with the following subdivisions of expenditures — 

shelter, food, clothing, and miscellaneous, space being allowed in each of 

these for further subdivision. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

National Conference of Charities at Baltimore. The key-note of the 
conference was struck by Mrs. Glenn in the presidential address, A Prelude 
to Peace. She did not talk war issues; she did not even try to foretell 
its time of closing or its after effects. Her theme was this: that whatever 
the causes and whatever the obvious results, it is our business as social 
workers and as Americans to be ready to offer to Europe the real sources 
of strength for recuperation. These sources of strength lie in the restora- 
tion of normal family life, in the ability to return to the ordinary operations 
of daily business, in the education of the next generation for the big tasks 
before them, in the ability of the average man to stand up to the drud- 
gery of the day's job and to retain his grip on the better things of life with- 
out the stimulus of brass bands and spectacular events, and in the readi- 
ness to sink differences and to forget them. 

The Conference program sounded this note: that social workers are en- 
gaged in a war on destructive social conditions; that the general cause is 
bigger than the particular work of any organization or individual; that we 
must look at the field as a whole and work for the entire social program 
rather than for the pre-eminence of our own little fvmction. 

Social workers have learned to become strategists and to plan broadly 
for the future. This was shown in the discussions of the unemployment 
situation. Out of the turmoil of last winter, the inevitable disruption of 
regularity, and perhaps of standards, has come a planning for the future in 
a bigger way than ever before. Remedies were suggested for the indus- 
trial displacements of the present period and even for the displacement 
which will probably follow the close of the war, in an ascending scale, as 
follows: preparation for adequate relief, of course; public "made work;" 
cooperating national, state and city labor exchanges; dove-tailing of in- 
dustries with alternating busy and dull seasons; regularization of indus- 
tries within themselves; education of the market away from the vagaries 
of fashion and demand which make for rushes and lay-offs; illness insur- 
ance; unemployment insurance. 

The breadth of planning which characterized the Conference was well 
shown in the state-wide program submitted by the committee on children. 
This advocated a state board with adequate provision by means of institu- 
tions and "out-patient" work for all four groups of unfortunate children, 
namely, dependents, dehnquents, defectives and neglected. 

393 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug -Sept. 

Further suggestions toward a "community plan" of child protection 
embraced not only children who are dependent or delinquent or neglected, 
but all normal children below the poverty line. Proper infant care was 
urged as a necessary check on infant mortality. It was urged that nurses 
should be provided capable of gi%'ing scientific infant care and that the 
milk supply should be safeguarded. 

The Baltimore exhibit especially prepared for this Conference threw 
much new light on this quest'on of medical inspection. For instance, the 
exhibit made it clear that 70 per cent of the repetition of grades, common 
among school children in Baltimore, could be saved by closer attention to 
poor eye-sight, bad hearing, enlarged tonsils, malnutrition and nervous 
troubles. 40,000 children of this class are now neglected because of the 
inadequate school inspection force. 

The importance of medical inspection among school boys, its relation to 
education, health and delinquency, may be judged from the very humane 
things done by the medical inspection department, in spite of its limita- 
tions. "The medical examiners inspect the children, assisted by the nurses, 
and the follow-up work is done by the nurses. They gi\e health talks in 
the various classes; visit many of the homes, instructing mothers as to 
general health of children ; give treatments in schools and do nursing in 
homes; and also take children to dispensaries for treatment when their 
parents are unable to do so." What community can afford to do less for 
its boys and girls? 

Other helpful measures urged at the Conference were industrial train- 
ing, agricultural revival, a constructive immigration policy, the further 
reduction in the number of child workers of the land, reduction of exces- 
sive working hours, and the constructive care of the unemployable. 

The Conference was not without its lesson in humility. One speaker 
asserted that social work is not a profession ; that the social worker is not 
so much an expert as he is an expert go-between to corral experts upon 
case problems. This criticism was wholesome, because it set a standard of 
professional training which, it is hoped, will become more and more recog- 
nized in the selection of workers in both private and public fields. 

As a whole the Conference was best because of (1) the unity of its care- 
fully planned program; (2) the emphasis on public responsibility; (3) the 
recognition on the part of the public group of the prime necessity of high 
standards of efl&ciency; (4) the attention given to broad community plans 
and preventive measures; (5) the sane conservatism of the remedies pro- 
posed; (6) the harmony of feeUng among groups of workers; (7) and the 
indefinable inspirational quality of the whole thing which cannot be spread 
on paper and which cannot be realized unless one were there to feel it. 

The forty-third Conference will meet at IndianapoUs next year. Its 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 395 

officers, as elected are: President, Rev. Father Francis H. Gavisk, member 
of the Board of State Charities, Indianapolis; First Vice-President, James 
F. Jackson, Cleveland; Second Vice-President, Dr. James T. Gilmour, 
Toronto; Third Vice-President, Miss Minnie F. Low, Chicago; General 
Secretary and Treasurer, William T. Cross, Chicago. 

The Southern Mountain Workers Conference was held at Knoxville, 
Tennessee, April 20-22. John C. Campbell, of Asheville, North Carolina, 
Secretary of the Southern Highland Division, Russell Sage Foundation, was 
chairman. Among those present and taking part in the discussions were 
Commissioner of Education, P. P. Claxton, President and Mrs. W. G. 
Frost of Berea College, Kentucky, Miss Katherine Pettit, and the secre- 
taries of the mission boards of many religious societies maintaining schools 
in the mountain district. 

The tendency of all schools and settlements in the "South Atlantic 
Highland" is away from sectarianism, although they hold a high standard, 
meeting the religious nature of the people. 

Agriculture and household arts adapted to the mountain conditions re- 
ceive some attention in all these schools. Bulletin 595, U. S. Bureau of 
Education, pp. 84-93 gives a valuable chapter on Feasibility of Adapting 
the Folk Highland Schools to American Conditions. 

Exhibit for Richards Memorial Fund. A contribution of $25 to the 
Richards Memorial Fund was the result of an exhibit and sale in the House- 
hold Art department of the State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Michigan. 

The exhibit included both modern and antique productions from the 
fingers of women, civilized and uncivilized. Baskets, pottery, leather ar- 
ticles, hand and machine weavings, needle work, old and new, in garments, 
embroideries, rare laces, and samplers. A fine collection of costumes dat- 
ing back to the early 1800's was a much enjoyed feature. These were 
placed beside gowns made in the department displaying fashions not unlike 
parts of the earlier costumes. 

Another feature of the exhibit was a wonderful collection of woven ar- 
ticles and baskets sent from Berea College, Kentucky. These represented 
the work of the women in mountain homes and stood well beside many 
articles from Colonial times which were on display. 

The sale included afternoon tea, candy, table-decorations and favors; 
boutonnieres, and articles from the Berea exhibit. 

The Household Arts department feel that the inspiration gained by the 
young women in the department as well as the worthy objects, the E. H. 
Richards' Fund, and the State Home Economics Association made the ef- 
fort well worth while. 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug-Scpt. 

Michigan Home Economics Association. The Executive Committee 
of the State Home Economics Association met at the State Agricultural 
College, East Lansing, Michigan, on Saturday, April 24 to discuss the next 
annual meeting of the association. This will be held as a section of the 
State Teachers' Association at Saginaw the latter part of October. It was 
decided to take as our general subject, The relation of elementary and sec- 
ondary education in Home Economics to that in the Normal Schools, Col- 
leges, and Universities. Miss Abby L. Marlatt is to give the principal 
address of the meeting. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. The Association 
worked out its winter plans with great success. The evening class in die- 
tetics at Drexel Institute showed great interest and enthusiasm both by 
the attendance and the work done. 

The last lecture on the Budget was postponed until April, in order that 
actual budgets might be collected by members of the class. Very com- 
plete schedules were printed in order to secure definite information from 
which a general budget could be made up. Work was done among families 
of moderate means and well-to-do incomes, as this field is one that has 
been neglected. We hope that this work may prove of definite value. 

Miss Winslow's lecture classes on Nutrition were helpful for those who 
could not give the time to the laboratory work. The topics discussed were 
as follows, two being taken up in an evening: The fuel value of foods as 
expressed in calories; The fuel requirements of individuals; The fats and 
carbohydrates in food and their digestion; The various proteins and their 
relative values; The ash constituents in our food and their utilization in 
the body; Metabolism; The food requirements of infants and young chil- 
dren; The diet of school children; The food requirement of adults; Diets in 
diseases. 

Mississippi Home Economics Association. The work of this Associa- 
tion since the 19 14 meeting has been the preparation of a syllabus on Home 
Economics to be used in the public schools of the state. It is now ready 
for publication, having been delayed by certain changes found advisable 
by the committee in charge of the work. 

The 1915 meeting was held at the Industrial Institute and College, 
Columbus, March 4-7. The first session was given to a consideration of 
recent progress in the home — especially in the Mississippi home. In the 
other sessions, lectures, five minute talks and discussions centered about 
home industries, home sanitation, home furnishing, and the social activi- 
ties of the home and commimity. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 397 

Home Economics Day. The Home Economics Department of the 
North Dakota State Agricultural College observed Thursday, December 3, 
1914, as Memorial Day for Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. At the suggestion of 
Miss Stoner, Dean of the Department, the faculty granted the young 
women of the college a half holiday. All laboratories, lecture and 
class-rooms in Ceres Hall were opened to the faculty and students of the 
college and to the citizens of Fargo, North Dakota, and Moorhead, Minne- 
sota. An interesting program was given to an appreciative audience 
in the Little Country Theatre, in the Administration Building. It con- 
sisted of music, quotations from the works of Ellen H. Richards, and 
talks on Xenophon, Katherine Beecher, Count Rumford, Ellen H. 
Richards and the memorial fund. 

A large number of college people and citizens of Fargo and Moorehead 
attended the meeting and visited the Department to see the educational 
exhibits in the laboratories and other class rooms. 

Miss Bessie E. Taylor, Instructor in Domestic Art, had charge of the 
textile, millinery and dressmaking exhibits in the domestic art rooms. 
Miss Stoner, Dean of the Department, and Miss Geraldine Hadley, In- 
structor in Domestic Science, were in charge of the exhibits in house-plan- 
ning, household management, household budgets, dietetics, and food work. 

Miss Iva Neumann, Instructor in Home Economics, assisted by young 
women in the high school and homemakers classes, was in charge of the 
Home Economics dining room, where dainty refreshments were served to 
all the visitors. The dining room was artistically decorated with flowers 
and ferns and the tea was served in Japanese style. 

Contributions received on Home Economics Day and the donations from 
the Young Woman's Auxib'ary Section of the Fine Arts Club, of which Miss 
Stoner is director, amounted to $15.00 for the Memorial Fund. 

The department is planning to have an exhibit next December in con- 
nection with the Home Economics Day Program. 

Kansas Home Economics Association. The association is at work 
upon the formation of a unified course in Domestic Science and Art for 
use in the high schools throughout the state. This work has been put in 
charge of a standing committee whose chairman is Mrs. Mary Pierce 
VanZile, Dean of Home Economics, Kansas State Agricultural College, 
Manhattan, Kansas. It is hoped that the work will be completed before 
the next annual meeting. 

A new line of work that has been started in the extension field is the 
"Dressmaking Schools." One of these "schools" has already been held 
in a county-seat town of 2000. The school covered a week, beginning each 
day at 9.00 and closing at 5.30 with a short intermission at noon time. It 
was self-supporting, the members each paying a sufficient fee to make it 



398 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Scpt. 

SO. The class was limited in number to thirty. The full number was en- 
rolled and a list of seventy names was on the waiting list. In addition to 
attending lectures and witnessing demonstrations by the teachers each day 
each woman was allowed to bring material from her home and was aided 
in designing and making a dress for herself. Of course, all materials and 
kinds of costumes were represented. The school was in charge of Miss 
Frances Brown and Mrs. Bessie Birdsall, Professor of Domestic Art, and 
was under the auspices of the Kansas State Agricultural College through 
the Extension Division. The school was an unqualified success and the 
College hopes to hold many others along the same line in the future. 

Alabama Home Economics Association. The Home Economics Con- 
ference held at the Alabama Girls Technical Institute, Montevallo, 
Alabama, January 28-30, resulted in a permanent organization to be 
known as the Alabama Home Economics Association. The oflBce of this 
association ynW be at the Alabama Girls Technical Institute, Montevallo, 
Alabama. 

Courses at Teachers College. A course in Accounting and OflSce 
Management for Institutions has been given at Teachers College under 
the direction of Prof. C. T. Macfarlane, who is controller for the College. 
This course includes the discussion of the making of budgets for institu- 
tions, and such topics as overhead expenses, etc., allied to this. It 
includes the preparation of statements and reports, and various systems 
used in efficient administration. 

A revision of plans for practice work for students in the Institution De- 
partment of Teachers College has been made for next year. The course is 
to be called "Institutional Housekeeping" and includes four phases of field 
work: 

(a) Observation in different types of institutions in the city, including 
hospitals, clubs, dormitories, Y. W. C. A., etc; (b) Practice work in the 
housekeeping departments of Whittier Hall; (c) Practical work in the 
Horace Mann Lunch Room and other cafeterias; (d) Field work in connec- 
tion with the public school lunch rooms in New York City. 

Besides this field work students have six other courses in Institution 
Management: 

(a) Institution laundering; (b) Institution fiurnishings and supplies (rugs, 
bedding, linen, etc.); (c) Institution food departments; (d) Institution 
planning (dormitories and hospitals as t^'pes); (e) Institution accounting; 
(f) Principles of organization for institution homes. 

A large number of graduate courses are offered now at Teachers Coilege. 
These include a number for students wishing to do advanced work in ad- 
ministrative problems. They include investigations along economic lines; 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 399 

advanced problems in accounting for institutions; and surveys, studies and 
work related to other specialized fields in administration. These may be 
taken in the form of a practicum, meeting with the instructor at stated 
times for discussion not in regular class room work. 

Santa Barbara Normal School. The State Normal School of Manual 
Arts and Home Economics has a school year of fifty out of fifty-two weeks. 
No course is completed in less than ten months but arrangements are made 
to receive students in June, August, November, January and April. Ad- 
mission is granted to both men and women who can meet the entrance 
requirements. The courses offered are: Home Economics, including do- 
mestic science and art, institution management, and dietetics for nurses; 
Applied Arts; Manual Arts; Industrial Arts; Physical Training. No tui- 
tion is charged but there is a nominal fee for laboratory and for materials. 

The Normal School is also cooperating with the Bureau of Corres- 
pondence Instruction of the University of Washington to serv^e the 
homemakers of the State. 

The building is unusual in its beauty and its interior arrangement. It is 
200 feet square with cloisters 15 feet deep, rooms 30 feet wide, and court 
95 by 120 feet. 

For exterior view see frontispiece, and for style of architecture see page 
345. 

George Peabody College for Teachers. One of the most striking 
features of the work of the summer quarter at George Peabody College for 
Teachers was the Demonstration School for Nashville boys and girls. It 
continued through ten weeks, beginning Monday, June 14, with one session 
daily, except Saturdays , from 8.30 to 12 o'clock. No tuition was charged 
except for the kindergarten. The number in each class room was limited 
to twenty-five. 

This department of the summer quarter was a complete elementary 
school of eight grades, with each class room in charge of a teacher of 
thorough training and experience. 

The plan for the Peabody summer school for Nashville boys and girls 
received the hearty endorsement of Superintendent J. J. Keyes, of the city 
schools, who agreed to a full recognition of credit given. Pupils making 
satisfactory records throughout the ten weeks will be given a half year's 
credit in the Nashville schools. 

Novel Rural School. The Wisconsin Journal of Education gives the 
following report of a rural school in Wisconsin: 

The visitor at the Mendota Beach school is impressed with the large 
opportunity for individual self-expression. Many things are going on 
at the same time, yet all in perfect order. Near the front of the room 



400 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Aug.-Sept. 

sits one pupil busy with the typewriter. Close by is a girl at a sewing 
table. Another is stitching on the machine. At the rear of the room 
is one of the older girls conducting a primary reading class. One boy is 
putting a language lesson on the blackboard; another is sweeping the 
hall. The teacher herself is hearing a recitation, and yet there is no con- 
fusion, no disorder; everybody is at work — everybody attending to his 
own business. 

The home is asked to rein'orce the instruction of the school by report- 
ing to the teacher on the home work assigned to each individual pupil^ 
for it is at home that the projects in manual training and domestic science 
are worked out. This interests the parents in the work of the school and 
enhances its value enormously. The visitors' register reveals the names 
of practically all the mothers in the district; some of them many times, 
as well as the names of their relatives and friends. 

The overcrowded program is no bogy to this teacher. Each pupil has 
a program of his own which he follows independently of everybody else. 
That it takes an exceptional teacher to carry out such a complex program 
without confusion goes without saying, but Miss Wyman has "turned 
the trick" and she insists that it is easier to do than to follow out a formal 
program because she has the assistance of every pupil in the school. The 
"coercion of the group" comes into play because the one who disturbs 
this program disturbs every individual pupil in the school. 

Calls are coming from all over the country for particulars concerning 
this school and its methods of operation. A descriptive pamphlet giving 
Miss Wyman's story of the work may be had by addressing Mr. Earnest 
Warner, Madison, Wis., who is clerk of the school board in the Mendota 
Beach district and to whom a large amount of the credit is due for making 
this novel venture a success. 

Ionia Public Schools. The plan being tried in the Ionia, Michigan, 
schools for the lunch hour is as follows: 

About twenty-five or thirty girls come to the high school who live too 
far away to go home to lunch. A class in cookery is offered at the noon 
hour which will be elective. The student will have one unit of credit for 
a full year's work. Each lesson will be one and a half hours long, and 
the girls will cook in pairs, each pair cooking two recipes. A small fee 
will be charged and no choice of foods allowed in the luncheon. 

It is hoped that practical work can be done and that the venture will 
be a success. 

A Correction. In the April Journal a mistake was made in reporting 
Miss Clara Youngs as head of the domestic science department of the 
Milledgeville (Ga.) Normal School. That position is held by Miss Eda 
Lord Murphy, and Miss Youngs is an instructor. 



Vol. VII, No. 8 OCTOBER, 1915 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, .\fanaging Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Officio Members — Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economics Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

jM.\kixg Usk of the Home Emma Conley 401 

School Credit for Home Work ix Home Ecomomics 405 

A Stidy of Sttoent Diet Marion Talbot 409 

Dickens, and the Facts About School Diet 416 

Home Economics Building at George Peabody College for Teachers . Ada M. Field 418 

The States Relations Service of the U. S. Department of Agriculture . H. L. Kuight 421 

Bulletins on Education for the Home Hntriclla IT'. Calvin 426 

Edna Day H\'de 430 

Editorials • . 433 

Housekeepers' Department 435 

A School for Housemaids Helen Esther Marsh 435 

What Continuation Schools may do for Domestic Service . Arthur D. Dean 43S 

Community Heating 439 

Seven Ways to Answer the Question "What Shall I Have For 

Luncheon?" Amanda StjUzJns 440 

High School Athletics 441 

Stain Removal 443 

Bibliography of Home Economics 445 

Books and Liter.ature 447 

News from the Field 451 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year — monthly except July and August — by the 
American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on Xew Vork, E.^press Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




i 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VII OCTOBER, 1915 No. 8 

MAKING USE OF THE HOME 

EMMA CONLEY 

Stale Inspector of Domestic Sctetue, Madisoir, Wisconsin 

It has seemed to the author of the following article, that there is 
something anomalous in the attitude taken by some advocates of 
the teaching of Home Economics in the schools, and their attitude 
towards the same activities in the home. 

If we believe that cooking and sewing should not be carried on 
in the home, then we are teaching a dead or dying science or art, 
and the subject should be eliminated from the school curriculum. 
If we are teaching a live, vital subject then the work must be con- 
nected very closely with the home, and the interest and cooperation 
of the mothers must be secured. 

The carrying out at home, of the principles learned at school, is 
the important connecting link, which must be made, if we are to 
justify the teaching of this subject, often called household science, 
and estabhsh a place for it among the other school subjects. 

Although we think that each change in educational ideas and ideals 
will, if properly carried out, bring about a perfect system of training 
for the coming generation, and although we are continually disap- 
pointed in the results, we still believe that the school is the factory 
for turning out the boy or girl, equipped intellectually, to fit into any 
situation that may present itself — round pegs into square holes, and 
square pegs into round holes. The man of fifty or sixty, educated 
in the university of hard knocks, fairly successful, passes judgment 
on our school system, and finds it wholly wanting. What does the 
successful business man do, at home or at place of business, to supple- 
ment this defective training? 

401 



402 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Urban and rural communities have come to recognize the value 
and importance of industrial training in school, for both boys and 
girls, and some Hne of practical work has been added to the school 
curriculum in nearly every progressive town and city in the country. 
Much has been accomplished by this change in the educational sys- 
tem in the last decade, and yet it must be admitted that the home con- 
ditions have not been changed, to any great extent, by our change in 
the educational ideals. 

As never before in the history of education, people are realizing 
that the home as well as the school, is an educational factor, and that 
home and school must be more closely connected if we are to produce 
a race of capable, thrifty, industrious, and educated Americans. 

Many criticisms are aimed at the schools of today because the boys 
and girls attending those schools are lacking in diligence, accuracy, 
trustworthiness, and a sense of responsibility, and the criticism is 
somewhat unjust. Schools can inculcate habits of thrift, interest 
pupils in the various industries of the community and the require- 
ments for success in those industries ; they can give theoretical instruc- 
tion and practical training in the various trades or vocations, but 
such work is of questionable value unless favorable opportunity is 
given for carrying out the instruction given at school and making theo- 
retical work of practical value. Fonnerly the home furnished all 
the opportunity needed. Today the average home demands little 
or nothing of the boy or girl. Parents often feel that because they 
were obliged to work hard during their school days and forego many 
pleasures, their children should have a Hfe of leisure during the school 
period. On the other hand, teachers have often discredited work 
done at home, or looked with disfavor on the boy or girl who was 
obliged to work for an education or to give aid at home before coming 
to school. In these ways, home and school have conspired to bring 
about exemption from all home duties by boys and girls who are 
attending school. 

A life with no duties, no tasks, no responsibilities, has never de- 
veloped, physically, mentally, or morally, any boy or girl, and it 
never will. It has never produced a happy boy or girl, and it never 
will. Children like actually to produce things; they like to do physi- 
cal labor; they like to make things grow; they Uke to try to accom- 
plish the impossible; they are young people of action if they are 
normal children, and only normal children should be found in the 
regular school. 



1915] MAKING USE OF THE HOME 403 

When we take away all home work, and subject pupils for six hours 
daily to a system of instruction from which all memory work, drill, 
and discipline have been eliminated, we are producing a mischievous, 
irresponsible race in whom we have crushed all creative and inventive 
power, and all desire for physical exertion. Home duties still remain 
for the country boy or girl, and for this reason they give greater prom- 
ise for making a success of life than the city boy or girl who must find 
occupation for leisure hours at questionable places of amusement. 
"Tell me what you do with your leisure, and I will read your char- 
acter and destiny." It is not what the girl or boy is doing at school 
between nine in the morning and four in the afternoon that causes 
alarm, but what occupies the time from four in the afternoon to 
nine the next morning. If the school could keep the record of the 
home duties accompHshed during that time, it need not bear the 
burden of the blame for incompetency and dissipation. 

Many people are beginning to reaUze that an irresponsible, shiftless 
boy will never make a strong, trustworthy man; that a girl who is 
permitted to stay in bed until time to go to school, who spends her 
time from four o'clock until bed-time on the street or in idleness, who 
has no interest in household work with which her mother is over- 
burdened, will never make a happy and satisfied homemaker. Because 
people are beginning to see this, not alone are agriculture, manual 
training and domestic science added to the school curriculum, but 
boys and girls are directed so as to become interested in cultivating 
city plots, acres of corn and alfalfa and other crops, in the raising of 
farm poultry, in the making of furniture and useful articles, in cook- 
ing, sewing, and general housekeeping, and in choosing a vocation for 
the future. 

It is well to create and arouse an interest in these vital problems, 
but the task is only half begun when interest is aroused; the home 
must foster and develop these interests and turn itself into an experi- 
ment station for the practical application of these important theo- 
retical principles presented at school. Nothing is of usable value until 
the underlying principles are mastered, experiments have been tried, 
the work perfected and skill attained. The school can present the 
principles, furnish information and opportunity for experiment, but 
perfection and skill must come through practice, and this practice 
must be carried on at home or in the shop. 

If the home is to be the place of operation where skill and mastery 
are attained and thrift developed, and if the school and home are to 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

work in unison and harmony, school credit must be given for work 
done at home, and the homes must become field laboratories for 
workers. No place other than a real home supplies all the varied 
tasks which go to make up the sum and substance of housekeeping. 
Cooking and sewing may be taught in a practical way in schools, but 
household decoration, home accounts, laundry, care of children must 
be largely theoretical. To make theoretical knowledge of any use, 
an opportunity must be given to put the theory into practice. 

Two plans are carried out in Wisconsin to round out the domestic 
science work given in school and to make it of practical value. The 
first plan is in operation in over a hundred cities and in many rural 
communities and is meeting with marked success. The second .plan 
is being tried as an experiment in two cities and gives promise of 
furnishing the solution to the difiiculty of securing a real house for 
teaching general household management. 

In carrying out the first plan school credit is given for all success- 
ful home work, such as cooking, sewing, marketing, planning and 
serving of meals, care of bed-room, habits of personal hygiene and 
also general housework. A weekly record is made by the pupil of all 
work done at home and in every case this record must be signed by 
the mother. 

To make the work of value it cannot be a daily repetition of the same 
monotonous tasks as dish washing, peeling potatoes, etc., but must 
be varied until it covers the whole range of house work and must end 
with the girl taking complete charge of the home for a day at a time. 
A girl may learn at school to make all the dishes found in the average 
cook book of 500 pages, which could really be condensed into a book 
of 50 pages, and yet not be able to get even the simplest breakfast on 
the table and in proper condition for serving in a reasonable period 
of time. Cooking lessons in school will always lack coordination, 
because time and funds are limited and the conditions of the home are 
lacking. 

The other method for securing an opportunity to do the work under 
actual home conditions is for women to allow the schools to use their 
homes as laboratories. After girls have been given theory, instruc- 
tion and practice in cooking, preparation and ser\4ng of meals, care 
of rooms, dusting, washing windows, darning and other house work, 
pupils could be sent to the various homes, and under the direction 
of the teacher and the supervision of the mistress they could do the 



1915] SCHOOL CREDIT FOR HOME WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS 405 

actual work of the day in that home. For example, if two girls 
were sent to a home in the morning they could prepare breakfast, 
wash the dishes, sweep the kitchen, dust the house and put living 
room and bath room in order, make bread, pie or cake, prepare dinner, 
and do patching and darning. They could be sent to a home where 
the mistress desired to serve a luncheon or dinner and take complete 
charge of the work. If the same girls were sent to different homes for 
their training, they could learn much about methods of running and 
managing homes, and acquire the practical knowledge which a good 
housekeeper has attained through years of experience. Five or six 
days of this actual work in the average home would give the train- 
ing which the domestic science course in school will always lack, be- 
cause no opportunity can be created at school for real housekeeping. 

Until we recognize the limitations of the school and resolutely turn 
our attention to the opportimities offered in the home for supplement- 
ing school work, our educational system as it concerns Home Eco- 
nomics courses will always be defective, visionary, and open to the 
criticism that we are not producing capable and thrifty homemakers. 
No school will ever take the place of the home, and so long as the 
home shifts its responsibility for physical, moral, and ethical training 
to the shoulders of young women who teach for a period of from but 
three to five years, and who are lacking in the practical knowledge of 
homemaking, our educational system will continue to be. the subject 
of carping criticism from those who do not understand that eco- 
nomic conditions have been transformed in the last decade, and that 
while homemaking is no longer taught at home, the principles of 
homemaking taught at school must be practiced again and again in a 
real home, if the business of homemaking is to be learned. Why 
not secure that practice in the pupil's own home? 

SCHOOL CREDIT FOR HOME WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS 

The two short articles that follow were received as the result of corre- 
spondence on the subject of credit for home work. The first is a discus- 
sio?i of the subject, given at a meeting of the Central Association of Sci- 
ence and Mathematics Teachers, by Prof. Abby Marlatt, Director of 
Home Economics, University of Wisconsin, and the second is part of a 
letter from a professional man who is prominently connected with educa- 
tional work. — Editor. 



406 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

DISCUSSION 

There can be no question that a fundamental truth was stated 
when it was said that the school and the home must come into closer 
relationship and that one of the results to be desired for school credit 
for home work may be the functioning of the school in the home, but 
there are some more important points that need to be discussed and 
I shall take them under the topics, Standards in Work, Supervision, 
and The Psychological Aspect of the Problem. 

If the school practice work stands for anything, it should stand for 
better methods, short cuts, and time saving, through the study and 
establishment of orderly steps in the work. When we detail the ac- 
tual practice work, in part or entirely, to the home work, it becomes a 
question of whose methods we wish to accept as standards. While we 
do not question that there are many homes where the standards are 
as high, and possibly higher than the standards of the better trained 
teachers in Home Economics, still we must realize that with our vari- 
ation in population and our differing standards dependent upon that 
variation we need to consider carefully the possibiHty of fixing in the 
mird of the child old routine methods that, in the light of present 
knowledge, should be obsolete. The estabUshing of short cuts is part 
of the very definite work in all forms of routine work common to the 
household, not only in the preparation of food, but also in all forms 
of cleaning work as well as in the manufacture of clothing. These 
short cuts should be fixed in the control of the muscles of the child 
early in life. If we wait till the pupil has entered the high school, 
we have a two-fold task in teaching the pupil to forget the bad habits 
and establish good ones with the result that the pupil loses speed in 
work, a fundamental factor in time saving. Again, it will require 
extraordinary tact to estabUsh the fact in the minds of the parents 
as well as the pupils that the method employed by the older members 
of the family may be time wasting. 

How is one to determine the educational value of the work? It is 
a point that will require infinite tact to settle. As one of the previous 
speakers has indicated, the fine of least resistance and possibly the 
wisest thing to do is to leave that decision in the hands of the parents 
and try to establish, slowly but surely, for the future, higher standards 
which will be accepted in the home. 

The question of supervision is an administrative one. At present, 



1915] SCHOOL CREDIT FOR HOME WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS 407 

supervision over work in the home is fraught with danger. It is pos- 
sible that it may be met by indirect methods through the estabhsh- 
ment of mothers' clubs or parents' clubs in the school, whereby the 
teacher and the parents may come in such close social relation that 
they will eventually discuss means and methods in the training of 
the child which will lead to the accepting of the middle plane in 
standards. The teacher can learn from the home work as much cer- 
tainly as the parents can learn from the teacher. In my own experi- 
ence in high school work, I (discovered early that I needed the coop- 
eration of the home so that I could do my work better through an 
understanding of home conditions. This resulted in the organiza- 
tion of a mothers' club which is now one of the large influential clubs 
in that particular state. There are thirty-eight mothers' clubs in the 
state congress of mothers' clubs. These clubs are working with the 
teachers in the schools. This gives the teacher an opportunity to use 
lecture method, demonstration method, and free discussion method 
in establishing standards and learning the point of view of the 
home. It has been suggested that it may be possible to select certain 
homes in a town or village which shall be utiUzed because they repre- 
sent the standards necessary for the work. Even this requires in- 
finite tact in selection and in management in order not to cause a 
feeling of unjust discrimination. 

The last point which seems to me important in this discussion is 
the effect upon the home of giving school credit for home work. The 
fundamental conception of the home should include the fact that the 
home is a place in which a group of persons live in such a spirit of 
social relations that no individual is handicapped and all are encour- 
aged to reach the highest degree of development of which they are 
capable. The basis of this mutual forbearance is the home spirit 
which is cultivated through the free doing for others. The rewards 
are invisible and of the spirit. If we train the child in the home to 
expect visible rewards in the form of school credit for all forms of 
work done in the home, may we not weaken that thing for which 
home stands — the unselfish spirit which makes the home possible? 
Would it not be wiser to select certain lines of work which functioning 
with the particular work in the laboratories in the school will bring 
the home and the school closer together through the giving of school 
credit and which will admit of the estabUshment of standards and in- 
direct supervision by the instructor, leaving the other forms of home 



408 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

work done by the pupil as his or her part of the general work for the 
group with the incentive and desire to help rather than the desire for 
visible reward? 

LETTER 

School credit for home work has been discussed a great deal during 
the past two years in state organizations as well as at the National 
Education Association. It was my privilege two years ago to visit 
the school in Oregon which probably made the first start towards 
giving school credit for home work. Mr. Alderman, then State Su- 
perintendent of Public Instruction in Oregon, wrote and lectured on 
the problem from the Pacific to the Atlantic. At the meeting of the 
Department of Superintendence last year at Richmond the present 
Assistant State Superintendent of Oregon, who was also assistant to 
Mr. Alderman, very frankly said they would have to take back a 
great deal that had been said and done relative to school credit for 
home work. He is convinced, as well as myself, that the mothers at 
home are not capable, as a rule, of passing judgment upon how the 
work has been done, and, therefore, getting proper standards. It is 
too much responsibility and temptation to place before a mother, 
especially when the school credit for home work means extra school 
credit and possibly the saving of her daughter's failure at the final 
examination. 

I am not sure yet as to the need of giving school credit for home 
work in Home Economics. It is a subject, so far as I have observed in 
schools in almost every state in the Union, which can be handled 
successfully in the classroom and laboratory. Of course, when it 
comes to the training of women for extension representatives in Home 
Economics, I beUeve there should be some additional practical ex- 
perience given to the girl who intends to do this kind of work. 

I recently suggested to a state supervisor the possibility of secur- 
ing an accredited list of housewives who would welcome a girl from 
the senior year to take full charge of her home for a limited time and 
report upon results to the teacher in charge. If twenty such ac- 
credited homes, in which all sorts of problems in regard to the man- 
agement and conduct of a home are found, could be selected and the 
girls provided with a certain sum of money to run the home, take care 
of the children, buy the food, prepare it, and serve it, etc., it would 
seem to me that such experience under the direction of competent 



1 91 5] A STUDY OF STUDENT DIET 409 

women might be very valuable to those who are looking, as I have 
said, to the work of extension representative in Home Economics. 
This plan would be similar to the plan now being used by many of our 
land-grant colleges in giving city boys farm experience with accredited 
progressive farmers during the summer vacations. I do not know 
that anything just exactly like this has been attempted, but I am 
certainly interested in the experiment and I am, further, sure that a 
great many of our girls that are being graduated from departments 
of Home Economics are woefully inexperienced so far as the practi- 
cal side of running homes is concerned and also in regard to the 
needs of extension workers when it comes to talking to women who 
have been in charge of homes in the country for many years. 

A STUDY OF STUDENT DIET 

MARION TALBOT 
Dean of Women, University of Chicago 

There was published by the University of Chicago in July, 1894, a 
little pamphlet entitled Food as a Factor in Student Life. It has 
been for some years out of print, but there are so many calls for it 
that a reprint in condensed form seems desirable. The study is of 
present interest not merely from the historical standpoint, but be- 
cause the methods and principles it sets forth are suggestive and sound 
even after the lapse of over twenty years. 

The study was the result of an experiment undertaken at the time 
of the opening of the Women's Halls of the University of Chicago. 
The carrying out of the experiment was entrusted to the Deans, Mrs. 
Alice Freeman Palmer and Miss Marion Talbot, with Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as expert 
adviser, and Miss Maria Daniell as manager. Their efforts were 
ably seconded in a technical way by Miss S. E. Wentworth, of the 
New England Kitchen, Miss Antoinette Cary, Mrs. Biggers, Miss 
Knapp and Miss Yeonians. A large measure of the success of the 
plan and its establishment on a firm foundation was due to the Heads 
of the Houses, Miss Myra Reynolds, Miss Elizabeth Wallace, and 
Miss F. C. Brown. 

The report begins with a presentation of the Social and Domestic 
Conditions of the Investigation introduced with the following para- 
graph : 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

It has seemed fitting to many students of sociology that there should be 
exemplified in some college or other educational institution the possibili- 
ties of healthful physical and mental life, as they have been made known by 
recent advances in both social and physiological science. Under the au- 
spices of the University of Chicago, a practical study of the subject has been 
made. Its results seem of sufficient value and interest to warrant the 
presentation of a brief account of them. 

After a brief description • i the fundamental principles of nutrition 
and a protest against ftie prevalent disregard of human dietetics in 
connection with the life of students, the report continues as follows: 

It was the pri\ilege of the University of Chicago to take the first step 
toward remedying this condition, undaunted by the evident difficulties 
which, owing to the apathy of the community in regard to such matters, 
seemed almost insurmountable. 

To make the experiment in a college was eminently suitable, and as 
young women Lte proverbially more exacting and critical as to the table 
than young men, and at the same time more conversant with household 
matters, it was quite appropriate to make the first trial in a women's 
dormitory. 

The conditions existing at the University of Chicago were very favorable 
for an experiment of this kind. The authorities were in sympathy with 
the movement and the students coming from all parts of the world formed 
a cosmopolitan community. 

Three well-appointed, adjoining buildings, each providing accommoda- 
tions for about forty students, were ready or nearly ready for occupancy. 
Each hall had its well-equipped dining room and ser\dng room. Supple- 
mentary cooking apparatus only was placed in the two end buildings, the 
central kitchen, in which the bulk of the cooking was done, being placed in 
the central building, Kelly Hall. From this the food, ready cooked, was 
carried to the dining rooms. To these were admitted only the officers and 
students li\ang in the houses and their guests or the guests of the University. 

It was also at this time possible to secure not only the apparatus used 
in the widely known Rumford Kitchen at the World's Fair but also the 
invaluable ser\aces of its manager. 

The three halls were organized with the aim in view of establishing 
healthful mental and physical life for the 100 or more women who should 
live in them. In order to help secure the latter end, it was decided to pro- 
vide a limited variety of food of the best attainable quality, prepared in 
the best manner, and selected so as to give sufficient nutriment in the right 



1915] A STUDY OF STUDENT DIET 411 

proportion. The low sum of three dollars and a half per week was the 
price tentatively fixed for board, in the hope that the advantages of life in 
the halls might thus be made possible to a large number of students. This 
theoretical plan was held very elastic in order to make it possible to adapt 
instantaneously the results of the study to the existing conditions. A work- 
ing scheme having been established, it was hoped that the details might 
give others a basis for further accomplishment. 

The time assigned to the experiment was from October 1, 1893 to April 
1, 1894. Owing to delays in obtaining possession of the halls, and to the 
difficulty in securing workmen or service during the last month of the 
World's Fair, the whole plant was not in full working order until nearly 
the end of the first quarter, so that in reality, the plan as perfected was in 
operation only three months. During that time the average number of 
students occupying the halls was 106. 

The entire staff of ser^-ice for the three halls included, besides the di- 
rector of the experiment, three housekeepers — one for each hall — two in- 
door men, three cooks, one kitchen maid, seven waitresses, seven chamber- 
maids, one scrubbing woman, one laundress, twenty-five persons in all. 

The life in the Women's Quadrangle began without any fixed traditions 
save those which had been forming gradually while the women students 
were temporarily residing in an apartment house during the first year of 
the University. 

It was the desire of the Deans that the new life should have as far as 
possible the simple quiet attractions of a home, and be freed from the ob- 
jectionable features of an ordinary students' boarding house. Hence it 
was attempted to adopt the standard of living which prevails in good Ameri- 
can homes, and it was deemed an economy of mental power, as well as of 
physical strength, to secure the relief of the students from duties which 
could be performed by others. The saving of time and potential energy 
which was thus effected, although involving considerable outlay for service, 
was believed to outweigh the advantages which have been claimed for 
domestic work done by students themselves. The possibilities of the 
social side of the life were not overlooked. An element of educational 
value is added to a college home when hospitality may be extended with 
freedom and ease, and in the new University the contribution of the Wom- 
en's Halls to the general social life seemed of significance, apart from the 
direct benefit to those partaking in it. At best the life of any student liv- 
ing in a dormitory has a monastic tinge, a selfish or self-absorbed side un- 
favorable to the best development of character. Pro\ision was therefore 
made not only for the occasional entertainment of guests privately, but for 
weekly receptions to members of the University and their friends, the 



412 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

expense of which should not be met by any special tax, but which should 
be included in the general price for board. This hospitality increased the 
expense of service far more than that of food, and it should be taken into 
consideration in comparing the cost of this experiment with that of any 
other institution. 

To secure this amount of service and this freedom and dignity in the din- 
ing rooms for the limited sum of three and one-half dollars a week would 
have been difficult with full numbers of paying members and with years 
of experience; with two-thirds the maximum number and with little or no 
precedent, it was not an easy task. It was evident that the outlay for 
food materials must be kept as low as possible, but it was believed that in- 
expensive food, if it were at the same time wholesome and nutritious, 
would be eventually, if not at first, acceptable to the majority, provided 
that it could be made perfect of its kind, and could be served attractively. 
Special attention was therefore given to the choice of table ware, to the 
quality and freshness of the table linen, and to serving the food in coiurses 
and so quickly that it would be quite hot on reaching the table. The 
closest attention was paid to securing the greatest attainable digestibility 
of the food material by means of the best known methods of cookery. It 
seems to be true that for this purpose a low degree of heat applied for a 
greater length of time is in general more effective than a high degree ap- 
plied for a shorter time; hence the largest part of the cooking has been done 
with apparatus designed according to this idea. Coal, gas, steam and kero- 
sene were all used as fuel, each in the most efficient form. 

It is, however, true that even the best methods of cookery will not al- 
ways make an article of inferior grade equal to one of superior grade; there- 
fore special attention was given to securing the best quality of the food ma- 
terial bought. Even after the standard of quality was once set, constant 
vigilance was needed to maintain it, as is the common experience. Excel- 
lent cold storage facilities added greatly to the possibilities of economical 
buying at wholesale rates. 

The financial results were very satisfactory. By unremitting attention 
to every detail of expenditure and administration, the income was made 
to meet the entire cost of the experiment, although it had not been thought 
probable that, in addition to the current expenses, the extra items of the 
cost of the inauguration and the salary of the director of the experiment 
could be met within so short a time. These last expenses once incurred 
will not be needed again, and the sum thus saved can go in future for 
greater variety in food, repairs, replacement, etc. 

Since detailed records were kept of each item and of the time of ser\-ice 
required for each part of the work, it has been possible to gain valuable 
information for future use. 



1915] A STUDY OF STUDENT DIET 413 

For instance, the following facts were learned as to the apportionment 
of the $3.50 received per week, per person: 

For food $1 . 54 

For condiments, tea, coffee . 105 

For food for servants , 385 

For cooking food 0.35 

For serving food . 50 

Extra service in cleaning, laundry, and small expenses 0. 39 

For expense of inauguration 0.18 

Balance reserve for depreciation of equipment 0.05 

S3. 50 

The scientific results may be summed up as follows: The family was 
well fed, having, after all allowances for waste and refuse, a ration of equal 
food value to that furnished to the American soldier, if the relative weights 
of the man and woman are taken into consideration. The proportion of 
the several ingredients was also closely corresponding to the theoretical. 

An additional proof of the sufficiency of the food was the fact that nearly 
all of the students gained in weight and in general physical condition, and 
were able to work with less headache than usual, in spite of the fact that 
fundamental principles of right living were occasionally ignored, as is un- 
fortunately too frequently the case when the liberty of the individual is 
unrestricted. 

In order to indicate the liberality of the diet, there is given in the follow- 
ing pages a comparison of the quantity and cost of each class of food with 
that of the most economical dietary known to us, that of the Normal School 
and Business Institute at Valparaiso, Indiana, kindly furnished by Mr. 0. 
P. Kinsey. 

Many other results of value from a scientific point of view might be de- 
duced from the tables, notably the large proportion of food purchased 
which never reaches the table, and the large proportion of that so prepared 
which is not eaten. 

This is due in part to the method in vogue in the market of selling with- 
out trimming, so that each household has much garbage, in part to 
careless ways of providing, and in part to the fact that service costs more 
than food, and that it is cheaper to lose one-third of a bushel of potatoes 
by paring than to pay for careful peeling. 

As to the readiness with which the students accepted the diet, there is 
less assurance of complete success. So many people are in the habit of 
finding favdt with whatever food is provided, and expect, usually -mib. good 
reason, to have a choice of a dozen dishes, out of which number one or two 
may suit, that it would be unreasonable to expect that a simple, nourish- 
ing diet, known to be of low cost, would be entirely pleasing to every one, 
especially in a household made up of people used to the most varied stand- 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ards of living. It is not too much to say, however, that while a few of the 
college women failed to enter into the experiment with sympathy, the 
general body of students were pleased, and made frequent expressions of 
their interest and approval. 

The first series of tables gives in detail the quantities and prices 
and nutrients of the food material purchased and sent to the kitchen 
and shows that each person fed was furnished with five pounds of 
food per day at a cost of twenty-five cents and with nutrients, after 
deducting actual wastes, of 108 grams protein, 102 grams fat, and 
381 grams carbohydrate and 2953 calories per day. It may be readily 
believed that these results proved somewhat startling. 

Table III gives bills of fare for a period of three consecutive weeks. 
These are presented with a view to showing the variety secured and 
the daily apportionment of expense. The proposed limit of expendi- 
ture was fixed at $29 per day, or $0,223 per day per person for 130 
persons fed. Any sum spent in excess of this on one day was neces- 
sarily offset by the choice of some less expensive articles of food on a 
following day. After some careful study it was learned that nearly 
the same amount of certain articles (constants) was used daily. Their 
value (13.51) deducted from the day's appropriation of $29 gave the 
sum to be spent on variables. 

It will be noted that the season when these bills were given, i.e., 
March, is one when it is difficult to secure much variety. With the 
advance of spring many articles can be procured which add to the 
variety and relish. 

The constants furnished daily were : 

15 lbs. butter $3 50 

Coffee, cocoa, tea 1 . 50 

15 lbs. sugar 0.75 

12.5 lbs. flour 25 

24 gals, milk 4.32 

1.6 gals, cream 1 . 14 

25 loaves home-made bread 1 . 25 

10 doz. roUs 80 

$13 51 

Table IV shows one day's food calculated to determine the amounts 
and proportions of the various constituents and their comparison 
with the general average. 

Table V is a comparison of a school dietary with the University of 
Chicago dietary. Several significant and interesting facts are shown 



1915] 



A STUDY OF STUDENT DIET 



415 



by an examination of this table and a comparison of a wholesome and 
sufficient dietary of a school in Indiana, where 600 students were 
boarded at $1.40 per week, with that of the University of Chicago, 
where 106 students were boarded at $3.50 per week. One source of 
advantage on the side of the school is that a much larger number of 
persons are fed and certain expenses are proportionately reduced. 
In the second place, very little service besides student help is furnished 
at the school, and a large item of expense is thus removed. Another 
difference is seen in the substitution at the school of cheaper foods, 
such as cereals, vegetables, syrup, and butterine, for meat, cream, 
fruits, and other more expensive foods, though the actual amount of 
nourishment furnished was practically the same in both cases. 



TABLE V 



Beef 

Other meats 

Fish 

Flour and grain 

Potatoes 

Vegetables (other than potatoes) 

Beans 

Milk 

Cream 

Sugar 

Syrup 

Butter 

Butterine 

Dried fruits 

Fresh fruits..! 
Canned fruits/ 

Sundries 

Tea, coffee 

Cocoa, chocolate 

Eggs and cheese 

Unclassified groceries 



QUANTITY PER 
PEKSON PER DAY 



Indiana 



lbs. 

0.476 

0.119 
0.785 
1.085 
0.490 
0.057 
0.666 



0.135 
0.095 



0.119 
0.171 

0.259 



0.026 



0.095 



Chicago 



0.442 
0.401 
0.052 
0.437 
0.680 
0.219 
0.015 
1.295 
0.120 
0.140 
0.017 
0.089 
0.014 
0.090 

0.508 

0.022 
0.020 
0.006 
0.043 
0.020 



PERCENTAGE OF 

TOTAL COST OF EACH 

ARTICLE 



Indiana 



per cent 

0.170 



0.067 
0.125 
0.090 
0.050 
0.008 
0.073 

0.056 
0.017 



0.134 
0.057 

0.070 



0.047 



0.036 



Chicago 



per cent 

0.128 
0.141 
0.022 
0.103 
0.036 
0.024 
0.002 
0.108 
0.041 
0.029 
0.006 
0.103 
0.011 
0.031 

0.052 

0.013 
0.025 
0.013 
0.029 
0.083 



Table VI presents a number of standard and actual dietaries for 
comparison ^^^th the one which had resulted from the experiment. 

Table VII shows that the amount of waste usually allowed, \dz., 
10 per cent, is much less than the actual amount usually is. 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The pamphlet closes with a bibliography. 

It was followed by a brief article published in the Review of Reviews, 
March, 1896, which gave some conclusions and suggestions from a 
comparative study of the results obtained later in the course of the 
experiment. It was found that, (1) the actual weight of the food 
suppUed was greater per person, (2) the cost was less, (3) the nutrients 
were somewhat higher, though not proportionately so. The error in 
the popular beUef that the amount of nourishment obtained is meas- 
ured by the amount of money spent for food was clearly shown. 

It seems unfortunate that in spite of the wider knowledge of dietetic 
principles which prevails at the present time, this early example of 
the practical appUcation of scientific theory still remains almost 
unique in educational institutions. 

DICKENS, AND THE FACTS ABOUT SCHOOL DIET 

An article,^ by F. Mulgrew, in one of the English magazines, based 
on contemporary newspaper correspondence, accounts of former 
scholars, and the master's correspondence which recently came to 
light, describes a small Enghsh school of the first decade of the nine- 
teenth century-. This school seems to have been a fair example of 
Yorkshire schools, like Dotheboys Hall, which Dickens brought to 
attention with such effect, in Nicholas Nickelby. The school in 
question had the attractive if undeserved name of "Eden Hall," 
and was in the North Riding of Yorkshire. It began business in 
1806 and was at first owned in partnership by Mr. Aislabie and Rich- 
ard Robinson, the latter a salesman for a cotton firm who combined 
business by traveling through the north of England, selling cloth 
and canvassing for pupils. Later Aislabie became sole owner. 

The first paragraphs quoted are from a newspaper advertisement 
of 1806 or a little later: 

BOARD AND EDUCATION 

Mr. Robinson, Master of the Grammar School, 
Bowes, North Riding of Yorkshire 

Being permitted by the Trustees of the same, to take a limited number 
of Boarders, avails himself of this opportunity of submitting his terms to 

' A Real Dotheboys Hall. By F. Mulgrew. CornhiU Mag., n. ser., 37 (1914), no. 
222, pp. 818-830. 



1915] DICKENS AND THE FACTS ABOUT SCHOOL DIET 4'17 

the Public . Board, Washing and Mending, (including the re- 

pairs of Shoes) young Gentlemen under 13 years of age, £16 per annum; 
those above 13 and under 18 years of age, £18 per annum. 

They eat at the same table with Mr. R. and partake of the same victuals, 
and as to quantity are under no restraint. No more than two sleep in a 
bed, and there are only two beds in a room. . 

. To those who may consider the liberality of my terms as form- 
ing a barrier to my doing justice, I will briefly answer, that whilst my situ- 
ation enables me to provide the best of provisions at 40 percent below what 
is usual in more southern counties, I am still more than an equal gainer, 
with those masters whose terms are much higher. 

"The outstanding feature of Mr. Aislabie's school is that it is prob- 
ably the only one of which there is any full description by an old 
pupil — and it is rather surprising that, considering the thousands of 
boys these Yorkshire schools turned out, this should be so — and that 
is contained in the Life of Sir Joshua Walmsley, published some 
years ago. 

"It was to Eden Hall that Joshua Walmsley went in the ytar 1807, 
at the age of thirteen; taking with him, no doubt, the Bible, Church 
Prayer Book, two pounds of soap, four night-caps, and four pocket- 
handkerchiefs (Mr. Squeers, twelve miles away, requires of his boys 
only two of each), for which, amongst other things, Mr. Aislabie 
stipulated in his prospectus." 

The following is from the Life of Sir Joshua Walmsley: 

Breakfast at Eden Hall consisted of a slice of black ryebread, a large 
proportion of bran entering into the composition. As a rule it was sour. 
In addition, a large boiler was placed on the table half filled with water, 
and into this two gallons of milk had been poured, and some handfuls of 
oatmeal added. Its contents were shared by the 130 hungry lads. Some- 
times oatmeal porridge replaced the contents of the boiler and a tcaspoon- 
ful of treacle was allowed as a great treat. Three times a week we had a 
limited amount of meat for dinner; on other days, potatoes, black bread, 
and cheese. This cheese had grown so hard with age we nicknamed it 
"wheelbarrow trundles;" the third meal consisted of another sHce of bread 
and of the "trundle" cheese. For a certain number of hours daily we were 
turned into agricultural laborers, working on a large farm, belonging to 
our master. We were a healthy set, our constitutions hardened by out- 
door life and labour. Some boys complained, some ran away, but none 
were ill, and only one death occurred during the six years I stayed there. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

"It is interesting to note how closely the diet at Eden Hall approxi- 
mated to that at Dotheboys. There, breakfast consisted of a minute 
wedge of brown bread, and a brown composition which looked like 
diluted pin-cushions without the covers, and was called porridge. 
To treacle— the 'great treat* of Eden Hall— Mrs. Squeers added, 
with her own hands, the highly prized brimstone, and saw that each 
pupil had more than he wanted. Dinner was stirabout, potatoes, 
and hard salt-beef; and for supper there was bread and cheese. 

"Really, I think Mr. Squeers was exaggerating when he said in his 
prospectus of Dotheboys Hall, 'Diet unparalleled.' Mr. Aislabie's 
menu was quite as liberal, and his boilerful of milk and water was 
without its counterpart at Dotheboys. But it is plain that Mr. 
Squeers was quite aHve to the value of this as an article of food; for 
it will be remembered that at breakfast at the Saracen's Head, he 
ordered twopennyworth of milk in a large jug, which he filled up with 
lukewarm water, for the five little boys he was taking home with him." 

Not all the boys stood the rigors of school Hfe so well as Joshua 
Walmsley. One reached home in such a wretched condition that 
his father complained that " .... my Son got a bowel com- 
plaint by being obliged frequently to eat potatoes alone for his dinner 
and at other times weakly unnutricious & faulty food . . ," 

and not only threatened to call the master to "strict account," but 
wrote letters of warning to the parents of other pupils. 

HOME ECONOMICS BUILDING AT GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

ADA M. FIELD 

At the time of its founding in 1875, Peabody Normal School was 
almost the only institution in the South for the training of teachers. 
In time, however, the State Normal Schools developed and the need 
for Peabody in this field grew less, while there arose a constantly 
growing demand for graduate work and for specialized preparation— 
particularly in the newer subjects of agriculture, manual training, 
sanitation and Home Economics. The guiding purpose of the insti- 
tution from the first had been to give as nearly as possible the service 
most needed at the time, and in pursuance of this purpose the old 
Peabody was closed in 1911, its campus passed to the Medical School 



1915] HOME ECONOMICS BUILDING AT GEORGE PEABODY COLLEGE 419 

of Vanderbilt University and a new location was selected adjoining 
the campus of the academic and engineering departments of Van- 
derbilt, thus making possible cooperation of work between Vander- 
bilt and Peabody College. Here, after more than two years spent 
in increasing endowment, deciding policies, and erecting the first two 
buildings, George Peabody College for Teachers began, June, 1914, 
its attempt to meet some of the new needs. 

The two buildings completed are those for Industrial Arts and for 
Home Economics; others are in progress. 

The Home Economics Building forms the north end of a future 
horseshoe shaped group, and faces west upon the most beautiful 
part of the campus — a grove of maple, oak and other hardwoods and 
large, evergreen magnolias. The building is 169 by 81 feet. The 
style is southern colonial, developed in red brick and native white 
limestone — a style diflScult to adapt economically to school uses, but 
one so dear to the hearts of the people as to repay extra thought and 
planning in its construction. 

Natural ventilation is secured by cross drafts through casements 
or through windows fitted with Taber sash, thus admitting air through 
the entire opening. The floors are laid on a fireproof construction 
of hollow tile and concrete. Partitions are of hollow tile and cement 
blocks, which make the building fireproof and soundproof. The in- 
terior fijiish is of hard white plaster; the woodwork of red birch in 
warm gray stain; the floors of rooms, excepting the cement floor of 
the laundr}?- and terrazo of the laundry laboratory and the toilet 
rooms, are of birch shellacked and waxed, while the halls with one 
exception are covered with brown linoleum. This exception is the 
main entrance hall which has a floor of white terrazo. Water, steam, 
electricity, gas, and vacuum are provided in all rooms where needed, 
and are supplied from a central power plant located in the basement 
of the Industrial Arts Building. Air for artificial ventilation is washed 
free from dust and soot in a fan room in the basement. In heating, 
a combination of the direct and indirect systems is used. 

The general plan of interior d'vis'on is the s:me on all floors. Th' re 
is a wide hall the length of the building, with a wider central portion 
on first and second floors, forming respectively an entrance hall and 
an exhibit room. On each side of the porch and facing west are of- 
fices, single or double; the east side center contains a large room 
flanked by smaller ones north and south; while a large classroom or 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

laboratory occupies each of the four corners of the building. On 
each floor there is one or more light and sanitary toilet and lavatory 
rooms. There are no passenger elevators, but two wide easy stair- 
cases with alberene treads connect the three floors. 

At present the classwork of the whole institution is crowded into 
the two buildings, consequently not all rooms are used as they will 
be later, but the following distribution of work is the one eventually 
intended. In the basement is a laundry classroom, institutional laun- 
dry, two large classrooms, a locker room supplied with lavatories and 
a skirt drier, offices, maid's room, store rooms and fan room. The 
first floor contains the entrance hall mentioned above, opening east- 
ward into the social room. Adjoining this on the left is a students 
work room, on the right a rest-room. In the \ving to the north are 
laboratories for elementary sewing and dressmaking. In the south 
wing are a large classroom, and a physics laboratory. In the entrance 
hall the walls are panelled and here and in the corresponding exhibit 
hall above, the woodwork is of old ivory finish. The Social Room is 
a sort of informal parlor, where one can drop in between classes for 
an easy chair and a friendly chat. The second floor is planned for 
cooking, nutrition, and chemistry classes. At the north end are a 
home dining room, two large kitchens and one small one, and store 
rooms; at the south end laboratories for chemistry, textiles and nu- 
trition, while in the center is an open air classroom, with casement 
windows and tiled floor. 

In equipping the building, flexibility, harmony, and service have 
been the aim. Many of the Peabody students in Home Economics 
will be pioneer teachers of the subject and will need not only to know 
that good work can be done with very simple equipment, but also to 
be able to do the work in this way. At the same time we aim to 
have them familiar with as great a variety as possible of standard 
furnishings and utensils. 

It will be noted that space is not given in this building for fine arts 
or for a lunch room. This is not because either is neglected but 
because provision is made for Home Economics students in the stu- 
dios of the Industrial Arts Building and a cafeteria is under con- 
struction in the centrally located Social Religious Building. 



1915] THE STATES RELATIONS SERVICE 421 

THE STATES RELATIONS SERVICE OF THE UNITED 
STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

H. L. KNIGHT 
Stales Relations Service 

On July 1, 1915, a new plan of organization went into effect in the 
United States Department of Agriculture. This plan involved a 
transfer of some lines of work from bureau to bureau in several cases, 
as well as some other changes, but the most noteworthy departure 
was the estabhshment, as one of the main divisions of the department, 
of what is known as the States Relations Service. This new organiza- 
tion developed upon the foundation of one of the oldest branches of 
the department, viz., the Office of Experiment Stations, and contains 
this ofhce, with most of its former activities, as one of its d'visions. 
In addition it includes the cooperative demonstration work of the de- 
partment, which has been transferred from the Bureau of Plant In- 
dustry and joined with the extension work of the States, and the farm 
home management work, which has been added to the work already 
under way in nutrition investigations. 

The functions assigned to the new service are first of all, as the name 
implies, to represent the Secretary of Agriculture in his relations with 
the state agricultural colleges and experiment stations under the 
Morrill (agricultural college), Hatch and Adams (experiment station), 
and Smith-Lever (extension) Acts and acts supplementary thereto. 
In addition, the service is to carry on the activities authorized by 
Congress for farmers' cooperative demonstration work, investigations 
relating to agricultural schools, farmers' institutes, the relative utility 
and economy of agricultural products used for food, clothing, and 
other purposes in the home, the maintenance of agricultural experi- 
ment stations in Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, and Guam, and such 
other matters as the Secretary of Agriculture may designate from time 
to time. 

To carry on these various lines of work, the new service has been 
subdivided as follows: (1) The Office of the Director of the Service; 
(2) the Office of Experiment Stations; (3) the Ofhce of Extension 
Work in the South; (4) the Office of Extension Work in the North 
and West; and (5) the Office of Home Economics. 

The Office of the Director deals with the general administration of 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

the sendee, including the hand ing of its funds, most of its publications, 
and its library. It also has charge of the investigations on agricul- 
tural instruction in schools, especially studies of the methods and sub- 
ject matter of school instruction in agriculture and the suppljing of 
up-to-date and properly organized subject matter and illustrative 
material for school use, and has similar duties as regards the farmers' 
institutes, movable agricultural schools, and like organizations. 

The Oihce of Experiment Stations is organized primarily to advise 
and assist the state and insular agricultural experiment stations. It 
collects and disseminates information regarding similar institutions 
throughout the world, and publishes the Experiment Station Record, 
an abstract journal of the scientific literature pertaining to agricul- 
ture. Thirty-two volumes of this comprehensive publication have 
been completed since its establishment in 1889, assembling fully 
100,000 abstracts of articles, and constituting a unique work of refer- 
ence. The office supervises the expenditures of the Federal funds 
granted to the state experiment stations, now aggregating $1,440,000 
per annum, and has direct charge of the management of the so-called 
insular stations in Alaska, Haw-aii, Porto Rico, and Guam. 

The duties of the serxdce vdxh reference to extension work are divided 
between two offices, one dealing with matters pertaining to the 15 
Southern States, and the other those of the remaining States. These 
duties include, first, the relations with the extension div-isions of the 
agricultural colleges under the Smith-Lever Act, the supervision of 
their work and expenditures under that act, and the coordinating of 
the extension work of the several bureaus of the department with 
similar w^ork carried on by the colleges. All the States have now 
assented to the provisions of the Smith-Lever Act. In each State a 
single agricultural college has been designated as the beneficiary, ex- 
cept that in several States where the college selected is not coeduca- 
tional a cooperative arrangement for the work in Home Economics 
has been made with the state college for women, and similarly in a 
few States having separate land-grant colleges for negroes, a cooper- 
ative arrangement has been made for extension work among people 
of that race. The colleges have all established extension divisions or 
services and have brought under these divisions all their extension 
work in agriculture and Home Economics. There is thus provided a 
means for a unified administration both within the Department of 
Agriculture and within the States. 



1915] THE STATES RELATIONS SERVICE 423 

The extension offices also continue the farmers' cooperative demon- 
stration of the department. Under this head extension and demon- 
stration work on subjects relating to agriculture, Home Economics, and 
rural life generally is carried on through practical demonstrations and 
instruction under the supervision and management of state, district, 
and county agents working with individuals and through organiza- 
tions of farm men and women and boys' and girls' clubs. This work 
is supported by direct congressional appropriation to the department, 
but is done in cooperation with state colleges of agriculture, depart- 
ments of agriculture and education, county governments and organi- 
zations, and others. In the cotton territory the work includes the 
teaching and demonstration of methods of meeting the ravages of the 
cotton-boll weevil. In the North and West, demonstrations in farm 
management form a special line of work. 

The field extension staff in the South includes in the county agent 
and boys' club work (men agents) 15 state leaders, 18 assistant state 
leaders, 42 district agents, 681 county agents, and 63 local agents, and 
the home demonstration and girls' club work (women agents), 15 
state agents, 13 assistant state agents, 2 district agents, 355 county 
agents, and 2 local agents. There are 30 state leaders, 14 assistant 
state leaders, and 344 county agents, in the county agent work in the 
North and West, 21 state leaders and 20 assistant state leaders in the 
boys' and girls' club work, and 20 state demonstrators in farm man- 
agement demonstrations. 

The Office of Home Economics is, of course, the division of special 
interest to the readers of the Journal. While the name of this office 
is changed, its personnel and policies are already famihar, as it has for 
its nucleus the former division of Nutrition Investigations. It will be 
recalled that in 1894 the state experiment stations were specifically 
authorized by Congress to include the study of the food of man in 
their inquiries and instructed to report their progress to this depart- 
ment. An appropriation was also made of $10,000 ''to enable the 
Secretary of Agriculture to investigate and report upon the nutritive 
value of the various articles and conmiodities used for human food." 
The prosecution of this inquiry was assigned to the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, which had already instituted work in collating infor- 
mation regarding the methods and results of food investigations in 
this countr>' and in Europe. The enterprise subsequently became 
a part of the regular work of the office and has contributed largely to 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

the available fund of technical and popular data on nutrition, and to 
the introduction of studies along this line into the curricula of a large 
number of colleges and schools. 

The purpose of the nutrition investigations has been to study the 
use as food of the products of farm, ranch, and garden and to bring the 
results obtained to the attention of housekeepers and thus help them 
in making the best, most rational, and most economical use of their 
available resources, and to provide material for the teacher, physician, 
and others who need accurate information on food and nutrition in 
their professional work. Very many questions have been studied 
and the results obtained have been of decided value to the producer of 
food supplies and to those who manufacture, handle, and market 
them, as well as to the housekeeper, the teacher, and the professional 
man. 

The investigations have provided and made accessible a large 
amount of data regarding the composition and nutritive value of 
American food materials, their properties, and their uses. Of special 
studies may be mentioned those which have to do with the relative 
digestibility of bread made from flour of different sorts, of meat of 
different kinds and cuts prepared for the table in various ways, of 
cheese, of cereal breakfast foods, and of vegetables, fruits, and nuts. 
As a result of this work coefficients of digestibility of a considerable 
number of common food materials have been deduced. 

j\Iuch time has been given to studying the effects of various cooking 
processes upon digestibility and nutritive value and to the relative 
merits of different methods of preparing food when judged by quality, 
palatabiUty, and the labor involved. Dietary studies have also been 
carried on in homes and in pubUc institutions, which have furnished 
important data regarding the living conditions of American people 
and have helped in formulating dietary standards used as guides in 
home and institution management. 

The respiration calorimeter, an instrument of precision for meas- 
uring the total income and outgo of matter and energy in experiments 
with man, has been perfected, found useful for a great variety of 
experimental work, and extensively and profitably employed for such 
purpose. Later developments of this instrument are forms suited 
to the study of problems of vegetable physiology and other questions 
of interest in connection with the work of the department. 



V 

I 



1915] THE STATES RELATIONS SERVICE 425 

A total of 132 nutrition pLi})lications have been issued, of which 62 
are technical bulletins. The publications as a whole have been in 
much demand, their total distribution to the close of the fiscal year 1915 
being 16,305,800 copies, of which 15,952,150 were farmers' bulletins. 

The scope of this work was increased in 1914 to include similar 
studies of agricultural products in their relation to clothing and other 
uses in the home. This extension was brought about very largely in 
response to the demands of housekeepers, educators, and others for 
work along these lines. 

Under the new plan, the work of the Office of Home Economics is 
grouped under two heads. The first of these includes scientific and 
practical studies of the nature and uses of agricultural products used 
in the home for food, clothing, and equipment, and the methods of 
household work and management, and also aims to make available to 
housekeepers, teachers, students, and extension workers the results of 
such studies at home and abroad. The second branch of activity 
continues the well-known calorimeter investigations, embracing a 
systematic study by calorimetric methods of food, clothing, and 
household equipment and work, with special reference to energy 
values and efficiency. Special calorimeter investigations on other 
subjects included within the work of the department are also to be 
conducted in cooperation with the different bureaus. 

As already intimated, the various changes outlined for the States 
Relations Service involve very few alterations in personnel. Dr. A. 
C. True, who has been connected v/ith the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions since 1889, and its director since 1893, has been appointed 
director of the service. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, chief of Nutrition 
Investigations since 1905, became chief of the Office of Home Eco- 
nomics, with Mr. R. D. Milner as assistant, and a scientific staff com- 
prising the following: Dr. A. D. Holmes, H. L. Lang, S. C. Clark, 
W. P. Garrety, Anna H. Whittelsey, C. F. Walton, Jr., J. P. Andrew, 
Ilena M. Bailey, Caroline L. Hunt, and Helen W. Atwater. 

The employees of the States Relations Service as a whole number 
about 2100 of whom only about 200 are located in Washington. 

The initial appropriation for the service aggregates $2,821,840. 
This exceeds by $891,060 the previous appropriation for the Office of 
Experiment Stations. This appropriation does not include the grants 
to the other States under the Smith-Lever Act, which for the present 
year may reach $1,080,000, but as usual contains $1,440,000 to be 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (October 

paid to the state experiment stations under the Hatch and Adams 
Acts. Some of the principal items are $103,140 for statutory 
salaries, $59,500 for general expenses, $386,080 for farmers' cooper- 
ative demonstration work outside the cotton belt, $666,020 for similar 
work \sdthin the the cotton belt, $20,600 for the studies of agricultural 
schools and farmers' institutes, $120,000 for the maintenance of the 
insular experiment stations, and $26,500 for studies of the utilization 
of agricultural products for food, clothing, and other uses in the home. 
The organization of the btates Relations Service, then, is essentially 
a regrouping of some of the activities of the department on a more 
logical basis, with the design thereby to increase its eflSciency. It is 
hoped that in this way, with the help of the enlarged facilities in some 
directions, it may cope more effectively than ever before with the 
complex problems with which it is being called upon to deal. 

BULLETINS ON EDUCATION FOR THE HOME 

HENRIETTA W. CALVIN 
Department of Borne Economics, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 

A need for exact information concerning the status of Home Eco- 
nomics instruction in the United States has long been recognized. Dr. 
Benjamin R. Andrews has now supplied the material so much desired.* 

In Bulletin No. 36 of the Bureau of Education Dr. Andrews has 
presented a general survey of the Home Economics field and given a 
brief outHne of its development in this country. In 1818 Mrs. Emma 
Hart Willard "discovered domestic economy as a subject of instruc- 
tion; Miss Catherine Beecher developed the idea, and to her we reaUy 
owe a larger debt." It was Mrs. Willard who wrote: 

It is believed that housewifery might be greatly improved by being 
taught, not only in practice, but in theory. There are right ways of per- 
forming its various operations; and there are reasons why those ways axe 
right; and why may not rules be formed, their reasons collected, and the 
whole be digested into a system to guide the learner's practice? 

What teacher of Home Economics today cannot echo Miss Beecher's 
sentiments when in 1841 she wrote her text on the principles of house- 
hold management? 

* Education for the Home. Benjamin R- Andrews, United States Bureau of Educa- 
tion. Bulletins Nos. 36, 37, 38, 39. 



1915] BULLETINS ON EDUCATION FOR THE HOME 427 

The author of this work was led to attempt it by discovering, in her ex- 
tensive travels, the deplorable sufferings of multitudes of young wives and 
mothers from the combined influence of poor health, poor domestics, and 
a defective domestic education. 

The measure which, more than any other, would tend to remedy this 
evil would be to place domestic economy on an equality with the other 
sciences in female schools. 

Scientific investigations relating to subjects of interest in the house- 
hold started in the early part of the nineteenth century and have re- 
ceived increasing attention since that time. The scientists interested 
in physics, in chemistry, in biology, in economics and in sociology 
have all given their assistance in solving the problems aflecting the 
welfare of the home. The land-grant colleges and state universi- 
ties began definite courses in Household Arts in 1872 and 1873. The 
spread of this teaching has been downward into the elementary schools 
and upward into graduate schools of science, and in four states is now 
required in all public schools. 

In a brief discussion relating to the methods of teaching in house- 
hold arts, Dr. Andrews offers justifiable criticisms: "In elementary 
schools the danger is relatively too much practice, too few ideas; in 
higher schools, if not too many ideas, often too little practice." "In 
vocational instruction the child should undertake real projects; in 
cooking, food which could be served in a meal; in sewing, a garment 
to be worn; in housewifery, a room to clean— hence the usefuhiess of 
the practice house or apartment." A timely word closes this section 
of the discussion. It is, "The teacher's own attitude toward the 
home as an institution is important." 

Wherever household arts is to be introduced questions arise as to 
size and arrangement of rooms and probable cost of equipment. 
There is much in this bulletin relating to these matters. 

In the second part of this series of bulletins on Education for the 
Home, the author brings together the laws of the various states relat- 
ing to the introduction and maintenance of courses in Home Eco- 
nomics in the public schools, normal schools, land-grant colleges, and 
state universities. A number of states give direct appropriations to 
schools wherein "domestic science and agriculture are taught." 

The laws relating to cerrification of teachers of Home Economics 
vary greatly. "Legal recognition of the need of Home Economics in 
the equipment of every trained grade teacher is already in evidence." 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

It is suggested that such household arts instruction as is given in sixth 
grades and below may well be given by the room teacher and that the 
teacher of the one-room rural school will, of necessity, give this work 
and the work in agriculture. 

High school instruction in Home Economics courses is always given 
by special teachers and so the question becomes one of who shall re- 
ceive this instruction, rather than who shall administer the work. 

There is evidently needed on the high-school level two types of home arts 
training: First, an eflScient vocational preparation in homemaking, which 
will equip a young woman to assume the management of her mother's 
home or later her own home; second, a training for wage-earning vocations, 
based originally on the household arts — cooking, catering, baking, sewing, 
millinery, dressmaking, laundering, nursing (preparatory to nm-ses' schools), 
costume design, etc. In these and in all vocational curricula in high 
schools, there is no thought of mere trade courses, but of combined aca- 
demic-technical courses that broaden life while preparing for service in a 
limited field. In the vocational curricula that have no reference to the 
home, and in the college preparatory coiu-se, there should be provision 
among those broadening courses for one or more years of household science 
to give some preparation for woman's potential profession of homemaker. 

Colleges have come to accept a certain amount of technical work in 
high school as entrance credits but the author warns that 

High-school teachers in Home Economics must be on guard against the 
maldevelopment of what should be vocational work in homemaking into 
academic pseudo-scientific instruction in order to curry favor for college 
entrance recognition. Let vocational work stand on its own feet and rec- 
ognition will come duly. 

That the teaching of Home Economics need not be confined to the 
regular elementary school, high school and college is evident. Refer- 
ence is freely made to continuation schools, mothers' classes, night 
classes and similar agencies emplo}'ed for supplementing the work 
previously given in the public schools. Attention is called to the de- 
cided advantage deri\'ed from holding these various continuation 
schools in the afternoon rather than at night. 

E.xperiments with daytime classes for home women, to provide practical 
work and laboratory instruction in unit subjects of the household, were 
carried out by the public schools of several cities last year, notably with 



1915] BULL"ETINS ON EDUCATION FOR THE HOME 429 

great success at Montclair, N. J., where about 200 women received instruc- 
tion, and where this year the plan has been continued and extended to in- 
clude a class of housemaids, which they attended at daytime hours and on 
their employers' time. 

Classes in housekeeping or housewifery have been formed in many 
elementary schools and a large number of high schools are now pre- 
pared to successfully administer household management classes. 
Quite recently the "practice house" has sprung into prominence in 
normal schools, colleges and universities. The author approves of a 
minimum household arts course in every normal school, this course to 
consist of "instruction in cookery and sewing of the rural school 
course." That is, that since the province of the normal is the prepa- 
ration of rural and elementary school teachers and since these teachers 
will all, probably, have occasion to teach household arts, they should 
be required to enroll for a certain amount of this instruction. 

After a free discussion of the various agencies disseminating infor- 
mation relating to the education for the home, the author considers 
the need existing for research in Home Economics. 

The Smoot bill proposing Government aid for research in this field has 
appealed to many as the most certain method in the proposed national 
legislation to aid education for the home. Home progress is most funda- 
mental to welfare, and yet slowest to come, because of the isolated de- 
tached position of the individual home unit, which by its unique nature is 
not open to the competitive influences which vitalize practically every 
other human enterprise. 

The third bulletin in this series consists of compilations of the courses 
offered in colleges and universities and brings together much data 
heretofore obtained with difficulty. Careful outlines of t^-pical 
courses are here found, together with reports on various extension 
forms of teaching. Especial attention m.ay be called to the course on 
the economic position of women by Prof. S. P. Breckenridge of Chi- 
cago University; to the survey course in textiles by Prof. Agnes 
Houston Craig of Pullman, Washington, and to the statement by Prof. 
Mary Swartz Rose regarding courses in nutrition in Teachers College, 
Columbia University. 

Part IV, or Bulletin No. 39, is a very complete list of books, maga- 
zines, and separate articles relating directly or indirectly to education 
for the home. 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

There is included in this last bulletin a list of places where some 
phase of Home Economics is taught. 

This entire set of bulletins will be found of the greatest value to all 
who are interested in the teaching of Home Economics and to those 
others who desire to obtain a comprehensive view of the growth and 
development of this new type of education. 

EDNA DAY HYDE 

BORN AUGUST 24, 1871 
DIED JUNE 8, 1915 

The death of Edna Day, Mrs. Hyde, was a double sorrow to those 
of her friends who were fellow workers with her in Home Economics. 

Her contributions to the subject, both through scientific research 
and teaching have been so great, and the future promised so many 
results in the application of theory to the practical problems of 
family life that we can ill afford to lose the additional help that 
she would have given. 

To those who counted themselves her friends the sense of personal 
loss is even greater. Those who knew her best grew into an appre- 
ciation of her character and ideals that revealed a most unusual 
personality. 

Her sincerity and honesty that in earlier days made her almost 
fanatical in her adherence to her convictions, her imperative need 
for intellectual rather than emotional reasons for action, her unself- 
ishness and intense human interest that brought students and friends 
constantly to her for help and sympathy, these were some of the quali- 
ties that made her an unusual woman. It was characteristic of her 
that she spent part of the last day of her life in arranging some 
minerals to be sent to her young nephew. 

Miss Day graduated at Michigan University in 1896, and took 
her master's degree in botany at the same institution a year later. 

During the years 1897-1900 she taught in several places, among 
them the Oswego Normal School, and the High School, North Tona- 
wanda, N. Y. 

Her interest in Home Economics was developed, if it did not origi- 
nate, when she was teaching in the summer school at Chautauqua, 
N. Y., as assistant in botany, with many of the domestic science 
students in her classes. The following year she had charge of the 
work in botany for these students, and herself attended some of the 
classes in Home Economics. 



1915] EDNA DAY HYDE 431 

Her first Home Economics teaching was at Lake Erie College 
where she took charge of the department, following Miss Bevier. 

In 1903 she turned again to study and, in addition to some teach- 
ing in the University of Illinois, began her work for her doctor's 
degree, giving her attention chiefly to botany. 

In response to the offer of a fellowship in the Department of House- 
hold Administration at the University of Chicago she decided to 
complete her work there and in 1906 she was given the degree of 
Ph.D. in Household Administration. Miss Day was probably the 
only woman who ever earned her doctor's degree directly in this 
subject. 

Of her work Miss Talbot as head of the department writes: 

Miss Day showed somewhat notable qualities of independence, patience 
and resourcefubess. She was quick to appreciate that her choice of 
subject, viz., the Effect of Cooking on the Starch Grain, would carry her 
into many different fields. Pre\T[ous work on starch had been Umited in 
scope. The botanist, chemist, physiologist and other specialists had each 
investigated the subject chiefly from one point of view. It was her first 
task to coordinate the different results and in this she showed marked 
thoroughness and a fine grasp of the diflficulties involved. Her whole 
study was, as she well reaUzed, a piece of pioneer work. 

As her scientific investigations proceeded she was tempted to make use 
of the favorable conditions in which she found herself, to give play to in- 
terests which were more deep seated, and in her opinion more vital. The 
economic and social relations of "the family and the household, and es- 
pecially the biological significance of the human organism in its develop- 
ment and growth, appealed to her strongly, and she was one of the first 
workers in the field of Home Economics to lay more stress on these aspects 
of the subject and to subordinate to them the technical details of house- 
hold science and art. In this lay perhaps her greatest service to the cause 
of right homemaking. 

From Chicago Miss Day went to the University of Missouri to 
become head of the department of Home Economics, and to reor- 
ganize the work that had been for a time discontinued. Her schol- 
arly attainments gained recognition of her work from the faculty, 
while her enthusiasm and interest won the confidence and admiration 
of the students. The department grew rapidly under her direction 
and her influence was felt not only in the University and the town 
but also throughout the State. 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

In 1910 Miss Day was called to the University of Kansas to form 
a new department. Her breadth of vision and her past experience 
enabled her to develop a wide range of courses, and when she re- 
signed in 1914 she left a well organized department that showed the 
results of a gratifying steady growth. 

Here, as in Missouri, her work was not confined to her own col- 
lege, but was extended to state teachers associations, to the stand- 
ardization of public school courses, and to the housekeepers of the 
state. Of her work a former pupil writes: 

As a teacher she was enthusiastic and alert, and to each class she brought 
the inspiration of her zeal and interest. Her enthusiasm was the enthu- 
siasm of belief, and was communicated to each student. Each one felt 
her personal interest and responded more eagerly because of it. 

As a friend her time and strength were given unselfishly and unspar- 
ingly to each who came. The hopes and ambitions of many girls were told 
to her, voiced perhaps for the first time; and Lhe force of her inspiration 
will always be a potent influence for many of her friends in Kansas. 

In the summer of 1914 Miss Day married Mr. Abraham Lincoln 
Hyde, professor of Bridge Engineering in the University of Missouri, 
whose acquaintance she had made while teaching there. 

Those who were in touch with her during this short year of her 
happy married life were impressed not only with her happiness but 
with the development of character that accompanied this new 
experience. 

Her unexpected death has brought to us all a deep sense of per- 
sonal loss, and we extend our sincerest sympathy to her husband. 
For her little son, Edward Clarendon, the best that we can wish is 
that he may be worthy of his mother. 

"In the formative days of the Home Economics Association, at 
the Middletown summer meeting, at the Cornell graduate school, and 
in the annual meetings Miss Day's presence was welcome and in- 
spiring;" and future gatherings will indirectly feel her influence. 

Alice P. Norton. 

Note. — Thanks are due for this material to Miss Marion Talbot 
of the University of Chicago, to Miss Isabel Bevier of the University 
of Illinois, to Miss Louise Stanley of the University of Missouri, and 
to Miss Elizabeth Nowell of the State Normal School, Warrensburg, 
Missouri. 



EDITORIALS 

The Bureau of Education and Home Economics. Both the 
United States Bureau of Education and the Home Economics world 
are to be congratulated upon the wise and thorough way in which 
Mrs. Cahan and her associate Miss Lyford are beginning the impor- 
tant work that lies before them as specialists in Home Economics of 
the Bureau of Education. Since her appointment last March Mrs. 
Calvin has visited many of the schools and colleges in the middle 
west and has made a survey of the Home Economics teaching on the 
Pacific Coast. She has attended an important conference of Home 
Economics teachers of land-grant colleges, called by Dr. Claxton to 
meet at San Francisco in connection with the general meeting of the 
Association of Agricultural Colleges, with the hope of securing a fuller 
recognition of the departments of Home Economics in these schools, 
and more prominence in connection with their annual meetings and 
reports. She was also present at the meeting of the Home Economics 
Association at Seattle. 

Miss Lyford meanwhile has visited the normal schools of the New 
England states, where she "found such a diversity of work and such 
varying quantity of results that the need of standardization becomes 
very apparent." 

Mrs. Calvin writes with regard to future plans that for the present 
Miss Lyford "will take the normal schools over the country, gather 
information relating to their courses, visit and discuss the work with 
the teachers whenever possible, and gather material of such na- 
ture as may be helpful to teachers in those schools." Mrs. Calvin 
wOl do the same type of work in land-grant colleges and universities. 
Miss Lyford will interest herself especially in the public schools of 
the North and East while Mrs. Calvin will respond to correspondence 
from the Southern and Pacific Coast states. 

Home Economics teachers who have found themselves too busy to 
observe the work of others to any extent will be glad to know that 
Mrs. CaMn hopes that "in time we shall be a central station for the 
gathering and distribution of material. With our larger opportuni- 

433 



434 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ties we may be able to discover new and interesting efforts and con- 
vey this information to teachers meeting similar problems." 

That such plans will be successful under the leadership of a woman 
of such rich and varied experience as Mrs. Calvin no one can doubt. 
Her home experience with the training and education of her six child- 
ren and their support after her husband's death; her success as Hbra- 
rian of Kansas Agricultural College, her Alma Mater; her quick ad- 
vancement to the position of dean of women and head of the depart- 
ment of Home Economics in the same college; her work at Perdue 
and at Oregon Agricultural College, have proved her executive ability 
and given her an insight into varied needs and have added to her 
original equipment of fine personal quaUties and ability an experience 
of great value for the work she is undertaking. 

Miss Lyford is a Drexel graduate and her experience includes some 
years of work in Chicago at the school of Domestic Arts and Science. 
The last few years have been spent as head of the department in the 
state normal school at Normal, Illinois. 

We extend most cordially to both of these specialists the hearty 
cooperation of the Journal. 



1915J EuiTURiAi.s 434a 

The Editorship of the Journal of Home Economics. With 
this issue Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel retires from the editorship of the 
Journal of Home Economics, and is succeeded by Mrs. AKce Pelou- 
bet Norton of Chicago. The following minutes and resolutions express 
the appreciation not only of the associate editors, and of those attend- 
ing the meetings at Seattle and San Francisco, but also of the sub- 
scribers to the Journal and the whole Home Economics Association. 

MINUTES 

Minutes adopted by the Board of Associate Editors: 

With the current issue of the Journal of Home Economics, Mrs. 
Mary Hinman Abel, Editor from its third issue (that of June, 1909) to the 
present, at her urgent request retires from its active direction. 

Through these six years, Mrs. Abel has given not only time and energy, 
but the priceless contribution of a wise mind, a wide vision, and an un- 
faltering faith to the development of this first scientific journal of home 
making. The oversight of every line of printed material that has gone 
into the Journal, the writing of much of it personally, and the often more 
difiicult task of securing contributions from others, the direction of busi- 
ness matters, — with a budget now well toward ten thousand dollars a 
year — all this has required hours of service daily and often blocks of full 
days at a time, and all this has been given without money remuneration. 

At this time, the Board of Associate Editors wishes to record, on behalf 
of every member of the Association and every reader of the Journal, the 
common debt of us all to Mrs. Abel's devoted services through these years. 

Associated as she was with Mrs. Richards in the development of the 
Home Economics movement from its beginning in the New England 
Kitchen in Boston, in 1890, through the Lake Placid Conferences to their 
merging in the present American Home Economics Association, and chosen 
as she was in 1909 at Mrs. Richards' suggestion to develop the Journal, 
Mrs. Abel has by the sound establishment of this publication not only 
rendered an incalculable service to all present teachers and workers in Home 
Economics but she has also put in her debt ail their successors. 

Board of Associate Editors. 

resolutions 

Resolution adopted by the Seattle Convention, American Home 
Economics Association, August 21, 1915: 

Resolved: That an expression of heartfelt appreciation be sent to Mrs. 
Mary Hinman Abel on her resignation from the editorship of the Joltrnal 



434b THE JOURNAL OE HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

OF Home Economics, for her devoted and effective labors over a long 
term of years which have contributed so materially to the satisfactory 
status of the Journal, and for the skill, tact, concentrated effort and dis- 
cretion which successfully pioneered the Journal through its earlier stages 
and guided it to its present influential position. 

Resolution adopted at the Oakland Meeting, August 27, 1915: 

Resolved: That the convention of members of the American Home 
Economics Association meeting in Oakland express to Mrs. Mary Hinman 
Abel their appreciation of her devoted services, during six years of un- 
remunerated toil, in developing the Journal of Home Economics and 
bringing it to its present high standard of professional excellence, and 
that they express to IMrs. Alice Peloubet Norton, who is now to take up the 
editorship of the Journal of Home Economics, their confidence in the 
success which will attend her work and their readiness to cooperate with 
her in any way possible in advancing the Joitrnal. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

In searching for information concerning the progress of the Montclair 
school for housemaids we were referred by Superintendent Bliss to an 
article in The Countryside Magazine for April. We quote the following: 

The school for housemaids grew out of a successful attempt to teach 
housewives the finesse of their craft. The idea originated with Superin- 
tendent of Schools, Don C. Bliss, who sent out several thousand notices last 
year, advising matrons of the to-WTi that they could be further instructed in 
the arts of housewifery by coming to school. He expected a score of re- 
sponses but actually 225 women appeared at the domestic science kitchen 
of the high school. Eight classes were formed. 

When the fall semester began, the mmibers had come down to eighty, 
and there were four classes. The decrease in numbers really meant that 
the work had become permanent, for a sifting process had been going on 
steadily, and the residue was composed of women who were determinedly 
seeking to get the most that the teachers had to give. From this success 
came the belief that classes for housemaids, in which pupils might be taken 
onward from the most rudimentary principles, would fill a need in the 
community. 

A suggestion to instruct them during the hours which belonged to their 
employers manifestly could not emanate from the schools. The House- 
waves' League was fully alive to the benefit its members would receive by 
cooperating in the movement, and it was because of their support that Super- 
intendent Bliss again sent out notices. Of the maids who came, and were 
sent, to the Central School on Thursday afternoon, January 14, 1915, 
approximately fifty registered for the course. 

The following article gives further details of the work. — Editor. 
A SCHOOL FOR HOUSEMAIDS 

HELEN ESTHER MARSH 
President of the Housewives' League, Montclair, N. J. 

When the women in a typical suburb, IMontclair, New Jersey, 
determined to look the domestic servdce problem squarely in the face, 
the president of the Housewives' League appointed a comjnittee on 

435 



436 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Domestic Service. The first act of this committee was to make 
public in local newspapers and community clubs the state laws 
pertaining to the subject; namely, that no intelligence office may be 
used as a donnitory or restaurant, that every such office must keep an 
available list of references of its appHcants for positions, and that the 
fee for prospective employer or employe must not exceed 10 per cent 
of the first month's wage. The cooperation of town officials in the 
enforcement of these laws was secured. 

The committee maintains, for the benefit of the league, a private 
list of dayworkers, laundresses, cooks, waitresses, mother's helpers 
and artisans who are available in emergency and whose honesty and 
efficiency are vouched for by two or more members of the organization. 

For the benefit of the housekeepers who attempt to keep permanent 
help, the chairman of the committee asked the superintendent of 
schools to estabUsh domestic science classes for housemaids. Here 
she met cordial cooperation both from the superintendent and the 
head of the domestic science department. In conference with the 
latter, the committee evolved a course of twelve lessons including in- 
struction in the care of household equipment, the use of the fireless 
cooker, the preparing and serving of cereals, soups, sauces, breads, 
meat, vegetables and eggs. The total cost of the lessons was two 
dollars per member. The ethical training of the course included 
such subjects as simple hygiene, avoidance of waste, and moral 
responsibility to the employer. 

There were between sixty and seventy enrolled in classes in three 
different sections of the town. Now that the completed course of 
this year has proved a success, the school authorities and the com- 
mittee of the league are planning more advanced courses for succeed- 
ing years. As the first set of lessons presents the principles for the 
right performance of the duties of the general houseworkers, so more 
advanced work will train them in more elaborate cooking and the 
principles of nutrition. The new high school building has a system 
of unit kitchens, under the direction of the teacher, yet more nearly 
approximating conditions in an ordinary home than were those in 
large class rooms. Opportunities will be offered for training in uj>- 
stairs work and laundry work as well as cooking. Diplomas are given 
for each completed course of study. The girl whose work warrants 
a diploma in this class should be able to qualify as a satisfactory gen- 
eral houseworker. 



1915] A SCHOOL FOR HOUSEMAIDS 437 

One by-product of this campaign for the betterment of domestic 
conditions is that the domestic science classes for housewives have 
materially increased in membership. Doubtless the interest of many 
more has been aroused by the letters that were sent by the league to 
town organizations representing over a thousand women and by the 
circulars distributed in the schools where the special classes were held. 

This careful advertising easily explains the enthusiasm of Mont- 
clair residents, but it will hardly account for the widespread interest 
that has manifested itself in cities as far distant as Baltimore, Boston, 
and Chicago. The success of the plan strikes its taproot into deeper 
soil. In the first place, it is direct and simple in method. It uses 
facilities near at hand, the school plant, the cooperation of public 
spirited officials and intelligent housewives. It makes an application 
of vocational training to the needs of an industrial class heretofore 
neglected. It exposes as fallacies certain false concepts that in the 
heat of the domestic conflict have too often been regarded as axioms, 
such as the following: 

1. Mistresses are tyrannical and maids irresponsible. 

2. Mistresses disregard ethics in dealing with each other, therefore 
the maids may follow their example. 

3. The domestic service problem cannot be solved in terms in which 
other labor problems are solved. 

4. A competent mistress has nothing to learn, and a competent 
maid cannot be improved. 

5. Housework is drudgery and cannot become anything else. 
That some of these concepts have been changed is shown by the 

fact that in nearly every case, the mistresses are pa>ing the tuition of 
their maids, and, without exception, they are giving two and a half 
hours per week from the regular schedule of work, not from the "day 
out." The majority of those attending the classes have expressed 
their appreciation of this fact, and their enjo>Tnent of the work. To 
them it is a social pleasure as well as a source of instruction, and it is 
the only pleasure they have enjoyed that is in line with their occupa- 
tion, not an escape from it. They are beginning to realize that al- 
though housework looked upon as a round of tasks is drudger}^ yet it 
can never equal the awful monotony that binds one's unwavering at- 
tention every second of eight hours per day to one mechanical proc- 
ess; that housework, considered as a science to meet the vital needs of 
a family, as a manual art in which to express a love of beauty and or- 
der, is a scJurce of personal joy. 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

WHAT CONTINUATION SCHOOLS MAY DO FOR 
DOMESTIC SERVICE 

ARTHTIR D. DEAN 
Chief, Division of Vocational Schools, State Educational Department, Albany 

We all recognize that household arts courses are not vocational in 
the exact meaning of the term. Of course the better ones are devel- 
oped from the point of \di w of training young women toward the 
"great vocation of homemaking." Actually they do little or nothing 
toward fitting people for '"profitable employment in a gainful occu- 
pation." Very likely it is doubtful whether they can follow the latter 
definition of vocational training imtil the pubHc itself is more ready to 
think of the possibilities of giving trade instruction to prospective 
cooks, care takers of children, laundresses and cleaners. 

Of course we all recognize that many women have criticized the 
household arts instruction in the pubhc schools because it does not 
furnish the aforementioned desirable and useful people. I recaU that 
I was once interrupted in a speech before a women's club with the 
question: "But will these courses give us more and better house- 
maids?" that my reply was something Hke this: "Well, my friend, it is 
doubtful whether the household arts courses in public schools will be 
of any great assistance in solving your problem until the house^^dves 
themselves are able to so organize the processes within the homes 
that they can successfully compete with factories, stores, and offices 
which now claim the vocational activities of about every girl who has 
any ambition." In other words, I pointed out to her in my reply that 
a factory girl works for from forty-eight to fifty-four hours a week and 
when the bell rings her work is over; that her work is hmited in its 
scope and therefore is not as tiresome to her as though she were called 
upon to take all sorts of responsibilities. The store girl has plenty of 
company during business hours, the world goes right by her counter 
and she feels herself a part of it, while her sister of the kitchen has an 
outlook which extends into some one's back yard and the only world 
which comes to her is the grocer's and the butcher's boys. More 
need not be said on this line of thought. 

There is a field where the pubhc school can be of real service to the 
home. I refer to the continuation school movement — day or evening 
or both — where girls already employed in the home may return to 



1915] COMMUNITY HEATING 439 

school for a few hours a week and learn how to carry on household 
activities efficiently and effectively. It is perfectly possible, as is 
now being shown in Montclair, N. J., to develop continuation classes 
for women who are already employed in the household. It is only a 
question of securing the active cooperation of the school authorities 
and a group of women who need these better servants and who will 
give "time off" for attendance at the school. The "time off" should 
be a real period of definite freedom from housework and should not 
be accompanied by what I fear would be the usual remark, namely: 
"Now hurry back home just as quickly as you can and dress Ruth for 
dinner" or "undress Ruth for bed" as the case may be. These girls 
must not have their wages reduced because they are attending school, 
and provision must be made for them to have the same freedom to 
receive continuation school work that boys and men are having in the 
factory continuation school movement. 

It is not in any whimsical spirit that I seriously propose that a con- 
tinuation school movement which is meant to solve the "servant 
question" will eventually succeed best when it starts out with the idea 
of forming a continuation school class for housewives in showing them 
that in the average home the present system of carrying on the home 
activities and the demands made upon "servants" are such that the 
"servant question" can never be solved by throwing all the burden of 
its solution upon the servants themselves. I abominate this word 
"servant" and I am sure I share in that the feeling of those engaged 
in household service. A mere change of word will not change the 
service. The service itself must be changed and then the term 
"servant" will be changed over to "one who serves" and the latter, as 
I understand it, all of us are glad to be. 

COMMUNITY HEATING 

This department has received questions regarding central heating 
plants for small towns for groups of detached buildings and for city 
blocks. 

It seems to be very difficult to get exact figures for these plants 
although a number of them are known to exist. 

Concerning one which heats 41 houses in a block in Brookl>Ti, 
where heat and unlimited hot water is furnished and included like the 
water supply with the rent of the house, the manager writes: 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The heating proposition, while an attractive one from the standpoint 
of the tenant, is not an economical one. The cost of heating a house is 
as great as it would be if each of the houses were heated independently by 
the tenant, and about the only saving is the sa\ang of labor to the tenant, 
and the ad\^ntage to the landlord is in the demand for these houses. 

As a business proposition these houses have never paid as much as could 
be obtained by investing the amount of money represented by them in 
bond and mortgage, and such an investment as this would not entail the 
labor and trouble caused by "he houses. 

We should be grateful to any of our readers who will furnish reliable 
data concerning plans for central heating. 

SEVEN WAYS TO ANSWER THE QUESTION "WHAT 
SHALL I HAVE FOR LUNCHEON?" 

AMANDA STOLTZFUS 
Department of Extension, University of Texaj 

A unique and most practical examination is being held in the Uni- 
versity of Texas, Department of Domestic Economy, where yoimg 
women are preparing themselves for expert housekeeping and home- 
making and for the expert teaching of these all-important subjects. 
Each student taking part in this examination on the subject of Foods, 
plans her own menu which must pass muster as a ''balanced meal;" 
must do her own buying and submit the receipted bills to the instructor 
as proof that she has stayed within the price limit — ten or fifteen 
cents for each serving of six persons; and last but not least, she must 
prepare and serve this meal within an hour and thirty minutes. 

To pay for her expenses each student has the privilege of selling her 
six tickets at the cost of the meal. So popular have these luncheons 
become that the demand for tickets is many times more than the 
number of covers. With the permission of these young women and 
their instructor, the menus which they actually used, together with 
the actual cost of the materials, are given with the aim of helping some 
housekeeper to answer the momentous question "Wliat shall we 
have for luncheon?" 

The menus used were as follows : 



1915] 



HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETICS 



441 



I 

Tomato Soup and Croutons $.168 

Meat Pie 24 

Cheese and Lettuce Salad 096 

Orange Ice 096 

Total per service 10 



II 

HotRoUs 082 

Meat Balls 156 

Potatoes 059 

Salad — turnip cup with peas and 

carrots 168 

Lemon Ice 079 

Angel Food Cake 056 

Total per service 10 

III 

Cream Tomato Soup 248 

Salmon Croquettes Ill 

Potatoes 083 

Muffins 104 

Lettuce Salad 118 

Charlotte Russe 227 

Total per service 15 

IV 

Chartreuse 138 

Tomato Sauce 048 

Rolls 078 

Salad — molded vegetable 138 

Orange Ice 096 

Sponge Drops 072 

Total per service 095 



Salmon Croquettes IS 

Creamed Potatoes 04 

Rolls and Butter Balls 07 

Daisy Salad 145 

Ice 095 

Angel Food Cake 06 

Total per service 093 

VI 

Hamburgers 22 

Creamed Potatoes 12 

Apple Celery Salad 134 

HotRoUs 04 

Butter 046 

Blackberry Short Cake 28 

Total per service 14 

VII 

Fish and Sauce 27 

Muffins 12 

Creamed Peas in Cups 07 

Lettuce Salad 04 

Saltines 01 

Orange Ice 09 

.Ajigel Food Cake 06 

Total per service 11 

The basis for the recipes can be found in any good cookbook; but 
if any special information regarding this work is desired, address Miss 
Jennie R. Bear, Head of Foods Department, University of Texas, who 
will be glad to answer any questions. 

HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETICS 

Unfortunately, there is a widely manifested tendency for the pupil 
of the high school to ape the performances of his older brother in the 
college. This is shown in the introduction of competitive athletics 
and of Greek letter societies and social functions into the secondary 
schools, tending to counterbalance some of their wholesome features 
of social intercourse with the snobbery of exclusiveness and the de- 
teriorating influence of late hours and tiring distractions. 

We are glad to note, says The Journal of the American Medical 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Association, a spirit of protest in various parts of the United States 
against all the forces, social and athletic, which tend to deteriorate the 
American boy (or girl) at the adolescent age of the high school period. 
One health officer has recently madea pubHc announcement that proper 
exercise in a well-equipped gymnasium, under the guidance of a trained 
instructor, is good for any one, but that competitive athletics, requir- 
ing most strenuous exertion, long and tedious training and self-denial, 
is positively bad for any one before full development, and that all such 
overacts tend to impair the keenness of the mind and interfere with 
school work proper, as well as to injure the body. The competitive 
interscholastic games which require great physical exertion and men- 
tal tension should be done away with and a good gymnasium, under 
the direction of one trained in physical culture, should be provided 
and work according to the condition and need of each pupil assigned. 
We agree, further, that mild and well-timed athletic exercise and occa- 
sional social functions will tend to relieve the monotony of school life 
and invigorate body and mind; but over-indulgence is likely to be 
detrimental. 

The dangers referred to are not insignificant; they are real. Prof. 
C. R. Bardeen of the University of Wisconsin has pointed out, in con- 
nection with the participation in athletics in his institution, that the 
increasing amount of heart disease noted in this country by life insur- 
ance companies and others makes it important for the physician to 
make himself acquainted with the chief causes responsible for these 
conditions so that he can protect his patients. Over-exertion in com- 
petitive sports, especially in school boys, is one factor. From 5 to 10 
per cent of freshmen entering the state university have enlarged 
hearts with dilatation attributable to athletic sports. P'oreign spe- 
cialists also report that any system of athletics which finds its best 
expression in competition, and has as its chief end the development of 
athletic supremacy, fails to meet the real hygienic needs of youth and 
to serve for the proper perfection of the body. 

Let no one construe the opposition to competitive games as a move- 
ment against physical training and gymnastics. The latter should 
receive every encouragement that a rational system deserves; but the 
propaganda for a recognition of the value of bodily exercise carried 
out in any suitable form must be based on a system of health-promot- 
ing practices. Competition belongs to the specialist, who must in- 
sure himself against the consequences. He should not be allowed to 
set the standard for athletic sports. 



19151 



STAIN REMOVAL 



443 



STAIN REMOVAL' 



Character 
of Stain 
Blood 



Bluing 



Chocolate 
Cofifee 



Cream 



Ink 



Indelible ink 



Reagent 



Warm water 
Warm water and 

ammonia 
Warm water and 

naphtha soap 
Warm water and raw 

starch 



Boiling water 
Boiling water and 
acid 



Javelle 



Borax and cold water 
Boiling water 

Borax or glycerine 

Javelle 
Cold water 
Warm water and 

soap 
Salt and lemon juice 

Salts of lemon 

Oxalic acid 1 and 
or I Ja- 

Hydrochloric J velle 
acid J 

Ammonium sulphide 
and hydrochloric 
acid 

Ink eradicators 

Potassium perman- 
ganate and oxalic 
acid 



Method of Removing 
Wash in warm water until stain disappears. 
Ammonia assists in dissolving the blood. 

Rub with naphtha soap and soak in warm water. 

If heavy or new goods, as a new blanket, make a 
paste of raw starch and warm water. Spread 
on stain, and as fast as starch is discolored, 
make a new application. 

Wash in boiling water. Boiling will draw out the 
spots of blue formed from imperfect bluing. 

Vinegar or dilute acid will assist, if necessary. 
This is effective for pale and black blues. 

Apply Javelle, and follow immediately with boil- 
ing water. Thorough rinsing will prevent Ja- 
velle from affecting fiber. A yellow cast may 
remain if the bluing has been an iron compound. 
This yellow cast or these spots may be taken 
out as iron rust. (See iron rust.) 

Cover with borax, wash with cold water. Boil- 
ing water will remove trace of stain. 

Spread stained part over a bowl, pour boiling 
water on it from a height so as to strike the 
stain with force. 

Covering the spot with glycerine or borax will 
often assist in removing a stubborn stain. 

As a last resort, Javelle water may be used. 

Wash in cold water, then in warm water and soap. 

Remove as grease. (See August-September Jour- 
nal, page 383.) 

Moisten with salt and lemon juice. Lay in the 
sun. 

Apply as a powder. Then pour on boiling water. 

Apply a few drops of oxalic acid, follow with a 
few drops of Javelle, and rinse quickly with 
boiling water. 

Apply ammonium sulphide, wash with water, then 
wash with very dilute hydrochloric acid. Can 
be used on colors. 

Use as directed on box. 

Apply potassium, then wash with warm water, 
use oxalic acid, and then wash. Any brown 
from permanganate may be taken out with 
oxalic acid. 



From Laundering. By L. Ray Balderston, 1914, pp. 43-51. 



444 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



Mimeograph Concentrated am- 

ink monia 

Printers' ink Lard or grease 



Iron rust 



Vaseline 



Hvdrochloric acid 



Citric acid and 
cream of tartar 
Lemon juice and salt 



Milk 


Cold water 


Mucus 


Salt and water 




Ammonia 




Soap and water 


Paint 


Soap and water 




Gasoline 




Turpentine • 




Benzine J 


Varnish 


Alcohol \ 




Turpentine/ 



Tiirpentine 



Wagon grease Lard 
or 
Olive oil 



Wax 



Absorbent paper 
and warm iron 



Apply concentrated ammonia to the stain. Wash, 

and repeat until removed. 
Rub lard or grease in well, then wash in warm 

water and soap. 
Spread stained portion over a bowl containing 
one quart of water and one teaspoon of borax. 
Apply acid, drop by drop, until stain brightens, 
then dip stain at once into water. If not re- 
moved, use same method imtil stain disappears. 
Care should be taken to use either borax or 
ammonia in rinsing water. 
Apply to spot, wash with hot water. Rinse 

thoroughly. 
Sprinkle stain with salt and moisten with lemon 
juice; lay in the sun. This method is slower 
and less likely to affect material. Either method 
will extract color. 
Wash in cold water, then follow with soap. 
Mucus as found on handkerchiefs may be soaked 
in salt and water, then washed in warm water 
with ammonia or with soap. 
If paint is fresh, use at once soap and water if 

goods are washable. 
Wash the spot in any one of these, remembering 
that they are inflammable. Note. Old stains 
may be softened first with lard, oil, kerosene 
before using any of the remedies. 
Wet the stain with alcohol or turpentine and 
allow it to stand a few minutes, then wet again 
and sponge off with a clean cloth. Continue 
this until stain is removed. In case the color is 
affected by alcohol, sponge with chloroform; but 
for blue material use dilute vinegar. 
Wash a fresh vaseline stain with turpentine. 
Soaking may aid the removal. Stain caimot be 
removed after it has been boiled. 
Rub either oil or lard on stain, then wash with 
warm water and soap. It will be found of help 
to keep a cloth or blotter under stain while 
rubbing on the oil. 
Scrape off all that is possible, then place blotting 
paper over spot and press with warm iron. This 
will soften wax and cause it to be absorbed by 
the paper. If there is color, as from colored 
candle wax, use alcohol to extract color after 
removing wax. Javelle may be needed to 
bleach the color. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Nutrition 

Is Polished Rice Plus Vitamin a Complete Food? By C. Funk, Jour. Physiol., 48 
(1914), no. 2-3, pp. 228-232. 

The Diet of Sailors. By Markl, Arch. Schiffs u. Tropen Eyg., 18 (1914), no. 17, pp. 
583-605; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec. 32 (1915), no. 4, p. 358. 

The Energy Requirement of the Newborn. By H. C. Bailey and J. R. Murlin, Proc. 
Soc. Expt. Biol, and Med., 11 (1914), no. 4, pp. 109-111. 

The Rdle of Carbohydrates in Nutrition. By E. P. Cathcart, Brit. Med. Jour., 1914, 
no. 2803, pp. 503, 504. 

Nerve Degeneration in Fowls Fed on Unhusked Rice (Palay). By R. B. Gibson and 
Isabelo Conception, Philippine Jour. Set., Sect. B., 9 (1914), no. 1, pp. 119-123, pi. 1. 

The Nutrition of .\nemic and Tuberculous Children. By E. A. Locke, 4. Internal. 
Cong. School Hyg. Buffalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 285-297. 

The Influence of the Total Fuel Value of a Dietary upon the Quantity of Vitamin Re- 
quired to Prevent Beri-beri. By W. L. Braddon and E. A. Cooper, Brit. Med. Jour., 
1914, no. 2790, pp. 1348, 1349. 

Vitamines. By H. W. Bywaters, Sci. Prog. [London], 9 (1914), no. 34, pp. 225-250, 
pis. 5, figs. 10. 

The Importance of Sea Food in the Diet. By J. C. Linthicimi, Cong. Rec. [Washing- 
ton], 51 (1914), no. 132, pp. 9561-9564. 

Some Principles of Infant Feeding. By H. L. K. Shaw, Mo. Bui. N. Y. State Dept. 
Health, 30 (1914), no. 5, pp. 154-156, fig. 1. 

Calorimetric Observations on Man. By J. S. MacDonald, F. A. Duffield and K. 
Lucas, Rpt. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 83 (1913), pp. 262-264. 

Relation of Menus to Standard Dietaries. By IMabel H. Kittredge, 4. Internal. 
Cong. School Hyg. Buffalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 309-316. 

The Alaskan Eskimo. By J. A. Watkins, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), no. 8, 
pp. 643-648, figs. 5. (This article contains data regarding the diet and general living 
conditions.) 

The Influence of Beef Fat on Growth. By T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Proc. 
Soc. Expt. Biol, and Med., 12 (1915), no. 4, p. 92. 

Contribution to the Physiology of the Stomach. XXI. The Secretion of Gastric 
Juice in Man. By .\. J. Carlson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37 (1915), no. 1, pp. 50-74. 

Ductless Glands, Internal Secretions and Hormonic Equilibrium. By F. H. Garri- 
son, Pop. Sci. Mo., 86 (1915), nos. 1, pp. 92-100; 2, pp. 142-153. 

Some Studies in Fat Indigestion. By C. H. Dunn, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 
(1914), no. 3, pp. 225-233. 

The Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism, XI, The Cholesterol 
Content of Growing Chickens under Different Diets. By J. .\. Gardner and P. E. Land- 
ers, Proc. Roy. Soc. [London], ser. B, 87 (1914), pp. 229-236. 

The Sensations of the Alimentarj- Canal. By E. G. Boring, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 
26 (1915), no. 1, pp. 2-57. 

445 



446 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Foods and Cooking 

The Phosphorus Content of WTieat and of Wheat Flour; and Its Relation to the Bak- 
ing Qualities of the Flour. By H. L. White and R. F. Beard, N(yrth Dakota Sta. Bui. 
106 (1913), pp. 59-64. 

Food Inspection and Other Topics. By J. H. Wallis and C. D. Mason, Bien. Repl. 
Idaho Slate Dairy, Food and Sanit. Inspector and State Chem., 5 (1911-12), pp. 234, pis. 
16, figs. 2. 

The Structure of the Soy Bean. By T. E. Wallis, Pharm. Jour. [London], 4. ser., 91 
(1913), no. 2597, pp. 120-123. 

Ceylon's Food Supply. B}' C. K. Moser, Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 17 
(1914), no. 114, pp. 891-893. 

Use of Dried Potatoes [i.e., potato flour] in Bread Making, Landw. Wchnbl. Schles. 
Hoist., 64 (1914), no. 35, pp. 851, 852; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec. 32 (1915), no. 3, p. 252. 

Changes in Bread on Aging. By M. P. Neumann, Ztschr. Gesam. Getreidew., 6 (1914), 
no. 6, pp. 119-122; abs. E.-cpt. Sta. Rec. 32 (1915), no. 4, p. 356. 

[Composition of] Cassava. By J. S. Camus, Philippine Agr. and Forester, 3 (1914), 
no. 4, p. 75. 

Changes Taking Place During Baking — Chemical Composition of Bread. By H. 
Kalning and A. Schleimer, Ztschr. Gesam. Getreidw., 6 (1914), no. 7, pp. 137-143; abs. 
Expl. Sta. Rec. 32 (1915), no. 4, p. 354. 

The Banana Fruit. By J. Dacanay, Philippine Agr. and Forester, 3 (1914), no. 4, pp. 
81-83. (Data regarding chemical composition and culinary properties and some recipes 
are given.) 

The Changes in the Character of the Fats During the Process of Cooking. By Helen 
Masters and H. L. Smith, Analyst, 39 (1914), no. 461, pp. 347-350. 

Ice Cream Experiments, Ann. Rpt. Ontario Agr. Col. and Expt. Farm, 39 (1913), pp. 
92-94. 

A Program for Dehydrated Vegetables. By R. J. Burgess, Pure Products, 10 (1914), 
no. 8, p. 399. 

[Coffee Consumption and Modes of Grinding in Foreign Countries]. By J. B. Osborne, 
W. H. Gale, A. Halstead, H. L. Washington, E. L. Adams and W. Dawson, Jr., Daily 
Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 17 (1914), no. 141, pp. 1642-1646. 

Economics 

Keeping Down the Cost of Living in Germany. By C. X. Ifft, Daily Cons, and Trade 
Rpts. [U. S.], 16 (1913), no. 270, pp. 894, 895. 

Cost of Living in Xew Jersey, Ann. Rpt. Bur. Statis. Labor and Indus. N. J., 36 (1913), 
pp. 153-164. 

[Food and Its Cost at] the Garland School of Home Making, Half Yearly Rpt. Gar- 
land School Home House 1913-14, pp. 11. (Resident pupils act in turn as housekeepers 
at this home house. The system of management followed is described and financial 
statements made.) 

The Organization of a Rural Community. By T. N. Carver, U. S. Dept. Agr. Year- 
book, 1914, Sep. 632, pp. 58, figs. 2. 

The Market Place; Minimum Prices and Speculation, The Independent, 81 (1915), no. 
3448, pp. 32, 33. 

Return of the Market Basket. How Farmers and Housewives May Reduce the Cost 
of Living by the Spread of Free Markets in America, The Craftsman, 27 (1914), no. 2, pp. 
194-205. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

Experimental Domestic Science. By R. H. Jones. Philadelphia: J. B. 
Lippincott Company, 1914, pp. 235. $0.80. 

Under the above imposing title is presented a very modest little book 
ha\'ing novel ideas as to the teaching of the physics and chemistry of house- 
hold work. Of 227 pages of reading matter, 140 deal with a mixture of 
physics and chemistry, while the balance of the book is devoted to the lat- 
ter subject exclusively. 

The reason for introducing milk, its composition and analysis in the 
opening chapter is hard to imagine; the subject is too difficult and simpler 
subject matter would seem to be more advisable — water, for example. 
Pages 54-58 deal -vnth osmosis and diffusion and might well be improved or 
left out; the explanations are confusing and unsatisfactory. On the whole 
the aim of the work is in the right direction in making distinct application 
of the principles of physics and chemistry to the things of everyday life 
but it is to be hoped that the subject matter will be rearranged and simpli- 
fied and many errors corrected in a later edition. 

Family Expense Account, including problems of investment and expendi- 
ture. By Thirmuthis A. Brookman. Boston: D. C. Heath and Com- 
pany, 1914, pp. 96. S0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.65. 

The first school text on household accounts, by the former head of the 
department of mathematics in the Berkeley, California, high schools, 
merits commendation and warm approval, both in principle and in par- 
ticulars. It has the double purpose of teaching the mathematics of money 
underlying simple investment and expenditure, and of considering prob- 
lems rising in families of small income. A 14-year detailed record of ex- 
penditures in a family forms the central material for study; and methods 
of record keeping are presented and the following problems, among others: 
— pocket money, checks, the advantage of estimating expenses in advance 
(the budget idea, though it does not seem to be so called by name), banking 
and interest, meter charges for gas and electricity, buying a house, sup- 
plementary income through night work and by taking a boarder, taxes, 
mortgages, children's moneys and the cost of children, and the problems of 

447 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

insurance. The latter is one of the best things in the book, in that there 
are illustrated several kinds of insurance which may protect the household- 
fire insurance, ordinary life insurance, and this applied as a security for 
paying off a mortgage, accident insurance and the change which the new 
compensation laws will make in the status of the employee as regards acci- 
dents and the need of accident insurance, fraternal versus legal reserve 
insurance. Here is enough to be a real contribution. While the book is 
primarily suited for upper grade and high school students (and by the 
way would be an admirabl* text for the much needed instruction of boys 
as well as girls), yet w^tb the present undeveloped state of subject matter 
for college use it will be found useful by teachers in these higher institutions 
as well. One may express the hope that there are other teachers of Home 
Economics busy preparing texts in this same field and that in the next few 
years the school and college field will botli be supplied with other books 
which should improve in quality as they appear. It is vrorth while to 
characterize two other available books on household accounts: Haskin's 
How to Keep Household Accounts (Harper) is a delightful essay by a master 
of general ac.-ounting theory on the value of accounts in the household, 
with suggestions to the house-^A-ife as to how to keep them; Ibotson's Per- 
sonal a)id Domestk Accounts (Gee, London) is a statement, by an expert 
accountant, of the form of classified cash book and ledger necessary if one 
is to install a set of books to control household e.vpenditiires with the same 
exactness as is usual in the records of a business house — it is a book for 
the person who understands book-keeping or is willing to take the trouble 
to learn it. Also, in Miss Terrill's Household Management (American School 
of Home Economics, Chicago) one will find an admirable discussion of 
accounts. 

Arithmetic, Book I, Fundamental Processes; Book II, Practical Applications. 
By John H. Walsh and Henry Suzzallo. Xew York: D. C. Heath 
and Company, 1914. Book I, pp. 246. S0.35; Book n,pp. 518. S0.65. 

As explained by the authors "the series is so arranged that a child may 
acquire an easy and accurate command of the fundamental processes by 
the end of the sixth year. The seventh and eighth school years are thus 
left free for a study of those business institutions and practices, the xm- 
derstanding of which is vital to an extended use of arithmetic in practical 
Ufe." 

In Practical Applications problems are given dealing with income, house 
furnishing, rent, food, etc. Menus with calories and itemized costs are 
used to furnish figures for arithmetical processes, and methods of household 
accouijting are given, with a lesson on the proper dixision of income. 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 449 

An Outline of Nature Study. [Reprinted from the Popular Science Monthly, 

84 (1914), no. 4.] By Charles Lincoln Edwards. 

This outline shows the plan and practice in the Los Angeles public schools. 
In their nature-play the relationship of living things to one another and to 
the child is of greatest consequence. The play started in the school is con- 
tinued in or about the home. 

Making gardens of unused ground, learning the utility of animals often 
considered as useless, and of useful as well as harmful bacteria bring a 
knowledge of economics into this nature-play. 

"The great end of nature-play for the child is not simply to learn of the 
rest of nature but better to know himself as a part of nature." 

Large Indian Cornfield in North Dakota Long Ago, and An Indian Drama 
Petite for School Children. By A. McG. Beede. Bismark Tribune Com- 
pany, Bismark, N. D., 1914, pp. 24, 10 cents. 

The brief play which occupies the last four pages of this pamphlet rep- 
resents the Feast of Corn as celebrated by the Mandan Indians of North 
Dakota. The actors include boys who set up the ceremonial tents, priests 
who conduct the ceremonies, squaws, dancers, etc. The number of speak- 
ing parts need not be large and only simple scenery and few properties are 
required. The text is unobjectionable as to style and seems historically 
accurate. The play should be easy for high school or upper grade pupils 
to present. 

School Hygiene — A Report of the Fourth International Congress of School 
Hygiene, held at Buffalo, N. Y., August 25-30, 1913. By W. C. Ryan, 
Jr. {Bur. of Ed. [U. S.] Bui. 48 (1913), pp. 121). 

A brief smnmary of the proceedings of the congress and some of the 
most important papers, and also concrete data of the school hygiene move- 
ment as shown in the scientific exhibit made under the direction of the 
congress and in connection with it. The two subjects receiving the most 
attention at the congress were open-air schools and sex hygiene, but school 
architecture and equipment, medical and dental inspection, the feeding of 
school children, their classification according to mental ability and kindred 
subjects were also considered. 

Transactions of the Fifth Annual Meeting of the American Association for 
Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Published by the Association, 
1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, pp. 391. S3. 

This volimie contains reports of the various committees and oflBcers, and 
the addresses given at the sessions of the Boston meeting, November 12-14, 
1914. 



450 THE jomusTAL or HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The general topics considered were: Nursing and Social Work, Pedi- 
atrics and Vital and Social Statistics, Obstetrics, and Continuation Schools. 

The Spanish edition of The World's Work began with the September, 
1915, number and is to be issued quarterly by Doubleday, Page and Com- 
pany. This edition of The World's Work is being issued primarily for dis- 
tribution in South America; but subscriptions will be accepted to be mailed 
anywhere at a price of SI a year. There will be no foreign postage. 

Handy and Practical Farm Library. Missouri State Board of Agriculture, 
Columbia, Mo. 

Under this heading the State Board publishes monthly bulletins which 
deal with rural problems. The February Bulletin on Household Arts (pp. 
88), "aims to introduce sewing into the schools, to furnish a definite out- 
line for school work, to serve as a guide for teachers untrained in the work." 

Instruction is given in hand and machine work, pattern drafting, the 
use of commercial patterns and garment making. Diagrams and other 
illustrations accompany these instructions. 

The hygiene of dress, laundering, textile tests, and the removal of stains, 
together with a list of references, complete this Bulletin. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

.inalysis and Cost of Ready-to-Serve Foods. By F. C. Gephart and Graham Lusk. Chi- 
cago: Press of American Medical Association, 1915, pp. 72 plus tables. SO. 50. By 

mail of the Journal, S0.56. 
Civilization and Health. By Woods Hutchinson. Boston: Houghton ^Mifflin Co., 1914, 

pp.355. $1.50. Bymailof the Journal, $0.61. 
Educating the Child at Home. By Ella Frances Lynch. New York: Harper and Bros., 

1914, pp. 214. $1. Bymailof the Journal, SI. 07. 
Electric Cooking, Heating, and Cleaning. By Maud Lancaster. Authorized Am. ed. by 

Stephen L. Coles. New York: D. Van Nostrand Co., 1914, pp. 329. $1.50. By mail 

of the Journal, $1.64. 
Elements of the Theory and Practice of Cookery. By Mary E. Williams and Katharine 

Rolston Fisher. New York: Macmillan Co., 1913, pp. 347. $1. By mail of the 

Journal, $1.10. 
Good Housekeeping Magazine Institute Bulletin. Pub. by Good Housekeeping Institute, 

1 19 W. 40th St., New York City, W. H. Richajds, Director. No. 1 Efficiency Kitchens, 

1914, pp. 47. No. 2 Cooking Utensils, 1915, pp. 32. $0.15. 
The Housekeeper's Handbook of Cleaning. By Sarah J. MacLeod. New York: Harper 

and Bro=., 1915, pp. 259. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
Human Foods and their Nutritive Valw. By Harry Snyder. New York: Macmillan Co., 

1914, pp. 362. SI. 25. By mail of the Journal, $1.37. 

Profitable Vocations for Boys. By E. W. Weaver and J. Frank Byler. New York: A. S. 

Barnes Co., 1915, pp. 282. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.07. 
School Credit for Home Work. By L. R. Alderman. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 

1915, pp. 181. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.07. 

A Study of Foods. By Ruth A. Wardall and Edna Nobel White. Boston: Ginn and Co., 
1914, pp. 174. $0.70. By mail of the Journal, $0.78 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION, UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE, 
WASHINGTON, AUGUST 18-21; OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, WITH 
NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, AUGUST 26-28, 1915 

The seventh annual meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was held in two parts, first at Seattle, and then at Oakland. The 
first brought together over 200 members and others for a series of inter- 
esting and profitable sessions at the University of Washington, Seattle, 
from Wednesday to Saturday August 18-21, 1915. While the larger part 
of the delegates came naturally from the Northwest, there was a good 
representation from the South, the Middle West, and the East. The 
program presented excellent papers, and helpful discussions aros:e at many 
points in the meetings so that those who have attended preceding conven- 
tions of the Association regarded the Seattle meeting as one of the best 
conventions ever held. The organization of two new sections, that for ex- 
tension workers of the Association, and that for science workers, each call- 
ing together representative persons from various parts of the country, and 
each presenting a special program of merit, is enough to make this Seattle 
meeting memorable. 

The convention began on Wednesday with an excursion to Tacoma, 
arranged for delegates who came early. This was only one delightful 
item in a succession of events provided by the hostesses. Miss Raitt and her 
associates of the department of Home Economics in the University of 
Washington. On Wednesday evening the council met to hear reports of 
officers and to consider Association business, adjourning for later meetings 
during the convention. As a representative body made up of the elected 
officers and the special council members chosen for a five year term together 
with representatives elected by the sections of the Association and its 
affiHated societies, the Council contributes an element of permanence of 
great importance in the business of the Association. The special effort 
made at the Cleveland Convention under Miss Arnold's leadership to 
locate the executive power of the Association with the Council rather than 
with the president alone or with the smaller executive committee was con- 
tinued at Seattle under Miss Van Rensselaer. The Council, by the way, 
holds meetings not only during the conventions but also once or t'U'ice 
during the year and in intervals transacts its business by mail. 

451 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The program sessions of the Association began Thursday morning with 
a roll call to which all were asked to respond by a brief statement of prog- 
ress in their individual fields of work. This did much to promote from the 
start acquaintanceship among the delegates and was the basis of constant 
personal interviews throughout the convention. At the opening session 
a more extended statement of the Home Economics work of the U. S. 
Bureau of Education was given by Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Expert in 
Home Economics on the Bvi-eau Staff, in which she explained that Com- 
missioner Claxton had divided the Home Economics work of the Bureau 
between herself and Miss Lyford as follows: Mrs. Calvin is to have charge 
of inquiries regarding instruction in land-grant colleges and universities; 
and Miss Lyford regarding instruction in normal schools; while the ele- 
mentary and high school field is divided between them. Miss Lyford 
taking the East and North, and Mrs. Calvin, the South and West. Mrs. 
Calvin spoke of the four bulletins on Education for the Home recently 
published by the U. S. Bureau of Education which are available for dis- 
tribution on request. Mrs. Ellen P. Dabney followed with a statement 
of Home Economics in the schools of Seattle, especially of its novel features 
such as medical inspection which is correlated with Home Economics work, 
and later in the week delegates were given an opportunity to visit the 
schools. Greetings were also brought to this opening session from the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture by Miss Ilena Bailey, of the Office of 
Home Economics, who explained some of its investigations (the results 
of which are soon to be published) on conditions and costs of living in 
farm houses, especially with regard to woman's house work and its value. 

The evening session on Thursday included an address of welcome by 
Dean Haggett of the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Washing- 
ton, and an address by Miss Raitt, head of the Department of Home 
Economics of the University. Miss Raitt outlined the development of the 
department referring to its success in finding a middle ground between the 
schools of science and of the liberal arts, so that its students may take 
either the Bachelor of Arts course or the Bachelor of Science course. The 
department after three years now registers over 400 students so that the 
recent decision of the University authorities in assigning to this depart- 
ment the one new building authorized by legislature, has been accepted 
by the whole university community as entirely appropriate. 

The President's Address by !Mi€s Martha Van Rensselaer followed at 
this evening session and dealt with the scope and purpose of Home 
Economics education. It will be printed in a future number of the 
Journal. 

On Thursday afternoon an automobile ride through the parks and 
boulevards had been provided by the University Commercial Club which 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 453 

gave delegates a vivid impression of Seattle as a city of homes surrounded 
by well kept lawns with a profusion of roses and other flowering plants; 
and on Friday morning the students' Home Economics Club of the Uni- 
versity served a delightful alfresco breakfast under the trees in Ravenna 
Park. 

At the Friday morning session, Mrs. Arizona W. Calkins, formerly 
Washington State Food Inspector of Municipal Markets, described the 
efforts which had been made in Seattle to eliminate middle men and 
hucksters and to restrict the stalls in the municipal markets to actual 
producers of truck. Miss Mitchell who has in charge the inspection of 
markets, gave concrete details of the sanitary and business supervision of 
the Seattle markets. 

The Friday evening session was marked by three unusual addresses. 
Mr. Smith of the U. S. Department of Agriculture who supervises the 
projects under the Smith-Lever law, explained the Department's position 
in regard to the law. Projects which will increase the farm income, or re- 
duce household drudgery, or increase recreative opportunities on the farm 
are favored at present. The second address by Miss Ruth Wheeler of the 
University of Illinois was a comprehensive survey of recent advances in 
the science of nutrition; and the third was a masterly analysis of the whole 
field of scientific thought with references to the nature of Home Economics 
as a science and its relation to other sciences, which was presented by Dr. 
H. G. Byers of the University of Washington, Department of Chemistry, 
under the title, The Essential Unity of Science. 

The concluding session of the Seattle Convention was held Saturday 
morning with addresses by Miss Crooks of Milwaukee-Downer College 
on the Aim of Textile Teaching, and by Miss Ina K. Pitner of the Los 
Angeles Schools on Teaching Textiles in High Schools. The concluding 
address of the convention followed, by Miss AHce Ravenhill, on Economics 
of Efiiciency. Miss Ravenhill, known to all Home Economics workers as 
the leader in the EngHsh Home Economics movement, and the author 
of various standard works, is now making her home in British Columbia 
and all who attended the Seattle convention owe her a debt for the 
clear view of fundamental issues in Home Economics, which her address 
presented. 

After these addresses a brief business session was held in which there 
was reported from the Council and from committees the important items of 
business: the organization of the Science Section with Miss Ruth WTieeler 
of the University of Illinois as chairman; the Extension Section with Miss 
Gertrude M. McCheyne of Utah Agricultural College, as chairman; the 
appointment of a Committee on Home Economics Day wnth Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy as chairman; International Committee on Home Economics 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Extension into Foreign Countries, Dr. B. R. Andrews as chairman; Joiir- 
nal of Home Economics Board, with Mrs. Alice P. Norton as editor, and 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, and Miss Isabel I. Lord as 
associates; and the appointment of new members of standing committees. 

The Convention Committee on Legislation reported favorably on the 
Smith-Hughes bill for federal aid to vocational education, and the federal 
child labor bill, and asked all members to study these bills and write their 
representatives in Congress, also to study state legislation in their own state 
relating to Home Economic? as presented in the Bulletin on Education for 
the Home, Part II, issued by the U. S. Bureau of Education. (See page 
426.) 

The Committee on Resolutions reported a resolution dra\vn by the 
Canadian delegates regarding extension work in the Canadian prov-inces, 
calling for more club and women's institute work. 

The Council reported that the 1916 meeting would be held at the Uni- 
versity of Minnesota probably late in August. The Association will be 
the guests of the department of Home Economics. 

The final item of business was the report of the tellers on the election 
of officers which was as follows: For President, iNIiss Martha Van Rens- 
selaer, Cornell University; Vice-President (for 3 years) Miss Abby L. 
Maria tt. University of Wisconsin; Secretary, Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Chicago, 
111.; Treasurer, Prof. William Morse Cole, Harvard University; for new 
members of the Council (for 5 years) Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, U. S. Bureau 
of Education; Alice Loomis, University of Nebraska; Mary E. Sweeney, 
University of Kentucky; Fannie Ti^-iss, Normal School, Regina, Canada; 
Edna A. White, University of Ohio. 

Mention should be made again of the delightful hospitality extended at 
Seattle. It included, in addition to the entertainment mentioned above, 
a lawn party given on the University campus Friday afternoon by mem- 
bers of the faculty women's club, with folk-dancing by students of the 
University, and a final yacht ride on Puget Sound, and a fish supper on 
the beach on Saturday afternoon after the close of the convention with 
the State and City Home Economics Associations as hosts. 

The meetings at Oakland opened Thursday morning, August 26, with 
joint session morning and afternoon with the departmental Congress on 
Vocational Education and Practical Arts of the National Education As- 
sociation, with representation on the program accorded to the American 
Home Economics Association. The latter association then carried out its 
own program on the two following days. Ori Thursday's program ad- 
dresses were made on Art, and its Place in National Growth by Frank 
Alvah Parsons of New York; on Home Economics Applied to Life by Martha 
Van Rensselaer, president of the American Home Economics Association; 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 455 

and on The School Shop in Relation to Bread Winning by James Collins 
Miller, Provincial Director of Technical Education for Alberta, Canada. 
The first address by Mr. Parsons attracted so much interest that by vote 
of the meeting he was asked to speak further at the Friday session. In 
the afternoon of Thursday, President Pearse of the Milwaukee Normal 
School, Prof. Richard G. Boone of the University of California and Dean 
Thomas M. Balliet of New York University spoke on economic aspects of 
training for vocations. 

The first session of the Home Economics Association Friday was opened 
by Mr. Parson's address on Art and Home Economics in which in terms of 
general art principles he presented many practical suggestions as to better- 
ment of home conditions and as to teaching related to this problem. After 
a roll call at which delegates from widely scattered sections told of their 
work, the second address of the morning was delivered by Miss Ednah A. 
Rich, President of the Santa Barbara, California, Normal School, who 
spoke on the Work of the Domestic Visitor. She told particularly of 
recent adoption in California of a law which authorizes local boards of 
education to appoint visiting teachers of Home Economics, and outlined 
the proposed duties of such workers who are to aid in administering the 
Mothers' Pension Law and to help foreign mothers adopt American stand- 
ards of li\ing. By vote the meeting extended to Mrs. Gibson of Los 
Angeles, sponsor of this law, an expression of their appreciation of her 
services to Home Economics. 

At the afternoon session a paper on Educating the Filipino Girl was 
presented by Mr. Potter, Chief Clerk in the Bureau of Education at 
Manilla; and addresses were given by Prof. Jessica B. Peixotto of the 
University of California on Class Standards of Consumption in Relation 
to Economic Progress, and by Supt. J. H. Francis of the Los Angeles 
Public Schools on Educating the Modern Girl. 

Miss Peixotto's address gave rise to a discussion of the need of further 
facts regarding the expenditure of middle class families. By resolution 
the president of the Association was authorized to appoint a committee 
on the collection of budget material. 

In the evening the convention dinner was held in the California building 
at the Panama Exposition with about 100 persons present. On this occa- 
sion the Ex-position presented to the Association a bronze medal suitably 
inscribed, attesting the fact that the Association held its 1915 convention 
at the Exposition. 

Brief addresses were made by Mrs. Barnum, Chairman of the California 
State Board of Education, Professor Jaffa of the University of Califorina, 
Dr. Adelaide Brown of the California State Board of Health, Miss Bailey 
of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Miss Raitt of the University of 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

Wasliington, Miss Bartlett of San Francisco Schools, Miss Rose of Cornell 
University and Dr. Andrews of Teachers College. 

The closing session was held Saturday morning with addresses by Pro- 
fessor Jaffa on Conditions Regarding the Pure Food and Drug Laws, and 
by Dr. Andrews on Teaching Budgets. The latter paper was followed by 
a discussion to which valuable contributions of experience in this field were 
made by :Miss Brookman of the Oakland Schools, by Miss Weller of the 
Alameda Schools, Mrs. Widtsoe of Logan, Utah, and others. 

Throughout the Oakland meetings, as at Seattle an excellent profes- 
sional spirit was displayed and time and again real contributions were 
made from the floor, in the reports of local work and the discussion of papers. 
The high standards of work in the West, the advanced condition of instruc- 
tion in elementary and high schools, and the e\idence of excellent college 
and university work deeply impressed those from other sections. 

Institution Economics Section Conference. The sixth annual confer- 
ence of the Institution Section of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion was held iX Lake Placid Club June 25 to 29, 1915. The ofhcers were 
Mrs.Meh-il Dewey, Vice-president of Lake Placid Club, as Honorary Chair- 
man, Miss SarahLouise Arnold, Dean of Simmons College, Boston, as Acting 
Chairman, and Miss Emma H. Gunther, Teachers College, New York City, 
as Secretary and Treasurer. 

The meetings included discussions for those especially interested in the 
administration of college dormitories, public school lunch rooms, dietary 
departments of hospitals, and other phases of institution work. 

Courses of Instruction and Training for Institution Management was the 
topic for one session, with Miss Adelaide Nutting of Teachers College as 
Chairman. Representatives from the teaching staff of Cornell University, 
Pratt Institute, and Teachers College contributed to the discussion of 
courses as given in these colleges. 

Several meetings were given over to the question of Cost of Foods in 
Different Institutions. A paper on Food Costs for the Department of 
Charities, New York City, by Mr. Henry C. Wright, was presented. One 
on United States Army Rations was prepared by Capt. Stuart C. God- 
frey, U. S. Military Academy, West Point, N. Y. Mrs. Dewey of Lake 
Placid Club gave items of interest on Cost of Foods for European Soldiers. 
The problem of State Hospital Supplies was presented by Dr. R. H. Hutch- 
ings, Ogdensburg, N. Y. Besides these, the cost of feeding college students 
and the cost of food in private clubs were also included in the discussion. 

One session was devoted to Hotel Economics with Mr. Melvil Dewey as 
Chairman. The problem of Standard per Capita Food Costs was dis- 
cussed by Prof. Wm. M. Cole, Business Administration, Harvard Univer- 
sity. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 457 

Important consideration was given the field of the dietitian, and among 
the contributors to this session was Dr. E. E. Butterfield, Bellevue Hos- 
pital, N. Y., who talked on Diet in Disease. 

The Planning and Organization of the Cafeteria was presented and dis- 
cussed. Other questions of interest to Institution workers included Hous- 
ing of Self-Supporting Women in Cities, and among those who contributed 
were Miss Blanche Geary of the Y. W. C. A. of New York City; Mrs. Emily 
Beal in charge of the Nurses Home, Boston; and Mrs. M. Loomis of the 
Students' Union, Boston. 

The meeting was one of great inspiration to all interested in the hous- 
ing and feeding of large groups of people. No attempt here has been 
made to give more than a very brief, general outline, for it is expected 
that soon a complete program and proceedings will be printed. 

Indiana Home Economics Association. The second annual convention 
of the Indiana Home Economics Association met in the Library of Purdue 
University and was called to order by the president, Mrs. Virginia C. 
Meredith. In opening the meeting she said that an extensive correspondence 
with persons in every section of the state indicates that many are now study- 
ing the home as never before in its relation to the welfare of the community, 
and as a field for the employment of their best powers. The president 
stated that under instructions from the last convention she had appointed 
a special committee to consider and report on plans for modernizing the 
home. Also, she had sent telegrams to the thirteen Indiana congressmen 
urging them to support the Smith-Lever act with its provisions relating 
to Home Economics. 

The secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lewis Taylor, gave a very comprehensive 
report of the last convention and stated that the membership of the asso- 
ciation had more than doubled during the past year. 

President Stone addressed the association on "The Future of Home 
Economics in Purdue University." 

Dr. Carolyn Geisel made an inspiring address on "The Education of the 
Twentieth Century Woman." She declared that women must be educated 
for their business — the business of making homes and the business of being 
the mothers of men; that whatever hinders the right development of healthy 
children and efficient men and women should be made a subject of unre- 
mitting study and research. 

The committees and various county clubs allied with the state associa- 
tion gave encouraging reports. 

California Associations. The Science Teachers Club of Los Angeles 
held a limcheon on Saturday , May 22, at the Hotel Clark in cooperation with 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

the Manual Arts Association and the Pacific Conference. Full particulars 
may be secured from Helen Kuck, 2294 Garnet Street, Los Angeles. 

The State Normal School of Manual Arts and Home Economics Branch 
of the American Home Economics Association held its regular meeting on 
Thursday, May 13. Miss Nina Forsythe, Director of the Domestic Art 
Department gave a talk on General Armstrong and his work at Hampton 
Institute. Miss Forsythe taught for seven years at Hampton Institute 
and five years at the Kamciameha Girls' School in Honolulu, Hawaii, so 
that she w^as able to give many most interesting personal reminiscences of 
General Armstrong and his pioneer work in trade schools among both 
the southern negroes and the native Hawaiians. The meeting was held 
in the millinery room where the work of one of the students was on exhibi- 
tion. This included all the work done by the student in the Domestic Art 
Department during her twenty weeks' course. Besides the usual quota of 
garments, afternoon dress, evening gowni, tailored suit, fancy waists and 
hats, the work in weaving which consisted of three runners and a rag rug, 
was especially commended. 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York arranged, 
during the past year, for the following series of lectures: Cleanliness, or 
Helpful and Harmful Bacteria, Dr. Cassius H. Watson; Solving the Hat 
Problem at Home, Mrs. Evelyn S. Tobey; The Incidental Teaching of 
Science, Miss Grace McLeod; Laundering as Related to Textile Study, 
Miss L. Ray Balderston; Our Clothes and Their Ancestors, Miss Mary 
Quinn; Modern Methods in Marketing, Miss Emma A. Winslow. 

In addition to the series of lectures, a luncheon was held at the Hotel 
Martinique, with ninety-three in attendance. After the luncheon Mr. 
William Wirt outlined the scheme for a freer use of the school laboratories, 
playgrounds, auditoriums, etc., thus accommodating more classes in the 
New York City school buildings. Mrs. Rose Morgan, who goes through 
New York State encouraging the rural communities to hold to the old music 
and judge carefully of the new music brought into the home, sang a few 
snatches of negro melodies and made a brief analysis of each. At the 
end of the meeting she accompanied and led the group in singing some of 
the "Songs that Live" from pamphlets written by her and published by 
Cornell University. 

Miss Lord, Miss Kinne and Dr. Andrews all spoke briefly. 

Omicron Nu. The Iota chapter of Omicron Nu was installed at the 
University of Kansas, June 1. Miss Agnes Hunt of the Michigan Agricul- 
tural College was the installing ofiicer. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE TIELD 459 

At a business meeting held later, Miss Sybil Woodruff of Lawrence, Kan- 
sas, was elected president and Miss Margaret E. Lorimer of Olathe, Kansas, 
secretary. 

New England Home Economics Association. On May 6, 1915, the 

New England Home Economics Association ended another successful year, 
which is the sixth in its existence. 

The meetings planned by the three sections of the association have been 
conducted with gratifying results. 

The Social Workers have had exhibits, and discussions concerning the 
preparation of foods of different nationalities, as the Americans, Greeks, 
Italians and Jews, and during the year have been favored by the following 
speakers: Mr. Shooshan of Shooshan's Restaurant, Mrs. Filedes, of the 
Greek Restaurant, Miss Shaw, of the Dennison House. In April Mr. 
Demarco and Mr. Paolera talked about the "Italian Customs and Stand- 
ards of Living." One afternoon in March Rabbi Harry Levi gave a most 
interesting and instructive talk on "The Dietary Laws of the Jews," which 
we learned were all given for scientifically hygienic purposes. 

The Homemakers' Section has discussed different home problems and 
interests, such as "Honest Furniture" led by Mrs. H. M. Chamberlain. 
"Home Gardening and its Help to the Housekeeper" as discussed by Miss 
Persis Bartholomew was very helpful and suggestive, and we concluded 
that if a girl in Broxton who planted, tended and sold vegetables could 
make $60 on a piece of ground 50 feet by 20 feet some of us might reduce 
the expense of living by having vegetables all summer from a back yard 
100 feet by 150 feet if we planted them in the right order and gave them the 
right care. 

In February Mrs. L. B. Miller of Filene's store talked on "WTiat a Dress 
Means when we Buy it." She wanted every woman to demand better 
quality and never to be satisfied with poor goods or poor construction in 
anything, as commercial houses cater to all real demands and are themselves 
anxious for the standards to be raised. On March 2 "Some Recent Changes 
in the Matter of Diet" was ably discussed by Miss E. Grace McCuUough, 
dietitian of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. 

The Teachers' Section has had informal discussions on various teachers' 
problems, such as the particular needs, and the important things to empha- 
size in training young girls who seek employment after graduating from 
courses in domestic science and domestic arts in our public schools, and 
has welcomed criticism and suggestions from employers in different branches 
of the work. On April 20 "The Science and Art of Bread Making" was 
presented by Dr. W. K. Dyer, originator and manufacturer of the health- 
ful Cestus Bread. 



460 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Several open meetings have been held during the winter at the Twentieth 
Century Club. On January 25 Mr. John Graham Brooks gave a talk on 
"Cooperative Bu>'ing" which he considered the best and the most eco- 
nomical way of purchasing supplies for the home. He hoped we would pat- 
ronize all cooperative stores whenever possible. On March 30 Mr. Henry 
S. Dennison gave an excellent talk on "Unemployment" and dwelt exten- 
sively on "Woman as a Purchasing Agent." He urged his hearers to 
do all they could to make it go out of fashion to be in style. 

University Educatior of Women Fellowship. Miss Louise McDanell, 
assistant professor in the Division of Home Economics of the University 
of Minnesota, has been awarded the fellowship of the Baltimore Associa- 
tion for the Promotion of the University Education of Women for 1915- 
1916. This fellowship is available for study at an American or European 
university. Miss McDanell will study in the department of physiological 
chemistry at Yale. She is a graduate of the University of Nashville, of 
Leland Stanford Junior University, department of chemistry, and received 
her M.A. degree from Columbia, where she held a research scholarship in 
1911-1912. 

College Celebration. Vassar College will have a double celebration in 
October. It will observe on the one hand, the fiftieth anniversary of its 
opening, and, on the other, will inaugurate President-elect MacCracken. 
As is eminently fitting the keynote of the whole celebration will be the edu- 
cation of women — past, present and future. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia has planned, as 
work for the ensuing year, a questionnaire, composed of ten questions, cov- 
ering each of the following subjects: Domestic Science, Domestic Arts, 
School Feeding, Institutional Dietetics, Occupations. The questionnaire 
was distributed among the members of the association before the end of 
June. 

Members visiting various cities during the summer, volunteered to gather 
available information in each city. 

During the winter each of the standing committees will have charge of 
a meeting, at which the results of the research work in one or more cities 
will be given. 

In this manner, it is hoped to gain an insight into the work of Domestic 
Science and Arts elsewhere, and to compare it with what is being done in 
our home field. 



Vol. VII, No. 



THE 



NOVEMBER, 1915 



Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 



Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor 



Keturah E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 



Eh' to rial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel Anna Barrows C. F. Langworthy 



Isabel Ely Lord 



Ex-Officio Members — Martha Van Rensselaer, President Americiin Home Econom'cs Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chnirman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth W'hei lkr Chairman Science Se.tion 
GiRTUi'DE McCnEVNE, Chairman Extension Section 

Collaborators— The Oflicers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

President's Address 

Need for Uniform Leaflets for P^xtension Work in Home U 
Recent Contributions to the Foundations of Dietetics 

The Winthrop Farm School 

Homes 

Bi'SiNESs Trainino for Women ..... 

The Community Organized for Neighborhood Patriotism 
Home Economics Day and its Observance 

Editorials 



Housekeepers' Department 
I^LECTRic Vacuum Cleaners 
Persimmon Recipes .... 
The Mischievous Wiping Cloth 
Purchasing Meat .... 
Bird Population Less Than It Ought to Be 
Heat, Humidity, and Working Power 

Bibliography of Home Economics . 



Books and Literature 
News from the Field 



Miirlhii Van Rcussrinrr 
CONOMics C. F. Latigworlhy 
. Ruth Whcchr 
Hetty S. Bro'd'n 
osslc Crannell Means 
Flhcl M. Johnson 



F. 



M. E. Coolev 



461 
465 
46Q 
480 
484 
485 
4^0 
491 

494 

497 
497 
499 
501 
502 
505 
506 
507 



509 
5K> 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year— monthly except July and August— by the 
American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on Xew York, E.'^prcss Order oi; Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a ret;istered letter, is at the sender s risk. 

CHANGE I\ ADDRESS. Notice of cliange in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .\ddress should be clearly indicated in addition to the Xew Address. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



Station N, Baltimore, Md. 



Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




House and Garden 




A Class on the Veranda 
WiNTHROP Farm School, Rock Hill, S. C. (see page 480) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VII NOVEMBER, 1915 No. 9 

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS^ 

MARTHA VAN RENSSELAER 
Cornell University 

If Mrs. Richards and the persons who were early concerned in the 
education of women for home makers had been told at the first Lake 
Placid meeting, that we should be two or three hundred strong upon 
the Pacific coast in 1915, there would have been not only great sur- 
prise, but wonderful gratitude. We evidently have started around the 
world from our meeting in Boston some years ago to the present meet- 
ing and perhaps a future meeting will be in the Philippines. We are 
perfectly willing to go around the world with Home Economics, and 
there is no more fitting subject to encircle the world than Home 
Economics. 

How has it come about that we are in the elementary stages of 
Home Economics education when our foremothers knew so much about 
it, and it was the only education which they had; when they were 
the forerunners of household art and of science, though they did not 
know it? In primitive days savage men went out to fight and women 
stayed at home to cook, to make the raiment, and promote rudimen- 
tary agriculture ; thus agriculture started as homemaking and whatever 
contributed to the welfare of the home was homemaking. 

The story is a famihar one. The savage chief in chase and de- 
fense, his savage wife the originator and producer of utensils and 
foodstuff; the calling of men to pastoral hfe and the women to smaller 
agricultural pursuits; later, home manufacture of food and clothing 
in which the family have shared, the traveling cobbler and gradual 

• Presented at the Eighth .\nniial Meeting of the American Home Economics .\ssocia- 
tion, Seattle, 1^15. 

461 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

exchange of home made goods, the division of labor in which man took 
the agriculture and women the preparation of food, clothing, and 
the cultivation of home arts; — later, the development of machinery and 
the disappearance of home arts and economic justice in the family 
when each person was self -supporting ; the organization of merchant 
gilds, and trades unions; the necessity of factory employment for 
women and children. Women and children entered this field un- 
trained and serving as they always have the interests of employer and 
working with a possible idea of change to homcmaking, they made a 
business of neither homemaking nor industrial work. 

Then came the age of chivalry when by military command women 
and children were protected. With this came the age of romance, 
luxury, and sensuousness because without training or schooling women 
must appeal by their beauty, charm and ability to care for the wel- 
fare of man. 

Then there came the revolution, the reformation and renaissance 
and as in evory great revolution women grew in judgment and re- 
sponsibility. Individualism asserted itself no less in women than in 
men. To cook, to sew, to clean, to keep accounts, to pray, to sing, 
did not then as it does not now satisfy women. The convents offered 
some education but not to all. Comenius, Erasm.us, Rousseau dared 
to proclaim that women should be admitted to public education. Why 
go to school to cook, to sew, to spin when mothers had taught these 
arts always. Education in Home Economics was not then developed; 
science and art had not been applied to domestic affairs. It was 
taken for granted then and we have a similar surviving custom that 
girls need know no more than their mothers about housekeeping, and 
schools for that purpose were unnecessary. It was a more reason- 
able argument then when mothers and daughters were associated in 
household duties and when household servants were not common. 
Science was not ready for application to common things of the house- 
hold; the science then offered to woman was not the science of bac- 
teriolog}' that would teach her how to keep the kitchen sink clean ; it 
was not the science of chemistry that would teach her to make bread. 
To apply science to the life which the women would probably have to 
live was not considered. Teaching and housework were the main 
vocations offered to women. During all the time that work was find- 
ing its way into the factory, women and girls were left stranded 
should they wish to earn anything outside of factory life or teaching 
subjects which they had in school. For the work which was done 



1915] president's address 463 

in the home, untrained workers were employed, and housework be- 
came unstandardized. Soon the world went wrong so far as domestic 
affairs were concerned, and people began to worry about the work of 
the household, and about the inefificiency of the workers. Women 
were advancing in literary training and going further and further 
from domestic education. Thus woman's work and education were 
separated. 

Occasionally we hear of a woman who in early days was of special 
service to science. The rare exception was a woman who was inter- 
ested in the stars or a similar quest. 

The American Revolution brought about another state of uneasi- 
ness. The wives of John Quincy Adams and of James Madison, and 
other prominent men wrote and plead for woman's opportunity. 
Catharine Beecher, Mary Lyon, and Emma Willard gave their all to 
have the schools opened to women. When they were opened it was 
not to teach cooking and sewing, for mothers had taught it before; 
it was for that which women had not had in their lives. Later 
women's colleges were opened in the East. Again it was thought 
that higher education for women must not embrace what mother 
could teach at home. That was not what women were craving. It 
was language, history and mathematics — so called cultural subjects. 

Agriculture, and mechanical arts have suffered the same historical 
record as Home Economics. Work with the hands even with the 
appHcation of science has been termed manual and that direct from 
the book, cultural. Manual in some cases however came to be called 
menial. This led to a domination of the cultural as opposed to the 
noncultural subjects and a supposed corresponding difference in social 
importance. 

To remove this stigma is the opportunity of the Home Economics 
teacher who regards the social phenomena from the study of food, 
shelter and clothing of importance equal to the material results. 

To dignify the subjects by high aims, thorough knowledge, scientific 
research, economic and social justice is to make it worthy of any good 
institution of learning. 

Agricultural colleges were estabHshed over the country. Domestic 
science became a part of the curriculum. Where this work was es- 
tablished at a university, men devoted to arts held up their hands 
in horror at what they termed "cooks on the faculty." But the sub- 
ject prospered. High schools introduced Domestic Science in the 
same way and even there a line of demarkation has been drawn be- 



464 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

tween the art students and those preferring vocational sub jects, though 
this need cause no regret, for each needs the criticism of the other. 

In all this history, education has too often been separated from 
work, to the disadvantage of both and with the result that in do- 
mestic affairs, work is unstandardized. With the removal of work 
outside the home, the lack of standardization in the home, and the 
unfortunate attitude toward housework because of this lack of train- 
ing, we have an economic condition which threatens to revise our whole 
home fabric. Rooted deep in the hearts of the people, the home is 
secure but only with a better and more scientific foundation. While 
we condemn false standards and uneconomic home conditions we 
realize more than ever the need of an intimate home life for the hap- 
piness of men and women and the good of the children. It is only 
a question of revision and redefinition. 

The old methods of homemaking have not satisfied women's abil- 
ity. Education of the past has not pointed out the home as a lab- 
oratory for the science and art of the school, and woman has looked 
outside for her professional experience. Home Economics unlocks 
a vast and interesting laboratory and the result of the use of that 
laboratory is greater efficiency and a higher type of civiHzation, for 
"good citizenship is but an expansion of home ideals." 

In the use of such a laboratory a teacher of Home Economics 
must be familiar with home problems as they exist for her and for those 
whom she teaches. Her single life adds to the incompatibility of 
teaching and Hving, which tends to separate education from work. 
Again there is an incompatibility between married and professional 
life because of the outside demands upon the time of the professional 
worker. The more the pity that this is so because it keeps a se- 
lected group of women out of marriage and motherhood where in- 
tellectual training is needed for the good of the race. Again the 
teachers of the world who would impress standards upon the coming 
generations should not be divorced from the practical work of the 
world of homemaking. 

The purpose of Home Economics is to standardize home ideals. 
But since the home is the nucleus of all social life, the problems of 
Home Economics are not only those of the home but of the com- 
munity. The ideals of community, state and nation all reflect back 
to home standards. I congratulate a body of teachers whose work 
is to standardize and professionalize the home. 



1915] NEED FOR UNIFORM LEAFLETS 465 

NEED FOR UNIFORM LEAFLETS FOR EXTENSION WORK 
IN HOME ECONOMICS! 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The subject matter of Home Economics is the oldest in the world, 
but as a definite branch of learning the subject is very new. Yet 
it has been experimented with long enough to convince those who 
are famiHar with it that it possesses all the elements of culture which 
the most exacting could wish, and that it has a further advantage in 
that it deals with matters of everyday life and so teaches the student 
how to live. The content of the subject is large. Its subject matter 
of necessity forms a part of kindergarten teaching (witness the stress 
which is laid upon these matters in a method of education for young 
children which is now attracting so much attention), parts of it are 
admirably suited for grade school and high school work, and it fills 
with dignity its place in the college and university, while other parts 
of the subject matter find their best appHcation in the technical 
school and trade school. 

The last few years have witnessed a great increase in the eft'orts 
to supplement formal education by less formal education taken directly 
to the people. It is natural that extension education in agriculture 
should occupy a prominent place in such a program, for agriculture is 
fundamentally related to the life of all the people. It is equally 
natural that Home Economics should accompany agriculture, for the 
home is the ultimate consumer of most of the products in agriculture. 
That the probationary period of extension education in agriculture 
and Home Economics is over is clearly evidenced by the passage of 
the Smith-Lever Act which now provides for such work under most 
generous conditions in every state of the Union, a project so far 
reaching in its possibiUties that one can hardly see the limits of its 
usefulness. 

While extension teaching in Home Economics is somewhat new in 
the United States, it has nevertheless made some considerable prog- 
ress. The work grew up in different places and under different aus- 
pices, and so it is not surprising to find that materials and methods 
used in the work have also varied. Now that the Smith-Lever Act 

' Presented (by title) at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Fro- 
nomics Association, Extension Section, Seattle, 1915. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

has given so great an impetus to the work, it is important that those 
interested in it should take stock of their resources and plan for their 
future needs. One of the most important of these is an adequate sup- 
ply of hterary material on which to draw for purposes of instruction — 
literary material which embodies not only the housewife's experience 
but the results of laboratory- test and technical studies. There are 
many technical works of reference on Home Economics and many 
text books, on one phase or another, suitable for classroom instruc- 
tion and a very large number of books and pamphlets, some of them 
excellent, prepared lor grade school use and for similar purposes. 
Some few of these deal with the general principles of Home Economics, 
usually laying stress particularly upon food and nutrition, textiles 
and clothing, and hygiene and sanitation. The simpler ones very 
often are limited to cooking and sewing with brief excursions into 
other matters. It is not too much to say that there is no complete 
and uniform series of texts which deal with the whole question of 
Home Economics. This is not surprising when one recalls the new- 
ness of Home Economics as a pedagogical subject and the great ex- 
tent of the material which can properly be included in it. The 
Syllabus of Home Economics, which represents cooperative work be- 
tween this Association and the Department of Agriculture, may be 
cited in proof, for the date of this, the first reasonably complete 
s}Tiopsis, is 1913, and the list of topics it includes is a very long one. 

No one will deny that the extension teacher needs an abundance of 
printed material. Furthermore, it must be concise, stated in simple 
language, and well balanced. Is it not possible for us to select from 
existing material, to experiment for additional facts, and prepare the 
texts which are needed? If we will all work together we can certainly 
better existing conditions and succeed. 

Naturally the form of the material must be decided upon before 
such an enterprise can go very far. The leaflet for instruction pur- 
poses seems to have been in the minds of many workers and this is 
natural since it is familiar to every one and has proved itself of the 
greatest value in Sunday School work where it has been developed 
systematically and has been used for something over forty years. 
I think the majority will agree that it is the best form of printed ma- 
terial for general use in extension work. 

(Those who think of "chance and circumstance" may be interested 
to recall that the leaflet plan is theirs by inheritance, for it owes its 



1915] NEED FOR UNIFOBM LEAFLETS 467 

adoption in Sunday School work to Dr. Peloubet, father of Mrs. 
Alice Peloubet Norton who will, I am sure, share it with us and help 
us to make the best use of it.) 

The ideal which we should have in mind if we are to carry out the 
plan consistently, calls for a series of leaflets covering the whole field 
of Home Economics as outhned in the Syllabus of Home Economics or 
an extension of it, which the future will no doubt bring forth. This 
would mean a very large number, since in many instances several 
leaflets per topic would be required. Also different leaflets would be 
needed for use in different regions. For instance, leaflets designed 
for the Southern States would necessarily deal with products which 
are common there but unknown or not common in the North and 
those designed for instruction in remote rural regions far from mar- 
kets w'ould differ from those for villages and towns with numerous 
and well stocked shops. However, one should not be appalled at the 
task, for what is most needed must be given attention first and much 
that is very urgent can be prepared without great difficulty. With 
so many workers in the field there is no reason why the output of 
teaching material should not keep pace with the development of the 
work. 

If we should agree that it is desirable to adopt such a plan as the 
one suggested, ways and means must be considered. The first step 
would be a collection of existing material used in extension teaching. 
Each extension worker should be requested to contribute whatever 
she has, whether manuscript or printed matter, and to accompany her 
material by notes which relate her experience v/ith it — whether the 
material has been found adequate, how much interest it has aroused, 
what changes she would suggest, what she considers should be the 
maximum length for a leaflet. She should be asked also to enumerate 
the topics which the workers most need to discuss. Efforts should 
also be made to collect school texts, which are already so numerous, 
and also the popular pamphlets such as those issued by the General 
Government and in connection with state work; for instance, the 
Department of Agriculture Farmers' Bulletins, and the Reading 
Course for Farmers' Wives, issued at Cornell. Then, too, we must 
remember that very valuable material in form as well as in substance 
has appeared from time to time in publications of agricultural experi- 
ment stations, pure food laboratories, state boards of health, and 
similar agencies. And there are the pubhcations of the Home Eco- 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

nomics departments of the General Federation of Women's Clubs and 
of the National Grange. Wherever there are workers, we must 
enhst their cooperation. Much of the material referred to has been 
prepared for gratuitous distribution. There are also the numerous 
text-books which have appeared in the regular publishing trade and 
the material appearing in periodicals — popular, scientific, and tech- 
nical. The material could be brought together and classified. Out of 
this mass of material some competent body should select the models 
which are most promising and should plan a campaign which would 
result in securing additional material. The committee could then 
decide upon a list of topics which should first receive attention and 
make definite suggestions as to the length of the articles, their con- 
tent, etc.. and by means of circular letters could call for volunteers 
to prepare the articles or could ask individuals who are known to be 
especially familiar with different phases of the work to do so. 

The committee would then be faced with the task of editing the 
material in order that it might be reasonably uniform and should 
adopt every available means to make sure that the language is simple 
and the statements accurate, that no points are overemphasized, that 
proper balance is maintained, and that all principal points are taken 
up instead of one or tv/o which a writer may have especially in 
mind. After the editorial work would, of course, come the question 
of publication. 

If carried to anything like a successful conclusion, such a project 
would result in the accumulation of a large amount of material and call 
for very large editions. No agency could handle such a matter as this 
so well as the General Government which would seem the natural 
publisher of the work. Since it already fosters the greatest organized 
effort for extension education which exists (the work done under the 
Smith-Lever Act), it seems logical that it should provide the printed 
text for use in its own work. 

Cannot agricultural colleges, experiment station workers, teachers in 
public schools, the Department of Agriculture workers, and others 
unite in this enterprise? If we group these together, would it not 
mean cooperation between the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion and related organizations, and the Department of Agriculture, 
which by law is charged with the Smith-Lever Act? It would seem 
th"t every one having an interest in extension work in Home Eco- 
nomics would ■wish to help such a plan as this in every way possible. 



1915] CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF DIETETICS 



469 



RECENT CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF 

DIETETICS I 

RUTH WHEELER 

Depdrlmcut of Household Science, Univcrsily of Illinois, Urbana, III. 

There was a time when the science of dietetics was hampered in 
its development by the lack of accurate information about the proc- 
esses of nutrition. It had to wait for physiology and physiological 
chemistry. Now, the difficulty is rather to acquire even the most 
superficial acquaintance with the discoveries reported in January 
publications before those of February are upon us. Digestion and 
assimilation of the material are all but impossible and yet both must 
be accomphshed if our science is ever to be the supremely important 
division of classified human knowledge it should become. This sub- 
ject should include preventive dietetics which shall be first assistant to 
eugenics in perfecting the race, and curative dietetics which shall to a 
considerable extent replace what the medical association has called 
unnecessary and probably dangerous drugs, in remedying disorders of 
metabohsm. Even now, it is often possible by dietetic measures alone 
to cure such difficulties as hypo- and hyper-acidity, gastric and duo- 
denal ulcer and many other disorders; decrease greatly the serious- 
ness of typhoid fever, diabetes meHtus and gout. It is evident that 
for its optimum development, dietetics must in the first place have the 
close cooperation of workers in many lines: chemists, physiologists, 
physicians, dietitians, government experts, food manufacturers, teach- 
ers and housekeepers; and secondly it must assimilate as promptly 
as possible the accomplishment in all the fields indicated. 

The last year has been a prolific one in spite of the lessened output 
of European laboratories. Discussion of the whole field is out of the 
question— there is far too much of it; and so in order to unify the ma- 
terial somewhat, only such investigations have been considered as 
are related more or less closely to two topics which have stood out 
conspicuously in the year's literature: energ>' exchange and growth. 
On the food side of energy exchange, there has been one notable 
contribution— Gephart's /I wa/>'5i5 and Cost of Ready to Serve Foods, 
in which 242 individual portions of cooked foods as served by Childs 
Restaurants are analyzed, their fuel value determined, and a table 

'- Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Science Sec Jon, Seattle, 1915. 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

given showing the relative cost of 2,500 calories in various food 
combinations from baked beans and bread and butter to deviled crab. 
There have been so many arguments about the amount of food the 
body requires, so much discussion of the Atwater standard and the 
Chittenden standard, that it is a rehef to find as great an authority 
as Graham Lusk giving figures which he says "are facts which at the 
present time are scarcely open to dispute. "^ 

Daily calwic requirements of 156-pound man 

Calories 

Absolute rest in bed without food 1,680 

Absolute rest in bed with food 1,840 

Rest in bed, 8 hours, sitting in chair 16 hours, with food 2,168 

Rest in bed, 8 hours, sitting in chair 14 hours, walking 2 hours, with food. 2,488 
Rest in bed 8 hours, sitting in chair 14 hours, with vigorous exercise 2 hours, 

with food 2,982 

As these figures indicate, the amount of fuel needed by the body 
depends first upon the activities of the whole organism, of the body 
as a unit; not only upon whether one does hard labor or leads a 
sedentary life but upon less obvious considerations brought to our 
notice by the very valuable work being done in the calorimeters in 
the Carnegie Nutrition Laboratory, the Russell Sage Institute, and 
elsewhere. A clerk who works sitting down needs less food than 
one v.'ho does the same work at a high desk, standing. ]\Iurlin and 
Hoobler^ find that hard crying increases the metabohsm in babies 
40 per cent. Cold baths use up the body's glycogen reserves 
which must be replaced by more food. All this does not mean 
that we must watch every muscle and compute the number of 
calories we must provide for the next motion, but it does mean that 
it is quite as serious to keep too dose to the minimum as to over- 
eat; it means most of all that there is accumulating accurate 
information on which to base calculation of dietaries, especially for 
two classes of people: those who must perforce eat what is set 
before them — babies and inmates of some institutions; and those 
whose incomes preclude the possibiUty of much margin. 

The food requirements depend largely upon the activities of the 
body as a unit but quite as largely upon the activities of the indi- 

- F. C. Gephart and G. Lusk: Analysis and Cost of Ready to Serve Foods. Chicago: 
Amer. Med. Assoc, 1915, p. 15. 

^ J. R. Murlin and B. R. Hoobler; Amey. Jour. Diseases ^Children, 9 (1915), no. 2, pp. 
81-119, figs. 10. 



1915] CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF DIETETICS 471 

vidual cells which make up its tissues, that is upon a group of factors 
which influence its basal metabolism, the activity of the cells when the 
body as a unit is at rest. Here again there is a great need for defi- 
nite data as opposed to supposition based on teleological reasoning. 
There is some reason to assume that cells are more active in children 
than in elderly people; that men need more food than women of equal 
weight living the same lives; that much protein is needed for growth — 
but, oh, for proof! Prof. Martha Tracy^ of the Women's Medical 
College of Philadelphia found that the basal metabolism of women, 
measured by the creatinin output on constant diet, was lower than that 
of men except in the case of some athletic women in whom it was 
closely similar to the average for men. The initial loss of weight in 
new born babies has this year been studied with real accuracy of 
method. Benestad* of Christiana found it to be due to insufficient 
metabolism and to be remedied to some extent by supplemental 
(bottle) feeding. Bailey and IMurlin^ have gone further. By actual 
determinations in the calorimeter of the baby's needs on the one 
hand and on the other of the food value of the colostrum, the first 
milk secreted by the mammary glands of the mother, they have found 
that even with perfect utilization the baby cannot get sufficient food 
to prevent loss of weight. In most cases the loss is temporary and 
slight and is compensated by later overgrowth, but in some cases it 
is serious, and in all the babies studied, it could be lessened and the 
return to birth weight hastened by supplemental feeding with a 
liquid resembling the colostrum in composition. The trouble here is 
due less to low power to metaboHze than to underfeeding.^ 

These facts are valuable in themselves but to us who want to use 
them in appHcation, as part of the basis of the coming science of die- 
tetics, perhaps the accuracy of method is even more appealing than the 
results. One feels quite sure that the metabolism work of today has 
permanence and will make a good foundation. 

One of the most useful foundation stones is the determination of the 
basal metabolism in man, the total activity of the tissues when the 
body is at rest, by measuring the amount of oxygen used up, the 

* Martha Tracj^ and E. Clark: Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 1, pp. 115-117. 
^G. Eenestad: Jahrb. Kinderheilk., 80 (19U), no. 1, pp. 21-41. 

" H. C. Bailey and J. R. Murlin: Proc. Sac. Expt. Biol, and Med., 11 (1914), no. 4, pp. 
109-111. 

^T. B. Robertson: Amer. Jour. PhysioL, 37 (1915), no. 1, pp. 74-85. 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

amount of carbon dioxide formed, the nitrogen excreted, and the heat 
generated by the body. The amount of the basal metaboHsm must 
depend upon the total amount of active tissue,^ muscular, glandular 
and so on, not including fat which is not active. The fat person needs 
less food than the thin one of the same weight and leading the same 
life. Theoretically that is reasonable; but how shall it be expressed; 
in terms of weight or in terms of area of body surface? Neither will 
be quite accurate. Several papers pubHshed this year indicate that for 
adults the metaboHsm is best expressed and therefore the necessary 
food best computed in terms of area of body surface — 34.7 calories per 
square inch.^ The Doctors Dubois^" of Bellevue Hospital and Russell 
Sage Institute of Pathology have worked out an accurate formula for 
computing surface area, but it is far from simple or easy to use. Per- 
haps simplicity is impossible. Fortunately for mothers, ISIurlin and 
Hoobler' find that for babies there is less error in computing the 
amount of food needed on the basis of weight than in using surface as 
the basis, Benedict and Talbot^ concluded that neither weight nor 
surface is really satisfactory. 

An exceedingly interesting outline of the development of calorimetry 
since 1850, is given by Prof. Graham Lusk" in a recent paper. 

The plane of metabolism, i.e., the ordinary acti\dty of the tissues 
when the body is at rest, is, however, definitely influenced by several 
factors. Exercise, for example, not only creates a demand for more 
fuel to supply the immediate need, but it has a lasting effect upon the 
activity of the cells, i.e., on the basal metaboHsm. Dr. Tracy's data 
concerning metabolism in women lead one con\'incingly to this con- 
clusion, and a dog used by Dr. Lusk in metabolism work showed a 
higher basal metaboHsm in the autumn after an active summer. ^- 
One might say that a person who lives a muscularly active life is alto- 
gether more aHve — his cells are more active. (There is much more 
exadence in favor of this view.) Disease also alters the plane of basal 
metaboHsm. Diabetes melHtus increases it 5-10 per cent, and even, 

* F. G. Benedict and F. B. Talbot: The Gaseous Metabolism of Infants, Carnegie 
Inst. Washington, Pub. 201 (1914), pp. 168, figs. 65. 

^F. G. Benedict, L. E. Emmes, P. Roth and H. M. Smith. Jour. Biol. Chem., 18 
(1914), no. 2, pp. 139-155; 20 (1915), no. 3, pp. 253-262. 

«" F. C. Gephart and E. F. Dubois: Arch. Int. Med., 15 (1915), II, pp. 835-867. D. 
and E. F. Dubois: Arch. Int. Med., 15 (1915), II, pp. 868-881. 

" G. Lusk: Arch. Int. Med., 15 (1915), II, pp. 793-804. 

" G. Lusk: Jour. Biol. CItem., 20 (1915), no. 4, pp. 555-617, pis. 15. 



1915] CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE POUNDATIONS OF DIETETICS 473 

in individual cases, 15 per cent.^* Typhoid fever involves 40-50 per 
cent increase.!'* No wonder the death rate from typhoid was so high 
in the days when this tremendous need for fuel was supplied by giv- 
ing less than half the food used in health! Only the patient with 
large reserve could survive. 

Food also affects the plane of basal metabolism. The increased 
heat production after eating, called the specific dynamic action of 
foodstuffs, has been variously explained. Voit (1881) thought it due 
to the stimulation of the cells by the presence in the fluid about them 
of products of digestion; Rubner held that basal metaboHsm was con- 
stant, fed by the end products of digestion, glucose especially, and that 
the increased combustion evident after a meal was due to the inter- 
mediary changes necessary to transform the food or the products of 
alimentary digestion into the simple forms which the cells could use — 
as if a furnace burned coke only and the coal were partially burned 
outside it, wasting so much of its heat, imtil coke was formed. Zunz 
taught that the specific dynamic action of foodstuffs was all due to 
the work of digestion, and so convincing was his argument that many 
of us even now have remnants of that idea in the back of our minds: 
that some foods are harder to digest than others and so cause the 
evolution of more heat; and yet Benedict and Emmes^^ in 1912 and 
Benedict and Pratt^^ in 1913 demolished that theory. ^^ 

In the presidential address^^ cited, and in a paper on this specific 
subject. Professor Lusk^^ reports investigations that settle the ques- 
tion and provide another perfectly solid foundation stone. By giving 
separately glucose and various substances (amino acids) formed by 
the digestion of protein, Lusk and his coworkers have proved that 
the specific dynamic action of foodstuffs is due to the action of 
kataboHtes of those foodstuffs, thus confirming and extending Voit's 
view. The argument is most interesting but we can consider only 
results. When the digestion products of fat or of carbohydrate are 
carried by the blood to the tissues, basal metabolism is increased, 
the activity of the cells is greater, just because of the presence of a 

" F. G. Benedict and E. P. Joslin: ]\Ietabolism in Diabetes, Carnegie Inst. Washington, 
Pub. 130 (1910), pp. 234. 

inV. Coleman and E. F. Dubois: Arch. Int. Med., 15 (1915), II, pp. 887-938. 
« F. G. Benedict and L. E. Emmes: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 30 (1912), no. 3, pp. 197-216. 
" F. G. Benedict and J. H. Pratt: Jour. Biol. Chem., 15 (1913), no. 1, pp. 1-35. 
17 G. Lusk: Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4, Proc, pp. VIII-XVII. 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

large amount of fuel; the products of protein digestion also stimu- 
late metabolism but in a different manner and to a much greater de- 
gree, acting as direct stimuli rather than as fuel. 

GROWTH 

A large proportion of the problems of nutrition are being approached 
from the standpoint of growth: the optimum percentage of protein 
in the diet for example, tne comparative value of different proteins, 
the extent to which protein synthesis is possible in the animal body, 
mineral metaboHsm, the nutritive importance of fats and the fasci- 
nating but still very hazy problem of accessory substances, lipoids, 
lipins, vitamins. 

Growth is not entirely a matter of proper food; the growth im- 
pulse is inherent in the cell and seems to be influenced by the secre- 
tions of some of the ductless glands; but without proper building 
material grovvth is impossible and animals stunted far beyond the 
ordinary growth period of their species have made up for lost time 
and attained normal adult size and weight when proper food was 
given. 

As yet we know very little about the character of growth. Pro- 
fessor Robertson^ ^ of Berkeley has recently published an extremely in- 
teresting study of growth in the human infant. He finds that growth 
proceeds in cycles as is the case in other animals; that some post 
natal loss of weight or at least a decreased rate of gain is characteris- 
tic of the baby as of all mammals; that the body is in "dynamic 
equilibrium," disturbances in growth being rectified by internal regu- 
lation, a period of subnormal growth being followed by compensa- 
tory overgrowth — a phenomenon familiar in studies of growth in 
animals. 

Views of growth have developed most interestingly since attention 
has been directed to the bearing of nutrition upon it as is evident in 
the historical outHne prefaced to Professor Mendel's^ ^ Harvey lecture 
last winter. Voit, in his great pioneer discussion of the subject in 1881, 
said that the growth period was characterized by great constructive 
power, slight destructive activity, and the need for a large amount of 
food, especially of protein. He thought the food passed from the 

"T. B. Robertson: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37 (1915), no. 1, pp. 142; 74-85. 

19 L. B. Mendel: Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915). no. 19, pp. 1539-1547, figs. 5. 



191 5 J CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF DIETETICS 475 

digestive tract to the tissues practically unchanged. Rubner, some 
twenty years later, in the light of investigations carried on in the 
meantime, asserted that all the characteristics of growth mentioned 
above had been over-emphasized. His own studies showed that for 
a baby, only 7 per cent of the total energy intake need be protein 
(5 per cent for maintenance). He pointed out the importance of the 
total energy intake and said that growth takes place just as soon as 
there is more building material at hand than is needed for the re- 
placement of wornout tissue — a view that has received confirmation 
from some work of Dr. McCollum^" this year.^^ Abderhalden at- 
tacked the problem of the form in which building material reaches the 
cells and did a great deal toward establishing our present view — that 
the cells know nothing of the food we eat, since digestion involves 
profound changes. Folin, Denis and Van Slyke continued the gather- 
ing of material which forms another important foundation stone. 
Only small fragments of the food reach the cells: glucose and other 
simple sugars from the starch, amino acids and perhaps small com- 
binations of these from the protein, and so on. The final proof of 
this comes in the feeding of nothing but these products of digestion, a 
very difficult laboratory problem. Abderhalden has accomplished it, 
however, and his animals gained weight on the diet. Dr. Mitchell- 
at the University of Illinois fed such food to mice with excellent re- 
sults so far as maintenance is concerned. He has not yet secured 
growth, I think. 

There is no doubt that if we want to know whether wheat proteins 
are as valuable for growth as the proteins of milk or of meat or of 
oats, the answer lies in their amino acid content. Cane sugar is a 
simple thing, relatively; in digestion it is broken down into two kinds 
of building units or fuel units, which the cells can use (one kind prob- 
ably has to be changed a Httle first), but protein is a whole building, 
made up of many building units of many kinds. In order to build 
tissue out of the protein of the food, the building units must all be 
separated (in the digestive tract). Some proteins have a large amount 
of one kind of material and none of another kind which is perhaps 

^''E. V. McCollum and ^Marguerite Davis: Joitr. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 3, pp. 
415-428, figs. 12. 

"T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel: Joiir. Biol. Ckem., 22 (1915), no. 2, pp. 241-258. 
{Published since the above was written.] 

--H. V. Mitchell, unpublished. 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

essential for the building of tissue. If the body has the power to 
synthesize the lacking unit, all is well; if it has not that power, then 
unless some other food suppHes it, growth, or perhaps even main- 
tenance, is impossible. A whole volume of important problems are 
suggested by merely stating the condition of things, and there are three 
chief ways of attempting their solution. One may feed mixtures of 
building units, amino acids with fat and carbohydrate and mineral 
matter and by supplying or omitting one or another, study its im- 
portance in nutrition; one may feed mixtures of pure starch, fat and 
salts, with a single protein added at a time, and study the effect of the 
particular combination of building units represented by that protein; 
or one may feed naturally occurring foods, one at a time, for ex- 
ample, a ration made up entirely of corn products or of wheat prod- 
ucts. Each of these methods has its distinct and very great value. 

Osborne and Mendel,-^ feeding single proteins to which amino 
acids were added singly and in groups, have shown the importance of 
several of these building units. Zein, a corn protein, is insufficient 
to maintain life; with the amino acid tryptophan added it allows 
maintenance but no growth, with lysin added it allows growth also. 
Maize glutelin, another corn protein, sustains normal growth. Hart 
and uMcCoUum-^ find that the mixture of proteins in corn as they 
exist in the grain are entirely adequate for growth. The total mix- 
ture of amino acids in the corn gives the tissues all the kinds of build- 
ing units they need as far as protein units are concerned. Wheat 
contains one protein, ghadin, which is adequate for growth; it lacks 
the essential amino acid lysin; when this is added to gliadin food, 
growth takes place, but whether for lack of lysin or of some other 
essential building unit, the whole mixture of proteins in the wheat 
grain is not quite adequate to sustain growth.^* The addition of 
single amino acids has not been tried, but 10 per cent or less (of total 
ration) of casein made the total amino acid mixture satisfactory. 
If an essential amino acid is present even in small amount in a food, 
one could get enough of it by eating enough of the food. Of course, 
that would mean eating an excess of some of the other building units 
which the body would have to get rid of or burn as fuel. The value 
of individual amino acids can be shown in an analogous way. Edestin 
fed as 18 per cent of the ration allows rapid growth; fed as 9 per cent 

"T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel: Jour. Biol. Chem., 18 (1914), no. 1, pp. 1-16. 
-*E. B. Hart and E. V. IVIcCoIium: Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 373-397. 



1915] CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF DIETETICS 477 

of the ration growth is much slower; but the addition of lysin accel- 
erates the rate of gain decidedly." Another important amino acid is 
the sulfur-containing cystin, whose effect on growth has also been 
shown by Osborne and Mendel,^^ by adding it to a casein ration. 
Nine per cent casein allows little growth in rats but with cystin added 
compensatory overgrowth occurs in animals stunted by the diet men- 
tioned. Cystin may also be responsible for the effect of feeding 
blood albumin" (which has a high cystin content) to pregnant swine. 
The offspring were larger and stronger than the controls, whose diet 
did not contain blood albumin, and their hair was thicker and darker. 
If cystin could only be served in a more attractive form, some human 
beings would be glad to take advantage of Dr. Evvard's discovery. 

McCollum-^ has suggested an ingenious method of comparing dif- 
ferent proteins as to their nutritive value. If a protein is fed which 
contains all the amino acids the body needs and contains them in 
the right proportions, the whole protein will be retained, assum- 
ing that it is completely digested and absorbed. If there is too 
little of an essential amino-acid, say one-fourth the amount neces- 
sary for the construction of new tissues, only one-fourth of the en- 
tire amino acid mixture can be used. This at once suggests the eco- 
nomical advantage of knowing what is lacking from an inadequate 
food that one may supply it and so utihze the maximum amount 
of the ration, especially the expensive protein part of the ration. Tw^o 
inadequate foods may supply each other's deficiencies and make both 
useful. It is possible to determine with probable accuracy the 
amount of protein required for maintenance; the difference between 
this value and the total amount of protein retained gives the amount 
used for growth. Now, if 75 per cent of one protein is retained for 
growth and only 25 per cent of another, the former is a much more 
economical building material to feed to a body long stunted and in 
need of rapid and easy tissue construction. The comparative nu- 
tritive value of proteins is not a very large foundation stone as yet, 
but it is going to be a very valuable one. McCollum concludes from 

~^T. B. Osborne, L. B. JMendel, Et Al.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 3, pp. 351- 
378, figs. 10. 

« T. B. Osborne ,L. B. Mendel, Et Al.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 3, pp. 351- 
378, figs. 10. 

2T J. M. Evvard, A. W. Dox, and S. C. Guernsey: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 34 (1914), 
no. 3, pp. 312-325, figs. 5. 

"E. V. McCollum: Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 3, pp. 323-335. 



478 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

his studies that "the protein mixture occurring in the wheat, oat 
or corn kernel is chemically inferior to casein alone or to the protein 
mixture afforded in milk; that the protein mixture in each of these 
grains is, singly, adequate chemically for the complete formation of the 
specific proteins of the pig's body, although quantitatively, the possi- 
bility for this conversion is relatively low." Twenty-three to 24 per 
cent of the protein of the grains was retained for growth, 45 to 51 per 
cent of casein and 63.27 per cent of milk proteins — the mixture in milk. 
If we look at protein assimilation from the view points established 
by recent investigations, we can understand how equally well in- 
formed scientists have differed so radically as to the requisite pro- 
portion of protein in the diet. It depends upon the protein. With 
the varied diet common in this country, the possible range of per 
cent of protein may be wide. Indeed that has been proved in animal 
experiments. Rations containing from 12 to 34 per cent of protein 
have been successful in sustaining growth, while maintenance ra- 
tions may n'nge from a minimum of 3 per cent. If one is looking 
for a finished block, studies of mineral metabolism are even less satis- 
factory than those of the proteins, but remarkable progress has been 
made this year. Eward in the research already quoted^^ found that 
the feeding of the calcium compoimds to pregnant swine increased the 
size and the relative weight of the bones of the offspring. Hart and 
McCollum^* found that the inadequacy of corn to serve as an exclusive 
ration was due not to its proteins but to its mineral content. When 
salts were added to make the total mineral content of corn like that of 
milk, growth w'as perfectly satisfactory. A similar mineral modifica- 
tion of wheat was not sufficient — casein must be added also and even 
then the ration was incomplete; but wheat could furnish 80-90 per 
cent of the ration. From such studies as these IMcCollum-* has come 
to the conclusion, supported by convincing evidence, that an alkaline 
balance is not necessar\^ to health or growth or well being. On the 
other hand, Blatherwick'° finds that "foods which have a preponder- 
ance of basic elements lead to the formation of a less acid urine" 
and the converse is also true. "All urines with an acid reaction are 
supersaturated with uric acid, while alkahne urines are capable of 
dissolving uric acid." Acidity is decidedly decreased by pota- 
toes, oranges, raisins, apples, bananas and cantaloups and increased 

^' E. V. McCoUum and Marguerite Davis: Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 6, pp. 
619, 620. 

'"N. R. Blatherwick: Arch. Int. Med., 14 (1914), no. 3, pp. 409-450. 



191 5J CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNT)ATIONS OF DIETETICS 479 

by rice and whole wheat bread. "Prunes, plums, and cranberries, 
although yielding a basic ash nevertheless increase the acid forma- 
tion" because of the presence in them of benzoic acid which is excreted 
as hippuric acid instead of being burned in the body to a carbonate 
as is the case with the acids in oranges, lemons, etc. 

The study of fats in nutrition has come to be entangled with the 
study of the elusory accessory substances, lipins; lard, olive oil, 
almond oil, cottonseed oil have proved unable to sustain normal 
growth when added to a fat-free but otherwise adequate diet. But- 
ter fat, cod liver oil, the oil from corn and wheat embryos, from egg 
yolk, from the kidney, or from beef fat are adequate.'^-'^ 

SUMMARY 

To summarize, the biochemical and medical Hterature of the past 
year is rich in material of great value to dietetics. There are accurate 
determinations of basal metaboHsm in men and in babies, of the effect 
of diabetes mellitus, typhoid fever and long continued effect of exer- 
cise upon the plane of metabohsm and a really convincing explana- 
tion of the specific dynamic action of food stuffs. 

There have been valuable investigations of all of the classes of 
foodstuffs from the standpoint of nutrition in growth. Proteins have 
been studied in groups as they occur in natural foods and in isolated 
form; additions have been made to our knowledge of the nutritive 
significance of individual amino acids and in this way Ught has been 
thrown on the reasons for differences in the value of different proteins 
in growth. 

The importance of the character of the mineral intake has received 
emphasis from several points of view: the influence of the mother's 
food on the oft'spring; the effect of a basic balance in the ash of the 
food upon the solubiHty of uric acid in body fluids and the ability of 
the urine to hold uric acid in solution, the significance of the mineral 
content of some cereals upon the value of these grains as exclusive 
rations. 

Fats have been shown to var>^ decidedly in nutritive value, due 
probably not to the fats themselves, but to admixtures in them of 
traces of essential accessory food substances. 

31 T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel: Jour. Biol. Chetn., 20 (1915), no. 3, pp. 379-389, 

figs. 6. 

32 E. V. McColIum and Marguerite Davis: Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 

179-182, pis. 9. 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

THE WINTHROP FARM SCHOOL 

HETTY S. BROWN 
Principal, Winthrop Farm School, Rock Hill, S. C. 

The idea of an experimental rural school to work out some of the 
problems that confront the rural schools of our country seems to have 
originated in the minds of three men just at the same time. These 
three men are, our president, Dr. D. B. Johnson, Dr. A. P. Bour- 
land, at that time secretary of the Peabody Board, and Prof. W. K. 
Tate, who was then supervdsor of the rural schools of our state. It 
was agreed that the ideal location for the school was Winthrop Col- 
lege, for the president, Dr. Johnson, has always identified himself 
with every movement for the uplift of our rural population. 

The school began work in the spring of 1911. Except for the first 
four months, the College has suppHed all the funds for maintaining 
the school. 

Dr. Bourland voiced the aim of the school in one of his letters, 
written just at this time relative to the founding of the school. He 
says : 

Is it not our duty to see clearly, first, what the farmer must do all his 
life; and what the farm-wife must do all her life; and second, regardless 
of books, to make a school that will train the farmer and his wife to do their 
work in the home, on the farm, and in the social life of which they are 
units? .... Our course will consist of a series of activities and 
experiences in organic succession growing out of the everyday life of the 

child Our problem is to guide the free natural activity of 

the child, at the same time teaching him and developing him. 

Our plant consists of an old farm house, playgrounds, a garden 
and a field on one corner of the campus. The open country stretches 
away in the distance, and there is a wonderfully attractive country 
look and feeling about the place. 

Each day a covered wagon is sent out and the children are brought 
in from the country district that is seen stretching away from the 
school. Twenty-five children are in the school, and an idea of what 
they are doing is given in the succeeding paragraphs. 

In September and October the fall garden was made. The 
vegetables planted were parsley, carrots, turnips, spinach, radishes 
(winter and spring), parsnips, lettuce, and onions. Strawberry 



igi5] THE WINTHROP FARM SCHOOL 481 

plants, cabbage and collards were also planted. Sweet pea and 
poppy seeds were sown, and jonquil, narcissus and hyacinth bulbs 
were put out. All of these are only waiting for the first warm spring 
days to set them growing. 

Last year we realized ten dollars from the sale of lettuce from the 
cold frame. Estelle, the treasurer, kept our bank account straight 
for us. 

There was such a demand for onions that we decided to make an 
experiment of raising them for the market. A strict account of the 
money expended in the raising of the onions is being kept, and just 
as strict an account will be kept when they are sold. 

The lettuce, onions, and borders are worked in common and the 
money made is used for the school. We used fifteen dollars of the 
money earned last year for books to add to the school library. In 
addition to this we bought our own drawing materials and a few 
other things needed in the school. 

We are proud of the sale of our vegetables, but the enjoyment 
we get from watching them grow, and then preparing and serving 
them for lunch far outweighs the commercial value. It is in the 
kitchen and at the lunch table that some of our most valuable lessons 
are learned. The children are happy, too, when there are more 
vegetables than we need and they can take some home with them. 
Sometimes there is a new vegetable, and after learning how to prepare 
it at school, the children are anxious to take some home for Mother 
to try. Then Mother must have some of the seeds of the new 
plant. 

In this way the school can cooperate with the home. Each year 
an attempt is made to plant a vegetable unknown in the community, 
and thus to introduce the variety that is so much needed in the home 
garden. One year we tried beans, that were to be used as dried 
beans in the wdnter. Another year we tried German radishes; Dr. 
Bourland sent to Leipsic for the seed. Another year we tried Swiss 
chard and last year we tried dasheens. 

When the seeds are ripe they are gathered and put away for the 
next year. Each child makes two seed envelopes, one is kept for 
his own garden next year, and one is taken home for use there. The 
seeds saved last year were radish, poppy, sweet pea, hollyhock, 
zinnia, cosmos, and four o'clock. In addition to saving the seeds 
we rooted some rose and geranium cuttings for the home. We 



482 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

also got some plants of standing honeysuckle and althea by lay- 
ering. 

The home cooperates with the school, too, for the home gardens 
furnish us many things. Last spring beet, pepper, and cauliflower 
plants were brought and quite a collection of flo\^er seeds saved the 
summer before. The collards, now in our garden, were brought by 
John last fall, and Crawford has already brought a pod of pepper 
for our pepper seed this spring. The forsythia plants, growing by 
the garden fence were brought and put there by Annie May. 

Soon the pupils will be busily planning the spring gardens. This 
consists in making accurate measuring lines, markers, etc., so that 
the garden making may be done in a business like manner. In the 
winter boxes are made and seeds of the tender plants sown indoors 
so that they will be ready to set out as soon as the danger of frost 
is over. These plants are tomatoes, cabbage, and pepper, together 
with a number of varieties of hardy flowers. A plan of the garden 
has been made on which the plants now growing are marked and 
places for the new seed to be sovrn and plants to be set are indicated. 
Various seed catalogs were studied for the best varieties, the seeds 
are ordered and will be on hand before planting time. With a 
■ planting table as our guide as well as our past experience in making 
a garden, we plant each vegetable as the proper season comes around. 
Fortunately in our cHmate we can have fresh vegetables from the 
garden the year round. 

Some lessons in agriculture are based on the soil. The content of 
the soil is studied and experiments made to determine the amount of 
moisture and humus in the soil. The soil makers are also studied and 
observations made of how each agent works. These are followed by 
experiments to learn the behavior of water in the soil. 

In the late winter and early spring the children study buds and are 
ready to discover the underground bud of the white potato when its 
planting time comes. A chart is kept on which a record is made of 
each spring flower as it blooms. 

The cooking consists in preparing the midday lunch, in which all 
participate, and more formal lessons in cookery for the larger girls 
only. 

One hot dish is prepared for lunch each day. Whenever possible, 
this is something from our garden. Vegetables, such as carrots, tur- 
nips, radishes, onions, and potatoes, are delicious served with white 



19151 rsz TTZSZEZ- : - »53f schoch. 4S3 



sauce. The soups are eaaly made and a greater part of the 
teriak comes from our ganknsw Lettuce, saved wMi a cocked dress- 
ing, is qnhc a favorite didi. Beets arc boiled and senred with hotter 
and sogar. ^linach and odier greens are bailed wiA a hit of salt 
poik and served for hmch occaaana%. Potatoes, bodi white and 
sweet, can be baked hy the joongest drildre^- In winter we enjoy 
the pmqpkins that we raise in om- field ia rizz^ir. Pop com and 
peanuts^ ako^ ^ve variety to onr hmch. 

The coopexatian between school amd home goes on in die cookii^ 
just as it does in the gaidenii^. Annie May bnm^ a dtnKi mdon 
with the recqpe for makinr it into preserves. We use i i^t t±±x 
with the addition c : =— r 
she liked the amei^ 
the part di^ tak 
some one to tell e 

Tn sewii^ we n^^r — 
Towds are hamriTi t~ 
made, and we hz"' 

Our i-r^ez:-;.;- 
thine- - - T - 



An 



a plan to a scale, etc^ 
-5 in connect: - 

1:1 ^ the use 



5^^?d 



writing- 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

In all of our work the activity comes first and gives a motive for 
drill in arithmetic, spelling, geography, history, language, etc. Books 
are used, but only as our tools. Reading serves three purposes. It 
helps interpret to us our own experiences, gives us information, and 
leads us into the realm of literature. 

The atmosphere of the school is that of a country home. The 
teacher is a mother surrounded by her children. The children are free 
to move about and are encouraged to think and act for themselves. 



HOMES 

FLOSSIE Cfi.\NXELL MEANS 

O little homes, ye little homes of love! 

Strength of a man; a woman's song; laugh of a child; 

Warmth of a fire; glow of a lamp; though wild 
The wind without, and grim the skies above. 

O little homes, set close at every hand! 

Ye narrow walled-in worlds of joj's and fears, 

Built of the commonplace of smiles and tears, 
Ye are the heart and sinew of the land ! 

— The Youth's Companion. 



1915] BUSINESS TRAINING FOR WOMEN 485 

BUSINESS TRAINING FOR WOMEN 

ETHEL M. JOHNSON 
Women's Educational attd Industrial Union, Boston, Mass. 

PR.A.CTICAL TRAINING IN LUNCH ROOM MANAGEMENT 

One of the problems facing students in household economics courses 
is how to secure the actual contact with business conditions which 
will equip them to hold managerial positions instead of devoting the 
first year after graduation to virtually apprentice training while they 
are learning to apply their theoretical knowledge. 

An illustration of what may be done in the way of combining actual 
experience with class room work is the arrangement made by the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union for students in the In- 
stitutional Management course and Household Economics School of 
Simmons College. The Union, as its name implies, comprises de- 
partments engaged in educational work with others of distinctly in- 
dustrial character. The Lunch Rooms, Food Shop, The Handwork 
Shop, and Hat and Gown Shop are business organizations conducted 
and managed according to the best business standards. These de- 
partments in addition to contributing to the support of the social and 
educational activities of the Union are utilized as business training 
laboratories. To do this successfully they must present the condi- 
tions of the commercial world. It is just because they are conducted 
on a purely business basis that they are of value as practice shops. 
The Union offers, to properly qualified students who are interested in 
the business side of domestic science, opportunity for gaining practi- 
cal experience in lunch room and food shop management while they 
are pursuing their college work. 

The lunch rooms at the Union and New England Kitchen (a branch 
of the Union plant) conduct a business amounting to more than 
$250,000 yearly, and employ a force of over one hundred paid workers. 
The School Lunch Department prepares and sends out daily lunch- 
eons for more than 5000 high school pupils in seventeen different cen- 
ters. The Food Shop carries on a business amounting to over $100,000 
yearly and has a force of thirty-two workers. Connected with the 
Food Shop is a catering department, a food laboratory, and a candy 
kitchen, each offering excellent opportunities for practical experience. 
The students who go into any of these departments for practice learn 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

the meaning of a working day, gain an understanding of the demands 
made upon workers, and confidence in handling large problems and 
in meeting unexpected situations, and grasp the importance of organi- 
zation and system. The work for the students is definitely outlined. 
They are required to conform to business standards, and are rated 
on their attitude and abihty to measure up to commercial demands. 
For the students in Institutional Management the work is divided 
into three periods. The students following this program, which is 
part of a special one year course at the College, are women of ma- 
turity who are preparing for business positions. 

During the first period, which represents one day a week for six 
consecutive weeks during the first semester, the students become ac- 
quainted with the different departments at the Union, and study the 
organization from the managerial side. The second period covering 
eight consecutive weeks, one day a week, is spent in active participa- 
tion in the work of the kitchen. Here the students learn the details 
of the work and the importance of system. The third practice 
period is offered to those students who wish to specialize in lunch 
room management. These students spend a month working full time 
in the department selected. This means in general, six days a week 
and a seven or eight hour day. The number of hours per day varies 
with the particular problem on which the student is working at a 
given time. They come on duty at 7 a.m., for instance, when they 
are with the kitchen superintendent; and at 8.30 a.m. when they are 
in the Food Shop. In each department they are present during the 
busiest part of the day and so become accustomed to meeting emer- 
gencies. One week of managerial work is arranged for each student 
during which time she is responsible for a certain part of the regular 
work. Whatever it is, she sees to it that all of the details are satis- 
factorily carried out, as if she were actually superintendent. 

Another course in lunch room management is offered to seniors 
in the school of Household Economics. Opportunity for practice is 
afforded by the college lunch room and the Union's school lunch plant. 
The course is elective and counts as credit for part of the regular 
program. It is intended for those planning to go into lunch room 
business and especially for students expecting to teach in high schools. 
In many high schools the domestic science teacher is responsible for 
supervising the school lunch room. Even when she is not in charge 



I 



1915] BUSINESS TRAINING FOR WOMEN 487 

she is generally expected to assist with suggestions and advice. Very 
possibly the pupils in her cookery class will be required to prepare 
a part or all of the luncheon. In this case she will have to direct 
their work. The Union's School Lunch Department affords an ex- 
cellent opportunity for gaining the experience needed in this connec- 
tion. It gives a chance to study simple menus, preparation of food, 
packing and serving at the schools, and the very important subject 
of accounting. The course is given in the second semester and rep- 
resents about forty hours of practice. The students work in groups, 
one division is at the college lunch room twenty hours while the other 
group is at the Union. Then the divisions exchange places. By 
this arrangement variety in experience is afforded. 

The opportunity which the Union offers means much more than 
the chance for practice work. That in itself is valuable, but without 
direction it involves considerable waste of time and effort. Learn- 
ing by the absorption process is not an economical method. To make 
the work yield the utmost value to the individual student, to meet 
the special needs of each, and to correlate the practice with the class 
room exercises, the Union has established a department of vocational 
training and practice. The director supervises all of the students 
that come to the Union shops for training. The practice work is 
definitely scheduled. The course is planned so as to give each stu- 
dent a series of definite problems through which she will gain an un- 
derstanding of the necessary organization. A great deal of indi- 
vidual attention is given each student. This is particularly the case 
with the students in Institutional Management who are taking the 
intensive one month course for lunch room direction. Each student 
meets some member of the managerial force, director or assistant 
director, in the department for a conference on her work and the 
problems that have arisen. The director of practice meets the stu- 
dents several times a week for individual conference. Each student 
makes daily a written report in which she gives an account of what 
she has done and discusses the questions that have come up in the 
department. This is with a view to recognizing all the points of ef- 
ficiency and successful organization. The papers are later discussed 
with the director of practice. 

The practical value of this training is indicated by the type of po- 
sitions taken by women completing the course. Women who with- 



488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

out this correlated college and business training would commence 
work as assistants are enabled to assume managerial responsibility 
at the start. 

The business side of domestic science offers exceptional opportuni- 
ties for properly qualified women. Salaries are higher as a whole 
than in corresponding teaching positions. And there is no deartli 
of openings. To women who do not care to teach and who possess 
executive ability it is a pi rticularly attractive field. 

PRACTICAL TRAINING IN SALESMANSHIP 

Suggestive of the increasing interest among college women in busi- 
ness opportunities is the introduction this year of a summer course in 
salesmanship and department store work at Simmons College. The 
course which covered six weeks, from July 6 to August 14, is informa- 
tional in character and intended primarily to serve as a general back- 
ground for the one year normal course for teachers of salesmanship 
given by the Women's Educational and Industrial Union in coopera- 
tion with the College. The summer course in no w'ay attempts to 
train teachers of salesmanship, its aim being to acquaint students with 
the subject matter of department store work. It may, however, 
count as credit for part of the regular course in salesmanship. This 
is particularly the case with women of maturity and successful teach- 
ing experience. And it is to the women of this type that the course 
will be of especial value in enabling them to complete the regular pro- 
gram before the end of the college year. This is important, because 
the demand for trained women in the field of salesmanship is so press- 
ing that many of the students are called to accept positions before 
they have finished the year's work. A large number of the requests 
from stores and business firms come in mid- winter and it is largely 
to meet this situation that the summer course has been estabhshed. 

The work comprises the study of such subjects as store organiza- 
tion, store system, store principles, progress of merchandise, and sell- 
ing methods. A number of special lectures were given this summer 
by experts in store and educational work. The list included the 
following topics: 

The history of training for department store work, Mrs. Lucinda 
Wyman Prince, Director of Salesmanship in High and Continuation 
Schools, Boston; The relation of the customer to the department 



1915] BUSINESS TRAINING FOR WOMEN 489 

Store, Mr. Walter A. Hawkins, Superintendent, Jordan, Marsh Com- 
pany; Business ideals, Mr. C. Lothrop Higgins, Millinery, Boston; 
The human side of department store business, Thomas K. Corey, 
Store Manager, WilHam Filene Sons' Company; Department store 
business in terms of figures, Charles C. Ferris, President, Gilchrist 
Company; and Cooperation of store and school to meet the educa- 
tional needs of young workers, Dr. Franklin B. Dyer, Superintendent 
of Schools, Boston. 

In addition to the class room exercises there was considerable 
laboratory work, consisting of observation, investigation, and actual 
store practice. Several of the large department stores in Boston were 
used as laboratories, and arrangements were made by which students 
taking this course were allowed to do a limited amount of selling in 
these stores during the summer session. Other forms of practice are 
service shopping, reports of sales observed, analyses of window dis- 
plays, and comparisons of store service features. 

The field of salesm.anship is an excellent one for the college trained 
woman. Salesmanship teaching and educational store work repre- 
sent new occupations for women, and occupations in which the de- 
mand for the competent by far exceeds the supply. It is a type 
of work that appeals to women who prefer a special form of teaching, 
to those keenly interested in social service and welfare work, and to 
women wdth sound business ability. Salaries and chance for advance- 
ment are good. And the opportunity for initiative and personal de- 
velopment are exceptional. 

The Union's training course for teachers of salesmanship has won 
wide recognition, and the demand for educational directors is so ur- 
gent that it is difikult to meet the calls which come from all parts of 
the country. 

That college women are attracted by the work is shown by the fact 
that fifteen colleges and universities as well as seven normal schools 
are represented by the fifty-five graduates of the course. Positions 
held by these women include teacher of salesmanship in high and 
continuation schools, educational director in department store, ser- 
vice manager in factory, and director of vocational guidance work. 
The salaries range from $1000 to $2000 a year. The course which 
was definitely organized by the Union in 1912, since 1913 has been 
conducted in cooperation with Simmons College and leads to a cer- 
tificate from the College. 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS I November 

THE COMMUNITY ORGANIZED FOR NEIGHBORHOOD 

PATRIOTISM' 

A scheme for the organization of rural communities for both busi- 
ness and social purposes is worked out in an article \Yhich has been 
printed as a pamphlet for the use of the Departm.ent of Agriculture, 
Office of Markets and Rural Organization. 

The scheme calls for ten committees, five of which are to deal with 
business needs, and five with social needs. Every member of the 
organization is to serve on some one of these committees, and in addi- 
tion, there is to be a central committee which directs the general 
policy of the organization, raises funds and controls expenditures. 

The committees that are to deal with the business interests of the 
community are as foUows: Committee on Farm Production, Commit- 
tee on Marketing, Committee on Securing Farm Supplies, Committee 
on Farm Finance and Accounting, Committee on Communication and 
Transportation. 

Similarly, the five committees that attend to the community's 
social interests will deal with: Education, Sanitation, Recreation, 
Beautification, Household Economics. The work of most of these 
committees is indicated by their titles; for example, the committee 
on production can encourage the formation of corn, poultry, pig, 
canning and gardening clubs. 

In the same way, the committee on marketing can secure the 
standardization of the community's products, and search out the best 
markets, make contracts on a large scale which will be more favorable 
than any individual can secure for himself, and in many other ways 
economize in the selling of the community's goods. The Committee 
on farm supplies can economize in buying. 

Just as the five business committees are to grapple with the funda- 
mental problems of producing and selling, the five social committees 
should direct their efforts to the improvement of Hxang conditions in 
the country; to securing better facihties for educating the children; 
better sanitary conditions; and more household conveniences such as 
hot and cold water, heating and lighting systems, etc. 

As an appendix, the pamphlet contains a brief list of suggested 
readings for the various committees. Many of these are Govern- 
ment pubhcations. 

' Office of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



1915] HOME ECONOMICS DAY AND ITS OBSERVANCE 491 

HOME ECONOMICS DAY AND ITS OBSERVANCE 

Home Economic students and teachers are now thinking of the best 
way to observe Richards Day, December third next. The American 
Home Economics Association, the Richards Memorial Fund Trus- 
tees, and all others interested in the progress of Home Economics 
hope, first of all, that the observance will be very general. They also 
hope that the Memorial Fund may be increased as a result of the loan 
exhibitions, teas, candy sales, plays, pageants, or whatever else may 
form an appropriate part of the day's observance. The Fvmd is 
growing, and, though the income is not very large, it will be expended 
in ways which will immediately help the cause which owes so much to 
Mrs. Richards. Is not this immediate usefulness one more reason 
why we should all work for the Fund? 

There is one kind of observance which is always appropriate for 
Home Economics Day, and that is a meeting of students and faculty 
only, or open to the pubHc, with a program including a sketch of Mrs. 
Richards' life and activities, selections from her writings, and, in gen- 
eral, an appreciation of her work for the home. Or, the meeting 
may take a more general form, if this seems preferable. If this is the 
case, it may, in the opinion of those who have given the matter 
thought, most appropriately take on a retrospective or historical 
character, in order that each new generation of Home Economics 
students may keep in touch with that which has gone before. The 
Journal of Home Economics contains, in its advertising pages, a 
list of the Association's publications and reprints, which will prove in- 
valuable as sources of definite information regarding Mrs. Richards 
and her work. Scattered through the volumes of the Journal will 
be found articles bearing upon the history and development of Home 
Economics and references to other sources of information which may 
be consulted in preparing an historical program. 

For those who wish something of a different nature, several sug- 
gestions are made. "An 1876 Tea" would prove attractive, at which 
costumes of the period are worn and "refreshments" served which are 
in keeping — for which see "The Ladies' Column" in the fashion maga- 
zines and other periodicals of the time. This would be appropriate 
because the present interest in interior decoration, art needlework, 
and other similar matters pertaining to household art had its modern 
revival at the Centennial Exposition. 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

A series of tableaux — "Preparing the Dinner in Other Times" — is 
worth trying, if one prefers this form of entertainment. It would 
certainly be entertaining to have a glimpse of how it was done, "In A 
Colonial Kitchen;" or "In Camp with the Soldiers during the Revo- 
lutionary War," (with the camp fire, pots, and kettles, and camp 
table); or by the "Pioneers on the Trail," when "prairie schooners" 
were crossing the great American desert; and in "A Corner of the 
Rumford Kitchen at the Chicago Exposition in 1893," where Mrs. 
Richards demonstrated to a w^de pubHc the fact that Home Eco- 
nomics is an important aid to social service, since it can supply clean, 
wholesome, and satisfactory- food at reasonable prices and under good 
surroundings. 

If this seems too elaborate, perhaps a series of pictures — "A 
Dream of Fair Women — and Their Work in the Home" might be 
satisfactory. These living pictures could include " Mother" (mend- 
ing, or reading to a child); "Grandmother" (spinning or knitting); 
"Mother's Helpers" (a group of children sewing or paring apples); 
"The Dairy Maid" (with her pails of milk or working butter); "The 
Cook" (with her sleeves rolled up making pudding); "The Laundry 
Maid" (starching a frilled cap); "The Haymaker's Helper" (with 
rake and sickle); "The Nurse" (with her bundle of herbs making 
camomile tea for an invalid in a chair who looks more interested than 
ill); and so on — with costumes of 1830 or some earlier date, in order 
that the effect may be more picturesque than would be the case with 
modern costumes. 

A loan exhibition of " Fancy Work of Yesterday" would also be very 
satisfactory^ for all of us would be glad to see brought together the 
samplers, wax flowers, picture frames made of "leather work" or of 
"imitation coral," embroidered collars and undersleeves. the per- 
forated "card board" mottoes, spatter work, splint work, "air castles," 
hanging baskets, bead work, "charm strings" of buttons, tatting, 
transparent painting, and so on — not to mention hair wreathes and 
hair jewelry — indeed, all those things our mothers, grandmothers, 
and their friends passed so many pleasant hours in making, and which, 
after all, are as well worth while as much of the fancy work of today. 

Those who wish to give plays should not forget "Prince Caloric and 
Princess Pieta." Copies of this attractive little play can be secured 
through the Journal. 



1915] HOME KCOXOMICS DAY AND ITS OBSFRVANCE 493 

The feeling has been frequently expressed that a play or pageant 
should be written commemorating the many important things which 
the New World gave to the Old. We have only to think of Indian 
corn, potatoes, tomatoes, chocolate, and so on, to realize that the 
list of those which pertain to the subject-matter of Home Economics 
is long as well as important. Those who have made the suggestion 
and others may be glad to know that such a pageant has been written. 
It is called "America's Gifts to the Old World" and it is hoped that it 
will be published, and be obtainable, through the Journal before 
November first. The pageant calls for quite a number of characters 
and for a presentation which may be elaborate or simple as circum- 
stances determine. It has been prepared for the express purpose of 
aiding the Richards Memorial Fund, and it is expected that whenever 
it is given some arrangement will be made by which the Fund will 
profit. It is suggested that any who might wish to present the pageant 
for this coming Home Economics Day celebration correspond with 
the Editor of the Journal before making definite plans, as the time 
is short. Though appropriate for Home Economics Day, the pageant 
would prove equally good for Home Economics students who wished 
to use it at some other time. Indeed, it would be very useful for 
Commencement Week, since it can be given out-of-doors. More- 
over, it is believed that interest in the pageant will not be confined 
to Home Economics workers, for in subject-matter and treatment it 
should interest any group of persons w^ishing to stimulate patriotic 
interest and to encourage pride in this New World which to us is 
Home. 



EDITORIALS 

THE BEST DEFINITION OF HOME 

In response to a suggestion of Miss Helen Louise Johnson, the 
National Chairman of the Home Economics Department of the Gen- 
eral Federation of Women's Clubs, the Pictorial Review last February 
offered $500 in prizes for the seven best definitions of the word 
"Home" sent in by any federated club. 

Thousands of manuscripts were submitted, hundreds of them good, 
half a hundred worthy of a prize. 

Miss Zona Gale, in her explanation for the Committee of Award 
of the basis on which the decision was made, expressed her own lofty 
ideal of the meaning of the word. 

She says: 

In trying to judge the manuscripts submitted, I am struck by certain 
facts in the conception of home: 

I. That it is a triumph that ideals of individual and family living have 
come to be as high as those expressed in virtually all the essays, but that 
ideals of the sociaUzed home are farther to seek. For most of these concep- 
tions are of the best-developed homes of the past and present, and there 
seems to me to be not enough shadowing of what home should be — to- 
morrow. 

In the essays are presented, first, the earliest ideas of home as a place for 
protection and defense; second, the later idea of home, historically, as a 
place for shelter and feeding; and third, the more recent ideal of home 
as a place for spiritual strengthening, love and child-training. 

Also, many of the essays seem to be from the age-long viewpoint of the 
man, namely: home is a place for rest. 

II. That nearly all the essayists seem to have predicated four walls, a 
roof and a floor as necessities to home. 

If I go down-town and some one asks me where my home is, my reply 
is a street and a number. If I am in another town, my reply is: "Portage 
is my home." If I am in another state, my reply is "Wisconsin is my 
home." If I am in Europe, my reply is: "America is my home." 

All these, then, are home. But only the first of these is, in most cases, 
treated in these definitions. 
494 



1915] THE BEST DEFINITION OF HOME 495 

I am giving my judgment to those essays in which the connotation of 
home is widest and which seem to me to approximate most nearly to an 
ideal for the life of the race. 

This is because it seems to me that just in proportion as we recognize 
by name all our homes, and our relationships to them, and thus define 
home, so — as a result quite as much as a cause — will the smallest home 
of them all, the wailed home, grow toward its ideal and towards its next 
step in development. 

And when once we can feel for a continent— and all its spiritual con- 
tent — the glow and the thrill which we feel now for our own street address 
— and all its spiritual content — what a home the home planet will be. 

The first prize, of $250, was awarded to the Bathgate Study Club 
of Bathgate, North Dakota. This manuscript was submitted for the 
club by Miss Janet Davies. 

Home is the index of civilization. Some words there are in our English 
speech so big with meaning, so rich in suggestion, so golden with poetry 
that they will not be defined. Home to each of us is too full of meaning 
to be limited by any statement of mere attributes. It rings with magic 
echoes and to our inner sense means rest, content, sympathy, love and 
service. Through all our years the content of the word has grown richer, 
through all the ages the thing itself has growTi more sacred. 

Long ago in the history of the race, before the institution of the family, 
there must have existed some temporary shelter, some familiar spot, that 
was rest to the primitive woman, some protective nest woven by mother 
ingenuity for the primitive child. For home has always in its truest and 
best sense meant a place for the nurture and the care of the young, and 
the idea of home always centers about the relation of parent and child. 

As civilization grew, the home, its concomitant, its instrument, its ally, 
and its truest index grew, too. With the growth of a complex and cultured 
life came the need for a longer period of preparation, a protracted infancy, 
a period of plasticity. The child must be protected and directed so that 
he might be formed to the truest and highest and most diverse manhood. 

So homes grew up, founded on the institutions of marriage and the fam- 
ily and with their prime function, the rearing and education of the child. 
But this is not their only service. The adult needs a home to be his lode- 
star in the perplexities, his haven in the buffetings of modern life. Then, 
too, in our lopsided and imperfect lives, it too often comes about that there 
are empty homes where no children have come, desolate homes where the 
children are gone, makeshift homes founded on curious or accidental rela- 
tionships — and these, too, may be real homes. 

For a true home is something other than a mere dwelling-place, some- 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

thing further even than the habitat of a family group. Home is a beauti- 
ful atmosphere of cheer and rest and content and mutual service. To it 
the individual brings the best that is in him, and from it in return he re- 
ceives the most unselfish joy. Here he may expand and relax, here he is 
most wholly himself, here he comes again to be in tune with himself and in 
tune with God. 

For home reacts on its creators. Into its makmg, a man or woman, 
commonplace enough to outward seeming, may put an energy almost 
superhuman, a devotion dmost sublime; this toil and sacrifice sweeten 
home and hallow it, and bring forth the good fruits of sound living. The 
children of a real home, hut or castle though it be, go out dowered as richly 
and wsely as the brooding parent love can dower them. They have in- 
herited, as far as a new life may, the very lives, the strength, the vitaUty, 
the dear-bought progress of the parent two. The best energy of a generation 
has gone into them. They are to be the supermen of the future. They 
are to carry the family one step onward toward the fruition of its ideals. 
They are to lift progress and culture one step upward for all of human kind. 
It is not for nothing that the immigrant woman toils in the sweat-shop 
that her children may have American clothes, or that the ditch-digger 
foregoes meat that his son may go to college. Unconsciously through 
parental love, the wehare and advancement of the race work out. 

But it is not alone the poverty-bound who give their very Uves to their 
homes and their families. When material needs are satisfied, the growing 
spirit needs oversight and sympathy and direction, too. We want to give 
to our children not only sturdy bodies and weU-equipped brains, but right 
habits of regular living, prompt doing, clean-cut speech, clear thought, 
intelligent curiosity, and right instincts, that they may be earnest in word 
and work, quick to the beauty in and of Ufe, reverent toward God and his 
temple in their human bodies. So does home minister to the soul and 
the body, to the individual and the family. 

The home has ever been the cradle and the chief instrument of progress. 
Every advance in the standard of material living and in the thought and 
culture of the race is germinated and reflected there. The progress or 
decay of a people can be measured by its home Ufe. It is significant of 
the new brotherhood, the new sensitiveness to civic responsibility, that we 
can no longer be true to the family in the best sense without taking thought 
for our neighbor's safety — that we cannot live for ourselves alone. 

We have widened our sympathy and our interests and we are heeding 
the needs of our community. Civilization has come at last to the era of 
fraternity, of cooperation, of communal sympathies. Home, always the 
index of civilization, is filled with a new bigness, a new pulsing neighborhood 
life. Home is growing out to that larger life that will some day make 
brothers of all the world. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANERS 

M. E. COOLEY 

Student at Teachers' College 

In vacuum cleaning machines, a partial vacuum is produced in 
the machine and in the pipe line and tool. The face of the tool is 
held squarely on the surface to be cleaned. The pressure of the air 
outside the machine is greater than that inside, and a suction is pro- 
duced depending upon the amount of difference in pressure. Air is 
thus forced into the machine carrying with it dirt and dust from the 
object cleaned. This dust-laden air is then passed through a bag 
where it is freed from its dirt, and passes on through the air pump 
and out into the room again, or into outdoor air. 

The important parts of a machine are: vacuum producer, motor, 
dust-bag, and renovators or tools. 

The vacuum producers are of two principal types — piston tj^De and 
fan type. 

The piston type is good for cleaning small rugs — will take up 
larger material (matches, paper) than the fan type. The Root type 
(rotary piston) is the most efficient where carpet cleaning is the prin- 
cipal function, and a hose \\ inches in diameter is used, but with 
smaller hose (1 inch in diameter) the piston pump is better. 

Where carpet cleaning is of secondary importance the fan type is 
efficient, and the initial cost is less. Of the fan type the "single 
stage centrifugal fan," is little better than a good carpet sweeper. 
The "multi-stage centrifugal fan" is efficient for bare floors, but not 
so good for carpets and upholstery. A "multi-stage centrifugal fan" 
consists of several electric fans rotating horizontally on a vertical 
shaft. They are similar in action to the rotary lawn sprinklers — air 
enters at center of the fans, and is forced out at outer edge of fans 
and thence to the outlet pipe. 

The motor causes the piston to pump out the air — or the fans to 
rotate. Vertically mounted motors give longer service, and have less 

497 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

friction than those horizontally mounted. The brushes should be 
easily removable. 

The dust-bag should be on the suction side of the vacuum pro- 
ducer; that insures the passage of the dust-laden air through the 
bag before it enters the pump chamber. 

The tools, furnished with lower priced cleaners, generally include a 
full set for floors and floor-coverings; extra lots may be bought at 
prices varying with tj'pe of tool desired, prices ranging from $0.30 to $4. 

The form of a tool for any particular service is important. A 
carpet renovator should have a slot not more than 12 inches long and 
I inch wide, and the face in contact with carpet not more than f 
inch on each side of the slot, and slightly rounded at the outer edge. 
This form is less likely to tear the pile off the carpet. To avoid tear- 
ing upholstery and clothing, the slot should be divided into a number 
of small slots inclined to the edges of the face. For bare floors the 
face of the renovator should be curved, not flat, and should be of felt. 
The tool for ceilings, and other flat surfaces is a bristle brush; but 
this is not sufl5.cient with the portable type of machines. Tools for 
cleaning corners are efficient only with the installed systems. To 
clean carving and relief work, round-bristle brushes with extra long 
bristles and cotton skirting have been found to be the most efficient. 
To clean radiators and library shelves, the best form is a piece of 
tubing flattened at its outer end. 

Installed plants are much more efficient than the portable ma- 
chines. They range in price from $300 down and it costs from one 
to two cents per hour to run them, depending on the cost of the cur- 
rent in any locality. There are semi-installed machines ("portable 
stationary" cleaners) that are as efficient as the installed systems. 
These are especially good for people who live in a rented house, as 
they can be readily removed. They require an inconveniently long 
pipe, and for that reason are not so easily handled. They range in 
price from 832.50 up. The portable machines vary greatly in price 
from S18 to $125. In general the cheap forms seem eflncient for a 
time but are not durable. Cost of running the portable cleaners is 
the same per hour as for the stationary plants in the same locality. 

The housekeeper should consider these points when buying a 
machine: 

Motor. — Vertically mounted, see that the "brushes" are in good 
condition and easily removable. 



1915] PERSIMMON RECIPES 499 

Lubricator. — Should be able to operate a hundred hours without 
its requiring relubrication. 

Dust-bag. — On suction side of the vacuum producer, should not 
get clogged easily. To test this — it should be able to pick up at 
least I peck of mixture 40 per cent sand, 15 per cent sweepings, 15 
per cent Portland cement (or very dry flour) and to retain this in 
the bag and still be able to pick up material from a bare floor. ^ 

Handles of tools.— Should be rigid and with some sort of swivel 
joint between the renovator and its stem. 

Weight. — If a portable type, it should not weigh more than 75 
pounds. This is heavy for a woman to carry. 

PERSIMMON RECIPES^ 

MANY WAYS IN WHICH THIS NATIVE FRUIT MAY BE USED 

A new publication of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 685, calls attention to what it believes is an un- 
warranted neglect of a food fruit — the native persimmon. In addi- 
tion to good flavor (when well ripened), the persimmon makes a good 
showing, pound for pound, with respect to the nutritive material 
which it supplies. 

As the bulletin points out, many persons with fine persimmon 
trees in their possession are allowing the fruit to go to waste either 
through ignorance of the many uses to which it may be put or 
through prejudice. There is a saying in the persimmon country that 
persimmons are "good for dogs, hogs, and 'possums." This, however, 
is declared to be a gross injustice to a very valuable product. 

One reason for the neglect of this fruit is the mistaken idea that 
persimmons are unfit to eat until they have been touched by frost. 
As a matter of fact much of the best fruit is lost each year because 
it ripens and falls to the ground where, not being touched by frost, 
it is left to rot. Such persimmons as are not edible before frost comes 
are a late variety of the fruit and the reason that they pucker the 
mouth is because they have not yet ripened. In general the best 
fruit are those than ripen just before the leaves fall. 

At the present time the most common use for the fruit in the per- 

'The bags furnished with most reliable machines are now so standardized as to 
obviate the necessity for testing. 

2 Office of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS iNovembcr 

Simmon belt, which extends from Maryland, Virginia, and the Caro- 
linas westward through Missouri and Arkansas, is as food for hogs. 
It can, however, be made up into a large number of very palatable 
products for human consumption. To be on the safe side it is well 
to add a half teaspoonful of baking soda to each cupful of persimmon 
pulp w^henever the fruit is subjected to heat. This does away with 
all risk of astringency, the quality in unripe persimmons which 
produces the well-known puckering of the mouth. If the fruit is 
perfectly ripe this precaution is not necessary, but as there is always 
the possibihty of some green fruit finding its way into the pulp it is 
usually advisable. 

According to the writer of the bulletin, the following recipes will 
be found sim.ple and agreeable: 

PERSIMMON BREAD 

1 cup of persimmon pulp, Yeast, 

1 cup of water. Shortening, 

5 teaspoonful of soda, Floiu: to make a stiff dough. 

Set to rise, mold, and bake like other bread. 

PERSIMMON CRUMPETS 

Take 1 pint of the sponge of persimmon bread which has been set 
over night, add 1 egg and enough milk to make a thin batter, set 
to rise for one hour, then bake on a hot griddle like griddle-cakes. 
Serve hot with butter or sirup. 

PERSIMMON GREDDLECAKES 

1 cup of persimmon pulp, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 

1 egg, 5 teaspoonful of soda, 

1 cup of flour, Milk to make a thin batter. 

Bake and serve as above. 

PERSIMMON CAKE 

1 cup of persimmon pulp, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 

^ cup of sugar, § teaspoonful of soda, 

1 egg. Butter of size of a walnut. 
1 cup of flour. 

Bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven. For a soft pudding leave 
out the eggs. For a custard leave out the flour and the baking powder. 

PRESERVED WHOLE PERSIMMONS 

Put a thin layer of sugar in the bottom of a jar; then a layer of whole 
ripe persimmons, then a layer of sugar; and so on until the jar is full. 



1915] THE MISCHIEVOUS WIPING CLOTH 501 

The sugar will soon dissolve and form a sirup. Press the upper fruits 
down under the sirup or add more sirup to the jars. Seal and store un- 
til used. The sirup may be drained off and the fruits served like dates, 
which they will resemble very much in both appearance and flavor. 

PERSIMMON ICE CREAM 
2 cups of persimmon pulp, 1 cup of thick, sweet cream. 

Beat together thoroughly and freeze like ordinary ice cream. 
The fruit must be thoroughly ripe and nonastringent. 

PERSIMMON FUDGE 
2 cups of persimmon pulp, 2 cups of sugar. 

Cook over a slow lire, stirring occasionally, until graining begins. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of baking soda and stir over the fire until quite 
stiff. Spread on buttered platter or paraffin paper. 

THE MISCHIEVOUS WIPING CLOTH 

The dish towel, even the genteel barred variety, called a tea towel, 
is in bad repute. Ever since men began to look through the micro- 
scope and think in terms of the microscope its fate has been sealed. 
Only when freshly washed and boiled and used in clean hands to 
wipe the rims of already scalded and drained dishes is it to be ad- 
mitted into a modern kitchen. Used in dirty hands till grimy, car- 
ried on the arm of a waiter and used to polish a plate or wipe up a 
table, it belongs to the dark ages, hygienically speaking. In dish 
washing the household should more and more approach the prac- 
tice of the laboratory where glass ware and porcelain are washed, 
rinsed in boiling water and placed to drain. No cloth, no matter how 
well known its antecedents, is allowed to touch them, for they are 
now absolutely clean and must remain clean. 

In cleaning toilette articles, bath tub and basin it should be re- 
membered that ordinary cleaning cloths belong, like the scrubbing 
brush, to the early coarser processes. The final cleaning must be 
by hot water only. Whatever comes in contact with any body 
aperture must be free from all possibiHty of bacterial contagion. 
The common bath tub has doubtless been a carrier of disease germs 
from one person to another. Before use, however clean it may look, 
it should be scalded out and not dried mth any of the cloths ordinarily 
given over to the purpose. 



^'502 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

PURCHASING MEAT 

Every housewafe should know how to select meat wisely and un- 
derstand how to utilize the various cuts of meat to the best advan- 
tage. In recent numbers of the Journal of Agriculture and Horti- 
culture^ some information is given regarding the selection of meat, 
which should prove of value to many housekeepers though part of it 
is of especial interest to the institutional housekeeper, since she more 
often can control conditiotis and select from a wider choice. 

The author recommends that the purchaser "buy from the side or 
quarter always and learn to judge meat in this way, considering the 
following points: 

1. "Patronize a neat, sanitary shop. 

2. "Consider the shape of the side. 

"Too large a carcass shows age and coarseness. 

"Heavy brisket shows coarseness and toughness. 

"Hea\-y front quarter shows poor breed and hence poor 

quality. 
"Carcass should be s^Tnmetrical. 

3. "Finish of carcass. 

"Outside should be well covered with fat. Hard fat in 
lumps indicates staleness. 

"Ribs should be well covered with fat— not too much kid- 
ney fat. 

4. "Depth through the back. Choose from a side showing thick- 
ness through the back. This indicates a generous amount of meat. 

5. "Color of meat. See that the lean is well streaked with veins of 
fat and that flesh is a bright red, not dark red. 

"Avoid a side which is sparsely covered with deep, yellow fat, 
\^ith dark red flesh. This indicates cow beef." 

Diagrams of a side of beef or other m.eat showing the name and 
location of the different cuts are generally to be found in the best 
cookbooks. A study of such diagrams v/hieh are probably familial 
to most housekeepers should prove helpful to the purchaser of meats. 
Other useful infonnation which is not generally available in connec- 
tion with such diagrams is collected in a convenient form in the fol- 
lo\\dng table which is reproduced from the above mentioned article. 

' Journal of Agriculture and HorticuUvre, Dept. Apr. Quebec. 18 (1915), nos. 10, pp. 
221, 222; 11, pp. 243, 244. 



1915] 



PURCHASING MEAT 
A (able of information about cuts of beef 



S03 



MAUE AND LOCi TION 
Of CUT 


HOW SOLD 


CHARACTER A.ND QUALITY 
OF MEAT 


PREPARED FOR EATINO 


Loin. 


In slices: a. one to 


Lean, mostly tender fat 


Best quality for 


All between first 


two inches thick — 


on edges; little bone. 


roasting and broil- 


rib and rear end 


Delmonico porter- 


Sirloin steaks: 1. Hip- 


ing. 


of hip-bone. 


house, and sirloin 


bone sirloin next to the 






steaks; b. thicker 


porter-house, with large 






slices for roasting. 


tenderloin, is the best. 
2. Flat-bone sirloin sec- 
ond choice. 3. Round- 
bone sirloin, poorest. 




Rump. 


Sold either whole 


Tough with consider- 


Corned and boiled. 


Back of loin. 


or in halves. In 
latter case, aitch- 
bone is split in 
two. 


able bone. 


Excellent pot-roast. 


Round. 


Sliced, or cut 


Solid piece of juicy, 


Excellent for brais- 


1. Top, inside of 


thick. Best part 


fairly tender lean bor- 


ing, pot-roast, and 


thigh. 


of bottom round 


dered with fat. Good 


beef loaf, also for 




sometimes cut 


meat has thick piece of 


beef juice and beef 




with top for deal- 


fat between top and 


tea; fairly good 




er's advantage. 


bottom round. 


roasted or broiled. 


2. Bottom, out- 


Cut thick. 


Similar to top round, 


Pot - roast, soup, 


side of thigh. 




but tougher, has streaks 
of bristle. 


mince-meat. 


Top Sirloin. 


In steaks or for 


Solid piece similar to 


Fairly good steak; 


Between sirloin 


roasts. 


top round. 


excellent pot- 


and round. 






roasted. 


Prime ribs. 


Sold in pieces con- 


Similar in quality to 


Fine roasts. 


First six ribs. 


t a i n i n g upper 


loin, but has more bone 






parts of two or 


and no tenderloin. 






more ribs may be 








boned and rolled; 








with ribs left in is 








called "standing 








roast." 






Blade — 7th, 8th 


Cut like prime 


Similar to prime ribs, 


Braising, beef loaf, 


and 9th ribs. 


ribs; blade re- 


but has more gristle and 


stews, Hamburg 




moved. 


bone. 


steak. 


Chuck— 10th, 11th, 


In steaks, or 


Spinal processes long. 


Braising, pot-roast- 


12th and 13th 


boned and rolled. 


tough. 


ing, or stew. 


ribs. 








Xeck. 


To suit purchaser. 


Juicy and well flavored 


Excellent for stews 






but tough. 


and soup. 


Brisket. 


To suit purchaser. 


Layer of juicy well 
flavored meat over fat 
and bonp. 


Boiled or corned. 



504 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

A lable of information about cuts of beef — Continued 



NAME AND LOCATION 
OF CUT 


HOW SOLD 


CHARACTER AND QUALITY 
OF MEAT 


PREPARED FOR EATINO 


Cro35-Rib. 


To suit purchaser. 


Muscles all run one 


Pot-roast or infe- 


Lies across the 




way; no waste. 


rior steak. 


ribs. 








Plate. 


To suit purchaser. 


Has layers of fat and 


Corned and boiled. 


On the side below 




lean, with thin bones 




ribs. 




(ends of ribs) at bot- 
tom. 




Navel. 


To suit purchaser. 


Similar to plate, but 


Usually corned and 


Middle part of 




has less bone. 


boiled. 


belly. 








Flank, below the 


1. To suit pur- 


Coarse and tough; no 


1. Stewed or boiled 


loin. 


chaser. 


bone, fine flavor. 


2. Rolled and 


1. Thick flank. 


2. Whole. 


(Should not be corned, 


braised. 


2. Flank steak. 




because it has no fat or 
bone to protect its 
juices.) 




Fore Leg or Shii . 


Whole or to suit 


Tough, with bone and 


Soup. 




purchaser. 


tendon. 





It must be remembered that the cuts of meat vary somewhat in 
different sections of the country. This table gives the Canadian 
cuts that differ slightly from those in use in New York, Boston or 
Chicago. In Boston, e.g., a cut called the "back of the rump" is 
an excellent roasting piece for a large family, and is preferred by 
many to any other roast. In many places a flank steak is furnished 
that, well scored, may be successfully broiled and is juicy, fine flavored 
and inexpensive. 

These differences in cuts are never so great as to lessen the value 
of this chart. 

The study of a side of beef shows that a greater portion of it must 
be classed as "tough cuts," since the ribs and the loin are the only 
"tender part." 

The tough cuts are cheaper than the tender cuts but this does not 
mean that the tender cuts are the most nutritious. The two nu- 
trients in meat are protein and fat, and investigation has shown that 
the protein obtained from a given weight of meat differs very little 
either with kind of meat or the "cut." The difference between the 
cuts is chieflv in the amount of fat. 



1915] BIRD POPULATION 505 

THE BIRD POPULATION' 

The present bird population is much less than it ought to be, ac- 
cording to the biologists. If birds were given more protection and 
encouragement there would be an increase in numbers which would 
be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in the number of insect 
pests. 

While one usually thinks of the English species when the word 
"sparrow" is mentioned, there are some 40 species of sparrows in 
North America which are helpful rather than harmful and should be 
encouraged rather than discouraged. 

The complaints against the robin have dwelt on his fondness for 
cherries, strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, pears, peaches, prunes, 
grapes and even olives in California. The bluebird's consumption of 
cultivated fruits seems more limited, being practically confined to 
cherries, raspberries, and blackberries, and its fruit-eating period is 
very short, being only from late fall to early spring when the insects 
which it prefers are scarce. 

A news bulletin contains a list of ornamental plants bearing berries 
which, it is suggested, might be planted in regions where the robin 
and bluebird are occasionally compelled to feed on cultivated varie- 
ties of fruit and berries. In olive regions, for instance, if a robin 
can find such berries as Madrono, Heferomeles, and Cascara he will 
prefer them to the cultivated fruit valued by man. Mistletoe and 
elderberries are among the varieties recommended for the bluebird in 
particular. Dogwood, pepper berries, china berries, and hackberries 
are popular with the robin, and, in the North, cedar, smilax, and 
holly give them both food and shelter. The best time of year for 
transplanting woody plants is late fall or mnter. 

The Department's biologist ad\^ses farmers by all means to encour- 
age the robin and the bluebird, considering that they will more than 
compensate for occasional depredations by the assistance rendered 
in kiUing undesirable insects and that they can be pretty effectually 
kept from eating valuable fruits if they are pro\'ided with a supply 
of wild ones for winter diet when insect food is scarce. 

' Office of Information, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HEAT, HUMIDITY AND WORKING POWER 

What constitutes a vitiated atmosphere, and wherein are the de- 
pressing effects of "bad" air to be found? Of late, temperature and 
humidity rather than abnormal quantities of the respired gases, 
carbon dioxid and oxygen, or the presence of harmful expired organic 
products of respiration, have been held responsible for the untoward 
consequences of living under conditions of poor ventilation. Drs. Lee 
and Scott, of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia 
University, have recently reported definite objective signs of physical 
inefficiency in individuals subjected to an atmosphere of high humidity 
and high temperature. Measurements were made on the working 
capacity, that is, the total amount of work which excised muscles of 
animals are capable of doing before exhaustion sets in. The sub- 
jects were kept, to cite a specific illustration, at 21° C. (69.8° F.), 
with an approximate humidity of 54 per cent, in one case, and at 
33° C. (91.4 F.), with a humidity of 89 per cent, in the other. The 
contrasts here quoted represent the distinctions between comfortable 
atmospheric conditions and the air of a hot, humid summer day. 
As an outcome there was a marked diminution in both the amount of 
work performed and the period of working power under the influence 
of high temperature and humidity. Under these conditions, further- 
more, the body temperature also rose somewhat. The facts thus 
cited in the opinion of The Journal of the American Medical Associa- 
tion confirm by the unbiased testimony of direct experiment what 
the sensations and psychic responses of man have long since intimated. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Foods 

The Water Content of Oysters. F. L. Shannon, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food 
and Drug Officials, 17 (1913), pp. 161-165. 

Cause of Variation in Weight or Measure of Food Products. L. M. Tolman and W. 
E. Hillyer, Amer. Food .Tour., 9 (1914), no. 8, pp. 407-416, figs. 7. 

An Apparatus for the Rapid Detennination of the Available Carbon Dioxid in Bak- 
ing Powder. B. Garrison, Proc. Assoc. Amer. Dairy, Food and Drug Officials, 17 (1913), 
pp. 158-160. 

Three Creamery Methods for Making Buttermilk Cheese. J. L. Sammis, Wisconsin 
Sta. Bui., 239 (1914), pp. 3-24, figs. 7. 

Ice Cream Investigations. Wisconsin Sta. Bui. 240 (1914), pp. 40, 41, iig. 1. 

Fruit Juices. F. Thompson and A. C. Whiiiier, Delaivare Sla. Bui. 102, pp. 28, figs. 7. 

Roselle Recipes. P. J. Wester, Phillippine Agr. Rev., 7 (1914), no. 5, pp. 239-241. 

Studies on Fruit Juices. H. C. Gore, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bui. 241 (1915), pp. 19. 

[Food and Drug Inspection and Analysis.] W. G. Tice, Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health N. J., 
37 (1913), pp. 276-372, pis. 4. A report of inspection work and other activities. Among 
the special investigations reported are the bacteriological examination of water cress 
grown on the banks of a polluted stream and the bacteriological examination of several 
cans of frozen eggs held in cold storage. A sanitary survey of the shell fish industries 
was also made. Rules are given for the preparation of soft clams for market. 

[Food and Drug Examination and Other Topics.] E. F. Ladd and Alma K. Johnson, 
North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui. 3 (1914), no. 8, pp. 105-128. The results of food analyses 
and the sanitary inspection of food establishments are given. A report of an investiga- 
tion of commercial fruit jellies by L. A. Congdon is included. Hints which are of inter- 
est to housekeepers are also given regarding the varnishing and finishing of woodwork. 

Chicken Fat, VI. The Factors Influencing the Acid Value of the Crude Fat. M. E. 
Pennington, J. S. Hepburn and E. L. Connolly, Jour. Biol. Chem., 17 (1914), p. xliv. 

The Development of the Sugar Industry. By C. A. Browne, Amer. Jour. Pharm., 
87(1915),no.l, pp. 10-29. 

Physiological Changes in Sweet Potatoes During Storage. By H. Hasselbring and 
L. A. Hawkins, Jour. Agl. Research, 3 (1915), no. 4, pp. 331-342. 

Condition of Casein and Salts in Milk. By L. L. Van Slyke and A. W. Bosworth, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 22 (1915), no. 2, pp. 135-152. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Regulation of Food Supplied Hotels, with Special Reference to Sanitary Conditions 
Involved in its Preparation. G. G. Frary, Amer. Food Jour., 9 (1914), no. 8, pp. 365- 
367, fig. 1. 

The Hygiene of the Preparation, Storage, and Distribution of Food. J. Gates, Jour. 
Roy. Sanit. Inst., 35 (1914), no. 6, pp. 237-247. 

What are the Best Methods for the Control of Markets, Restaurants and Bakeries? 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), no. 12, pp. 1208, 1209. 

507 



508 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

[Sanitary] Regulation of Hotel and Restaurant Kitchens [in Germany]. R. P. Skin- 
ner, Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 17 (1914), no. 123, p. 1117. 

The Department of Food Sanitation and Distribution. Dora E. Wheeler, Women's 
Munic. League Boston, Bui. 5 (1914), no. 5, pp. 54-56. 

How a Civic League Secured a Clean Milk Supply. Harlean James, Survey, 33 (1915), 
no. 16, pp. 421-422. 

Some Results of Periodic Health Examinations. E. L. Fisk, Pop. Sci. Mo., 86 (1915), 
no. 4, pp. 324-331. 

Cooperative Public Health Administration — An Experiment in Small Communities. 
E. B. Phelps, Pub. Health Rpis. [U. S.], 29 (1914), no. 39, pp. 2477-2526, figs. 3. 

Community Defense of Nat'onal Vitality. C. E. A. Winslow, Pop. Sci. Mo., 86 
(1914), no. 4, pp. 319-324. 

How to Keep Your Baby Well. Washington, D. C, Health Dept., 1914, pp. 7. Ad- 
vice is given regarding the feeding and clothing of infants and similar topics. 

The Importance of the Medical Supervision of Older Children. E. J. Wynkoop, 
Arch. Pediat., 32 (1915), no. 1, pp. 39-43. 

Pellagra and the High Cost of Living. Survey, 33 (1915), no 16, p. 422. 

Report of the Committee on Sanitation. Nat. Canners Assoc. Ann. Conv., 7 (1914), 
pp. 7. Among the subjects considered are the sanitation of the building site and grounds, 
buildings, water supply, and similar topics, as well as personal hygiene of the employees. 

Sanitation of Canning Factories. In A Complete Course in Canning, Baltimore, Md., 
1914. 3 ed., pp. 23-26; Pure Products, 10 (1914), no. 6, pp. 274-277. See above. 

Educational 

School Lessons on Com. C. H. Lane, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 617 (1914), 
pp. 15, figs. 5. 

Hot Lunches in Rural Schools. Mar\' Bull, 4. Internat. Cong. School Hyg., Bufalo, 
N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 320-323. 

History and Present Status of the School Feeding Movement. Louise S. Bryant, 
4. Internat. Cong. School Hyg., Bufalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 280-284. 

Physical Care and Training of Children in European Schools. G. G. Rathmann, 
Anter. Phys. Ed. Rev. 19 (1914), no. 8, pp. 597-609. 

Agricultural Home Economics Instruction in Foreign Coim tries. P. Schindler, Ann, 
Sci. Agron., 4. ser., 2 (1913), II, no. 6, pp. 727-742. Abs. Exper. Sta. Rec, 31 (1914), 
no. 1, pp. 97, 98. 

Elementary Food Work Brought into Relation with Preparation of Meals. Alice 
T. Houston, School Sci. and Math., 14 (1914), no. 7, pp. 609, 610. 

Miscellaneous 

The Boston Floating Hospital. J. H. Young, Arch. Pediat., 31 (1914), no. 10, pp. 
753-760. 

The Carpet Beetle or "Buffalo Moth." L. O. Howard, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' 
Bui. 626 (1914), pp. 4, fig. 1. 

The House Centipede. C. L. Marlatt, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bill. 627 (1914), 
pp. 4, figs. 2. 

The Dignity of Domestic Service. .\non.. Littell's Living Age, 7. ser., 65 (1914), no. 
3677, pp. 814-816. 

Smoke Abatement. J. B. C. Kershaw, Sci. Prog. [London], 9 (1914), no. 34, pp. 
331-346, figs. 2. 

Science and the Supply of Fine Cotton. W. L. Balls, Sci. Prog. [London], 9 (1914), 
no. 34, pp. 290-309. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

Textiles. By William H. Dooley. Boston: D. C. Heath and Company, 
1914, pp. 329. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, S1.36. 

The teacher of Home Economics always welcomes a good book on tex- 
tiles, hence the revised edition of Textiles with its appendix of nearly one 
hundred pages is greatly appreciated. 

The book itself does not differ greatly in subject matter and organization 
from the first edition. Beginning with a study of the wool fiber the author 
carefully consideres every detail of the different processes, from the time 
the wool is removed from the back of the sheep until it is woven into cloth. 
This is followed by a woolen and worsted fabrics glossary. 

Each of the other fibers is taken up in a similar though somewhat briefer 
manner, each being followed by a glossary. 

The appendix gives interesting information on the history of textiles and 
the development of the textile industry. 

The tests given are in the main elementary and quite suitable for the 
young student. The method of carrying out each experiment is carefully 
described and no elaborate apparatus or expensive materials are necessary. 

Mr. Dooley with his experience in trade and industrial schools is particu- 
larly qualified to write a book of this kind, and teachers in such schools will 
find the book especially valuable. It also furnishes ideas for the develop- 
ment of courses in industrial history, biology, chemistry, mathematics, etc., 
in high schools. 

Laundry Work in Theory and Practice. By E. L. Marsh. New York: 
Longmans, Green and Company, 1914, pp. 205. $0.75. By mail of 
the Journal, $0.83. 

Miss E. L. Marsh, staff teacher of the National Training School of Cook- 
ery, London, has presented a practical, well planned manual in her new 
book called Laundry Work. The division of subject matter is made clear 
by carefully dividing the book into chapters, twenty-seven in nimiber. It 
is very fully illustrated with drawings representing different folds of table 
linen and body linen, and has many illustrations on the much needed infor- 
mation of laundry equipment. Much of the equipment is quite after the 
English pattern, which is different from our American t\'pe,but is especially 

509 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

helpful to students training for work in other localities. The book is most 
explicit, very detailed, and the facts are so plainly given that it should be 
of great service as a reference book to all teachers of laundry work. 

Insects Injurious to the Household and Annoying to Man. By Glenn W. 
Herrick. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1914, pp. 461. $1.75. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.90. 

Housewives and teachers of Home Economics are greatly indebted to 
Professor Herrick of Cornell University for this authoritative volume, with 
one hundred and fifty original illustrations. These show the distinctive 
characteristics that will ensure recognition. 

Through these pages the reader is introduced to practically every insect 
which injures the human body, clothes and other textiles, or food mate- 
rials in all sections of the country. We make their acquaintance in their 
usual breeding places through their preferred food, during their rapid re- 
production, and through the distinguishing characteristics of the least, as 
well as of the most harmful forms. 

With these facts in mind, special emphasis is put upon methods of pre- 
vention. Yet, as insects are both -^-ise and wary, the author gives in de- 
tail the best methods of extermination. 

The bibliography is extensive, including references published as early 
as 1773. 

While there is occasional repetition it is not frequent nor tiresome and 
the only omission that occurs to the re\dewer is the need for watching un- 
used fireplaces and chimney flues, which often let in that mysterious "swarm 
of flies." Screened chimney-tops may well be added to the other screened 
openings. 

A chapter on human parasites and another about insects which annoy 
chiefly in the fields and woods add to the practical use of the volume. 

The final chapter gives all necessary details for "safety first" and suc- 
cess afterward, in the use of the three gases, hydrocyanic acid, carbon bi- 
sulphide and sulphiir dioxide. 

With this book in the libraries and the homes the "What Shall I Do?" 
letters in regard to insects will be few, health and comfort greatly increased 
and waste of property much diminished. 

1001 Tests of Foods, and Toilet Accessories. By H. W. Wiley. New 
York: Hearst International Library Company, 1914, pp. xxviii+249, 
pi. 1. $1.25. 

This volimie, arranged by Anne L. Pierce, contains an introduction, 
"The pure food battle, looking backward and forward," a "Key to method 
of rating products," and a classified list of the results of the examination 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 511 

of foodstuffs, beverages, and cosmetics, with comments on quality. Much 
information is included regarding the presumable composition of such 
materials. A full inde.x is pro\ided. 

Analysis and Cost of Ready to Serve Foods. By F. C. Gephart and 
Graham Lusk. Chicago: Press of American Medical Association, 
1915, pp. 83. S0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.56. 

This book presents the results of a study of the composition, energy 
value, and cost of the different portions or "orders" of food served in the 
Childs restaurants in a number of the large cities of this country. Ap- 
proximately 350 dilTerent "orders," as they were served to patrons, were 
purchased and analyzed in the laboratory, these representing practically all 
the "orders" offered by the restaurants. The data accumulated in this 
investigation are discussed at length and presented to the reader in tabular 
form. The following information is given regarding each "order:" Its 
cost; the weight of its food constituents; the total number of calories of 
energy furnished, and the actual amounts and proportion of this energy 
supplied by the protein, carbohydrates, and fat constituents of the food; 
and the number of calories obtained for 5 cents. One table shows the cost 
of the portion as served; the estimated cost of the ingredients constituting 
the portion; the total number of nutritional calories furnished by the por- 
tion with the number obtainable for 5 cents; and the cost of 2500 calories 
when furnished by the portion. In another table the different "orders" 
are grouped according to the energy which they furnish. 

In an introduction to the pubHcation Prof. Graham Lusk discusses the 
importance of this work in relation to some principles of nutrition, especially 
the value of the flavor of food, the importance of its composition, and the 
quantity of food required, which he considers somewhat at length. 

Spices: Their Nature and Growth. By McCormick and Company. Bal- 
timore, Md., 1915, pp. 32, paper. $0.25. 

Information is given concerning the growth, preparation and use of 
spices, vanilla and tea. Colored illustrations show the plants and berries. 

A copy of the booklet will be sent free to any bona fide teacher of domes- 
tic science upon presentation of credentials. 

A Second Course in Homemaking. By Mabel Hyde Kittredge. New 
York: The Century Company, 1915, pp. 249. S0.80. By mail of the 
Journal, $0.88. 

In this second book Miss Kittredge prefaces the lessons with a brief 
review of the subject matter in her Practical Homemaking. The lessons 
then begin with one on preserving, so that the canning and preserving may 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

be done when school first opens, before the fruit season is over. The les- 
sons following are on City Refuse, Laundry Work, Baking, Division of In- 
come, Marketing, Care of Children, Food for Infants and Children, Hot 
Weather Problems, and the book concludes with good tables of weights 
and measures and about two hundred pages of inexpensive recipes. 

The material presented is practical, and yet it should be presented very 
carefully by the teacher or much of its value will be lost. 

As in the previous book the emphasis put on sanitation is most valuable 
and gives the teacher a good opportunity to make a connection between 
home problems and civic problems. The chapter on diet is excellent, 
although for many housekeepers in the average workingman's home the 
sentences might be simplified with great advantage. Thi;^ is also true of 
the chapter on Division of Income although this chapter presents some 
practical lessons on the advantage of s} stematic accounts. The chapter 
on Marketing gives very practical directions. Discretion in presenting the 
chapter on Care of Children would obtain the best results. One of the 
best chapters in the book is the one on Food for Infants. The lesson on 
Food for Children should have practical bearing on the health of children. 
The Hot Weather chapter is another example of concentrated w^isdom. 
The pages devoted to Inexpensive Recipes are particularly helpful. There 
are several pages of recipes for Italian families and several of kosher recipes. 
In general the book shows a thorough and practical knowledge of the 
homemaker's needs, and the subject is treated in the firm and decisive 
manner that is the result of such knowledge. 

Your Household Budget in Graphic Form. By Emma A. Winslow. De- 
partment of Household Administration, Teachers College, New York 
City, 1914, paper. $0.15. 

This is a folder (8" x 15" when open) furnishing a series of graphic charts 
for receipts and for expenditures for food, operating expenses, shelter, 
clothing, and the higher life. Each chart is ruled vertically and horizon- 
tally so that entries can be made for each month of a year corresponding to 
the amount received and the amounts spent for various purposes. 

The "budget line" is drawn across each chart at the beginning of the 
year to indicate the standard monthly sum estimated; the actual sums 
received and expended month by month are then entered according to the 
scale, resulting in a Une across the chart which expresses the actual expen- 
diture which can thus be compared with the budget allowance. The 
charts will appeal to teachers of household budgets and accounts as a valu- 
able teaching method, and should be found useful by housewives who are 
using or wishing to use a budget system. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Central Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers. The 

fifteenth annual meeting of the Central Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers will be held in Chicago in the new building of the Harrison 
Technical High School on November 26 and 27, 1915. On the programs of 
the section meetings in Agriculture, Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, 
Home Economics, Mathematics, and Physics are prominent educators who 
will discilss some of the present-day problems of the secondary schools. 
In the general sessions addresses will be given by Alexander H. Revell, 
Chicago, merchant, and director and trustee of numerous educational in- 
stitutions; William B. Ittner, St. Louis, architect of the Board of Educa- 
tion of St. Louis; Cyril G. Hopkins, professor of agronomy, University of 
Illinois; Earle R.Hedrick, professor of mathematics, University of Missouri; 
and Edward H. Steiner, sociologist, Grinnell College, Iowa. All teachers 
are cordially invited to attend this meeting. 

Visiting Housekeeping. Under the auspices of the New England Home 
Economics Association a committee to extend the teaching of housekeep- 
ing in the homes has begun a study of Instructive Visiting Housekeeping. 
In order to learn where and how this work is being done, they have pre- 
pared for distribution a questionnaire consisting of a number of questions 
under each of the following headings: History, Types of Work, Types of 
FamiUes, Methods of Work, Finances, After-Care, Extension, Request. 

Further information and copies of the questionnaire may be obtained 
from Miss Annie L. Weeks, Associated Charities, 763 Massachusetts 
Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 

Visiting Nursing. The Boston Instructive District Nursing Associa- 
tion, with Simmons College and the School for Social Workers, offers a 
course of eight months for graduate nurses wishing to prepare for public 
health nursing in its various branches, including infant welfare work and 
municipal and rural nursing. During the past few years there has been a 
very noticeable increase in the demand for nurses equipped for all forms of 
visiting nursing — in factory and other industrial welfare work, school 
nursing — and for hospital social service. In addition the widespread in- 
terest in preventive measures for tuberculosis, infant welfare and mental 
hygiene is adding constantly to the demand for nurses in educational and 

513 



514 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

preventive work under state and local boards of health, or private agencies 
in cities, towns and rural communities. Applicants must be graduated 
from a nursing school, giving at least two consecutive years in a general 
hospital and also giving maternity training; and must be registered nurses. 
They must also have had at least a high school training or its equivalent. 
The course began September 22, 1915, and will end June 9, 1916, with 
holidays at Christmas and in the spring. Three-fourths of the students' 
time is given to work at Simmons College and the School for Social Work- 
ers and one-fourth to practise work with the Instructive District Nursing 
Association. — School and Society. 

State Supervisor of Household Arts in Indiana. Under the operation 
of the new Vocational Education law in Indiana, a state supervisor of 
Household Arts has been added to the staff of the Vocational Di\'ision 
of the State Department of Public Instruction, with oflSces at Indianapolis. 
Miss Adelaide Steele Baylor, who has been the general assistant in the 
State Department of Public Instruction, and Clerk of the State Board of 
Education, ha:, been appointed to this position. 

Miss Baylor is visiting schools in various parts of the country before 
she takes up the duties of her office in October. 

Other states ha\nng some form of state super\'ision of household arts 
instruction are: Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York and 
Wisconsin. 

Provincial Director of Home Economics. In January, 1915 the Depart- 
ment of Education of Saskatchewan, Canada, appointed Miss F. A. Twiss, 
Director of Household Science for that province. Miss Twiss has her 
office in the Normal School, Regina, and is at present giving much atten- 
tion to the work in rural schools. 

The appointment of similar directors, or provincial inspectors, in other 
provinces will doubtless follow just as in several of the states, notably Wis- 
consin, Indiana, Maine, New York, Louisiana, and Illinois, there is a state 
inspector or supervisor of Home Economics. 

Utah Home Economics Association. At a meeting called last spring 
the matter of a standard state course for high schools was taken up. The 
committee which had been working at this presented a course which was 
adopted, and which will be used the coming year in the schools. A dis- 
cussion was held upon the requirements of teachers of Home Economics, 
but it was decided to defer action until the next regular meeting. The 
committee upon revision of the constitution tendered to the Association 
a revised constitution, which was adopted. Various other matters of 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 515 

interest were taken up. Committees were appointed to standardize the 
score cards to be used in judging Home Economics products and also a 
committee was appointed to select the best text books for domestic science 
and domestic art. 

This Association includes in its membership many of the women of the 
state who are not teachers, and who have given some very valuable advice 
in the line of Home Economics. 

Santa Barbara Home Economics Association. During the summer 
session the branch held weekly meetings every Thursday afternoon at which 
interesting reports were made of the work given in Home Economics in 
the various schools throughout the country which were represented by 
the summer school faculty and students. It is planned to include similar 
meetings throughout the year. 

Field Work at Teacher's College. An interesting feature of household 
arts' at Teachers College is the field work conducted by graduate and un- 
dergraduate students; in connection with regular class work many of the 
younger students have also taught throughout the year in the settlements 
of Upper New York, this work being organized by the Y. W. C. A. in coop- 
eration with the department of household arts education. This work has 
not been for credit, but it is of great value to the pupils in that it gives 
them a live problem and a social outlook as a preliminary to the more 
formal practice teaching in the school. Graduate students have been 
working out assigned problems in the housekeeping centers connected with 
the public school, and others have superintended the teaching of classes of 
backward girls in one of the public schools after school hours. Prevoca- 
tional and vocational education are being instituted in New York City and 
this gives qualified students an opportunity to study this type of educa- 
tion during its inception. Under Miss Cooley's supervision students have 
been working regularly in Public School 62 with prevocational classes. One 
graduate student has conducted a most interesting piece of work in con- 
nection with other work at the School of Philanthropy in investigating the 
dietaries of a group of women who are tenement dwellers, and most of whom 
have recently come to this country. The list of all such activities would be 
too long for publication; but these brief notes show how opportunities in 
a city like New York may be used in connection with educational work. 

It may seem strange to the casual observer that a city college should 
undertake rural work. While it may not seem the best possible division 
of labor, this line of work has been forced upon Teachers College by the 
demands of its students. Not only in the summer but during the winter 
many courses are given which are taken by county superintendents and 



516 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

other supervisors, as well as by teacher?. There is a group of courses in 
Rural Education with Prof. Richard E. Dodge as adviser, and a diploma in 
this field will be granted. The department of household arts education 
otTered a summer course in household arts in rural schools, conducted by 
Miss Spohr, who is familiar with rural conditions. Opportunities for field 
work, are not so far distant from Teachers College as might at first seem, 
as a short journey will lead one to a district where the rural school is found 
and where lectures may be given to a woman's club. 

Dr. Warren R. Wilson gives a course of lectures in Rural Sociology and 
conducts a seminar. Dr. Winslow has taken groups of his students on 
an automobile trip to rural schools in Dutchess County. 

A College for Teachers at the Johns Hopkins University. Another 
step towards the r. alization of a teachers' college in Baltimore was taken 
in the recent creation of the degree of Bachelor of Science in Education, 
by the Johns Hopkins University. This marks a partial fulfillment of 
the hopes which the University has entertained for years. As early as 
1910, the University announced its desire of establishing a department 
for the higher training of teachers as an organic part of the University. 

The curriculum leading to the new degree will be based on the College 
Courses for Teachers and the Summer Courses. The former, which were 
estabhshed in 1909, are conducted during the regular session in the after- 
noons and on Saturdays. The latter have been conducted since 1911. 
The new degree will be open to men and women on equal terms. In 
the Summer Course, work in Home Economics will be a part of the new 
department. The regulations concerning matriculation and the curricu- 
lum will be determined by a special advisory committee of the faculty. 
The title of Director of these courses has been assigned to Prof. Edward 
F. Buchner, who organized and has conducted both of these branches of 
the University's activities. 

Nurses Associations. The American Xurses' Association, The National 
League of Nursing Ecucation, and The National Organization for Public 
Health Nursing held a combined meeting and individual meetings at San 
Francisco June 20-25. 

At the general session for all these associations, well known medical 
men, nurses and educators discussed these important subjects: Visiting 
and Household Nursing, Cooperation betv.-een Nurses' Training Schools 
and Other Schools, The Contribution of the Medical Profession to Nursing 
Education, Administration of Registration Laws, The Nurses' Part in In- 
fant ^^'elfare Work. 

These subjects were subdivided and others taken up at the meetings of 
the individual associations. 



1915] NEWS FROM TIIE FIF.LD 517 

The Penny Lunch. A teaclier in New York writes as follows concern- 
ing the school lunch work in which she was engaged last winter. 

"The lunch room work was inaugurated as a help for the poor, during 
the winter months. The work is good practice in buying and cooking in 
large quantities. All our regular work in cookery has stopped temporarily, 
and the children in the cookery classes help to prepare the food for the 
lunches. This is an admirable opportunity to adjust oneself to circum- 
stances. 

"Our average number of servings is 350 per day, but we have served as 
many as 550 on some rainy days. Our menu each day is a soup or cocoa, 
stewed fruit, bread and rolls, making a total cost of three cents for the 
lunch. 

"The kindergarten children come to us at eleven thirty. The girls who 
are in the cooking classes at that hour take charge of these children. Each 
girl mothers one of the little ones, sees that the child's tray is filled, and 
then takes it to our second kitchen where the children are seated and fed. 

"The other children come to us at twelve. They are served and go with 
their trays to the class rooms on the same floor with the kitchens." 

Baby Week. The Civics, Home Economics and Public Health De- 
partments of the Federation of Women's Clubs, in cooperation with the 
Federal Children's Bureau, are to have a Baby Week from INTarch 4 to 11, 
1916. The Children's Bureau are offering plans and suggestions for this 
baby campaign. 

Details will be found in the General Federation Magazine for Xovember. 

University of Chicago. Prof. Julius Stieglitz of the Department of 
Chemistry of the University of Chicago has been made chairman of the 
department to succeed Prof. John Ulric Xef, whose sudden death occurred 
in California in August. Those Home Economics students who have 
studied with Prof. Stieglitz either in organic chemistry or advanced food 
work owe much to his clear, concise methods, and have the greatest respect 
for him both as a teacher and investigator. 

Brief Notes. The National Association of Corporation Schools held its 
third annual convention in Worcester, Mass., June 8-11. Reports were 
given by the committees on Trade Apprenticeship Schools, Special Ap- 
prenticeship Schools, Accounting and Ofl5ce Work Schools, Advertising, 
Selling and Distribution Schools, Hygiene, Health and Cooperation, Em- 
ployment Plans, and Vocational Guidance as a Scientific Studv. 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Miss Farmer's School of Cookery is now being conducted by Miss Alice 
Bradley. The fall term opened October 4; the winter and spring terms 
will open January 2 and March 14 "-espectively. 

Prof. Kathryn Gordon, B.S., Simmons College, 1915, has accepted the 
chair of Household Economics in Franklin College, Indiana. 

The books, Selection and Preparation of Food and Food and Nutrition 
by Miss Isabel Bevier have recently been revised. Food and Nutrition 
may now be obtained from \Vhitcomb and Barrows, Huntington Chambers, 
Boston, Mass., and Selection and Preparation of Food will be ready shortly. 

Salaries received by young women graduates of the Home Economics 
course of the University of Wisconsin range from $750 to $1000 for the first 
year's work, up to $1500 for the third year of employment. 

Miss Eloise Parsons of Clarinda, Iowa, is the young woman whose rec- 
ord in the Department of Agriculture's garden and canning clubs was the 
best of the thousands made by members in the Z2) northern states. Miss 
Parsons obtained a yield of 5318 pounds of tomatoes from her tenth-acre 
plat. Her costs v.-ere $15.61, and her net profits were $115.57. Her costs 
cover every item of expense in raising the crop, including rent of land, her 
own time (estimated ar 10 cents an hour), fertilizers and sprays. 

A weekly weather forecast designed especially to aid farmers in planning 
their farm operations and shippers of perishable products to handle their 
goods with reference to expected weather conditions, has been inaugurated 
by the United States Weather Bureau. The bureau also has arranged a 
system whereby the forecast is taken Tuesday and reaches the weekly 
newspapers, especially in the corn, wheat and cotton districts, by mail on 
Wednesday morning — which is in time for the greatest number of them to 
use the information in their weekly editions. 



Vol. VII, No. 10 DECEMHKH, 1915 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin. Xfanating Editor 

EiUlorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel Anna Barrows C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Officio Members — Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economics .Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ri'TH Whekler. Chairman Science Section 
GtRTRUDK McCheyne. Chairman E.ttension Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

The Aim of Textilk Te.achino Nrllir Crooks 519 

FoLLOw-rp Work Mamie Buiiclt 523 

FoLLOW-rp Work Nralr S. Knoiclrs 525 

Field Work tx Brimfield Alice R. Dresser 528 

Life in Rur.xl Fr.\nce Helen W. Alwater 530 

The Smoktxg Temper.vtures of Edible Fats . . Katharine Bhmt and Clara .If. Feeney ^i^ 

Half Portions and Waste 541 

Girls' Hostel IN CHRiSTcnrRCH, New Zealand M. A. Blackmore 542 

The Consumption of Sic.ar 544 

Editorials 545 

Housekeepers' Department 549 

The Young Women's Christian Association Commission on Household Employment . 549 

Committee on Home Economics, International Child Welfare League . . . 552 

The General Federation ant> the Department of Agriculture. .... 553 

"United States Inspected and Passed" 554 

For Ten Cents 555 

Enamels of Cooking Utensils C. F. Langic'orthy and H. L. Lang 556 

Bibliography of Home Economics 559 

Books ant) Literature 561 

News from the Field 565 

Index to Volume VII 571 



The Journal of Home Economics is published ten times during the year — monthly except July and August— by the 
American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on Xew York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




Kitchen 




Hostel 
Girls' Hostel in Christchurch, New Zealand (see page 542) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Vn DECEMBER, 1915 No. 10 

THE AIM OF TEXTILE TEACHING^ 

NELLIE CROOKS 
Director of Home Economics, Milwaukee-Downer College 

In all business enterprises there comes a time when account is 
taken of ''stock on hand." The success or failure of different methods 
is then noted and plans are made for the future. 

Have we not come to a time in the teaching of textiles when we 
should look over the work that has been done and see if we have 
accomplished the desired end? 

At no time has the successful attainment of our aim been of more 
importance than now, for the present conflict in Europe is making 
everyone feel the need of retrenchment in household expenditure as 
never before. This burden of retrenchment falls most heavily on 
women. Are we giving our students the knowledge that will enable 
them to meet the difflculties that will confront them? Is their 
knowledge of values definite enough to make them intelligent buy- 
ers? Some time ago in one of our magazines a letter was published 
telling of the knowledge the consumer abroad has when she wishes 
to buy. The writer says: 

I was deeply impressed, while visiting in Holland, by the judicious manner 
in which the young women of the family went about their marketing and 
shopping. Each article had its test, each material its standard. The en- 
tire system of housekeeping in each of the several middle class homes was 
a matter of regulation and familiar rule. Since that time I have bought no 
single article without inquiry as to the place and manner of its manufacture. 

* Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Seattle, 1915. 

519 



520 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

I have found a large number of salespeople who practically know nothing 
of the goods they handle. Numbers are obUged to seek information of 
those higher in authority. Whenever I have found a man who knew his 
stock, its merits and its faults, then I have purchased. 

How are we to make our students as intelligent buyers as these 
thrifty Hollanders? How are we to instill into them in the short 
space of time at our disposal an acute perception of good and bad qual- 
ity? Such acuteness is imperative at the present time, for we daily 
find materials masquerading for what they are not, and we discover 
that the goods we buy do not stand the test of hard wear. All this 
skilful concealment of inferior quality in goods makes buying a mere 
lottery for the untrained, yet a definite remedy for the evil seems 
difiicult of attainment. 

Pure textile bills have been introduced into Congress from time 
to time, but they are generally so intricate that they would be very 
difiicult to enforce. The most practical measure is the Mills and the 
Merchandise ^Marks Act signed by Governor Whitman of New York 
State in May, to take effect in September, 1915. 

By this bill any firm or corporation giving an untrue or misleading 
advertisement, or a statement of fact that is untrue, deceptive or 
misleading, is guilty of misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not 
less than $25 or more than $1,000, or by imprisonment, or both. 
It resembles the British Merchandise Marks Act, which has been 
so successful in England. The need for some national measure like 
this state law is brought forceably to me when I think of a visit to a 
hat factory where men's Derby hats were made in great quantity. 
As the hats were finished, labels were put in the crowns, marked 
"Made in London" — "Made in Vienna" — "Made in Budapest." 
You could select from the same group a hat presumably made in 
countries thousands of miles apart. 

The most hopeful sign of the times is that retail clothiers are feel- 
ing the necessity of paying attention to material as well as to style 
in their garments. An article in the New York Times of June 6 makes 
the following statements : 

A glance through the printed announcements of nationally advertised 
brands of men's clothing reveals the fact that, in the majority of cases, 
style and tailoring are featured almost exclusively. The pubhc has been 
taught to ignore the fabric of which a garment is made. A prominent 
retailer has called attention to the need of giving better cloth values. 



1915] THE AIM OF TEXTILE TEACHING 521 

There has been a complete revolution in the consumers' method of buying. 
Formerly a man in selecting a suit wanted to be perfectly satisfied that the 
cloth would stand wear. His next thought was to get a pleasing pattern, 
and then he decided upon the style of garment he desired. The order has 
been reversed, and the order of consideration in most cases now is style, 
pattern, cloth, with very little attention paid to the last item. 

A leading young men's clothing house in Chicago, that has been especially 
persistent in putting forward its claim to style distinction and leadership 
will shortly start a campaign of education to inform the consumer of the 
varying merits of cloth. This firm believes that there is a market, and a 
good one, for suits selling over $25. The tendency right along has been to 
impress the consumer that the finest fabrics and workmanship are obtain- 
able at prices ranging from $15 to $25. It is hard to see, under the exist- 
ing limits on the prices to be paid for fabrics going into garments to be re- 
tailed at these figures, how the claims of such houses can be substantiated. 

The clothing firm mentioned above has established a laboratory for the 
testing of fabrics which are bought. In the future a cloth that passes 
a certain test will be labeled "doubled service," and the consumer will be 
enabled thereby to get material in this suit that will stand hard usage. 

That the aim of textile study is to make more intelligent consumers 
is a conceded proposition. If it be true that 50 per cent of all students 
leave school at the end of the sixth grade, and that only 2 per cent 
enter high school, we need some definite, though necessarily simple 
method of teaching values even in the grades. Generally the techni- 
cal side of sewing is dwelt on and very little time is spent in studying 
materials. When simple tests and charts are made, as in Rochester, 
New York, the work is definite and helpful. In the high schools, the 
time devoted to textiles is usually a part of the sewing period. The 
students are taught, but do not feel certain that their knowledge is 
always reflected in the purchases, or that their usual standard of 
value is not style rather than wearing quahty. 

In colleges where Home Economics is taught, textiles is generally 
a separate subject. But even here do results show that we have 
emphasized enough the responsibility of spending money? 

We are all consumers, children as weU as older people. Very often, 
too, the young are purchasers as well as their elders. The children 
of foreign parentage are in many cases the shoppers for the family 
as they are the ones who speak English. We find high school girls 
buying the materials for their dresses or instructing their obedient 
parents as to what to buy. The college girl usually selects her own 
wardrobe. 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

So the further question arises: why does not our teaching have 
more influence on this small army of purchasers? There seem to be, 
in brief, three factors that mitigate against the success of our efforts. 

1. The constantly changing styles that make the purchaser indif- 
ferent to the wearing quahty of what she buys. 

2. The lack of money responsibility on the part of most girls. 

3. The lack of definite knowledge of standard materials, due to not 
seeing and handHng them enough, and the lack of simple tests, that 
can be quickly apphed in the store or in the home. 

The teacher may offset these difficulties by efforts in the following 
directions : 

1. Endeavor to teach, with the help of the Art Department, that 
there is beauty in simple style and that there is more beauty in good 
materials than in the latest fad. 

2. Advocate that parents give their children an allowance for 
dress instead of permitting them to have charge accounts at the store. 

3. Spend less time on the study of processes and machinery, and 
more on the finished products, learning to know standard materials 
and weaves by handling and rehandHng large pieces of goods and by 
testing and retesting. Visit stores as frequently as possible so as to 
get the "feel" of goods in the fingers. 

I speak feelingly on this subject for the reason that at the close 
of the year's work in textiles, with college girls, I submitted this 
question among others to my students: "What do you think could 
be added to this course to make better consumers?" The reply was 
practically unanimous: "More visits to stores, more tests, too, that 
could be used at the stores and at home, and more handling of 
materials." This, after I had spent what I felt to be an undue 
amount of time on finished material! 

Yet in reahty the reply proved that the principle at the basis of 
the course was correct, and showed, moreover, how keenly the 
students recognized their need of such instruction in the actual 
judging of materials. 

This brief paper is in itself a summary of our aims and our main 
difficulties. If, however, any final words are needed, those words 
should be: courage and perseverance. Courage, in constantly in- 
sisting that the amount of practical knowledge gained is the real re- 
sult of our toil; perseverance, in drilling, testing, practicing our 
pupils, then perseverance, and perseverance again, in putting the 
students through this practice work, once, twice, innumerable times. 



1915] FOLLOW-UP WORK 523 

FOLLOW-UP WORKi 

Single Talks and Boy and Girl Clubs 

mamie bunch 

Extension Department, University of Illinois 

The best extension work, is that which leaves the community 
doing most for itself. In Illinois, the day of the single talk for 
mere entertainment or for creating enthusiasm is well nigh past. 

We are fortunate in having speciahsts in various phases of Home 
Economics on our extension stafif, and when calls come for single 
talks from dififerent parts of the state, we find out before assigning 
the speaker what phase of our work will be most desirable in that com- 
munity. The speaker has always in mind the fact that her work is 
merely an introduction to what the community may be expected to 
accompHsh. 

It is our thought that each neighborhood has within itself all the 
necessary ability for its own development, and that we who come to 
them from the University, come not to do their work, but to give 
to them, from a broader experience than theirs, suggestions for con- 
structive work which they themselves are to do. 

We have on our staff a trained nurse who is also a graduate from 
the Home Economics Department. She takes up the problems 
of house sanitation, home emergencies, the relation of food to health, 
pure water supplies, and personal hygiene. As a result of her talks, 
cleaning-up campaigns, better babies contests, and camp fire girl 
clubs have been organized to further the development of the com- 
munity. Town water suppHes, and wells in private homes have been 
examined, wells and cisterns have been properly capped, and deep 
wells sunk. 

As a result of single lectures on foods there has been almost invari- 
ably a call for a movable school. The movable school has resulted 
in a neighborhood demand for the teaching of Home Economics in 
the pubhc school. Single talks on household management, on home 
conveniences, and on the relation of income to expenditures, do not 
always show definite and immediate results in the home, but they 
have created a desire for more general instruction in such subjects. 

^ Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Extension Section, Seattle, 1915. 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Single talks and demonstrations in textiles have undoubtedly 
brought about more intelligent purchasing. We show, for instance, 
sheets, custom-made, in which the fabric can not be duplicated 
in the retail market for less than two to eleven cents more than the 
ready-made sheets cost. We also show house dresses costing from 
$0.65 to $1 in which the materials duplicated at retail cost more than 
the ready-made dress, while the making at home consumes from 
five to seven and one-half hours. It is our purpose to call the atten- 
tion of home women to the value of their time, and to suggest how 
the hours saved to them can be profitably spent. A $15 blouse with 
really fine needle work in it can be duplicated at home for $3, and the 
exquisite needlework may become a medium of real self expression 
for the home woman. In contrast to the dresses we exhibit various 
home conveniences as sewing screens, and shoe and laundry bags, 
costing as much again in the market as if made at home. 

On the subject of shelter we are trying to get our rural people to 
use to better purpose fight, air, and water, the cheapest and most 
neglected of commodities. Both the instructors and the women in 
charge of local organizations report to our office what they con- 
sider the best way of following up instruction in the community in 
question. Instruction concerning ventilation by heating systems 
and by windows, the use of screens, sewage disposal, the installation 
of simple shower baths, and of a water system, has been effective in 
many communities. A rearrangement of the working area to lessen 
the housewife's expenditure of energy has been effected in many 
country homes. 

As to the Boy and Girl Club movement, the definite thoroughness 
with which an enthusiastic organizer is followed up determines its 
success or failure. 

In Illinois the Garden Club work of Mr. Tobin, County Superin- 
tendent of Schools in Cook County, has been so successful as to indi- 
cate that the public school system is the most efficient agency through 
which to secure follow-up supervision. The Junior Extension there- 
fore has been organized as a separate branch under the College of 
Agriculture, with its own state leader, who purposes to work with the 
public schools wherever he can secure their cooperation. It is thus 
removed from the Home Economics department, except that we 
cooperate by furnishing canning demonstrators, lesson plans for 
sewing clubs, and in similar ways. 



1915] FOLLOW-UP WORK 525 

In the University of Illinois we have a community adviser, who 
brings to us his knowledge of rural conditions in various parts of the 
state. Every department of the university, indeed, cooperates with 
the extension service, and perhaps the greatest evidence of the efifect 
of the follow-up work of single talks is the fact that the work of the 
Household Science Extension Department this year has been seven 
times as great as it was last year, and the further fact that commu- 
nities and individuals are constantly sending to us for specific aid 
or advice to meet their particular conditions. The single talk or 
demonstration to be effective must indicate how to meet very definite 
needs in the simplest and most practical manner. 



FOLLOW-UP WORK! 

NEALE S. KNOWLES 
Extension Professor of Home Economics, Iowa Stale College 

The purpose of the single lecture in Home Economics is to create 
interest in the subject. It can serve only as an eye-opener. For 
that reason the single lecture must be very carefully plarmed and 
must be strengthened by demonstration or by illustrative material 
when necessary. The lecture must be adapted to the needs of the 
people if it is to create a desire for Follow-up Work. 

The successful lecture leaves the individual with a desire to act, 
an inspiration to do something worth while. Follow-up Work must 
be presented at such a time and in such a manner as to aid the indi- 
vidual in carrying out the lines of thought suggested : The Follow-up 
Work must suggest subject matter for study, give aid in preparing 
outlines and securing reference books and bulletins and must point 
out some defiiiite lines of work to be accomplished. 

The three-day or the five-day demonstration and lecture course 
follows the single lecture quite logically and is a method of Follow-up 
Work that is quite generally used. This fine of work affords an ex- 
cellent opportunity to cooperate with the librarian in the town, to 

> Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Extension Section, Seattle, 1915. 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

interest her in Home Economics books and through her to acquaint 
the women of the town with those books already on the library 
shelves. This often demonstrates the fact that many valuable books 
have not been used by the women of the town. One very important 
Hne of Follow-up Work is this study and comparison of Home Eco- 
nomics books and the planning of a homemaker's library. 

The Follow-up Work must recognize the business of homemaking as 
a profession and must provide opportunity for the study of the vari- 
ous phases of the subject. For this reason the homemaker's Hbrary 
must include books on food, textiles, sanitation, care of children, 
house plans, house furnishing and home management. It is 
the purpose of Follov/-up Work to demonstrate the fact that 
Home Economics is not simply cooking but is the study of "Right 
Living." 

In response to a brief questionnaire sent out the following informa- 
tion was received: 

California writes that they have done much with the organization 
of study clubs. This organization followed the single lectures and 
demonstrations. Another state mentions the same plan and states 
that Home Economics workers from the Agricultural College meet 
with the clubs at stated interv-als and thus direct the study clubs. 

Missouri reports that their follow-up v/ork is through the organi- 
zation of Home Economics Clubs. These Home Economics Clubs are 
organized through the county and it is their aim to form federated 
county clubs. Missouri sends out the package Ubraries from the 
University. 

Many states make use of the traveling Hbrary commission. The 
teacher who puts the homemaker in close touch with the traveling 
Hbrary, the buHetins from the Health Department, the Federal De- 
partments and the State Food Commissions, is giving the homemaker 
real, practical help. 

Maryland speaks particularly of the five county agents and the 
organization of girls' clubs. 

Wisconsin reports very successful county women's clubs. The 
state provides courses of study, leaflets and programs, for clubs that 
wish to plan their single program or their year-book. Wisconsin has 
four workers on full time. 

Idaho speaks very enthusiastically of the parent-teacher clubs. In 
fact, many states speak with great enthusiasm of this strong tie 



1915] FOLLOW-UP WORK 527 

between the school and the home. Idaho also speaks of the movable 

schools. 

Many states speak of bulletins as a means of Follow-up Work. 
The bulletins serve as reference books and prevent the necessity of 
note taking during demonstrations. Note taking is difficult for those 
who have been out of school for many years. 

Utah reports the Home Economics Association, many Home Eco- 
nomics study classes, contests, correspondence courses, and monthly 
leaflets. These monthly leaflets are in the form of lessons. 

Massachusetts reports a correspondence course in preparation and 
other plans which will be in full working order presently. The work 
is quite new in Massachusetts. 

Wyoming reports the formation of Home Economics clubs follow- 
ing the single lecture. New Hampshire reports this same plan as 
their best means of Follow-up Work. 

Nebraska and New Mexico report organization of clubs, suggestions 
for club study, programs and Hst of books, and movable schools. 
Vermont is preparing a correspondence course. 
Kentucky reports one-day demonstrations and lectures at present; 
the Follow-up Work to come later. 

In Iowa, we begin with the lecture, the bread contest or the single 
demonstration. The three-day or the five-day short courses follow 
this. The organization of girl's clubs and women's clubs is aided 
by study outHnes, bulletins and Hsts of books. The farm tour, which 
we speak of as the June Tour, is a very profitable sort of Follow-up 
Work. This takes us directly to the home and gives the homemaker 
an opportunity to show us the equipment that she particularly likes 
and to tell us of her plans for improvement. It gives us an oppor- 
tunity to make suggestions and gives the women of the neighborhood 
an excellent opportunity to exchange ideas and experiences. 

In all of our Follow-up Work, we make every effort to establish a 
very close relationship between the homemaker and every source of 
available help. This help may come from the community, the state 
or federal sources. It is the chief purpose of all Home Economics 
Follow-up Work to suggest topics for study, to make the hcme- 
makcr familiar with sources of valuable information and to help her 
to make the best use of that information. 



528 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

FIELD WORK IN BRIMFIELD^ 

ALICE R. DRESSER 

At Brimfield, Massachusetts, a typical New England township, 
an experimental project in farm home demonstrations was carried 
on from April 1 to July 1, 1915, under the joint direction of the 
United States Department of Agriculture and the Extension Serv- 
ice of the Massachusetts Agricultural College. The purpose of the 
study was to learn what effective measure might be adopted to 
help rural and especially farm homemakers to solve some of the most 
pressing problems of housekeeping and homemaking. 

The function of the home is to develop and maintain efl&cient 
conditions for service in each member of the family. To this end 
the homemaker needs to fit herself to be a competent wife, house- 
keeper, mother, and citizen; to adopt a professional attitude toward 
her responsibilities. She needs to formulate a definite ideal of home- 
making; to reahze the need of a vision of her opportunities. Such 
a vision furnishes the inspiration with which to meet her daily prob- 
lems. Without it no woman can be a well-rounded homemaker and 
infuse into her daily activities the influence which it is her highest 
responsibility to exert. Great emphasis is placed on this point. 

To develop the project a small group of townswomen was called 
to a conference by Miss Laura Comstock of the Massachusetts Agri- 
cultural College. These women agreed to cooperate with the field 
agent, by inviting her to their homes and by working out sugges- 
tions bearing on various aspects of homemaking. Semi-monthly 
meetings were held in the library, to which young unmarried women 
as well as high school students were invited with an attendance in- 
creasing from thirty to fifty-four. At consecutive meetings the 
subjects of kitchen plarming and equipment, laundry processes and 
equipment, foods, clothing, sanitation, and safeguarding the young 
by instruction in sex hygiene were discussed. Forty homes were 
visited — fourteen village homes and twenty-six farm homes. 

In all visits the agent kept the attitude of cooperator, one who 
desires to confer with the housewife, and is equally interested to solve 
the universal problem of the homemaker. 

^ Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Extension Section, Seattle, 1915. 



1915] FIELD WORK IN BRIMFIELD 529 

No hard and fast order of subjects was followed in visiting. Both 
as regards choice of subjects and the number of visits made to each 
home, the decision was left to the discretion of the agent. She sought 
invariably to be guided by what she deemed the greatest need of the 
individual family and the avenue of approach by which she could 
best gain an influence. Invariably all suggestions were made from the 
professional viewpoint, and the ideal of homemakingwas kept in mind. 

A marked spirit of interest and cooperation was in general evidence 
throughout the period. This group appreciated that to a large de- 
gree the success of the experiment depended upon their cooperation. 
Furthermore they evidenced an appreciation of the fact that upon 
the results of this project depended somewhat, at least, future plans 
for similar work throughout the country. 

Among tangible results of the experiment women were helped to 
formulate ideals of homemaking, and consequently to think of 
homemaking in its larger relationship as a preparation for citizen- 
ship. Housekeepers were helped to break from tradition in meth- 
ods of work; in kitchen arrangements and equipment; in types of 
foods served, and of garments suitable for young children and for 
women who do their own housework; and in the elimination of 
useless "things." Some mothers developed a keener interest in school 
matters and saw in clearer light the close link between home and 
school. The beginnings of a professional attitude toward house- 
keeping were made by estabhshing its proper relation to homemaking; 
by stimulating an interest in reading bulletins and magazines, and 
in the discussion among themselves of homemaking problems. 

This type of work with homemakers affords an avenue of helpful- 
ness which is limited only by the individual worker's capacity to 
sense opportunities and by the degree of her training and experience 
with which to meet the need. Women are rapidly waking to the fact 
that the responsibilities of homemakers are inseparably linked with 
the general interests of their immediate community; that each wife, 
each mother, through her various avenues of responsibihty, is pre- 
paring individual lives for their duties as citizens; that she cannot 
divorce herself from her share of civic responsibilities, all of which 
touch at some points individual homes and persons of all ages. To 
catch the vision of this ideal is sufficient to stimulate in womankind 
generally a conscientious devotion to its realization through every 
avenue which is open to her. 



530 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

LIFE IN RUR.\L FRANCE 

Concliided 

Compiled by helen w. at water 

United Slates Department of Agricidture 

This article was begun in the August-September Journal. In that number, the 
quotations from "The Fields of France " by Mme. Mary Duclaux describe the peasant 
life in Auvergne. In this number the quotations tell of twentieth century country life 
in the "garden of France." 

Very different are the surroimdings in the "Manor in Touraine" 
where the writer delights to spend the golden autumn with the friends 
who own it. It is a historic place, originally a- commandery of the 
Knights Templar, "an old, irregular house, a long grey line in the 
hollow, founded by the Templars some eight hundred years ago and 
finished yesterday," and still retaining the charm of old associations 
in spite of modern comforts and additions. Like most estates in 
Touraine the house is set in a park, but has also its more homely 
lawns and gardens. 

Turning, you cross the moat, inseparable from every ancient manor- 
house in France, you pass the orangery with its terrace, where the trees 
stand out in pots all summer, and so you arrive at a series of large walled 
gardens or potagers [vegetable gardens]. You enter by a rosarium where, 
well to the south, sheltered by stone walls draped with peaches in espalier, 
the roses grow profusely, not trained over walls or arches, nor cut into stand- 
ards, but somewhat wild and bushy, just as Nature made them. Invisible 
at their feet, flat beds of mignonette, verbena, violet and heliotrope give 
odor; for the rose is a fast flower of its smell, as Lord Bacon noticed (when 
writing of gardens one may surely quote him twice): "And you may walk 
by a whole row of them and find nothing of their sweetness." From the 
rose-garden starts a long rectangle of three walled potagers in a suite, 
opening into each other like a set of state rooms. The walls of all alike are 
trained and pleached with fruit trees, and more especially, in this first one, 
with vines: trellises of grapes, purple and white, and that small golden 
sort called Chasselas, whose flavor is perhaps unrivalled. The three 
gardens communicate by means of arched gateways, through which — 
right through from end to end — runs a broad gravelled walk, set on either 
side with deep, high banks of common flowers for cutting, such as roses, 
chrysanthemums, zinnias, asters, phlox, dahlias, and cannas, tall Paris 
daisies, freesias, and autumn lilies. Behind this varied screen stretch the 



19151 LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 531 

beds of fruit and vegetables, strawberries and raspberries, which ripen 
on into latest autumn, melons and asparagus, artichokes and cardoons, 
green peas, French beans and scarlet-runners — such, in fact, as make some 
decorative show; for this first garden is a favorite place for sheltered walk- 
ing. To the second garden are relegated the salads of different sorts: 
lettuce and romaine, spinach and sorrel, scarole, celery and chicory, capucin's 
beard and betie and endive ; while in the third grow the cabbages, carrots, 
turnips, parsnips, Japanese crosnes, Jerusalem artichokes, Brussels sprouts, 
onions, leeks, potatoes, and their kind. Above the suites of gardens, which 
occupy the lower slope of a gentle rise, runs a natural fringe of copse- 
wood; below, the upper road from Tours to Ballan divides them from a 
considerable vineyard, which bears, on a little holm, a fourth walled gar- 
den, or clos, filled with orchard trees of a finer sort than those planted 
everywhere about the fields. This is especially sacred to those golden 
plums for which the country round Tours is celebrated. 

Close to the kitchen gardens of the Commanderie lies the farmyard, 
a picturesque and pleasant place where I love to loiter of an afternoon. 
In the middle stands a squat round tower of considerable girth. What- 
ever it was of old (gateway, tower, or colum-barium [dovecote]), today it 
is a dairy, chosen for this office on account of the mighty thickness of its 
walls and consequent evenness of the temperature within. The vaulted 
roof of the ground floor is lined, like the walls, with bright enameled tiles, 
blue and green; the flags are laid with such evenness that not a speck of dust 
can shelter there in any cranny; tables of lava support the spotless vessels 
for the milk; the churns and separators are as neat and dainty as if they 
stood there not for use, but for ornament. How difTerent from the rough 
and (truth to tell) the grimy floors, the squalid deal bench, the primitive 
churns and cheese-wrings of our wind-beaten mountain burons in Auvergene ! 

How charming are the gros bourgs of Touraine — Vouvray and Montri- 
chard, Savonnieres or Ballan — with their neat white houses, built of 
freestone topped v/ith slate, a raised flight of stone steps leading to the 
door, and large ornamented windows, one or two on either side the entrance; 
there is a trellised vine up the front, there are flowers in the garden, fruit- 
trees everywhere! These villages have brought prosperity to the very 
brink of poetry. Once I spent five weeks at Chenonceau, living at the 
village inn, a humble place enough, — the "Bon Laboureur." The rooms 
were rough and homely, with tiled floors, straw-bottomed chairs, and old- 
fashioned furniture of waxed walnut; but seldom have I dined better than 
in that rustic parlor. It is true that I was young then, and very happy. 
The tenderest fov/ls, the most melting and juicy of melons and green 



532 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

peas, the freshest eggs for boiHng or for breaking in an omelette, the most 
savory rillettes, the lightest white bread with fresh yellow butter, the tastiest 
ham, the richest abundance of peaches, grapes, plums and pears, composed 
our rustic diet. We thought Chenonceau a little paradise. To know a 
country-side one must know every class in it; therefore, not content with 
my five weeks in a village inn, or with some twelve summers' experience 
of life in a manor, I have written to a friend of mine (for before her marriage 
she lived five years in my service), who is the daughter of a small farmer in 
Touraine, asking her to send me the daily bill of fare in a cottage. She 
repUes: "The peasants live uncommonly well in Touraine. Two or three 
times a day, according to the season, they have an excellent meal con- 
sisting of soup — generally cabbage-soup — followed by a dish of beans and 
bacon, or a ragout of mutton, or a piece of braised beef, or maybe a fricassee 
of veal or a civet of rabbit, but meat of some sort, and very seldom merely 
bacon; for desssert, they have goats'-milk cheese, for every farm has its 
goats, with fruit, and plenty of common red wine, for every cottage has 
its acre or so of vineyard." 

In fact, by force of circumstance, every dweller in Touraine becomes, 
for the time being, more or less of an epicure. To arrive there in October 
from our Cantal mountains is a startling change of scene. On our sum- 
mits, perhaps, already the snow has shed its first fresh whiteness; a few pears 
and apples ripen reluctant in the orchards; and if the garden yield is car- 
rots and cabbage, we scarcely dream of more. In Touraine the very hill- 
sides run down with bunches of ripe grapes; the fruit-trees by the road 
bow beneath a weight of pears and plums. The peaches hang against the 
garden walls; the raspberry-canes are rosy still with fruit. It seems an 
Eden of plenty and mellow fruitfulness. And there would be a blank in- 
gratitude in taking no delight in these rich offerings of Mother Earth. 
It is natural here that one's fancy should play about the preparation of a 
future meal; we feed the turkeys with walnuts all October to ensure a 
feast for Martinmas; we walk in the potager and criticize the matting of 
the handsome cardons: we see to the banking of the celery. So near to 
such an ample Nature, a sort of poetry invades these homely details, and 
the daily meal becomes, not just a dinner, but a pious banquet offered up 
in praise of Ceres. 

A large family is a source of wealth to the farmer, who has to pay five 
pounds a year to his herdboy or goose-girl, ten or twelve pounds a year to 
the maid who helps his wife, and sixteen pounds a year to every laborer 
and ploughman, in addition to their keep. So when the farmer really is 
a farmer and cultivates his neighbor's land, his quiver is well plenished, as 
in Auvergne. But in Touraine the peasant works on his own land; and 



1915] LIFE IN RURAL FRANCE 533 

the dread of having to divide that treasured morsel, dearer than wife or 
child, sorely limits his descendants. A law permitting a greater freedom 
in the making of wills would certainly be followed by an immediate increase 
in the rural population. The French as a nation are lovers of children and 
hoarders of money. Who would not multiply the curly heads around the 
bowl of cabbage-soup, and save by the same stroke the money spent in 
wages? 

Positive and superstitious, slow and sure, subtle, cautious, and independ- 
ent, the laborer of Touraine is a character apart; so different from our 
rough and genial farmers of the Cantal, that it seems strange to think 
that one and the other are just peasants of Central France. The elder 
women of Touraine are dignified and lovely to behold in their long circu- 
lar cloaks of black cloth, and the fine conch of muslin that discreetly veils 
the hair. One charming young girl, born to this decorous and dainty 
costume, used to wear on Sundays (when I knew her) a singular erection of 
chip, ostrich feathers out of curl, and pink muslin convolvulus. One day 
I regretted the earlier head-dress. She replied: "Never again, madame, 
never again ! The first day I went into Tours settled that question. Those 
idle people on the Rue Royale looked at me with a sort of pity (or, perhaps, 
as you say, ma'am, it was admiration, but I found it very wounding), 
as if I existed for their entertainment, rather than on my own account." 

Chinon, which lies a little south of Ballan, is the richest part of all the 
plain. It is the ample garden of France, beloved of Rabelais, and a land 
of rich dessert: wine and walnuts, grapes and almonds, plums and pears. 
If you pass in September, the orchards present a busy scene; the yellow 
Catherine plums are then in their perfection of mellow ripeness; they are 
gathered by hand with dainty care, laid to dry in the sun on wicker trays 
or hurdles, and baked several times in a baker's oven before they issue 
thence in the shape of dried fruit for the table in winter: the famous "Pru- 
neaux de Tours." Not only the Catherine plum, chiefly grown for drying, 
but the delicious Reine Claude, golden hued and splashed with carmine, 
the Agen plum that's red and blue, and the Golden Drop, abound in these 
orchards; for the hardy plum-tree, that will grow anywhere, demands 
for its perfection a land of wide airy valleys and low-lying southern slopes. 
The plum is made for Touraine, and Touraine for the plum; 'tis a happy 
marriage. In autumn, the orchards drop with fruit, the slopes are covered 
with the turning vine; the laden pear-trees stand round the fields, which 
are high with maize and clover sown for fodder after early harvest; and 
every farmyard, in the angle of its wall, shows a huge heap of those great 
ribbed and golden gourds, large enough to contain the fairy coach of Cin- 
derella, which feed the kine with pumpkin-soup all winter. 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

In all the comfortable bourgeois houses that I visit, as in the manor of 
Touraine, life runs as easy, as regular, as if on wheels of clockwork. Every- 
one seems pleased and happy, and I have long since come to the con- 
clusion that the real art, the real wealth of France, are just this universal 
amiabiUty of temper. Nothing happens, yet every one seems busy and 
amused. The young people shoot and play tennis of mornings (they still 
play tennis in France), or ride their bicycles, or mount their horses; the 
elders write letters, read the papers, stroll in the grounds, eat grapes from 
the trelhs for a morning "cure;" the ladies smile and sit about arrayed in 
wonderful morning gowns, embroidering strips of mysterious and beautiful 
needlework. A great capacity for sitting about and smiling, an ability 
to embroider anything, from a shoe-bag to a set of curtains, is a part of the 
equipment of every well-bred Frenchwoman. Conversation in all its 
branches is the national game in France, played on all occasions by both 
sexes (especially together), and they are as clever here, and as easily first, 
as we in the cricket-field. Frenchwomen, as a rule, are far superior at the 
piano to EngHshwomen or Italians; every little circle possesses its musician 
of considerable merit, and in almost every country house we may be sure 
of finding at least one lady, reading her music as lightly as her novel, and 
possessing a vast repertory of symphonies and sonatas which she plays with 
a just and fine understanding. How many an enchanted hour will she while 
away with Beethoven, Schumann, Wagner, Cesar Franck, greatest of 
modern masters, or, perhaps, the idol of the hour, Claude Debussy! 

My friends of the Commanderie have founded and endowed a cottage 
hospital, a perfect model of cheerfulness and hygiene. With its wide win- 
dows, its inner gallery for walking, its charming white bedrooms, its cane 
armchairs and sofas set about in the garden, whence the woods and vines 
are always fair to see, with its friendly Sisters in their white cornettes, 
and its mild fresh air, the Tlospitalite of Ballan appears, less a place to be 
ill in, than most evidently a place to get well in. There is an operating 
theatre (as bright and speckless as the rest) with a private bedroom for 
paying guests: and this is by no means the least service rendered, for the 
farmers of Touraine, well off and independent, are wholly without provision 
in their homes for the weeks which follow, for instance, the necessary in- 
fliction of any large flesh wound: too often in their homes the microbe finds 
out that open door. In the winter and spring, when pneumonia and in- 
fluenza work their will, the little hospital can contain some ten or eleven 
invalids. It is emptied in the warm summ^er months, and serves, when 
there are no sick in Ballan, as a convalescent home for many a worn-out 
shop girl or dressmaker's apprentice from Paris. 



1915] THE SMOKING TEMPERATURES OF EDIBLE FATS 535 

THE SMOKING TEMPERATURES OF EDIBLE FATS 

KATHARINE BLUNT AND CLARA M. FEENEY 

School of Education, University of Chicago 

The smoking temperature of a fat may be defined as the tem- 
perature at which the fat gives off visible fumes. The value of a 
fat for deep frying depends in part on its smoking temperature, 
for if this point is not well above the temperature at which food will 
cook, the fat is objectionable for use in the kitchen. As the proper 
temperature for frying raw food in deep fat is 185° C. (necessary to 
brown a cube of bread in 60 seconds) and for frying cooked foods is 
190° C. (to brown a cube of bread golden brown in 40 seconds) a 
satisfactory fat should not smoke until above 190°. We have found 
that the smoking temperature is not identical for all fats, nor is it 
constant for a given fat under all conditions, but as shown by the ex- 
periment below, varies with at least three factors — the acidity of 
the fat, the surface exposed, and the presence of finely divided foreign 
substances. 

Our method of determining this smoking temperature was to heat 
the fat with a small flame in a No. 4 evaporating dish, the upper 
surface of the fat having a diameter of about 3f inches. A ther- 
mometer was suspended in the material and the melting fat was 
stirred with it to keep it evenly heated. The temperature at which 
the first slight fumes were visible over the liquid was considered the 
smoking temperature. After the reading was taken the fat was cooled 
and reheated and the smoking temperature again noted. It was found 
that successive readings could be taken in this way that either dif- 
fered from each other by not more than 2° or 3° or, in many cases were 
identical. The results tabulated below represent the average of 
two or three, and in some cases when the checks were least satisfactory, 
four or five readings. It is thus seen that the method used was some- 
what rough, but it was thought that the introduction of refinements 
would remove the experiment farther from cooking conditions and 
so not really increase the value of the results. 

The fats used varied greatly as to their smoking temperatures, 
ranging from 234° for cottonseed oil and its products (crisco, snow- 
drift, cottolene) through the various grades of lard, to the much 
lower olive oil (175°) and peanut oils (162° and 149°), and finally 
to cocoanut oil (136°). The position of olive oil in the table is in 



536 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



contradiction to the prevalent idea that this oil is especially satis- 
factory for frying because of its high smoking temperature. If 
it really is more desirable than other fats its value must lie in some 
property other than a high smoking temperature. 

The observation should be recorded that the fats after heating 
to their smoking temperatures often continued to smoke after the 
flame had been taken away. This was not followed up with accuracy 
but it was noted in a number of cases that the fumes were given off 
until the mercury had fallen 20° below the smoking temperature. 



TABLE I 




KIND OP FAT 


SMOKING TEMP. IN 
EVAP. DISH 


FREE ACID, AS OLEIC 


Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 


degrees Centigrade 

233 
232 
231 
221 
208 
207 
194 
190 
175 
162 
149 
136 


per cent 

0.07 


Snowdrift 


0.06 


Crisco 


0.13 


Leaf lard 


15 


Butter fat 


0.28 


Leaf lard (heated 5 hrs.) 


0.34 


Bulk lard 


0.51 


A much used lard 


0.61 


Olive oil 


0.92 


Peanut oil I 


1.10 


Peanut oil II 


1.64 


Cocoanut oil 


1.90 







The fats used for these determinations were titrated for free acid. 
The usual method^ was employed, that of shaking the weighed sam- 
ple with 100 cc. of warm alcohol and titrating with standard alkali, 
using phenolphthalein as an indicator. In the cases of the dark 
colored heated fats, however, the use of the two indicators, phenol- 
phthalein and alkali blue 6 B^, made the titration much easier and 
more satisfactory. It was found convenient to use -^ sodium hydrox- 
ide and usually as much as 15 grams of the sample of fat. The re- 
sults (see Table I), of course, show much variation among the dif- 
ferent fats. The cocoanut oil has the highest acidity with almost 
2 per cent free acid calculated as oleic, then come peanut and olive 
oils, the lards, and last with least acid (0.06-0.13 per cent) cotton- 
seed oil and its products in whose preparation alkali is used. These 

» U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 107, rev. ed. (1907), p. 142. 
*Ztschr. angew. Chem., 24 (1911) no. 28, pp. 1297-1302. 



1915] THE SMOKING TEMPERATURES OF EDIBLE FATS 537 

results are in each case within the range given by Lewkowitsch^ 
for the different fats. The fats thus fall into exactly the reverse 
order from that obtained when their smoking temperatures are 
considered. The conclusion may therefore be drawn that the smok- 
ing temperature of a fat is closely dependent upon its acidity, the 
fats with the highest smoking temperature having the least free 
acid, and those with the lowest smoking temperature the most free 
acid.'* This point is graphically presented in the curve plotted from 
our figures for these two values. 

It is further interesting to note in this table that the butter fat, 
separated from the rest of the butter by melting at low temperature 
and filtering, falls into a position consistent with its acidity. Thus 
the presence of the glycerides of the volatile fatty acids in butter 
fat has no influence on its smoking temperature. This is true also 
for the cocoanut oil, another fat of comparatively high content of 
glycerides of the volatile acids.^ 

Also noteworthy among the results is the fact that the sample 
of lard which had been much used in cooking had both a lower smok- 
ing point and a higher acidity than the fresh lard; and to a somewhat 
lesser extent, the same is true of the sample of lard (leaf) which 
had been heated in the laboratory for five hours at a temperature 
of 230-240°. 

To confirm the dependence of the smoking temperature upon the 
free acid some of the olive oil was made neutral by treating it with 
sodium carbonate solution, extracting the oil by ether and evaporating. 
The smoking temperature of the resulting nearly neutral olive oil 
was the same as that of the nearly neutral cottonseed oil products, 
and 59° above that of the original olive oil. 

Further, fatty acids were made from the olive oil by saponification 
and acidification. After standing over sulphuric acid in a vacuum 
desiccator titration showed them to be 95 per cent acid calculated 
as oleic. Small portions of this acid were added to the neutral olive 
oil and to the cottonseed oil, and the smoking temperatures of the 
mixtures noted. In each case the addition of acid resulted in the 

3 Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats and Waxes 5th ed. London: 
Macmillan & Co.. 1913-1915. 

*A similar relationship between acidity and the flash point of fats is shown by 
Lowenstein and VoUersten, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem. 7 (1915), p. 850. Their paper 
appeared after this paper had been accepted for publication in the Journal. 



538 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 



lowering of the smoking point, and the larger the amount the greater 
the reduction. (See Table II.) Furthermore, the smoking tem- 
peratures obtained here were concordant with those of other fats of 
similar acidities. The curve shows the results graphically. 



TABLE II 




KOtD OF FAT 


SMOKING TEMP. IN 
EVAP. DISH 


FREE ACID, AS OLEIC 


Olive oil neutral 


degrees Centigrade 

234 
184 
186 
168 
164 


per cent 

0.03 


Olive oil and oleic acid ... 


0.64 


Cottonseed oil and oleic acid 


0.68 


Olive oil and oleic acid 


1.13 


Cottonseed oil and oleic acid 


1.22 







Besides the acidity, another cause of variation in the smoking tem- 
perature was found to be the size of the surface exposed. Temperatures 
for several of the fats were determined not only in the e aporating 




/le> 



H- (^ S /.o l.t /.V /.C> A? Z.o 
Free: Acid o-S Ol«-»C- 



dishes but in small and large saucepans. In every case tried, increas- 
ing the size of the surface lowered the smoking point. For instance, 
the smoking temperatures for crisco were 231° in the evaporating 
dish (diameter of fat surface 3 j inches) ; 220° in a sauce-pan (7 inches 
in diameter); and 206° in a large iron kettle (lOj inches in diameter); 
and the corresponding temperatures for the bulk lard were 194°, 



1915] THE SMOKING TEMPERATURES OF EDIBLE FATS 539 

183°, 169°. The lard which had been much used for frying fell from 
190° in the evaporating dish to 182° in the saucepan and the olive 
oil from 175° to 161°. The total fall in the first two cases was thus 
25°, and the fall in using the saucepan instead of the evaporating dish 
ranged from 11° to 14°. 

Thus fats which give by the laboratory method of testing a suffi- 
ciently high smoking temperature for satisfactory cooking may easily 
smoke inconveniently low if the exposed surface of the fat in the 
cooking vessel be enough increased. The advisability is shown 
of always using for frying as small a vessel as feasible. Also this 
demonstrates the additional point that the high smoking temperatures 
claimed for their products by the manufacturers of certain cooking 
fats are apparently based upon experiments performed under labora- 
tory rather than kitchen conditions. For instance, the figure used 
in the advertisement of one fat which we tested coincides exactly 
with our evaporating dish smoking temperature, but is 25° above 
that in our large kettle. Fortunately, even the lower value does not 
bring the temperature below that satisfactory for cooking. 

To test further the dependence of the smoking temperature upon 
extent of surface, samples of olive and of cottonseed oil were heated 
in test tubes. The temperature was raised to the limit of the ther- 
mometer used — 360° — but even then no smoke was visible, although 
tiny bubbles were rising throughout the oils so that they looked as 
if they were boiling. However, when the thermometers were with- 
drawn from the highly heated oils, the oils clinging to them smoked 
profusely. It would thus appear that the "smoke" is possibly an 
oxidation product of the oil or of the decomposition products obtained 
on heating. The subject should be further investigated. A marked 
odor of acrolein was obtained in these test tube experiments but was 
not noticeable at the lower temperatures of the other experiments. 
Moist blue Htmus held over the test tubes in which the oil was heated 
turned slowly a faint red, as it also did in such of the evaporating 
dish experiments as were tested. 

The roughness or smoothness of the pan had no efifect on the smok- 
ing temperature of the fat. Four of the fats were heated in an old 
enameled saucepan of the same size and shape as the good sauce- 
pan used, but with a much cracked and chipped bottom surface. No 
differences were noted between smoking temperatures of the same 
fats heated in the two dishes under the same conditions. Nor were 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

differences in temperature noticed when a thin or thick layer of the 
fat was used. 

The presence of several cubes of bread frying in the fat produced 
no change in the smoking temperature of the two fats which were 
tested thus. Of course much moisture came from the bread at first 
but the smoking temperature was not reached until after the evolu- 
tion of the water vapor had ceased, so there was no difficulty in dis- 
tinguishing between the \ater vapor and the smoke from the fat. 

However, in contradistinction to this, the addition of 5 grams of 
flour or of animal charcoal did lower the smoking temperature. 
For a sample of cottonseed oil (smoking temperature 238°), the value 
when flour was added fell gradually to 133°, giving intermediate 
values on seven successive determinations. The lowering with the 
charcoal was not quite so great, but no satisfactory smoking tempera- 
ture for the mixture can be reported, for the smoke came in puffs 
from various points and more or less frequently, depending on the 
speed of stirring, instead of showing evenly over the whole surface 
at a clearly marked temperature. Butter i"at and lard were also 
heated with the flour. The values for the butter fat fell from 197° 
to 187°, with puffs of smoke at a lower temperature, and for lard 
from 180° to 167°. In line with these observations, it was noted 
that the smoking temperature for whole butter was 171°, the presence 
of the casein, etc., of the butter apparently having somewhat the 
same effect upon the fat as the addition of the flour. 

The finely divided foreign substances, causing by their own larger sur- 
face a great increase in the surface of the fat, thus have an influence 
similar to the extension of the external surface by using a larger vessel. 

After these fats were filtered it was found that their smoking tem- 
peratures were considerably higher than when the flour or charcoal 
was mixed with them, but not up to the original value for the fat. 
For instance, the cottonseed oil filtered from the charcoal smoked 
at 218° and from the flour at 168°. (Lowest smoking temperature 
with the flour 133°.) It is possible that a sufficiently fine filter was 
not used and that minute particles of charred material stayed sus- 
pended in the liquid. The acidities of three of these filtered fats 
were determined, but the results were erratic, showing an acidity 
for the butter fat the same as before heating and for the cotton- 
seed oil greater than the original fat, but not consistent with the 
smoking temperatures found. 



1915] HALF PORTIONS AND WASTE 541 

This lowering of the smoking temperature of the fat by the catalytic 
action of a fmely divided foreign substance is in accord with Hviid's^ 
work on the destructive distillation of lard with and without a porous 
catalyzer "Kieselerde," or a substance used commercially to decolor- 
ize fats and oils. In his experiments the temperature, when his dis- 
tillation began, fell from 350° for the lard alone to 280° for the lard 
mixed with two parts of the catalyzer. 

It is thus seen that three factors of importance in regulating the 
smoking temperature of a fat are the acidity, the extent of the ex- 
posed fat surface and the presence of finely divided foreign substances. 

Work on the chemical changes produced in fats on cooking is in 
progress in this laboratory.^ 



HALF PORTIONS AND WASTE 

The serving to individuals in restaurants, hotels and dining cars 
of larger portions than can be eaten is often deplored by those who 
beHeve in the conservation of our food resources and the wickedness 
of waste. Where two may share an order the large portion is desir- 
able but in the many cases where one is eating alone, to be forced to 
purchase more than one desires is a source of annoyance rather than 
of satisfaction. 

A move in the right direction has been made by the Chicago, Mil- 
waukee and St. Paul Railway in the introduction of half portions in 
their dining cars. This so-called "Plate Service" has been well patron- 
ized since its inauguration, and bids fair to become extremely popular. 

Waste could further be avoided in commercial food projects, such as 
dining cars and cafes, by having more simple but better selected menus 
and better cooking. A "soggy" boiled potato, and pale, watery, taste- 
less roast beef, should be an impossibility instead of all too common. 

Persons of discrimination and with cultivated food habits want, 
most of all, good, staple foods in reasonable variety, clean, well 
cooked, and decently served. 

* Petroleum, 6 (1911), pp. 429-436. 

' Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Department of Home Economics, University of 
Chicago. 



542 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

GIRLS' HOSTEL IN CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND 

M. A. BLACKMORE 

It seems necessary before describing the work of the hostel, to 
give a somewhat brief outline of New Zealand, its ambitions and 
accomplishments . 

New Zealand is a group of two or three islands in the far Pacific. 
So far from other lands it looks on the atlas, as to seem almost on the 
''Edge o' beyond." Truly an isolated little country, yet by no means 
"out of it" — to use a colonialism. 

Our small land, like small people, has a "guid conceit of itself," 
and claims to be not far behind the older lands in matters educational. 
In some cases she even feels that the Motherland might, with advan- 
tage to herself, follow the lead of her offspring. New Zealand is 
proud of her twenty years of female franchise, the old age pension 
scheme, the national provident fund, and free education from the 
primary schools to the universities. It is her proud boast that the 
child of her humblest citizen can receive an education equal to that of 
the wealthiest in the land, and that not as a special reward or con- 
cession to genius but as a just right to every New Zealand child. 

Having thus shown what a lowly, humbleminded ( !) people we are 
the writer will endeavor to describe some of the educational work car- 
ried out at the Technical College Training Hostel in Christchurch. 
The Hostel is situated some little distance from the college — per- 
haps a ten minutes' tram ride, and is of a particularly pleasing appear- 
ance. It has nothing of the air of an institution about it, but rather 
the appearance of a home, surrounded by lawns and gardens of some 
extent. 

The Hostel is the practical training-home of the girls attending 
the Technical College. It is in charge of a principal, and three 
student assistants, who are training as teachers of domestic science. 
The girls, after having a course in domestic science at the College, 
are sent to the Hostel in groups — about twenty in each group — and 
they attend daily at the Hostel for several weeks. The time varies 
with the difi"erent classes. The Hostel contains two kitchens — a large 
one with an ordinary coal range, where the bulk of the cooking is 
done, and a smaller one where an oil and gas stove are in use. 

For the work of the Hostel, the girls are again divided up into three 



1915] girls' hostel in christchurch 543 

groups; each group being in charge of a student assistant. Each 
group in turn does housemaids' work, kitchen work and laundry work. 

There is accommodation for about fifteen boarders — girls attend- 
ing the College, and having to live away from home. Day begins 
at the Hostel at 6.30 a.m. The student assistants prepare break- 
fast, and, after certain duties, the boarders leave at about 8.30 a.m. 
for the College. Then the particular group in training from the 
College take their place. In the larger kitchen dinner is prepared for 
all the girls, with the exception of those doing the work in the kitchen, 
and some of the staff. In the smaller kitchen dinner is prepared and 
served by two girls for themselves, and those working in the larger 
kitchen. The cost of food, fuel, etc. is carefully entered by the girls 
each day, the accounts being checked by the assistants and then 
passed on to the principal. 

The main building contains a sitting-room, a dining-room, a par- 
ticularly charming oaklined entrance-hall; a sitting room, an office 
and bedrooms for the staff; and cubicles for boarders. Besides this 
there is a flat or cottage, containing a sitting-room, a kitchen, a dining- 
room, two bedrooms, and a bathroom — in fact, all that a small, 
up-to-date cottage would have. This flat is in charge of two of the 
students who have been through the course in the main Hostel. 
They have entire charge, plan the meals, buy supplies, and generally 
put to practical test the methods they have been taught. 

After the midday dinner, an interval is allowed for games. 

The girls in charge of the k'tchen prepare any special dishes for 
tea, clean their kitchens, and make up the daily accounts. One after- 
noon a week they are allowed free for tennis, reading and other recrea- 
tion. The afternoon is spent by the other girls, doing various kinds 
of sewing, fancywork, stencilHng, basketwork. They are encouraged 
to work and think for others — and up to the present their contribution 
of clothes to the poor of Belgium has been a very creditable one. 
For some time, one afternoon a week has been spent in working for 
the soldiers. 

The day students leave the Hostel about 4 p.m. The work of 
preparing tea is done by the boarders on their return from College. 
After home lessons, each evening of the week has its special occupa- 
tion or amusement — music, dancing, games in the hall, reading and 
mending. This winter it is hoped that Swedish drill will be given. 

One evening a month the girls entertain. They plan, cook and serve 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the supper, and each girl helps with the entertainment of her guest. 
Saturday is mainly devoted to outings of some kind (picnics or sight- 
seeing), for most of the boarders are country girls. 

On Sunday morning church is attended; home letters are written 
in the afternoon; Bible-reading and music bring the day to a close. 

The artistic arangement of the rooms, the tasteful and simple 
furnishings, and the plentiful use of flowers, all make the Hostel a 
very charming home. If even a small part of its charm is taken 
by the student to the making of her own home, the Hostel has justi- 
fied its existence. There is such an air of quiet activity and cheer- 
fulness about the Hostel, w^ith no show of irksome authority. Yet 
how firmly and kindly the hand of the principal guides and controls 
each girl! 

Surely never was domestic science learned under happier condi- 
tions than it is by these young homemakers-to-be- Seeing it all, 
one could wish that the years might roll backward to enable one's 
own training to be gained in as happy a way- 



THE CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR 

The consumption of sugar per capita in the United States is esti- 
mated to be more than ten times what it was a hundred years ago. 
During the past five years, the consumption has averaged about 83 
pounds per capita. A hundred years ago the consumption of sugar 
varied widely. It was usually, however, between 4 and 10 pounds a 
year. Great Britain consumed 92 pounds per capita more than the 
United States in 1911, but France and Germany used far less, the per 
capita consumption being 39 and 42 pounds, respectively. 



EDITORIALS 

The Journal. The Journal board in its report at Seattle offered 
some definite suggestions to the members of the Association. 

1. That every college and normal student graduating be impressed with 
her need of the Journal and her professional responsibility for subscrib- 
ing to it. The initial rate ($1) is available for such students. 

2. That each member send in regularly news items of her institution, of 
new courses, of equipment, of additions to the faculty, of teaching methods. 

3. That suggestions as to desired articles be sent to the editor. The 
Journal is the Association's, not the editor's. 

4. That the Journal be recommended to every teacher, Home Eco- 
nomics worker and hbrary within reach. 

We beg that these recommendations be carefully considered by 
all those interested in the success of the Journal. 

We need more subscribers, more advertisers, more contributors, 
but most of all we need a live interest in this venture of ours. Such 
interest means that each one will do her best to keep us in touch with 
events and people in her own locality. 

We want to know what research work you are undertaking, what 
problems you are solving in your own household, what problems you 
need help in answering. We want to know about conferences and 
conventions in Home Economics and related subjects. 

In short we want to know about your section of the country just 
what you want to know about other sections. 

Make us acquainted too with those who can help us all by their 
aid in answering the many questions that arise. 

You must tell us the subjects you wish discussed — the topics that 
will be of practical help to you. What will help you will help others 
too. Yet you must remember that the Journal represents a great 
many different interests and that all must have due recognition. 

We beg for your patience — not with our mistakes; we are sure to 
make them, we will try not to repeat them, but we expect to be held 
responsible for them— but a patience that will make you suspend 

545 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

judgment till you have the explanation of what may seem wrong, 
and till you know the conditions. 

Above all we want every constructive suggestion that you can give 
us for bettering the Journal. Will you help? 

"America's Gifts to the Old World" — The American Home 
Economics Association's Newly-Published Pageant. In the Octo- 
ber number of the Journal announcement was made of the publica- 
tion of a pageant or masque for Home Economics students, bearing the 
title ''America's Gifts to the Old World." The authors, Miss Helen 
W. Atwater and Dr. C. F. Langworthy, gave the manuscript to the 
Association on the condition that it appear as a pubHcation for the 
Richards Memorial Fund. This was done in the hope that the 
pageant might add to the endowTnent fund created in memory of the 
great service Mrs. Richards rendered. 

The Council of the Association gladly accepted the offer and have 
published the pageant in accordance with the condition specified. 
The edition is not a large one, yet the sale of copies should more than 
pay for the cost of publication and yield something besides for the 
fimd. Moreover, the Council hopes that the pageant will be pre- 
sented often enough and under such conditions that the fund may 
materially benefit. The plan is to allow Home Economics students 
the use of the pageant for presentation without any royalty, on con- 
dition that a percentage of the proceeds from the sale of seats be 
turned over to the fund. If no admission fee is charged, it is ex- 
pected that some other arrangement may be made satisfactory to the 
school and advantageous to the fund. If the pageant is presented 
by other schools, colleges, or clubs, not directly connected with 
Home Economics, a royalty will be charged. 

Fuller details of the plan may be learned by corresponding with 
the Secretary of the Association, Station N, Baltimore, Maryland. 

The plan chosen is not a new one, but is one which has been fol- 
lowed with much success in the case of a little play based upon Mrs. 
Gaskell's "Cranford." The author of this play presented the copy- 
right to a missionary society in one of the eastern states, and the 
work of the society has profited much by the receipts from royalties, 
and in other ways. 

In making plans for hohday celebrations, for next Commencement, 
for autumn festivals, or for Richards Day in 1916, bear the pageant 



19151 EDITORIALS 547 

in mind. If you learn of any association that wishes to present an 
unusual and distinctively American play, tell them about "Amer- 
ica's Gifts" and suggest that it may suit their needs. Suggestions 
from our readers that in any way will help on this laudable enter- 
prise will be welcome. 

In any case, be sure to read the pageant; first, because you will 
enjoy it, and second, because it brings together so much interesting 
information regarding America's contribution to the world's store 
of the things with which Home Economics is especially concerned. 

Three Contests. We have called attention in another column to 
three prize contests that seemed of interest to teachers and to parents. 
Of these the one that on the surface seems most nearly identified 
with Home Economics is perhaps after all the least fundamental. 

The peace contest should appeal to the teacher who realizes the 
influence of the home and the school upon public opinion. If a per- 
manent peace is ever secured it will be by that long and slow process 
of education that is often so discouraging, but that in the end gives 
lasting results. 

We need not sing ''I did not raise my boy to be a soldier," but we 
must present true and noble ideals of peace. If "poets have made 
more wars than kings" we must have great poets who inspire us for 
peace. 

Dr. Wyeth, a surgeon and soldier, in "With Sabre and Scalpel," 
gives this incident that illustrates well the influence of the home. 

A boy playmate lost his temper at something that happened between 
us, and in anger gave me a slap which I did not resent. At this juncture I 
heard a voice from a nearby window, and, turning, I saw my mother lean- 
ing out, her eyes flashing so that I could almost see the sparks flying, and 
her cheeks as red as fire. In a tone about which there could be no mis- 
interpretation, even by one who instinctively preferred peace to war, she 
asked me if the boy struck me in anger; and when I told her he had, she 
blazed up and said, "And you didn't hit him back?" My response was 
that father had told me it was wrong to fight, and that when another boy 
gave way to anger just to tell him it was wrong and not fight back. At 
this the blue bonnet of Clan-Allan (the mother's maiden name) went 
"over the border" and she fairly screamed: "I don't care what your father 
told you; if you don't whip that boy this minute I'll whip you!" And she 
looked on, and was satisfied when it was over. I date my career from that 
eventful day; for I had come to the parting of the ways. 



548 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Of especial interest in the "Thrift" contest is the request for a 
course that will teach thrift. 

When several years ago a committee of the American Medical 
Association were surveying the teaching of hygiene in the public 
schools they found it taught most eflSciently in Home Economics 
work. Children may learn theoretically the necessity for clean 
hands, but still more effective is the sending of the children to wash 
their hands before they are allowed to cook. 

A mother who, giving one day some directions to her child, found 
an inattentive listener and said with a little impatience, "Mary, I be- 
lieve you think I am talking just for the sake of talking," met the 
unexpected reply, "Why yes. Mamma I thought you were." So 
much of our teaching must be of this precept variety that we should 
welcome the opportunity to train children through practice. 

The careful utilization of all materials- -even in the simplest ways, 
thin parings, the use of every particle of material from the cooking 
dish, letting the class know that yolks or whites of eggs left over 
from some cooking process will be utilized by another class, cutting 
the garment to use the cloth to the best advantage, care of materials 
and clothing actually carried out in the class room as well as at home, 
all these and a thousand more suggest themselves. 

Surely some Home Economics teacher should make that "best" 
outline ! 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The Journal invites its readers to become contributors, and to 
send brief paragraphs of comment and discussion on articles that 
appear. The expression of a difference of opinion, questions in 
regard to the accuracy of work, additional data, all are welcome. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

THE YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION COM- 
MISSION ON HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT 

The first report of the Young Women's Christian Association Com- 
mission on Household Employment^ is concerned with an attempt 
to discover and analyze the causes which underlie the difi&culties in 
household employment. In making a survey of literature on the sub- 
ject the commission finds that the most hopeful element is an increas- 
ing number of men and women who are viewing the problem in its 
larger sociological and economic aspects. The discouraging feature 
is that reports and discussions echo the same grievances that were 
voiced twenty years ago. 

The relation between employer and employee is described as one of 
mutual suspicion and distrust, mutual prejudice and misunderstanding. 
The employer complains of inefficiency, high wages with no commensurate 
skill, frequent changes, exorbitant demands, lack of interest, and ingrati- 
tude. The employee complains of long hours, unkind treatment, unhappy 
Uving conditions. The experiments at adjustment, begun with enthusiasm, 
have ended in partial or complete failure. Training schools, established 
for domestic servants have dwindled away or evolved into schools for 
training domestic science teachers. The Household Aid Company stands 
out conspicuously as an earnest attempt to supply efficient service by the 
day or hour. The Aids after their training continued to live in the home 
fitted up by the company, and were sent out in response to caUs for day or 
hour service received by the company. The project received neither the 
moral nor financial support that had been expected, and after two years the 
house was closed. 

In the Young Women's Christian Associations there has been more or 
less effort at adjustments between employers and employees through em- 
ployment bureaus, training classes, and general education. In certain 
localities there has been considerable success in enlarging the social life 
of household employment through Maids' Clubs, but these activities have 
affected the conditions in the occupation itself very slightly. 

1 First Report of the Commission on Household Employment. Publication Dept., 
National Board of Y. W. C. A., 600 Lexington Ave., New York City, 1915, pp. 34. 
$0.15. 

549 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The boycott of household employment is to be deplored the more 
because girls who have chosen other employment are so frequently 
without work. During the past winter when the situation among 
the unemployed was at its worst in New York City, the head of the 
city employment bureau said he could place 3000 young women in 
domestic employment if he could get them. 

Many indirect causes for this situation were of little interest to the 
Commission since they suggested no possibilities of satisfactory ad- 
justment. The one obvious thing to be done was to investigate 
through the persons who are causing the boycott, namely, the wage- 
earning young women. Through the cooperation of the Young 
Women's Christian Association clubs, the opinions of 299 self-sup- 
porting young women were secured: 112 in household work, 137 in 
factories, 15 in department stores, 35 in offices. 

The answers in regard to household employment included few new 
ideas but especial emphasis was placed on the necessity and possi- 
iblity of regular and shorter hours, and a place to entertain friends, 
and frequent reference was made to the lack of "humane treatment." 

The summar}^ of the report is as follows: 

I. Household employment carries within itself no objectionable features, 
is healthful, and pays well. 

II. Household employment is performed under conditions which prevent 
self-direction and self-development of personal life. 

III. These conditions are: 

1. Servile treatment by employers and public. 

2. Long and irregular hours. 

The first condition, servile treatment, may be spoken of as the minor 
condition; the second condition, long and irregular hours, as the major, 
because the first is dependent upon the second. Servile treatment and 
unjust social discrimination find abundant opportunity to express them- 
selves where one person's life is tied to the will of another person. 

A factory worker sells her labor for nine hours a day; during fifteen 
hours she lives a self-directed life. Her evenings and Sundays may be 
filled with work, her own laundry and mending, care of her mother, sis- 
ters and brothers, study at night school and the Association, or it may 
be filled with recreation. Be that as it may, that time is hers, not the 
employer's. 

A household worker sells herself for twenty-four hours a day, for 
seven days in a week, and as part of her remuneration is granted the privi- 



1915] THE Y. W. C. A. COMMISSION ON HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT 551 

lege of an hour here, an hour there, a half day a week, perhaps, if it does not 
inconvenience the employer. Granted that her work is light, that half the 
time she does nothing; still her life, her person, is at the disposal of the 
employer. As long as a person must have all her living conditions, her 
social life, her entertaining, her educational and spiritual development at 
the sufferance of her employer, there will be abundant occasion for servile 
treatment and the social stigma. 

Do not let us confuse the terms, "hfe" and "labor." It may be that 
in the highest scale of professional service a man's work may become his 
life. In the industrial world there is still a sharp distinction. A young girl's 
life consists of her family, her companions, her recreation, her ambition 
to be somebody, to improve herself, to find herself a place in social 
groups — the church, the club, the union,' the neighborhood. An ambitious 
seK-respecting young woman is wilUng, is eager, to sell her labor; but never 
her life. Make it possible for the household worker to sell her labor for 
more or less definite pieces of time, so that she may have equal opportunity 
for seK-direction and self-development with the ofl&ce, store and factory 
worker, and household employment will be able to compete successfully 
with the store and factory. When this is accomplished the so-called 
"servant problem" will havie disappeared. Ambitious, intelligent young 
women will be re-attracted to household work; with the competition for 
positions will come the opportunity to demand skill and training. Above 
all, home life will no longer be at the mercy of housework. 

The burden of placing household work on this new basis rests with the 
employer. What the first step might well be is suggested by the plan 
for hours and living conditions proposed by the workers, themselves. 

The task of creating out of household work an occupation which will 
bring satisfaction to employer and employee alike is not a small nor an 
easy one; neither is it one which can be brushed aside to be taken up at 
some future time. The large number of persons involved and the far- 
reaching consequences of the present chaotic condition of affairs mark this 
as one of the most pressing problems American women have ever been 
called upon to solve. The Young Women's Christian Association exists 
for the benefit of all women, and numbers in its membership both em- 
ployers and employees. It is only natural that such an organization 
should assume some share in the responsibility of solving the problem. 

To repeat the statement with which we began this report, an adjust- 
ment of the difficulties in household employment must proceed from a cor- 
rect analysis of the causes producing those difficulties. If the method em- 
ployed by the Commission in its search for determining causes is accepted 
by the convention as trustworthy, the next step forward will be to enlist 
the interestof employers in a further study, and to secure their cooperation 
in practical experiments. 



552 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

It is therefore recommended: 

1. That the Commission on Household Employment be continued. 

2. That local Young Women's Christian Associations cooperate with 
the Commission in securing the active interest of employers — (a) in a 
study of household employment from the point of view of wage-earners, 
(b) in practical experiments based on such study. 

COMMITTEE ON HOME ECONOMICS, INTERNATIONAL 
CHILD WELFARE LEAGUE^ 

During the past year the Committee on Home Economics of the 
International Child Welfare League has been carr}-ing on an experi- 
ment in social economics, which has proved full of interest to all 
concerned. 

The Committee w^as organized in March, 1914 for the purpose of 
bringing together young v;omen with some knowledge of household 
activities ard persons who might wish to employ them on the basis 
of hourly work. 

The work has been carried on as a part of the regular work of the 
International Child Welfare League. Patrons and girls when they 
register with the Committee, become members of the League. Only 
girls of good education and training are placed by the Committee. 
The best w^orkers have been drawn from the high school girls, or those 
of equally good calibre. The Committee recognizes the highly ex- 
perimental character of the work and has been feeling its way. There 
has been no difficulty in finding plenty of capable young women who 
were delighted w4th the idea of li\'ing at home and working by the 
hour, half day or day. It remains to be proved, however, whether 
there are enough housekeepers in New York who wish to employ the 
young women on the list of the Committee at the required price. 
The charge is a minimum of $0.25 an hour and some patrons think this 
is too high. But the Committee believes that there is a clearly 
marked tendency toward more specialized and better paid work in 
the household, as w^ell as out of it; and with the conviction that the 
experiment is not wholly premature, the Commattee is going on v/ith 
its efforts to bring together two groups of women that greatly need 
each other. 

1 Brief report of the chairman, IMrs. William G. Shailer, presented to the American 
Home Economics Association at their Eighth Annual Meeting. Seattle, 1915. 



1915] THE GENERAL FEDERATION 553 

THE GENERAL FEDERATION AND THE DEPARTMENT 
OF AGRICULTURE 

In order that it might inform itself more fully as to the work which 
the government, and particularly the Department of Agriculture, is 
doing for the housekeeper, the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs appointed a committee to look into the matter. The com- 
mittee visited Washington twice, each visit covering a number of 
days spent in examining in detail the Department of Agriculture, 
its organization, and such portions of the work as seemed to them of 
interest to housekeepers. 

The number of Department projects, which were important from 
this standpoint, was considerable and clearly indicated that women's 
interests were receiving much attention even if this was not always 
apparent from the designation which the work bore in reports of the 
Department activities. It also found that there existed in the 
States Relations Service (formerly called "Office of Experiment 
Stations"), an interprise concerned exclusively with problems in the 
home, namely, the Office of Home Economics (an outgrowth of the 
Nutrition Investigations which have been carried on by the De- 
partment for a number of years) . 

Such matters as this are discussed in the committee's report of the 
Home Economics work of the Department of Agriculture as pointed 
out by Helen Louise Johnson,^ chairman of the committee, in an 
article recently published, which includes also an historical account 
of the origin and development of this work in the Department of 
Agriculture, and similar data. The report submitted by the com- 
mittee to the General Federation contains the following recom- 
mendations: 

First: That the Home Economics Department of the Federation for the 
remainder of this administration to June, 1916, devote a considerable part 
of its work to the dissemination of this information and to the establish- 
ment of the connection between the work of the Department of Agriculture, 
Home Economics work, and the homes of the people. 

Second: That a study of state conditions as relating to food and agri- 
cultural matters be recommended in each state that the women of the 
Federation may learn: 

* Home Economics and the Department of Agricvilture. By Helen Louise Johnson, 
Gen. Fed. Women's Clubs Mag., July, 1915, pp. 22, 23. 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

a. The provisions of the Federal Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. 
h. The provisions of their ovra state food laws. 

c. By whom these laws are promulgated in the state. 

d. By whom these laws are enforced in the state. 

e. What municipalities in the state have milk and meat inspection. 

/. WTiat municipalities have ordinances governing inspection of food 
supplies. 

With due stress upon the need of this, in order that we may assist in 
obtaining, and desist from dela\dng, greater uniformity of law throughout 
the country. 

Third: That the women of the Federation lend their influence to the 
establishing of competent and reliable state and municipal inspection of 
abattoirs and meats which cannot be reached through the federal law, and 
thus supplement the federal inspection in establishing safeguards for 
the protection of the rights and health of all consumers of meats. And 
further that the women of the Federation assist in the attainment of this 
object by insisting that the dealers supply them only with meats and prod- 
ucts that bear the marks of a competent and reliable city or state in- 
spection, or the marks of the federal inspection, and that the buyers make 
it their practice to look for the mark of inspection when purchasing meats. 

Fourth: That we should study the work of the individual State Agri- 
cultural Colleges, with which the Department of Agriculture is now co- 
operating in a large way, with reference to all their plans for extension work 
in Home Economics, whether under the Smith-Lever Act or other-wase, 
taking into account the great variety of conditions affecting such work and 
seeking to find ways in which we can aid them constructively in developing 
a proper system of extension work to meet the actual conditions of farm 
homes in their respective states. 

"UNITED STATES INSPECTED AND PASSED" 

Consumers may be assured that at the time this legend is affixed 
to meat or meat food product the articles are sound, healthful, whole- 
some, and contain no dye, chemical, preser\'ative, or ingredient which 
renders them unwholesome, and that they are from healthy animals 
which have received both ante-mortem and post-mortem inspection 
and have been reinspected by qualified inspectors and handled in a 
sanitary manner as prescribed in the regulations. The subsequent 
handling of meats after they have been distributed to dealers and 
consumers beyond the jurisdiction of the federal law and regulations 
may not be consistent with proper sanitation and preservation, there- 



1915] FOR TEN CENTS 555 

fore it is to be understood that the legend can not be regarded as pro- 
tecting against such abuses. 

The extent of such inspection so far as meat is concerned is shown 
by the following official statement of government meat inspection 
during eight years (1907-1914). 

Animals inspected at slaughter over 434 million 

Carcasses condem^ned over IJ million 

Parts of carcasses condemned over 5} million 

Condemned on reinspection over 179 million lbs. 

Establishments under inspection 819 

Cities and towns in which located 232 

Veterinary inspectors and assistants 2,378 

In the year ending June 30, 1915, 58,000,000 meat animals were 
killed in establishments where federal inspection is maintained (only 
50 to 60 per cent of all such establishments). Of these more than 
1| per cent were condemned in whole or in part. Of imported meat 
or meat products, 245,000,000 pounds were inspected, of which 
2,000,000 pounds were condemned or refused entry. 

The annual appropriation for the Federal Meat Inspection Serv- 
ice is now about $3,375,000. 

FOR TEN CENTS 

The relative energy value obtained for ten cents when spent for 
different common food materials, at certain assumed prices, is shown 

by the lines below. ^ 

Wheat Flour, 5c. per lb. — 

Oatmeal, 6c. per lb. — — — — 

Wheat Bread, 5c. per lb _ 

Dried Beans, 7c. per lb. — — — - 

Macaroni, 10c. per lb. 

Rice, 10c. per lb. 

Potatoes. 2c. per lb. 

Corned Beef, 12c. per lb. 

Butter, 35c. per lb. 

Prunes, 12c. per lb. 

Cheddar cheese, 24c. per lb 

Milk, 8c. per qt. 

Steak, 24c. per lb. 

Eggs, 35c. per dozen 

It must be remembered that this is not a comparison of food 
values, nor even of energy values, but simply of the amount of 
energy obtained for a certain sum. 

^ This comparison is based essentially on the values given in the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture Bulletin 28. 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

ENAMELS OF COOKING UTENSILS 

C. F. LANGWORTHY AND H. L. LANG 
Office of Home Econotnics, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The enamels which are applied to the enameled ware articles for 
domestic use are essentially a glass which has been rendered opaque 
by the addition of some insoluble substance, usually calcium phos- 
phate in the form of bone ash or oxid of tin, which is held in 
suspension in the enamel. Lead oxid has been used to some extent 
for this purpose, but this practice is now being rapidly discontinued. 
The color of the enamels is produced by the further addition of the 
desired pigment, which is generally one of the metallic oxids. 

The chief requirements of enamels for cooking utensils are that they 
shall be able to withstand sudden changes of temperature without 
cracking and to resist the solvent action of solutions of acids and 
alkaUs. The first property depends to a great extent upon the care 
observed in appl}dng, firing and coohng the enamel. The second 
property depends chiefly upon the composition of the glass basis of 
the enamel, although it is influenced somewhat by the addition of 
the pigments and the materials which render it opaque, and it may be 
mentioned here that the colored enamels are not in general considered 
to be quite so durable as the white enamels. 

Like all glasses, enamels are readily attacked by strong alkalis and 
to some extent by even dilute alkaline solutions. The surface of 
the enamel becomes dull and rough, owing to the solvent action of 
these agents. It is obvious then that enameled ware utensils should 
not be used for heating or containing solutions of alkalis. The con- 
tinued use of very strong alkalis (lye, caustic soda or cleaning pow- 
ders containing free alkali) for cleaning such utensils should also be 
avoided on account of their tendency to wear away the enamel, par- 
ticularly when much friction is applied. Solutions of salts hke phos- 
phates and sulphates which form insoluble calciiim salts also efi'ect 
a sHght solvent action upon the enamel due to the extraction of 
calcium. When exposed for a long time to boiling water the enamel 
may be attacked if the water contams these salts, as is evidenced 
by the dull appearance of the enameled lining of some kettles which 
have been long in use. This action, however, hke that of dilute 
acids, such as vinegar or fruit acids, is not an important factor influ- 



1915] ENAMELS OF COOKING UTENSILS 557 

encing the wearing quality of the better grades of enameled ware 
which do not contain lead compounds. 

In the case of the cheaper grades or imperfect articles sold as 
"seconds," where the enamel has become chipped off or the cover- 
ing is poor, so that the iron base is exposed, the action of these 
agents upon the iron is much more rapid than upon the glaze. The 
iron may become dissolved away under the enamel, causing it to be- 
come loosened and to chip off more easily. 

The addition of lead compounds to the enamel is regarded by some 
manufacturers as desirable in order to produce an easily fusible prod- 
uct, but such enamels, like lead glasses in general, have a very low 
resistance to the action of chemicals and are quite readily attacked 
even by substances which have no action whatever upon ordinary 
glasses which contain no lead. The use of lead compounds for these 
purposes and of lead oxid for producing an opaque appearance 
fortunately is fast being discontinued in the manufacture of enamel 
ware and cooking utensils on account of the possible danger of lead 
poisoning, since the lead in this form is very easily dissolved by dilute 
acids, like vinegar and acids of fruit juices. 

If an egg is beaten up and allowed to stand for some time in a 
vessel coated with an enamel containing lead oxid, the enamel is 
soon discolored through the formation of lead sulphid from the lead 
oxid of the enamel and the small amount of volatile sulphur com- 
pound formed by cleavage from the egg protein. This might easily 
serve as a household test for the presence of lead in enamel ware 
utensils, and any utensil which on being tested in this manner showed 
evidence of the presence of lead in the enamel should be rejected for 
cooking purposes. 

The question has sometimes arisen as to whether or not there is 
any possible danger from small particles of enamel which might 
become detached and, finding their way into the body with the food, 
cause injury to the intestinal walls. There appears to be no case 
on record where it is known that any serious injury has been done 
by such particles. The theory that appendicitis is caused by enamel 
chips seems to have no basis of fact. 

The Superior Council of Hygiene for France recently recommended 
that legislation be enacted forbidding the use of enamel ware meat 
choppers for the production of Hamburg steak. It was observed that 
the enamel on such machines was in many instances ahnost entirely 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

worn off, and the assumption was made that the small particles of 
enamel which had become broken off were quite likely to be mixed 
with the meat. To avoid all possible danger from the consump- 
tion of such particles this action was taken. 

While it is possible that minute particles of the enamel of cook- 
ing utensils may become broken off and find their way into the food, 
they probably do not do so in any great numbers at a time, and in 
the Ught of experiments <;arried out by Exner in which he apparently 
showed that sharp particles might be swallowed and passed through 
the intestinal tract without producing any harm, it does not appear 
that there is any more serious danger from this source than in the 
use of ordinary glass utensils. The enamel flakes from a dish which 
has been in long use, are frequently found to be crumbly and similar 
to egg shell in appearance. Such pieces, since they loosen easily, 
would perhaps be more likely to find their way into food than the 
more glassy chips from new vessels. However, no one wishes grit in 
his food and every precaution should be taken to prevent chips of 
glass, china, or enamel from finding their way into it. While the 
presumption is that small pieces would not cause harm, it is pos- 
sible that they might. 

In the manufacture of some kinds of enamel ware, antimony salts 
are used to impart the desired color to the enamel. Recently there 
has been some question as to possible danger of antimony salts 
being dissolved by the foods cooked in enamel ware utensils. Some 
preliminary experiments, made in the Department of Home Eco- 
nomics of the University of Illinois, apparently showed that small 
amounts of antimony compounds were extracted when dilute solu- 
tions of organic acids were cooked in some of the cheaper grades 
of enameled ware. Organic acids of importance in cookery are 
acetic acid in vinegar, citric acid in lemons, lactic acid in sour milk, and 
malic acid in apples. There is need of further experiments before 
definite conclusions can be drawn as to the actual amounts of anti- 
mony salts which would be extracted by foods during the ordinary 
cooking processes. It is well to bear in mind in this connection 
that the manufacturers of some of the better grades of enamel ware 
state, on the labels attached to their product, that no antimony 
compounds are used in the preparation of the enamel. It is, there- 
fore, possible, if one desires to do so, to secure enamel ware utensils 
which are free from antimony compounds. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



PERIODICAL LITERATURE 



Foods and Cookery 



The Service of Meals. Nina B. Crigler and Cora E. Gray, Univ. III. Bui., 11 (1914) 
no. 34, pp. 20, figs. 6. 

Egg Catechism. S. Mawer, Agr. Com. Ohio, Bur. Food Bui., 1 (1914), pp. 13. 

Uses of Fruit from Domestic Science Viewpoint. Ava B. Milam, Ann. Rpt. Oregon 
State Hort. Soc, 5 (1914), pp. 79-81. 

Fireless Cooking. Mary E. Frayser, Winthrop Norm, and Indus. Col. S. C. Bui., 
7 (1914), no. 4, 11, pp. 40, figs. 10. (Directions and recipes are given.) 

Food Products from the Soy Bean. H. M. Loomis, Amer. Food Jour., 9 (1914), 
no. 8, pp. 472-475, fig. 1. 

Syrian Food Products Exported to United States. W. S. Hollis, Daily Cons, and 
Trade Rpis. [U. S.], 17, (1914), no. 243, pp. 284, 285. 

The Uses of Fruit in the Household. A. Ethel Dunbrack, New Brunswick Dept. 
Agr. Bui., 5 (1914), pp. 8. (Recipes and directions for household canning of fruits 
are given.) 

Something about Truffles. C. Multerer, Pure Products, 11 (1915), no. 2, pp. 79-81. 

Tarragon. Pure Products, 11 (1915), no. 2, pp. 75-77. (Considerable information 
is given about the cultivation, properties and use of this condiment.) 

Camp Kitchens. G. B. Hartfree, Stirveyor, 47 (1915), no. 1201, pp. 87, 88, figs. 2. 
(Several types are described and directions given for construction and operation.) 

The Summer Supply of Meat on the Farm. Bessie M. Philip, Jour. Agr. and Hort., 
18 (1915), no. 12, pp. 259-261. (Canning, pickling, smoking, preserving in fat, coopera- 
tive supply, etc., discussed. Directions given.) 

Rice (Oryza sativa). Food and Drugs, n. ser., 2 (1914), no. 3, pp. 145-155, figs. 3. (A 
description of some common varieties of rice grown in India, and a summary and digest 
of data regarding the chemical composition of the raw and cooked product and the die- 
tetics of rice.) 

A Report of a Chemical and Bacteriological Study of Wrapped Bread. By B. R. 
Jacobs, J. A. LeCIerc and Maud L. Mason, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), no. 9, pp. 
721-732. 

The Effect of Bread Wrapping on the Chemical Composition of the Loaf. By H. E. 
Barnard and H. E. Bishop, Amer. Food Jour., 9 (1914), no. 8, pp. 367-376, figs. 14. 

Experiments in Cheap Catering. By Edith Sellers, The Nineteenth Century atui After, 
76 (1914), no. 453, pp. 1123-1137. 

Nutrition 

The Importance of Proper Nutrient for Retarded Children — A Demonstration. 
W.W. Roach,4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg.Buf ah, N.Y., Traw^., 4 (1913), pp. 415-421 
figs. 6. 

Vitamins. H. W. Bywaters, Sci. Prog. [London], 9 (1914), no. 34, pp. 225-250. pis. 
5, figs. 10. 

Report of the Work of the Nutrition Laboratory. F. G. Benedict, Carnegie Inst. 
Washington Year Book, 12 (1913), pp. 241-254. 

559 



560 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Unwholesome Diet a Prime Cause of Inefficiency in School Children. J. H. Kellogg, 
4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg. Bufalo, N. Y., Trans. 4 (1913), pp. 96-105. 

The Coefficient of Nutrition in Antwerp School Children. M. C. Schuyten, 4. Inter- 
nal. Cong. School Hyg. Bufalo, N. Y., Trans., 4 (1913), pp. 106-108, fig. 1. 

National Conservation and Nutrition During Childhood. Margaret McMillan 
4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg. Bulffalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913) pp. 298-302. 

Army Rations. Pure Products, 10 (1914), no. 11, pp. 545, 546. (Notes are given of 
the minimum daily rations supplied to the French, German, and Belgian soldiers.) 

Value to the Army in Changes in the Ration and its Preparation. M. A. Elliott, Jr. 
Trans. 15, Internal. Cong. Ilyg. and Demogr. Washington, 5 (1913), Sect. 8, pp. 839-845. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Medical Inspection and the Nutrition of School Children. I. S. Wile, 4. Internal. 
Cong. School Hyg. Bufalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913). pp. 266-272. 

A Hygienic Interpretation of the Food Supplied the United States Army in the Field 
as at Present Authorized. A. A. Woodhull, Trans 15, Internal. Cong. Hyg. and Demogr. 
Washington, 5 (1913), Sect. 8, pp. 830-833. 

Report on Bread Wrapping. Nat. Assoc. Master Bakers (Proc), 16 (1913), pp. 161- 
193. 

Things Which the Public Should Know Concerning Sanitary Conditions in Interstate 
Meat Packing Establishments. G. H. Shaw, 4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg. Bufalo, 
N. Y., Trans., 3 (1913), pp. 22-28. 

Housing Reform in New York City. Charity Orgaji. Soc, New York, 1914, pp. 47, 
pi. 1, figs. 17. 

Sanitary Standard for Bakeries Adopted by the National Association of Master Bakers. 
Nat. Assoc. Master Bakers (Proc), 16 (1913), p. 2. 

A Sanitary Code for Bottlers. Pure Products, 10 (1914), no. 11, pp. 546-549. (The 
code was issued by the Agricultural Commission of the State of Ohio for the conduct 
of places where soft drinks are prepared.) 

A Little Talk with the Baby's Mother. Laura J. Winter, New Brunswick Dept. 
Agr. Bui. 7 (1914), pp. 8. (Hints regarding care, clothing, and diet of the baby, together 
with suggestions for the dietary of children 3 to 10 years of age. 

School Hygiene — a Report of the Sanitary Inspection of Rural Schools of East Ten- 
nessee and Northern Georgia. C. A. Bailey, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 29 (1914), no. 
49, pp. 3252-3259. 

The Treatment and Prevention of Pellagra. J. Goldberger, C. H. Waring and D. G. 
Willets, Puh. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 29 (1914), no. 43, pp. 2821-2825. 

Concerning Nickel Cooking Vessels. Pure Products, 10 (1914), no. 11, pp. 543, 544. 

Miscellaneous 

District Heating. S. M. Bushnell and F. B. Orr, Heating and Venlilaling Mag., 12 
(1915), no. 1, pp. 27-37, figs. 8. 

Electric Heating in Seattle. Heating and Ventilating Mag., 12 (1915), no. 1, pp. 
25-27, figs. 2. 

Lesson in Fire Prevention. J. A. Churchill, Salem, Oreg., Siipt. Pub. Indstr., 1914, 
pp. 24. 

Moisture in Clothing. W. M. Doherty, Chem. News, 109 (1914), no. 2844, p. 254. 

Chemistry of the Bleaching of Cotton Cloth. J. C. Hebden, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 6 (1914), no. 9, pp. 714-720. 

The Drama of the Silkworm. Helen Fermor, Housewives League Mag., 5 (1915), 
no. 1, pp. 3-10, figs. 6. 

Artificial Silk. J. Vanderiick, Jour. Agr. afid Hort., 18 (1915), no. 12, pp. 262, 263, 
figs. 2. (A simimary of data.) 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

The Housekeeper's Handbook of Cleaning. By Sarah J. MacLeod. New 
York: Harper and Brothers, 1915, pp. 259. $1. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $1.08. 

This volume is among the first text-books published on the science of 
cleaning the various metals, woods and general furnishings of the home. 
The first fourteen chapters might be termed "Housewifery" based on expert 
chemical knowledge. The problems of the housewife are met and squarely 
dealt with, so that this simple arrangement of scientific facts appeals directly 
to housekeepers. Because there is a lack of compiled knowledge on this 
subject this book should be in much demand by teachers and students. 

The last ten chapters deal with the question of the laundry, first taking 
up the equipment, making and use of reagents, removal of stains, etc. 
The practical side of washing and ironing is followed with a chapter on 
Dry Cleaning and General Care of Clothing. 

An excellent inventory of equipment for a cleaning-closet, giving the 
prices of articles mentioned, closes this helpful handbook. 

The volume is neat in appearance with clear-cut illustrations and the 
type is good. 

How to Buy Furniture for the Home. By Forrest Loman Oilar, Indianapolis, 
Ind., pp. 180. $1.50. 

This little book is written from a different stand-point from that of most 
books on house furnishing, and will be helpful to many teachers who know 
more about the artistic than the commercial side of the subject. 

Advice is given on v/here to buy and on the dangers of the installment 
plan. A chapter is given to each room of the house, to woods, leathers, 
period furniture, carpets, rugs, etc. 

The Art of Home Candy Making. Home Candy Makers, Canton, 0., 1913, 
3. rev. ed., pp. 110, figs. 24. $2. 

Detailed directions are given for making candy at home, in most cases 
the sorts usually thought of as commercial candies. 

561 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Household Bttdget Blanks: Shelter Bridget, Food Budget, Operating Expenses 
Clothing, Higher Life and Personal Life Budget. Philadelphia Home Eco- 
nomics Association, Care of Miss Alice Johnson, Department of Educa- 
tion, City Hall, Philadelphia. $0.15. 

This is a set of a dozen printed sheets giving forms for entering the de- 
tailed facts of family expenditure, which were drawn up by Miss Emma A. 
Winslow and used for collecting schedules of expenditures in a course on the 
budget given before the Philadelphia Association last spring. Persons in- 
terested in budget study or teaching, or in making an examination of their 
own finances, will do well to secure a copy. 

Air, Water, and Food, from a Sanitary Statidpoint. By Alpheus G. Wood- 
MAX AND John F. Norton. Fourth edition, revised and rewritten. 
New York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc.; London: Chapman and Hall, 
Limited, 1914, pp. 248, illus. 17. 

Since the third edition of this work one of the authors, Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, ha^, died and a change of authorship is noted in the fourth edi- 
tion. The whole book has been carefully revised and the character of the 
treatment of certain parts has been radically changed to make it of more 
use in colleges and technical schools. 

Since the last edition in 1909 "there have been distinct advances in 
analytical methods, and a changed point of view has brought about a 
somewhat different interpretation of results. This is particularly true 

with regard to the relation of air to health and comfort All 

of the discussion on air and water has been completely rewritten, as has 
the section on milk, the older methods revised, and numerous additions, to 
correspond to the latest practice, made. As in previous editions, these dis- 
cussions are intended to be essentially elementary rather than exhaustive." 

The Young Woman Worker. By Mary A. Laselle. Boston and Chicago: 
The Pilgrim Press, 1914, pp. 189. $1. 

Seldom does one find such a helpful, straighforward, sane little book as 
The Young Woman Worker when one wishes to recommend a self-help 
book to a young girl or her mother. Such a book is of value to all women 
in its suggestions for success in life. The chapter on Dress is of particular 
interest to Home Economics workers. A number of actual budgets kept 
by young workers of the annual amounts spent for dress, are valuable for 
a comparative study. These show an expenditure for dress of from 10 
to 18 per cent of the income. 



1915] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 563 

Medical Inspection of Schools. By Luther Halsey Gulick, M.D., Di- 
rector of Physical Training, New York Public Schools and Leonard 
P. Ayres, General Superintendent of Schools of Porto Rico, 1906- 
1908. New York: Survey Associates, 1913, pp. 224. $1.50. By 
mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

When Medical Inspection of Schools was first issued in 1908, it repre- 
sented a pioneer volume in the American literature of the subject. Today, 
there are many books dealing with various phases of medical inspection but 
the revised edition of Gulick and Ayres still maintains its high place in the 
scale of practical, reliable, honest, and non-dogmatic books dealing with 
the various problems and difficulties of medical inspection. 

The text has been considerably revised and much of it has been rewrit- 
ten. The book has been condensed without the sacrifice of any valuable 
material. The new volume is rich in illustrations and stronger in tabula- 
tions than was the first edition. The presentation of administrative forms 
evidences better selection for they are more suggestive than those util- 
ized in the previous edition. 

The chapter on Dental Inspection is unusually full, possibly dispro- 
portionately so, since fewer pages are devoted to the methods of making 
medical inspection effective. 

The chapter dealing with the legal provisions for medical inspection has 
been rearranged and presents a wealth of material for the organization of 
such work in the states and municipalities. 

As a whole, the revised edition merits appreciative criticism. It has 
achieved a noteworthy position in the literature of the subject and deserves 
careful study by educators, physicians, parents, social workers and all other 
students who are interested in the conservation of our school children 
through the potential, protective and corrective advantages of medical 
inspection of schools. 

Democracy s High School. By William D. Lewis. New York: Houghton 
Mifflin Company, 1914, pp. 129. 

In this book Principal Lewis of the William Penn High School in Phila- 
delphia has presented many valuable ideas for Home Economics workers. 
He suggests the correlation of cooking with the family budgets for various 
incomes. "The household budgets should be carefully analyzed and the 
problems of buying should be studied at first hand in the stores and markets. 
. . . . Such training would have a direct value in raising the economic 
and moral status of the home." In connection with the house planning 
work "our boys and girls could with great interest and profit study the 
housing conditions in the poorer parts of the city." 



564 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The valuable opportunity which the school cafeteria or lunch room offers 
as a social gathering place at noon is emphasized as a means of preventing 
or at least lessening the danger of social evils of various kinds in the high 
school. If time and room could be afforded for taking the lunch leisurely 
in comfortable surroundings; if the holding of class meetings, committee 
meetings, etc., could be encouraged there during the noon hour rather 
than at High School Club rooms in the city much danger could be averted. 

Principal Lewis beheves that "The school luncheon, run on a cooperative 
plan, will provide good, nutritious food at a moderate price, and will refuse 
to furnish anything deleterious to the health of the growing girl. Thus 
it will tend to establish correct habits of diet and serve as an example of the 
possibiHty of securing good food at moderate prices. But the school will 
go much further than the luncheon: it will, as a second essential of its 
course, aim to give every girl a thorough and systematic training to fit her 
for efficiency in the home." 

All teachers who are just organizing or reorganizing high school courses 
should read this book. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Five Cent Meals. By Florence Nesbitt. Chicago : American School of Home Economics, 
1915, pp. 37. (Pamphlet) SO.IO, or in lots of 100 at $0.05 each. 

Guide Book to Childhood. By William Byron Forbush. Philadelphia: American Insti- 
tute of Child Life, 1915, pp. 557. $2.50. By mail of the Journal, $2.65. 

A Guide to Laundry Work. By Mary D. Chambers. Boston: Boston Cooking School 
Magazine Co., 1915, pp. 104. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.80. 

Home Making and Home Keeping. By Grace J. Ferguson. Department of Education, 
San Juan, Porto Rico, 1915, pp. 278. 

Low Cost Cooking. By Florence Nesbitt. Chicago: American School of Home Econom- 
ics, 1915, pp. 127. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.56. (Lots of 20 or more at 
$0.25 each.) 

Milk and Milk Products in the Home. By John IMichels. Farmingdale, New York, 
1915, pp. 100. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.81. 

The Nutrition of a Household. By Edwin Tenney Brewster and Lilian Brewster. Bos- 
ton: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1915, pp. 208. $1.00. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $1.08. 

Principles of Domestic Engineering. By Mary Pattison (Mrs. Frank A.) Colonia, N. J. 
1915, pp. 310. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.14. 

Student's Manual in Household Arts: Foods and Cookery. By IMartha L. Metcalf. In- 
dianapolis: Industrial Education Company, 1915, pp. 299. $1.10. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.24. 

Wage Worth of School Training: an Analytical Study of 600 Women-Workers in Textile 
Factories. By Anna Charlotte Hedges. New York: Teachers College, Columbia 
University, 1915, pp. 173. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.10. 

Candy Making in the Home. By Christine Terhune Herri ck. New York: Rand 
McNally and Company, 1914, pp. 130, $0.50 By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Council Meeting. A meeting of the Council of the American Home 
Economics Association was held in New York City on October 23, at the 
CosmopoUtan Club, whose hospitality was extended through the courtesy 
of Miss Isabel Lord of Pratt Institute. Fifteen members were present, 
the president, Miss Van Rensselaer, presiding. 

Reports were read from the different sections, vacancies on the Council 
filled, and new committees were appointed. 

Mrs. Abel, in recognition of her invaluable services as editor of the 
Journal was made an honorary member of the Association. 

The most important business was the presentation by the new treasurer 
of detailed plans for the reorganization of the finances of the Association. 
The business of the Association including the handling of the funds of the 
Journal has become so large that it has outgrown our former methods. 

A full report of the meeting will be found in the next bulletin. 

The University of Illinois. The University of UHnois is sending out a 
finely equipped demonstration car devoted entirely to work in Home 
Economics. 

Miss Eva Benefiel has been made county adviser for Kankakee County, 
111. She is probably the first woman to hold such a position in a northern 
state. 

Dr. Nellie E. Goldthwaite, formerly assistant professor in Home Eco- 
nomics at the University of Illinois, has accepted the position of Dean of 
Women and Head of the Home Economics Department at the State 
Agricultural College, Durham, N. H. Miss Ruth Wheeler is conducting 
Miss Goldthwaite's classes at UHnois. 

Miss Laura Hope of Boston, formerly assistant in the University of 
Wisconsin is developing the work in dress design. Miss Hope is a gradu- 
ate of the Providence School of Design and has exhibited her work in 
Boston and New York. 

Massachusetts Agricultural College. Miss Harriet J. Hopkins is estab- 
Hshing the department of Home Economics in the University of Oklahoma, 
Norman, Oklahoma. Miss Marie Sayles holds the position that Miss 
Hopkins formerly held, that of instructor in Home Economics in the Ex- 
tension Service at Massachusetts Agricultural College, Amherst. Last 

565 



566 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

year Miss Sayles had work in the Lewiston Normal, Lewiston, Idaho, 
training teachers especially for rural work along Home Economics lines. 
She is a Teachers College graduate. 

The Stout Institute. The Home Economics department of The Stout 
Institute, IVIenomonie, Wisconsin, began the year with an enrollment of 
over 400, the largest in the history of the institution. Because of this, 
faculty and students at present are working under difficulties, but they 
hope to be in their new building before the close of the year. This build- 
ing, when finished, will be one of the largest and most complete of its kind 
in the country. It is to be four stories above a ground floor basement and 
is 228 feet long by 126 feet wide. 

The basement will contain locker space for 500 students, cafeteria, 
laundry recitation rooms and refrigeration rooms in addition to com- 
modious store rooms and toilet accommodations. 

The first floor is for library, offices, exhibit and recitation rooms. The 
second floor is devoted to domestic art, with seven well equipped sewing 
rooms each v/ith fitting and store room in connection. The domestic 
science laboratories, five in number, with recitation rooms, demonstration 
lecture room, pantries and four small kitchens with adjoining rooms for 
work with small groups, occupy the third floor. Biology and chemistry 
laboratories, recitation rooms, amphitheater to seat 250 and drawing rooms 
are located on the upper floor. Offices and rest rooms are on each floor. 

In connection with the work of house management this year, a furnished 
house has been utilized for practice work in this field. A group of eight 
students, under the direction of an instructor, live there for a period of 
two weeks, prepare their meals and assume the responsibility of buying, 
cleaning, accounting, and performing other household duties. 

American School Peace League Contest. Because of our be'ief that 
only through education in the home and the school can there be secured that 
permanent peace that will forever prevent the devastating effect of war 
upon the homes of all nations, we are glad to call the attention of Home 
Economics students t j the Peace Prize Contest, under the auspices of The 
American School Peace League. This is open to pupils of all countries. 

Two sets of prizes, to be known as the Seabury Prizes, are ofi'ered for the 
best essays on one of the following subjects: 

1. The Opportunity and Duty of the Schools in the International Peace 
Movement. Open to seniors in the normal schools. 

2. The Influence of the United States in Advancing the Cause of Inter- 
national Peace. Open to seniors in the secondary schools. 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 567 

Three prizes of seventy-five, fifty and twenty-five dollars will be given 
for the best essays in both sets. 

The contest closes March 1, 1916 and the award of prizes will be made 
at the Annual Meeting of the League in July, 1916. The conditions of the 
contest may be learned by writing to Mrs. Fannie Fern Andrews, Secretary 
American School Peace League, 405 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Home Economics Prizes. A set of prizes is offered by the Ladies Home 
Journal to Home Economics students for the best article of 300 words on 
any of the following subjects: 

1. "A happier method of accomphshing an old household task. " 

2. "A household superstition from which I've gained my freedom. " 

3. "A discovery I've made in food preparation." 

4. "My suggestions for improving domestic science instruction." 

The contest closes on January 1, 1916. If you are interested write to 
Miss Anna Merritt East the "New Housekeeping" editor. 

Miss East has lately assumed the editorship of this department, coming 
from the Bureau of Home Economics of the New York Edison Company. 

Those who were at the annual meeting of the A. H. E. A. in Cleveland 
will remember that Miss East represented there the work in the Philippine 
Islands where for two years she had been in charge of the training of Home 
Economics teachers in the Philippine Normal School, Manila. 

An interesting part of her work was the training of girls in the cooking 
and serving of corn foods for the Philippine exposition; part of the campaign 
conducted by the Bureau of Education toward the changing of a people's 
food from entire dependence on rice to partial dependence on corn that 
meant in three years a saving of two million dollars to the Filipino people. 
Miss East is a graduate of the University of Nebraska where later she did 
extension teaching. She has also taken graduate work at Columbia. 

Thrift. Two essay contests on Thrift were proposed by S. W. Straus of 
New York, President of the American Society for Thrift, to the National 
Education Association at Oakland. 

One contest carrying prizes varying from $10 to $100 is for school chil- 
dren, and, it is hoped, will be nation-wide. The essays must be finished 
by December 1, and will be presented through the county or city superin- 
tendents to the state superintendents of education. 

The other contest is open to adults, and the essays must be in the pos- 
session of the secretary of the National Education Association, Durand 
W. Springer, Ann Arbor, Mich., by March 1, 1916. Contestants must 
notify the secretary of their intentions by December 1. This contest 
carries a first prize of $750. 



568 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Its special interest is in the subject assigned: "Thrift — with an Outline 
of a Method by which the Principles of Thrift may be Taught in our Public 
Schools." 

The New Washington Market. The opening celebration of the New 
Washington ^farket in New York, which is known wherever food is pro- 
duced as a place to buy and sell, was held October 25. The new 
market contains every known modern device that makes for efficiency 
and sanitation. 

The market dates back to 1656, when the trading was done on the parade 
ground back of Fort Amsterdam, now the site of the Custom House. In 
1658 the Strand Market, situated at Pearl, Moore and Whitehall Streets, 
was organized. SuppHes were obtained by canoe from Long Island, 
then known as Nassau Island. In 1756 the general market of the city 
was moved to Maiden Lane, in the middle of Broadway, and in 1771 the 
famous Fly and Bear Markets were established at a place adjacent to the 
present site of Washington Market. The present site was recommended 
in 1805. In 1812 the butcher boys in the market formed themselves into 
a brigade for service in the war against England. On their banner was the 
following slogan: "Free trade and butchers' rights from Brooklyn's fields 
to Harlem's heights." 

The Iowa Federation of Women's Clubs, Home Economics Com- 
mittee, recommends that every club in the state make some phase of 
Home Economics a part of its program. They are urging the organization 
of girls' garden and canning clubs. 

Prof. E. C. Bishop of Ames is in charge of this juvenile Home Economics 
work. He is the agent of the federal government and will acccompany 
the winning contestants to Washington. 

The "Kitchen on Wheels" is being fitted up by Iowa State College at 
the instigation of the committee, and will soon be ready to send out. 

The Santa Barbara Home Economics Association held its first meeting 
of the fall term on September 15. Mrs. F. M. Rhodes, the newly elected 
President gave a welcome to all the students. Miss Nell A. Miller, Head of 
the Department of Home Economics spoke of the work of the year and of 
the opportunities it would give the students to learn something of the 
large field of Home Economics which cannot be reached through the class 
room. President Ednah Rich brought greetings from the international 
meeting in Oakland and urged the Branch to cooperate in the work on 
Budgets to which the American Home Economics Association has pledged 
itself this year. President Rich also brought a message to the students 



1915] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 569 

from the Biennial Meeting of the Collegiate Alumnae. A meeting was 
announced for September 22, when Miss Bonnie Scholes of the Science 
Department will give a report on the Home Economics Exhibits at the 
Panama Exposition. 

The Iowa Home Economics Association announced the following pro- 
gram for their seventh annual meeting held this year in Des Moines. 

Thursday, November 4, 2 p.m. 

Home Economics in the High School, Emma Conley, State Supervisor 
of Home Economics, Wisconsin. 

High School Extension Work, Mrs. F. F. Faville, Chairman of Home 
Economics Committee, Iowa Federation of Women's Clubs. 

Standardization of Home Economics Courses, W. A. Jessup, Depart- 
ment of Education, Iowa State University. 

The Teacher, and Community Social Well-Being, Geo. H. Von Tungeln, 
Department of Social Science, Iowa State College. 

Friday, November 5, 9 a.m. 

Recent Contributions to the Foundations of Dietetics, Ruth Wheeler, 
Department of Research, University of Illinois. 

Textiles, Nellie Crooks, Director of Home Economics, Milwaukee-Dow- 
ner College. 

Costume Design, Ethel Erwin, Department of Household Arts, Stout 
Institute, Menomonie, Wisconsin. 

House Furnishing, Ethelwyn Miller, Chicago University. 

The program was chiefly the outcome of requests from the Home Econo- 
mics teachers of Iowa. 

A cordial invitation is extended not only to teachers but to all interseted 
in Home Economics to join the Association. Annual dues may be paid to 
Louise Weaver, 933 Thirty-first St., Des Moines, Iowa. 

The Home Economics Association of Washington, D. C. began this 
year's work by a meeting on October 5. Mrs. Henrietta Calvin of the 
Division of Home Economics, Bureau of Education gave a talk on New 
Phases of Home Economics Teaching as Observed in Forty Schools. 

Michigan Home Economics Association. The sixth annual meeting 
of the Michigan Home Economics Association was held on Thursday, Octo- 
ber 28, at Saginaw, Michigan,as a section of the State Teachers' Association. 
Prof. Abby L. Marlatt, of the University of Wisconsin, made an address 



570 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

"full of inspiration and of definite information" on The Inter-relation of 
Secondary Schools, Normal Schools and Colleges, in Home Economics. 

Resolutions with regard to a standard course of study for the schools of 
Michigan were read and discussed, and a committee was appointed to ob- 
tain information as to the possibilities of such a course. 

The following oflScers were elected: President, Mrs. Martha H. French, 
State Normal College, Ypsilanti; First Vice President, Miss Grace McAdam, 
Detroit; Second Vice President, Miss Ruby McCormick Smith, Saginaw; 
Secretary-Treasurer, Mrs L. L. Peppard, Agricultural College, East Lan- 
sing; Councilor, Miss Lenna Cooper, Battle Creek Sanitarium; additional 
members of the Executive Committee, Mrs. Slaght, Grand Rapids; Miss 
Paulina Raven, East Lansing. 

The meeting was accompanied by an exhibit, and a luncheon was served 
by the students of IVIiss Ruby McCormick Smith, Director of Home Eco- 
nomics in the Saginaw schools. 

National Education Association. The program of the National Edu- 
cation Association in Oakland August 16-18 included several papers on 
Home Economics. 

In the general session Miss Ednah Rich, president of the Santa Barbara, 
California, State Normal School presented the Vocational Aspect of Home 
Economics, and Mrs. Martha Foote Crow gave a paper on Mother Craft. 
The departmental congress on Vocational and Practical Arts included a 
paper on Home Economics Applied to Life. 

Papers on Practical Arts for Girls in the High School, Science for 
Girls, Art and Design for Useful Ends, as well as the many on various 
phases of vocational, rural and industrial education touched more or less 
directly upon the same subject. 

The interest in Home Economics is not confined to the specialized asso- 
ciations. 

A Question Box. A question box for information on scientific prob- 
lems is to be conducted through the columns of the Journal by a 
committee of the Science Section of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. Miss Amy L. Daniels of the department of Home Economics, 
University of Wisconsin, is chairman of the committee and questions 
should be sent directly to her. If an immediate answer is desired, an 
addressed stamped envelope should be enclosed. 



INDEX TO VOLUME VII 
1915 



Address of welcome, 107 

Address, President's, 461 

Aim of textile teaching, 519 

Aluminum cooking vessels, Effect of foods 
upon, 304 

Aluminum ware, Cleaning, 326 

Ammonia, Household, an economic absurd- 
ity, 22 

Andrews, B. R. The market and the 
housewife, 31 

Anthony, Hettee M. Credit for home 
work, 66 

Application of Smith-Lever funds, 355 

Architecture: House construction in Cali- 
fornia, 341 

Arnold, Sarah Louise. Foreword, 105 

Art in the home, 8 

Ash content of canned vegetables, with spe- 
cial reference to canned peas, 72 

Athletics, High school, 441 

Atwater, Helen W. Life in rural 
France, 358, 530 

B 

Baker, Charlotte Glbbs. Practical ap- 
plication of textile knowledge, 235 

Bailey, E. H. S. The importance of a 
food museum, 77 

Bailey, Ilena. A study of the manage- 
ment of the farm home, 348 

Barrows, Anna. Made at home, 83 ; Fan- 
nie Merritt Farmer, 248 

Bibliography: 43, 93, 211, 263, 331, 385, 
445, 507, 559 

Bird population, 505 

Blackmore, M. a. Girls' Hostel in 
Christchurch, New Zealand, 542 

Blunt, Katharine. The smoking tem- 
peratures of edible fats, 535 

Boarding house, A rare, 160 



Bonsee, Frederick G. The home and 
child labor, 368 

Books reviewed, 45, 95, 213, 265, 333, 387, 
447, 509, 561 : Air, Water and Food, 
from a Sanitary Standpoint, 562; An- 
alysis and Cost of Ready-to-Serve 
Foods, 511; Armual Report of the 
Federal Council of the Churches of 
Christ in America for 1914, 391; 
Arithmetic, Book 1, Fundamental 
Processes — Book 2, Practical Appli- 
cations, 448; Art of Home Candy 
Making, 561; Ball Canning and Pre- 
serving Recipes, 216; Canning, Pre- 
serving and Pickling, 334; Crop Pro- 
duction: An Agricultural Text for 
High Schools, 334; Democracy's High 
School, 563; Disposal of Household 
Wastes, 46; Domestic Needs of Farm 
Women, 333; Domestic Science Prin- 
ciples and Application, 213; Econom- 
ics Needs of Farm Women, 333; Edu- 
cational Needs of Farm Women, 333; 
Etiology of Pellagra, 268; Experi- 
mental Domestic Science, 447; Family 
and Society, The, 387; Family Ex- 
pense Account, including problems 
of investment and expenditure, 447; 
Farm Kitchen as a Workshop, The, 
267; Financing the Wage-Earner's 
Family, 390; Food Analyses and Other 
Pure Food and Drug Topics, 96; Food 
Industries, 335; Food Products, 335; 
Foods and Household Management, 
266; Foods and Sanitation, 266; For 
You (rules for sanitary living), 216; 
General Education Board, The, 333; 
Handy and Practical Farm Library, 
450; History of the Dwelling-House 
and Its Future, 391; Home Garden in 
the South, 334; Household Accounts, 
392; The Household Arts Review, 215; 

571 



572 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 



Household Budget Blanks, 562; 
Household Physics, 45; Housekeeper's 
Handbook of Cleaning, 561; How to 
Buy Furniture for the Home, 561; 
How to Keep Household Accounts, 
448; How to Save Money, 392; How 
We Serve Hawaiian Canned Pine- 
apple, 98; Insects Injurious to the 
Household and .Annoying to Man, 
510; Journal for Housewives and 
Woman's Life, 389; Large Indian 
Cornfield in North Dakota Long Ago, 
and an Indian Drama Petite for 
School Children, 449; Laimdering, 214; 
Laundry Work in Theory and Prac- 
tice, 509; Lighting Book, The, 391; 
Making Built-in Furniture, 98; Mar- 
kets for the People, 97; Mechanics 
of the Sewing Machine, 268; Medical 
Inspection of Schools, 563; Modem 
Cities, 267: 1001 Tests of Foods, and 
Toilet Accessories, 510; Outline of Na- 
ture Study, 449; Personal and Domes- 
tic Accounts, 448; Physical and Chem- 
ical Tests for the Housewife, 336; 
Physics of the Household, 45; Plan- 
ning and Furnishing the Home, 213; 
Practical Garden Book, 265; Preserva- 
tives and Other Chemicals in Foods: 
Their Use and Abuse, 215; Preserving 
and Canning, 335; Principles of Cook- 
ing, 95; Pure Food and Sanitation, 97; 
Report upon a Study of the Diet of 
the Laboring Classes in the City of 
Glasgow Carried out During 1911-12 
under the Auspices of the Corpora- 
tion of the City, 47; Sanitation, Water 
Supply, and Sewage Disposal for 
Country Houses, 46; School Hygiene— 
A Report of the Fourth International 
Congress of School Hygiene, 449; Sec- 
ond Course in Homemaking, 511; Se- 
lected List of Municipal and Civic 
Books, 336; Social and Labor Needs of 
Farm Women, 333; Spices, Their Na- 
ture and Growth, 511; Students' Ac- 
counts, 392; Studies in Carbohydrates; 
the Composition and Digestibility of 
Wheat Bread and Allied Foods (and) 
Gelatinizationof Starches, 95; Study of 
Chicago's Stockyards Community — 



III Wages and Family Budgets in the 
Chicago Stockyards Districts, 265; 
Sunday Evenings at Catherine's, 389; 
Sweet Potatoes: Culture, Storing and 
Studies in Fertilizing, 334; Textiles, 
509; Transactions of the Fifth Annual 
Meeting of the American Association 
for the Study and Prevention of Infant 
Mortality, 449; Vacuum Cleaning Sys- 
tems, 47; Woman's Congress (and Ex- 
hibits of Interest to Housekeepers), 
268; Women Workers in Seven Profes- 
sions, 388; Young Woman Worker, 
562; Your Child Today and Tomor- 
row, 335; Your Household Budget in 
Graphic Form, 512 
BouGHTON, Alice C. School limches, 118 
Brimfield (Mass). Report of field work in, 

528 
Brown, Edwaex) F. Feeding school chil- 
dren in New York City, 119 
Brown, Hetty S. The Winthrop Farm 

School, 480 
Buchanan, R. E. Molds in the home, 

238 
Bulletins on education for the home, 426 
Bunch, Mamie. Follow-up work, 523 
Bureau of Home Economics, New York 

Edison Co., 21 
Business training for women, 485 
Buying, storing and handling food sup- 
plies, 144 
Buying £he refrigerator, 254 



Calvin, Henrietta W. Bulletins on edu- 
cation for the home, 426 

Canning: Ash content of canned vege- 
tables with special reference to canned 
peas, 72; Comparison of home and 
commercially canned goods, 322; Girls' 
canning clubs, 316; Home canning of 
meats and vegetables, 319; Impor- 
tance of retaining mineral matter in 
canning vegetables, 92; New method 
of canning, 322. See also Rural work. 

Care of ferns and palms in winter, 85 

Carruth, Ella Kaiser. Time-study in 
dishwashing, 37; Rare boarding house, 
160 

Census dependents, 379 



1915] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VII 



573 



Chadsey, Mildrkd. Municipal house- 
keeping, 53 

Child, Georgie Boynton. House con- 
struction in California, 341 

Child labor laws pending, 370 

Child Welfare League, Committee on 
Home Economics, 552 

Children: Child labor laws pending, 370; 
Feeding school children in New York 
City, 119; Folding go-cart, 329; Food 
for school boys and girls, 38, 89; Home 
and child labor, 368; Infant feeding, 
310; Training in spending money, 203 

Clean food a possibility, 380 

Cleaning aluminum ware, 326 

Cleanliness: Clean food a possibility, 380; 
Formation of a sanitary food code, 
124; Pottery glazes and their solubil- 
ity, 191 

Clothing: Aim of textile teaching, 519; 
Club women approve sensible styles 
in dress, 201; Extension courses in 
dressmaking, 260; Girls' trade school 
course in dressmaking, 188; Practical 
application of textile knowledge, 235 

Club women approve sensible styles in 
dress, 201 

Coffee, Java, hearing, 381 

Cole, Wllliam Morse. Unit costs in in- 
stitutions, 129 

Committee on Home Economics, Interna- 
tional Child Welfare League, 552 

Community heating. 439 

Community housekeeping, 1 

Community organized for neighborhood 
patriotism, 490 

Comparison of cost of home made and 
baker's bread, 165 

Comparison of home and commercially 
canned goods, 322 

CoNLEY, Emma. Making use of the home, 
401 

Consumption of sugar, 544 

Continuation schools and domestic serv- 
ice, 438 

Cooker, Pressure, versus iireless, for home 
use, 375 

Cooking utensils, Enamels of, 556 

Cooler construction, 146 

CooLEY, M. E. Electric vacuum cleaners, 
497 



Cooper, Lenna F. The cost of foods In 
non-meat dietaries, 137 

Cooperative kitchen that is meeting a need 
in its community, 373 

Cosby, Olive M. Food cost accounting, 
149 

Cost of foods in non-meat dietaries, 137 

Cost of living: Ammonia an economic ab- 
surdity, 22; Comparative cost of 
homemade and baker's bread, 165; 
Cottonseed oil, 381; Grading and stan- 
dardizing food supplies, 150; Half 
portions and waste, 541; High cost 
of living, 42; Menus and cost in a 
college practice house, 257; New 
York's public markets, 241; Preserv- 
ing eggs in water glass, 257; Selecting 
economical foods, 166; Will parcel post 
reduce the cost of living, 81 

Cottonseed oil, 381 

Credit for home work: 66; Making use of 
the home, 401 ; School credit for home 
work in home economics, 405 

Crooks, Nellib. The aim of textile 
teaching, 519 

Cross, F. J. Welfare service in an English 
insurance company, 19 

Cutler, J. E. Community housekeeping, 
1 



Daily routine in handling food supplies, 145 

Danger of using leftovers, 329 

Dean, Arthxtr D. What continuation 
schools may do for domestic service, 
438 

Denton, Minna C. Cleaning aluminum 
ware, 326 

Departm.ent of Agriculture, General Fed- 
eration and the, 553 

Dependents, Census, 379 

Devine, Edward T. The home, 221 

Dewey, Annie. Score card for rating em- 
ployees, 142; Bu\'ing, storing and 
handling food supplies, 144 

Dewey, Godfrey. Address of welcome, 
107 

Dickens and the facts about school diet, 
416 

Diet: A study of student diet, 409; Dickens 
and the facts about school diet, 416 



574 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Dietaries, Cost of foods in non-meat die- 
taries, 137 

Dietetics, Recent contributions to the 
foundations of, 469 

Deetz, Grace. Home canning of meats 
and vegetables, 319 

Dishwashing, A time-study in, 37 

Disinfection: How to disinfect rooms, fur- 
niture, and clothing, 87; Thorough 
fumigation for Buffalo moths, 208 

Doctor and the farmer's wife, 42 

Domestic art equipment in Pawtucket, 
R. I., 26 

Dormitory supervision, 114 

Double windows, Economj- of, 328 

Dress. See Clothing 

Dresser, Alice R. Field work in Brim- 
field, 528 

Dunlap, Mrs. Henry M. The need of 
the visiting housekeeper in rural dis- 
tricts, 284 

E 

Edison Company, New York Bureau of, 21 
Editorials: 29, 79, 157, 199, 250, 317, 371, 
433, 494, 545: "America's Gifts to the 
Old Worid," The American Home 
Economics Association's Newly Pub- 
lished Pageant, 546; Annual ISIeeting 
of the American Home Economics As- 
sociation, 317; Art Side of Home Eco- 
nomics, 79; Best Definition of Home, 
494; Bureau of Education and Home 
Economics, 433; Chairman Institution 
Economics Section, 157; Child Labor, 
371; Domestic Service Question, 252; 
Editorship of the Journal of Home 
Economics, 434a; Field Secretary, The, 
30; Help for Teachers, 30; Institution 
Economics Section, 80, 157, 318; Jour- 
nal, The, 545; Material for Teachers, 
80; Meeting for 1915, 200; Permanent 
Bureau for the Help of the House- 
keeper, 199; Reprints, 252; Teaching 
Home Economics, 250; Teaching 
Household Arts in the Home, 29; 
Three Contests, 547 
Education: Bulletins on education for the 
home, 426; Present need for educa- 
tion, for students of college age, in the 
problems of family life, 59; Present 



situation in American colleges and 
universities with respect to courses on 
the history of the family, 229; Presi- 
dent's address, 461 
Effect of foods upon aluminimi cooking 

vessels, 304 
Eggs, Some experiments in preserving, in 

water glass, 257 
Electric vacuum cleaners, 497 
Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund, 197 
Enamels of cooking utensils, 556 
Equipment: Buying the refrigerator, 254; 
Domestic art equipment in Pawtucket, 
R. I., 26; Effect of foods upon aluminiun 
cooking vessels, 304; Electric vacuum 
cleaners, 497; Enamels of cooking 
utensils, 556; More accurate measures 
for the kitchen, 206; Pottery glazes 
and their solubility, 191; Pressure 
cooker versus fireless cooker for home 
use, 375 
Excerpts from annual reports of charitable 
organization societies showing devel- 
opment in visiting housekeeping, 179 
Executive secretary's report, 313 
Explanation, 316 

Extension courses in dressmaking, 260 
Extension teaching in Louisiana, 273 
Extension work: Need for uniform leaflets 
for extension work in home economics, 
465. See also Rural work 



Farmer, FA>fNiE Merritt, 248 

Fats, Smoking temperatures of edible fats, 
535 

Federal aid for vocational training: The 
Smith-Lever and the Smith-Hughes 
BiUs, 245 

Feeding school children in New York City, 
119 

Feeney, Clara. The smoking tempera- 
tures of edible fats, 535 

Field, Ada M. Home economics building 
at George Peabody College for Teach- 
ers, 418 

Field work in Brimfieid, 528 

Folding go-carts, 329 

Follow-up work, 523, 525 

Food: Buying, storing and handling food 



1915] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VII 



575 



supplies, 144; Clean food a possibility, 
380; Cost of foods in non-meat diet- 
aries, 137; Food cost accounting, 149; 
Food for school boys and girls, 38, 89; 
Food value of milk, 324; For ten cents, 
555; Grading and standardizing food 
supplies, 150; Half portions and waste, 
541; Importance of a food museum, 
77; Infant feeding, 310; Persimmon 
recipes, 499; Purchasing meat, 502; 
Some conclusions regarding food prod- 
ucts, 287; Teaching women how to 
buy food, 253; Wheat substitutes, 255 

Food cost accounting, 149 

Food inspection: General Federation and 
Department of Agriculture, 553; U. S. 
inspected and passed, 554 

Foot and mouth disease, 40 

For ten cents, 555 

Foreword, 105 

Formation of a sanitary food code, 124 

Furniture, What bedsprings are best, 88 



General Federation and the Department of 

Agriculture, 553 

George Peabody College for Teachers, 418 

GiFFORD, Laura. The Hiram House 
model cottage: a social settlement, 185 

Girls' carming clubs, 316 

Girls' Hostel in Christchurch, New Zea- 
land, 542 

Girls* trade school course in dressmaking, 
188 

Glaister, John. Effect of foods upon 
aluminvim cooking vessels, 304 

Goodrich, Elizabeth May. Dormitory 
supervision, 114 

GooDSELL, WiLLYSTiNE. The present 
need for education for students of 
college age in problems of family life, 
59; The present situation in American 
colleges and universities with respect 
to courses on the history of the family, 
229 

Grading and standardizing food supplies, 
150 

Grape fruit, a new use for, 92 



H 

Half portions and waste, 541 

Health of our summer resorts, 330 

Heat, humidity, and working power, 506 

Heating, Community, 439 

High school athletics, 441 

Hiram House model cottage: a social set- 
tlement, 185 

Home and child labor. The, 368 

Home : Art in the home, 8 ; B uUetins on edu- 
cation for the home, 426; Comparison 
of home and commercially caimed 
goods, 322; Home and child labor, 368; 
Home caiming of meats and vege- 
tables, 319; Industry for the country 
girl, 276; Made at home, 83; Making 
use of the home, 401; Molds in the 
home, 238; Pressure cooker versus fire- 
less cooker for home use, 375; School 
credit for home work in home econom- 
ics, 405; Study of management of the 
farm home, 348; The home, 221 

Home canning of meats and vegetables, 
319 

Home Economics: Bureau of, New York 
Edison Company, 21; Home Econom- 
ics Day and its obser\'ance, 491 ; Home 
economics for farm women of the 
South, 85; Home economics work un- 
der the Smith-Lever act, 353; Need 
for uniform leaflets for extension 
work in home economics, 465; Presi- 
dent's address, 461; School credit for 
home work in home economics, 405; 
Teaching home economics in rural 
communities, 70 

Home Economics building at George Pea- 
body College for Teachers, 418 

Home industry for the country girl, 276 

Homemade: Comparison of cost of home- 
made and baker's bread, 165; Made 
at home, 83 

Home work. See Credit for home work 

Homes, 484 

Hood, Grace GoRDO>f. Pressure cooker 
versus fireless cooker for home use, 375 

House construction in California, 341 

House decoration: Art in the home, 8 

Household Aid Company, The report of 
(reissued), 27 



576 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 



Household ammonia an economic ab- 
surdity, 22 

Household management, Teaching of, 231 

Housekeeper, Visiting. See Visiting house- 
keeper 

Housekeeper's reference circle, 323 

Housekeeping: Community, 1; Housekeep- 
ing a game, 91; Housekeeping centers 
of New York, 63; Municipal, 53; Vis- 
iting, 167, 170, 175, 179, 279, 284 

Housekeeping centers of New York, 63 

Human health and the foot and mouth dis- 
ease, 40 

Humidity, Indoor, 193 

Hyde, Edna Day, 430 

Hygiene: Danger of using leftovers, 329; 
Folding go-cart, 329; Heat, humidity, 
and working power, 506; Human 
health and the foot and mouth dis- 
ease, 40; Indoor humidity, 193; ^Mis- 
chievous wiping cloth, 501; Molds in 
the home, 238; T>-phoid carriers, 262; 
Ventilation, 209 



Importance of a food museum, 77 

Importance of retaining mineral matter in 
caiming vegetables, 92 

Indoor humidity, 193 

Infant feeding, 310 

Ingersoll, L. R. Indoor humidity, 193 

Institutions: Buying, storing and handling 
food supplies, 144; Cooler construc- 
tion, 146; Cost of foods in non-meat 
dietaries, 137; Daily routine in han- 
dling food supplies, 145; Dormitory 
super\nsion, 114; Food cost accoimt- 
ing, 149; Foreword, 105; Grading 
and standardizing food supplies, 150; 
Menus and cost in a college practice 
house, 257; Score card for rating em- 
ployes, 142; Study of student diet, 
409; Unit costs in institutions, 129; 
Waste, 109 

Instructive inspection, 170 



Java coffee hearing, 381 

Johnson, Ethel M. Business training 

for women, 485 



Johnson, Helen Louise. Training chil- 
dren in spending money, 203 



Kelly, Elizabeth. Extension teaching 
in Louisiana, 273 

Kitchen: Cooperative kitchen that is meet- 
ing a need in its community, 373; 
Model kitchen to illustrate principles, 
384; More accurate measures for the 
kitchen, 206 

Kittredge, Mabel Hyde. The house- 
keeping centers of New York, 63 

Knight, H. L. The States Relations Serv- 
ice of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, 421 

Knowles, Neale S. Follow-up work, 525 



Lake Placid Reports and institution pa- 
pers, 155 

Lang, H. L. Enamels of cooking uten- 
sils, 556 

Langworthy, C. F. Enamels of cooking 
utensils, 556; Formation of a sani- 
tary food code, 124; Need for uniform 
leaflets for extension work in home 
economics, 465; Pottery glazes and 
their solubility, 191 

Laimdr>' : Facts desired on cost of laimder- 
ing, 141; Model wet-wash, 164; Stain 
removal, 382, 443. 

Life in rural France, 358, 530 

Luncheon, What shall I have for, 440 

Lunches. See School Limches 

M 

MacDonald, Pearl. Club women ap- 
prove sensible styles in dress, 201 
McKniMON, Jane Z. Home industry for 

the country girl, 276 
Made at home, 83 
Making use of the home, 401 
Market and the housewife. The, 31 
Marketing: Market and the housewife, 31; 
New York public markets, 241; Pur- 
chasing meat, 502; Shall the buyer 
demand drawTi or imdrawn poultry, 
259; Teaching women how to buy food, 
253 



1915] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VII 



577 



Marsh, Helen Esther. A school for 
housemaids, 435 

Means, Flossie Crannell. Homes, 484 

Meat purchasing, 502 

Meiger, S. C. Daily routine in handling 
food supplies, 145 

Menus and cost in a college practice house, 
257 

Menus for luncheon, 440 

Methods : Home canning of meats and vege- 
tables, 319; New method of canning, 
322; Time saving in housework, 208; 
Time-study in dishwashing, 37; What 
the household has learned from insti- 
tution methods, 158 

Milk, Food value of, 324 

Mischievous wiping cloth, 501 

Model kitchen to illustrate principles, 384 

Model wet- wash laundry, 164 

Molds in the home, 238 

Monahan, a. C. Federal aid for voca- 
tional training: the Smith-Lever and 
the Smith Hughes Bills, 245 

More accurate measures for the kitchen, 
206 

Morgan, Agnes Fay. Ash content of 
canned vegetables with special refer- 
ence to canned peas, 72 

Moths: Thorough fumigation for Buffalo 
moths, 208; Protection from the 
clothes moth, 328 

Municipal housekeeping, 53 

N 

Need for imiform leaflets for extension 
work in home economics, 465 

Need of the visiting housekeeper in rural 
districts, 284 

New method of canning, 322 

New York's public markets, 241 

New Zealand, Girls' Hostel, Christchurch, 
542 

News from the Field, 49, 99, 217, 269, 337, 
393, 451, 513, 565: Alabama Home 
Economics Associations, 398; Amer- 
ican School Peace League Contest, 566; 
American Vegetable Growers, 50; An- 
nual Conference of State Leaders in 
County Agent and Boj-s and Girls 
Club Work, 337; Annual Meeting of 



the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, August 18-21; 
Oakland, California, with National 
Education Association, August 26-28, 
1915, 451; Baby Week, 517; Califor- 
nia Associations, 457; Canning Clubs, 
338; Central Association of Science 
and Mathematics Teachers, 513; Col- 
lege Celebration, 460; College for 
Teachers at the Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, 516; Conference of Charities 
to Discuss Educational Topics, 269; 
Connecticut Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 49; Council Meeting, 565; 
Courses at Teachers College,398; Ed- 
ucation for the South, 218; Exhibit for 
Richards Memorial Fund, 395; Exten- 
sion Work, 270, 339; Extension Work 
in Massachusetts, 103; Field Work at 
Teachers College, 515; Florida County 
Agents, 339; George Peabody College 
for Teachers, Nashville, Tennessee, 
272, 399; Home Economics Associa- 
tion of Greater New York, 49, 458; 
Home Economics Association of Phila- 
delphia, 99, 396, 460; Home Econom- 
ics Association of Washington, D. C, 
271, 569; Home Economics Commit- 
tee, 568; Home Economics Day, 101, 
397; Home Economics Prizes, 567; 
Home Economics Section of the Cen- 
tral Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers, 103; Home Econom- 
ics Work in the Schools of Illinois, 
217; Home Economics Workers, 220; 
Home Schools for Rural Women, 52; 
Household Electricity, 340; Indiana 
Home Economics Association, 457; 
Infant Mortality Conference, 51 ; Insti- 
tution Economics Section Conference, 
456; Ionia Public Schools, 400; Iowa 
Federation of Women's Clubs, 568; 
Iowa State Home Economics Associa- 
tion, 217, 569; Kansas Home Eto- 
nomicsAssociation,397; Massachusetts 
Agricultural College, 565; Michigan 
Home Economics Association, 49, 396, 
569; MUls CoUege, California, 219; 
Mississippi Home Economics Associa- 



578 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 



tion, 396; National Conference of 
Charities at Baltimore, 393; National 
Education Association, 570; Nebraska 
Home Economics Association, 270; 
Nebraska State Teachers' Association, 
218; New England Home Economics 
Association, 99, 459; The New Wash- 
ington Market, 568; North Dakota 
Agricultural College, 102; Novel Rural 
School. 399; Nurses Associations, 516; 
Ohio Home Economics Association, 
100; Omicron Nu, 548; Penny Lunch, 
The, 5 1 7 ; Prize Contest, 340 ; Provincial 
Director of Home Economics, 514; 
Question Box, 570; Santa Barbara 
Home Economics Association, 515, 
568; Santa Barbara Normal School, 
399; School for Housekeepers, Uni- 
versity of Illinois, 217; School of 
Mothercraft Auxiliary, 52; Simmons 
College Summer School, 219; Southern 
Mountain Workers Conference, 395; 
Standardization of Home Economics 
Courses, 104; State Supervisor of 
Household Arts in Indiana, 514; States 
Relations Service, 339; Stout Insti- 
tute, 566; Texas Home Economics 
Association, 272; Thrift, 567; Uni- 
versity Education of Women Fel- 
lowship, 460; University Farm, St. 
Paul, Minn., 102; University of Chi- 
cago, 517; University of Illinois, 565; 
Utah Home Economics Association, 
514; Visiting Housekeeping, 513; Vis- 
iting Nursing, 513 

Nutrition: Food for school bo3's and girls 
38, 89; Food value of milk, 324; Re- 
cent contributions to the foimdations 
of dietetics, 469; Some conclusions re- 
garding food products, 287; Welfare 
service in an English insurance com- 
pany, 19 

Nutting, M. Adelaide. The visiting 
housekeeper, 167 

O 

Old and the new, The, 16 
1000 calorie restaurant, 41 



Parcel post: Will parcel post reduce the 

cost of living? 81 
Persimmon recipes, 499 
Plants: The care of palms and ferns in 

winter, 85 
Potatoes, The use of, as a wheat substi- 
tute, 255 
Pottery glazes and their solubility, 191 
Poultry, Shall the buyer demand drawn or 

undrawn, 259 
Practical application of textile knowledge, 

235 
Present need for education, for students of 

college age, in problems of family life, 

59 
Present situation in American colleges and 

universities, with respect to courses on 

the history of the family, 229 
Preserving eggs in waterglass, 257 
President's address, 461 
Pressure cooker versus fireless cooker for 

home use, 375 
Price, Lula MacDermott. A new 

method of canning, 322 
Protection from the clothes moth, 328 
Purchasing meat, 502 

R 

Rare boarding house, A, 160 

Recent contributions to the foimdations of 
dietetics, 469 

Refrigerator, Buying the, 254 

Report of the Household Aid Company 
(reissued), 27 

Reports: Committee on Home Economics 
International Welfare League, 552; 
Executive secretary's report, 313; 
Field work in Brimfield, 528; Report 
of the Household Aid Company, 27; 
Y. W. C. A. Commission on House- 
hold Employment, 549 

Restaurant, the 1000 calorie, 41 

Richards, Ellen H. Instructive inspec- 
tion, 170 

Richards, Ellen H. Memorial Fund, 
197; Mrs. Richards and our debt to 
her, 27 

Richardson, Harriette T. What bed- 
springs are best, 88 



1915] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VII 



579 



Rural France, Life in, 35S, 530 

Rural work: Community organized for 
neighborhood patriotism, 490; Exten- 
sion courses in dressmaking, 260; Ex- 
tension teaching in Louisiana, 273; 
Field work in Brimfield, 528; Follow- 
up work, 523, 525; Home Economics 
for farm women of the South, 85; 
Home industry for the country girl, 276; 
Need of visiting housekeeper in rural 
districts, 284; Study of management 
of the farm house, 348; Teaching home 
economics in rural communities, 70; 
Visiting teacher in the farm home, 
279; Winthrop Farm School, 480 



Salmon, Lucy M. Mrs. Richards and 
our debt to her, 27 

Sanitation: Health of our summer resorts, 
330; How to disinfect rooms, furni- 
ture and clothing, 87; Mimicipal 
housekeeping, 53; Waste, 109 

School: Domestic art equipment in Paw- 
tucket, R. I., 26; Food for school boys 
and girls, 38, 89; Girls' Hostel Christ- 
church, New Zealand, 542; Girls' trade 
school course in dressmaking, 188; 
High school athletics, 441; School for 
housemaids, 435; What continuation 
schools may do for domestic service, 
438 

School credit for home work in home eco- 
nomics, 405 

School for housemaids, 435 

School lunch: 118; Feeding school children 
in New York City, 119 

Score card for rating employes, 142 

Scott, Mary H. A girls' trade school 
course in dressmaking, 188 

Selecting economical foods, 166 

Sequence of subjects, 303 

Ser\'ice: Com.mittee on Home Economics 
International Child Welfare League, 
552; Cooperative kitchen that is meet- 
ing a need in its community, 373; 
Housekeepers' reference circle, 323; 
Report of the Household Aid Com- 
pany, 27; School for housemaids, 435; 
Score card for rating employes, 142; 



Serving without a maid, 207; Welfare 
service in an English insurance com- 
pany, 19; What continuation schools 
may do for domestic service, 438; Y. 
W. C. A. Commission on Household 
Employment, 549 

Serving without a maid, 207 

Seven ways to answer the question, "What 
shall I have for luncheon?" 440 

Shall the buyer demand drawn or undrawn 
poultry, 259 

Smith-Hughes and Smith-Lever bills, 245 

Smith-Lever Act: Application of Smith- 
Lever funds, 355; Home Economics 
work under the S. M. Act, 353; More 
information about, 36; Smith-Lever 
and Smith-Hughes bills, 245 

Smoking temperatures of edible fats, 535 

Snell, J. F. Household ammonia an eco- 
nomic absurdity, 22 

Snyder, F. S. Grading and standardizing 
food supplies, 150 

Social settlement, Hiram House model cot- 
tage, 185 

Some conclusions regarding food products, 
287 

Some experim^ents in preserving eggs in 
water glass, 257 

Stain removal, 382, 443 

States Relation Service of the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, 421 

Stern, Frances. The work of the visit- 
ing housekeeper, 175 

Stoltzfus, Amanda. Seven ways to 
answer the question "What shall I 
have for luncheon?" 440 

Study of the management of the farm 
home, 348 

Study of the student diet, 409 

Sugar, Consumption of, 544 



Talbot, Marion. A study of student 
diet, 409 

Talley, Charlotte. A cooperative 
kitchen that is meeting a need in its 
community, 373 

Tea, Iced, 325 

Teaching: Aim of textile teaching, 519; Do- 
mestic art equipment, 26; Extension 



580 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 



teaching in Louisiana, 273; Girls' 
trade school course in dressmaking, 
188; Household management, 231; 
Practical apphcation of textile knowl- 
edge, 235; Sequence of subjects, 303; 
Teaching home economics in rural 
communities, 70; Teaching women 
how to buy food, 253 
Teaching home economics in rural com- 
munities, 70 
Teaching of household management, 231 
Teaching women how to bu)' food, 253 
Textiles: Aim of textile teaching, 519; Prac- 
tical application of textile knowledge, 
235; See also Clothing 
Thorough fumigation for Buffalo moths, 208 
Time saving methods in housework, 208 
Time-study in dishwashing, 37 
Training children in spending money, 203 
True, A. C. Home economics work under 

the Smith-Lever Act, 353 
Try cottonseed oil, 381 
Typhoid carriers, 262 

U 

Unit costs in institutions, 129 

"United States inspected and passed," 554 

Usher, Susannah. Iced tea, 325 

Utensils. See Equipment 

Utilizing the workman's dull season, 86 



Vacuum cleaners, Electric, 497 

Van Deusen, Mrytie C. The teaching of 
household management, 231 

Van Rensselaer, Martha. President's 
address, 461 

Veitch, Mildred M. The visiting teacher 
in the farm house, 279 

Ventilation, 209 

Visiting housekeeper: 167; Excerpts from 
the annual report of charitable organ- 
ization societies showing development 
in visiting housekeeping, 179; Instruc- 
tive inspection, 170; Need of visiting 
housekeeper in rural districts, 284; 
Visiting teacher in the farm home, 279; 
Work of visiting housekeeper, 175 



Visiting teacher in the farm home, 279 
Vocational training for women: Business 

training for women, 485; Federal aid 

for, 245 

W 

Warner, Annette J. Art in the home, 8 
Warner, Florence A. Domestic art 

equipment in Pawtucket, R. I., 26 
Waste, 109 
Watermann, Hannah P. Teaching home 

economics in rural communities, 70 
Watson, :Mary Uri. Waste, 109 
Welfare service in an English insurance 

company, 19 

What bedsprings are best? 88 

What continuation schools maj' do for 
domestic service, 438 

What is thrift, 210 

What the household has learned from insti- 
tution methods, 158 

Wheat substitutes, 255 

Wheeler, Ruth. Infant feeding, 310; 
Recent contributions to the founda- 
tion of dietetics, 469 

W^hitaker, Alice E. Housekeeper's ref- 
erence circle, 323 

Windows, Economy of double, 328 

Wing, Annie L. Some experiments in 
preserving eggs in water glass, 257 

WiNSLOW, Emma. Excerpts from annual 
reports of charitable organization soci- 
eties showing development in visiting 
housekeeping, 179; New York's public 
markets, 241; Teaching women how 
to buy food, 253 

Winthrop Farm School, 480 

Wood, Sidney L. Cooler construction, 
146 

Work for odd hours, 91 

Work of the visiting housekeeper, 175 

Workman's dull season. Utilizing the, 86 

Y-Z 

Y. W. C. A. Commission on Household Em- 
ployment, 549 



TX Journal of home economics 

1 

J7 

V.7 

Food 
Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



