Mrs. HAINES 

COOK 
BOOK 




^^-^ 














?>^1^ 
^iU 




eP 










^i^-^ 



Mm 



Class7 .^'•^ /u 
Book /f /5 






p^ Copyright^ 



r. /^ ^ 

''^^^s^ 



^)^1) 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 







«^^^i^^-^/^ 









^^ 



^>«^JiK 






/ 



*^ 



*»# 



s.ji*' 






s^^ 



i*«: 



?^.«l-;''"5-^.ftljf:; 



I. .^*^-^^'^K :-,*.:.-^\.:-'l^'^:, ^T^^^X^-^:^^ 



^n%-'"#^' 



^^^* 



,->^Cb»^":T n:^*«--. „ 







'/-^ 



^^-w,;^?*^ ^^"r''-c:^... 



Helpful Hints 

FOR 

Housewives 



Oil Cloth Binding . . . $1.25 
Paper Cover Binding . 1 .00 



BY 



MRS. MARY LEWIS HAINES 



1^ 






This Book 

Is Affectionately Dedicated 

to 

Friends and Pupils 

by 

The Author 



JZ^ 



NOV 22 I9!5 



Copyright 1915. — Mary Lewis Haines. 

©CI.A414745 



PREFACE 



I have published this second edition of my book at 
the urgent demand of many pupils and friends. That it 
may be to others, as it has been to them, an inspiration 
to conquer new fields of cooking is my earnest desire. 

The recipes in the main are designed for the use of 
the inexperienced housewife who needs smaller portions 
than are treated of in many more pretentious books than 
mine. 

The more mature housewife with the larger family 
will have acquired the skill which will enable her to en- 
large upon these recipes to meet the needs of her family. 

A CAREFUL STUDY OF THE CHAPTERS DE- 
VOTED TO ENTREES AND LEFT OVERS WILL SHOW 
THE WAY TO AN ECONOMICAL USE OF MANY ARTI- 
CLES ORDINARILY CONSIDERED VALUELESS. Thus 
a few teaspoonsful of one vegetable, added to some left 
over, will often give a new combination both appetizing 
and nutritious. 

I have demonstrated every recipe in this book and 
feel sure that by carefully following directions given, the 
beginner in cooking may fearlessly enter upon the fas- 
cinating study of the art of cooking. An art which, the 
more it is studied, the more interesting it becomes. 

With grateful recognition of the many friends who 
have given their choicest recipes, and with them kindly 
words of encouragement, which have inspired me to new 
efforts, 

I am cordially, 

MARY LEWIS HAINES. 

November 1, 1915. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



CHAPTER i. 

CHAPTER II. 

CHAPTER III. 

CHAPTER IV. 

CHAPTER V. 

CHAPTER VI. 

CHAPTER VII. 

CHAPTER VIII. 

CHAPTER IX. 

CHAPTER X. 

CHAPTER XI. 

CHAPTER XII. 

CHAPTER XIII. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
CHAPTER XV. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
CHAPTER XX. 

CHAPTER XXI. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 



Page 
Eggs and Hot Breakfast Bever- 
ages 5 

Canapes and Sandwiches 13 

Soups 16 

Pish 24 

Meat and Fish Sauces 35 

Entrees 45 

Poultry and Game 72 

Meats 89 

Potatoes 104 

Vegetables 110 

Salads and Salad Dressings. . . . .122 

Dumplings, Puddings and 

Pudding Sauces 142 

Pies 153 

Cold Desserts 165 

Frozen Desserts and Fruit 
Beverages 176 

Cakes, Cake Frostings and Cake 
Fillings 188 

Doughnuts, Cookies, Candies and 
Gingerbreads 214 

Left-Overs 219 

Meat Substitutes 229 

Jellies, Jams, Canned Fruits, 
Preserves and Pickles 235 

Candies and Confections 247 

Sandwiches 255 

Breads and Breakfast Breads. . .260 



CHAPTER I 
Eggs and Hot Breakfast Beverages. 



RECIPE 1. BOILED COFFEE. 

Allow one heaping tablespoon medium ground coffee 
for each person, then add one more tablespoon "for the 
pot." For each spoonful of coffee allow one cup cold 
water. Some persons add a pinch of salt to coffee. Well 
washed eggshells are used to clear coffee as it cooks. 
When strict economy of eggs is not needed an egg can 
be thoroughly stirred up with the dry coffee, after it is 
measured. Then put this coffee and egg into a granite 
coffee pot, add the cold water, stir well, and let it come 
very slowly to boiling point. The slower it is in cooking 
the better coffee will be. Do not let it cook more than 
a minute after it boils. Then add a quarter of a cup of 
cold water to coffee and set it back to let grounds settle 
for a few minutes. Cold water is heavier than coffee and 
carries the grounds to the bottom of pot. Sometimes 
there are grounds in spout of coffee pot, so it is wise to 
pour out a cup first, then pour it back into pot. Serve 
very hot. 

RECIPE 2. PERCOLATED COFFEE. 

This method requires no boiling and is preferred by 
many. Coffee must be ground finer than for boiled coffee. 
The cold water is placed in the bottom of the pot, the 
coffee in a receptacle prepared for it. It is then allowed 
to come slowly to the boil and as it does so it rises 
through a small tube and falls back over and thereby 
gradually draws the strength from the coffee. One table- 
spoon coffee and one cup of cold water is allowed for each 
person just as in making boiled coffee. No egg is required 
by this method. 

RECIPE 3. BLACK COFFEE. 

Allow two tablespoons coffee for each cup water, 
make in same way as for boiled coffee or percolated 
coffee. 

RECIPE 4. CAFE AU LAIT. 

Use milk instead of water in making the coffee, 
which must be made by the boiled coffee method. 



6 EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 

RECIPE 5. COCOA. 

For each cup of cocoa allow one teaspoon grated 
cocoa. Wet the cocoa with a little water or milk. Allow 
one cup milk or water for each cup of cocoa. Put the 
liquid on to boil, add the moistened cocoa, stir in 
smoothly, let come to boil. Serve at once. Milk makes 
the nicest cocoa. 

RECIPE 6. CHOCOLATE. 

Allow one teaspoon melted chocolate or grated 
chocolate for each cup of milk. Follow directions for 
making cocoa. Whipped cream served with chocolate 
makes a very delightful addition and is very nutritious. 

RECIPE 7. TEA. 

Allow one generous pinch of tea for each person, 
and one cup boiling water. Scald teapot, pour out water, 
add tea, cover with freshly boiled water. Let stand only 
a moment or two. Serve hot. If desired, one or two 
whole cloves or a slice of lemon may be put in the tea- 
cup before pouring the tea. In this case do not serve 
cream with it. 

RECIPE 8. ICED TEA. 

Make a nice infusion of tea, let stand a few minutes, 
then pour off the grounds and set away to get cold. If 
hot tea is used allow plenty of ice to chill. Lemon 
juice, pineapple juice, mint leaves are all pleasant addi- 
tions to iced tea. 

RECIPE 9. ICED COFFEE. 

Iced coffee is made in the regular way, then chilled 
and served usually with cream and sugar. 



Eggs. 



RECIPE 10. BOILED EGGS. 

Put required number of eggs into a saucepan of 
cold water. Let them come to the boil. The length of 
time will be determined by altitude somewhat, for in- 
stance, in Colorado it takes much longer to boil eggs 
than in lower altitudes. 



EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVExcAGES 7 

RECIPE 11. FRIED EGGS. 

Bacon or ham drippings make an ideal fat to fry 
eggs. Break required number of eggs gently into hot 
fat, let cook until desired consistency. 

RECIPE 12. FRIED EGGS COUNTRY STYLE. 

Put ham or bacon into frying pan, break eggs over 
it, cook until desired consistency. 

RECIPE 13. POACHED EGGS. 

Poached eggs are a most delicate way of serving 
eggs. It takes a perfectly fresh egg to poach well. Have 
a frying pan two-thirds full of boiling salted water, 
allowing one-half teaspoon salt to a pint of water. Break 
eggs, one at a time, into a saucer and slip them gently 
into the water, which rnust be kept at boiling heat, but 
not bubbling. A regular poaching vessel is nice, or 
round muffin rings can be used. If cooked in water in 
pan, allow them to cook until a white film shows over 
the top. It is best to pour a little of the hot water from 
pan over them to hasten cooking process, if you like 
eggs soft. Time of cooking depends upon whether eggs 
are to be cooked soft, medium or well done. When 
cooked, have ready some circular pieces of toasted bread, 
place an egg on each round, put a small bit of butter 
on each egg and a dash of paprika. Serve hot. 

Eggs can be poached in left-over chicken gravy, 
served on toast covered with chicken gravy. A little 
minced parsley can be added for a change, or a pimiento 
or a green pepper minced and placed on top of each egg. 
Eggs poached in a No. 1 White Sauce are very nice. 
Serve on toast, pour white sauce over them. 

Poached eggs with mushrooms are made as follows: 
Poach eggs, place on rounds of toast, cover with a brown 
mushroom sauce, and place a sauted mushroom on top 
of each egg. 

RECIPE 14. EGGS GERMAN STYLE. 

Bake a sufficient number of medium-sized potatoes 
until tender and mealy,. Cut a slice from the side of 
each one and gently remove contents. Mash potato pulp, 
season to taste and add enough milk or cream so that 
pulp is softened, beat smooth. Return mixture to potato 
shells and make a hollow in each one, into which break 
an egg, season it with salt, pepper and paprika and place 
back into oven and bake until egg has set. Have a cup 
of hot White Sauce No. 1, stir into it two tablespoons 
grated cheese. Serve in a sauceboat. 



8 EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 

RECIPE 15. SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Put a tablespoon or two of fat into an omelette pan, 
melt it, put into it the required number of eggs, let cook 
for a minute, then thoroughly stir the eggs through the 
fat and season to taste. Cook until done to suit taste. 
Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 16. SCRAMBLED EGGS NO. 3. 

Allow about one tablespoon milk or water for each 
egg. Beat eggs slightly, add milk, season to taste. Heat 
an omelette pan, add sufficient butter (ham or bacon fat 
is nice), let heat a minute, pour in the eggs, stir con- 
stantly from the bottom of the pan until done. Serve 
on toast if desired. Scrambled eggs can have minced 
cold boiled ham, parsley, pimientoes, green peppers, 
tomatoes or cooked onions added to them while cooking. 

RECIPE 17. SHIRRED EGGS. 

Eggs can be shirred in a saucer, custard cup or any 
flat little dish, but there are little pans called "shirrers," 
which come for that purpose. Add a small lump of but- 
ter, let it melt, turn in egg, let it bake until set. Season 
to taste. A few buttered bread crumbs can be scattered 
over the eggs before placing them in the oven if desired. 

RECIPE 18. PLANIvED EGGS. 

Make a No. 1 White Sauce and into it put any left- 
over meat or fish cut into inch pieces. Spread this mix- 
ture on a plank. Directions for using "plank," see index. 
Make a border of cold mashed potatoes, using a pastry 
tube to force the potatoes through. With this work out 
some potato nests deep enough to each hold an egg. 
Make just enough nests to serve the required number of 
persons. Into each nest break an egg, cover with a few 
buttered bread crumbs, season to taste. Place in the 
oven or broiler for the potatoes to brown and the eggs 
to set. Serve on the plank. Garnish with parsley. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS (see Index). 

RECIPE 19. PLAIN OMELETTE. 

For each egg allow one tablespoon milk or water. 
Water makes a more tender omelette. One egg is usually 
sufficient for one person. For each egg allow besides 
the milk or water one level teaspoonful butter, one- 
eighth teaspoonful salt. Pepper to taste. 



EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 9 

Beat eggs slightly, do not separate, add liquid and 
seasonings. Melt butter in omelette pan and turn in 
the omelette. As it is cooking, prick it frequently so 
that the liquid can all be evenly cooked. When it is 
cooked to taste (rare, medium or well done), take pan 
in left hand and with right hand gently loosen omelette 
with a spatula or case knife. Tip pan until it is nearly 
vertical, fold over the omelette and turn onto a hot plat- 
ter which you have all ready for it. Serve at once very 
hot. 

Any kind of an omelette can be made by adding 
the article, ready cooked, folded into the omelette just 
before removing it from the pan. In this way we get a 
tomato, onion, parsley, cheese, ham, chicken, etc., ome- 
lette. See that the article is hot before adding it to 
omelette. 

RECIPE 20. OMELETTE PUFF. 

1 egg for each person 

1 tablespoon milk or water for each egg 

2 teaspoons butter for each egg 
Season to taste 

Separate yolks from whites. Beat yolks until they 
are lemon colored, then add seasoning to taste and the 
hot water or milk. Beat whites until they are stiff as 
possible. Into them fold yolks until well mixed. Do 
not beat, just fold them in. Turn them into an omelette 
pan in which you have melted the butter. See that the 
sides of the pan are well covered with the butter, as well 
as the bottom. Put pan over a slow fire, turning the 
pan frequently around so that the bottom of the omelette 
will brown evenly. When omelette has risen to its full 
height, put pan into oven to finish cooking the top of 
omelette. The entire cooking of omelette may be done 
in oven if desired. When omelette is done, it will not 
stick to the finger when lightly pressed. When ready 
to remove from pan have a hot platter ready for it, 
gently loosen omelette from sides and bottom of pan, 
tip pan vertically, slip a spatula or a case knife gently 
under omelette, fold it over and turn out onto the plat- 
ter. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. 

RECIPE 21. JELLY OMELETTE. 

Make a plain omelette, but omit pepper and add 
instead one teaspoon sugar. When ready to remove from 
pan add jelly on the top, turn over omelette, serve hot. 



10 EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 



RECIPE 22. CREAMED EGGS ON TOAST. 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 cup No. 1 White Sauce 

4 slices of toast Season to taste 

Boil eggs until hard, then separate whites from 
yolks. Put yolk through the ricer, then either chop the 
whites or put them through ricer. Pour hot white sauce 
over toast, cover toast and sauce with a layer of the 
riced yolks, then on top the whites of eggs. Sprinkle 
with paprika, salt and pepper. A pimiento or a green 
pepper minced is nice also. 

RECIPE 23. SOUTHERN EGGS. 

Spread a layer of hot boiled rice on a buttered plat- 
ter, then season well with melted butter, lemon juice and 
finely minced parsley. Poach required number of eggs 
so that they are perfectly shaped, arrange on the rice 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

RECIPE 24. EGGS BAKED IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Strain one pint of tomatoes, season with salt, pep- 
per and a little onion juice, and cook until hot and 
smooth. Pour onto a buttered baking dish. Carefully 
break eggs into the sauce and bake in the oven until 
the eggs are set. 

RECIPE 25. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Allow for each person 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons grated 
Swiss cheese, 1 tablespoon butter. Put butter and cheese 
on to heat. When slightly melted add beaten eggs, stir 
well so that eggs do not stick to sides of pan. Serve 
on toast if desired. 

RECIPE 26. SPANISH EGGS. 

Cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter, one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped onion and a teaspoonful of 
chopped bell pepper. After two or three minutes add 
one cup of tomatoes, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of sliced mushrooms, one tablespoonful of 
capers and four eggs lightly beaten. Stir until thickened 
and serve on slices of toast. 

RECIPE 27. EGGS BAKED IN WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter i^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour ^4 teaspoon pepper 

1 cup milk 



EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 11 

Melt butter, add flour, milk and seasoning. Stir 
until it thickens. Place one-half the sauce in flat bak- 
ing dish, break four eggs gently on sauce, cover eggs 
with rest of white sauce and a few buttered crumbs. Set 
dish in pan of hot water and place in oven, bake about 
ten minutes. Grated cheese is a nice addition to this 
dish. 

RECIPE 28. EGGS AND MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Allow one-eighth of pound of fresh mushrooms to 
4 eggs. Melt a tablespoon of butter in the omelet pan. 
Add the mushrooms, peeled and trimmed, with a half 
teaspoon of salt and a sprinkling of pepper and two 
drops of lemon juice. Cover pan and let mushrooms 
simmer gently for ten minutes over a slow fire. Add 
two tablespoons of cream, let the cream and mushrooms 
cook just a moment longer, then place four nicely 
poached eggs on hot toast and pour hot mushrooms and 
cream over the eggs. 

RECIPE 28B. AUSTRIAN TOMATOES. 

Cut each tomato required in halves. Shape some 
sausage meat into round cakes. Fry each cake brown 
on both sides, and when cooked flatten them out a little 
or make them match the tomatoes in size. Lay a sausage 
cake on each half of tomato, on that put half a slice of 
bacon and then the second naif of tomato. Heat the 
tomatoes in a quick oven until they are tender, but not 
broken. Put a piece of parsley stalk into the top of each 
tomato. 

RECIPE 28C. POACHED EGGS IN POTATOES. 

Wash your potatoes, bake until tender, cut in halves 
lengthways and scoop out the soft part. Rub half of 
the potato puree through a sieve, add one tablespoonful 
of white sauce, with seasoning of salt and pepper. Line 
the shells of the potatoes with this. Then put in a layer 
of white sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, and upon 
this place a poached egg. Sprinkle with grated cheese 
and pour over more sauce. Place on a buttered baking 
tin and brown in a hot oven. 

RECIPE 29. SCRAMBLED EGGS AND SAUSAGE. 

One-half pound sausage meat broken into very small 
pieces, fried (turning often) a delicate brown. Over this 
pour a sufficient number of well beaten eggs, about 



12 EGGS AND HOT BREAKFAST BEVERAGES 

three eggs for two persons. Scramble well, and as soon 
as eggs have set, remove and serve at once on toast or 
not, as desired. 

RECIPE 29B. CODFISH AND POACHED EGGS FOR 2. 

2 rounds toast i/^ cup No. 2 White Sauce 

2 poached eggs % cup codfish 

Season to taste. 

Soak codfish over night in cold water. Make No. 2 
White Sauce, add codfish. Pour over the toast and on 
top place neatly poached eggs. Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 30. ECONOMICAL OMELETTE. 

This is a formula for a good omelette: Use one 
egg and two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk (to each por- 
tion), bait added to yolks after beating until thor- 
oughly mixed and light. Dissolve one tablespoonful of 
cornstarch in the milk and add to the beaten yolks. 
Season to taste. Add the whites beaten dry. Pour into 
well buttered hot pan, and follow directions in Recipe 
2 for cooking the omelette. 

RECIPE 31. EGG NESTS. 

Rounds of toast covered with minced chicken, in 
white sauce or chicken gravy. Beat whites very stiff. 
Spread over chicken. Make a "well" in center, put yoke 
in. Bake until "set." Season and serve at once. 

RECIPE 32. SWISS EGGS. 

Boil eggs about 3 minutes. Remove shells. Take 
for four eggs one cup finely minced cooked meat, add 
yolk one raw egg, one-half cup dry bread crumbs, enough 
milk or water to make meat mixture. Stick well to- 
gether. Surround each hard boiled egg with the meat 
mixture. Roll in dry bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 
Serve with any nice sauce. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES 13 

CHAPTER II 
Canapes and Sandwiches. 



RECIPE 33. CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Canapes are served as the first course of a dinner 
or luncheon and sometimes take the place of clams or 
oysters on the shell. They are made of pieces of bread 
which are cut about one-fourth of an inch thick. They 
can be cut in circular form with a large biscuit cutter, 
or in long narrow strips about four or five inches long 
by two wide. They can be toasted or browned in frying 
pan with a little butter. On top of this spread any of 
the mixtures to be found under the recipes for canapes. 
They are served both hot and cold. 

RECIPE 34. SARDINE CANAPES. 

Toast required number of slices of bread. Bone 
sardines, mash them and add to them a very little 
creamed butter, a little paprika, mustard and Worcester- 
shire sauce, or instead of Worcestershire sauce use a 
few drops of Tabasco sauce. Mash yolk of one hard 
boiled egg and add to the sardine mixture. Now spread 
the toasted slices with this mixture and put a dainty 
row of minced pimientoes, or the white (minced) of the 
hard boiled egg, on the outside edge of the canape. One 
slice of a stuffed olive, placed in the center of canape 
on top of the sardine mixture, gives a pretty touch to 
canape. Serve cold. 

RECIPE 35. CHEESE AND OLIVE CANAPES. 

Prepare toast in the usual manner. Cut into any 
desired shape, allow one piece for each person. Grate 
or mash some sharp cheese and mix it with an equal 
amount of butter. Rub smoothly together. Mince a 
few olives, also one pimiento or one green pepper. Spread 
the cheese mixture on toast, then a thin layer of the 
minced olives, then a very little pimiento or green pep- 
per. In center lay one slice of a hard boiled egg. Sprin- 
kle lightly with salt and paprika. Serve cold. 



14 CANAPES AND SANDWICHES 

RECIPE 36. SMOKED SALMON CANAPES. 

Prepare required number of slices of toast, allow- 
ing one for each person. Cut in any desired shape. Mix 
together some plain mayonnaise with some smoked sal- 
mon, season with mustard, lemon juice, a few drops of 
Worcestershire sauce. Rub into a smooth paste and 
spread on the toast. Place half of a stuffed olive in 
center of the canape. Sprinkle with a little paprika. 
Serve cold. 

RECIPE 37. LOBSTER OR CRAB CANAPES. 

Prepare toast. Use equal parts of either crab meat 
or lobster meat with some thick white sauce. Add a 
few drops of Tabasco sauce or Worcestershire sauce, a 
few drops of lemon juice, and spread mixture on the 
toast. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and brown 
in the oven for a few minutes. Serve hot. A thin layer 
of cheese can be added before the bread crumbs if de- 
sired. 

RECIPE 38. CAVIARE CANAPES. 

Equal parts of minced onions and caviare. Season 
with lemon juice, add a few drops of Worcestershire 
sauce. Spread on toasted rounds of bread and dash 
lightly with paprika. Serve cold. 

RECIPE 39. PIMIENTO CANAPES. 

Rye bread is nice for a change. Cut it in round 
pieces and cook in frying pan until a little brown, with 
either butter or bacon fat. Mince some pimientoes very 
fine, spread a min layer of them on the bread and cover 
them with some sharp grated cheese. Put into the 
oven long enough to melt the cheese. Serve at once 
very hot. 

RECIPE 40. CHEESE CANAPES. 

Toast. Spread thickly with a layer of sharp grated 
cheese. Sprinkle with paprika. Put into oven and bake 
until the cheese has melted. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 41. TOMATO CANAPES. 

Cut a sufficient number of slices of bread one- 
quarter of an inch thick, saute them in a little butter. 
Cut some firm, ripe tomatoes into slices. Fry them in 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES 15 

deep fat, then place them on the rounds of bread, one 
on each, season lightly with salt, pepper and paprika, 
spread a very thin layer of mayonnaise on each tomato, 
then one thin slice of cucumber, and on the top a slice 
of hard boiled egg or some chopped egg. Dust a little 
paprika on the eggs. 

RECIPE 42. CHICKEN CANAPES. 

Mince equal parts of the breast of a chicken with 
some tender celery, mix with this enough mayonnaise 
to moisten it well. Season with salt, pepper, paprika 
and a little dry mustard. Spread on toasted rounds of 
bread, make a row of minced whites of hard boiled eggs 
around the outside edge of canapes, then inside of that 
place a row of the minced yolks of eggs, and directly 
in the center of the canapes place one slice of a stuffed 
olive. Have one or two stuffed olives on the plates with 
the canapes. 



16 SOUPS 



CHAPTER III 
Soups. 



RECIPE 43. BEEF STOCK. 

6 pounds of beef shin bone and meat 

1 tablespoon salt 

3 quarts of cold water 

Cut meat in pieces about two inches in size, cover 
it with the cold water and let it stand for an hour. 
Then put it over a very slow fire and let it simmer for 
five or six hours. Skim it frequently, then strain it 
through a cloth and set away to get cool, when all the 
fat can easily be removed from the top. This stock will 
keep for several days in cool weather, but should be 
scalded every day in warm weather if it is not being 
used. 

RECIPE 44. FISH STOCK. 

The trimmings of skin, the head and bones of fish 
can all be utilized for fish stock. When cutting up fish 
for fillets these parts are discarded and should be cooked 
at once and can be reserved for several days as the base 
for any of the fish sauces or soups. To make stock, 
cover bones, skin and head (if you have it) with a quart 
or two of cold water. The amount of water will depend 
upon how much fish you have. Into this water with 
the fish add one onion, three or four slices of carrots, 
several peppercorns, three or four whole cloves, a stalk 
or two of celery, a sprig or two of parsley and enough 
salt to season. Let come slowly to a simmer and cook 
about thirty minutes. Strain and it is ready to use or 
can be set away for a few days until desired. If it is 
warm weather, bring it each day just to the boiling 
point, and in this way will keep nicely until wanted. 
If desired, some of the meat of the fish can also be 
added at the time the stock is being made and will make 
it that much nicer. The head of the fish is very rich in 
gelatine and will make a very thick jelly in the stock if 
used in the right proportion. 



SOUPS 17 

RECIPE 45. WHITE STOCK NO. 1. 

6 pounds knuckle of veal 3 quarts of water 
1 tablespoon salt 

Follow process for making beef stock, using veal 
instead of beef. 

RECIPE 46. WHITE STOdi NO. 2. 

1 good-sized fat hen 3 quarts of water 

1 tablespoon salt 

Wash, singe and disjoint one hen, which has been 
previously "drawn." Cover it with the cold water and 
let simmer until the meat drops from the bones. Season 
when it is about half done. Strain through' a cloth and 
set away to let the fat rise to the top. This fat can be 
saved and used to saute articles. The chicken stock is 
nice with rice, spaghetti, macaroni, tomatoes, sago, 
noodles, corn, okra, etc. 

RECIPE 47. BROWN STOCIi. 

Add a tablespoon kitchen bouquet or caramel to 
the stock. This will give it a delicate brown color nice 
for consomme. Any beef extract can be used, one tea- 
spoon to each cup of boiling water, which will make a 
palatable brown stock. 

RECIPE 48. SOUP STOCK FROM LEFT-OVER BONES 
AND MEAT. 

Left-over meats are somewhat deficient in flavor, 
but make very good stock with the addition of judicious 
seasoning. Cover meat and any bones with a sufficient 
amount of cold water. Let it come slowly to a simmer 
and cook for two or three hours. Cook with the cover 
on the pot, so that flavor may be retained as much as 
possible and liquid not boiled away. A very little fresh 
meat added will give an improved flavor. Cook any 
desired vegetables with the stock, such as a few stalks 
of celery, a little parsley, an onion, a carrot in slices, a 
few peppercorns, two or three whole cloves and enough 
salt to season. If you desire to use it at once use a 
little tissue paper to absorb any fat floating on the top. 
If set away over nignt the fat can be readily removed 
the next day. Meat from the shin bone makes a stiff 
jelly when cooked down to a strong broth. This will 
keep several days in a cool place and is used for rich 
sauces and for Aspic Jelly (see Index). 



18 SOUPS 

RECIPE 49. TURKISH SOUP. 

For each cup of Brown Stock allow 
1 tablespoon well washed 1 level teaspoon flour 

rice 2 whole peppercorns 

1 slice of onion i/4 cup of tomatoes 

1 level teaspoon butter 14 teaspoon salt 

Pinch of celery salt 

Simmer tomatoes, onion, a bay leaf, peppercorns 
and celery salt together for thirty minutes, while the rice 
is cooking with brown stock in another pot. When 
tomato mixture is done and rice is tender, add tomatoes 
to the brown stock and rice. Rub the butter with the 
flour until it is blended well. Strain soup and add flour 
and butter. Cook until it thickens a little. This soup 
can be served unstrained if desired. 

RECIPE 50. CREOLE SOUP. 

1 pint brown stock 3 tablespoons minced 

1 cup tomatoes green peppers 

2 tablespoons minced 2 tablespoons butter 

onions 2 tablespoons flour 

1/^ teaspoon vinegar 1 tablespoon horseradish 

2 tablespoons boiled rice ^A cup cooked okra 
or Marconi rings i/^ teaspoon salt 

6 whole peppercorns 

Boil the stock, onions, peppers, vinegar, horseradish 
and tomatoes and seasonings for twenty minutes. Melt 
the butter, add flour, stir into the soup, then add the 
boiled rice, spaghetti, macaroni or okra. 

RECIPE 51. NOODLE SOUP. 

One egg, beaten well with one-fourth teaspoon salt. 
Add enough flour to make a thick dough. Roll out very 
thin. Let it stand and dry for four or five hours. Then 
roll it up like a jelly roll and cut off very thin slices. 
Boil in any stock for five minutes. Season to taste. 

RECIPE 52. JULIENNE SOUP. 

Cut a sufficient quantity of raw carrots and turnips 
into very thin long strips. Cook them in salted boiling 
water until tender, when the water should be absorbed. 
Add these vegetables to a soup stock, add a few table- 
spoonsful of cooked peas and string beans. Serve very 
hot. 



SOUPS 19 

RECIPE 53. TURKEY SOUP. 

Use the carcass from a roast turkey, break it up in 
convenient sized pieces and cover with cold water and 
let simmer for several hours. The seasoning from the 
stuffing which will cling to the bones usually gives a 
nice flavor, but any seasoning desired can be added. 
Strain the stock and use it as the base for any desired 
soup. Turkey stock is especially nice when added to. 

RECIPE 54. TURKEY SOUP WITH CORN AND TO- 
MATOES. 

1 pint of turkey stock 1/2 bay leaf 

1 cup tomatoes salt, pepper and pap- 

^ cup corn rika to taste 

Let simmer for ten minutes, serve very hot. 

RECIPE 55. RICE CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cook one-half cup of well-washed rice in just 
enough boiling water to keep it from burning. When it 
is tender add it to two cups chicken stock. Season to 
taste. 

RECIPE 56. HAMBURGER SOUP. 

% pound Hamburger 1 medium onion 

1/4 teaspoon salt 1 bay leaf 

1 pint cold water 1 tablespoon minute tapi- 

3 peppercorns oca 

1 potato diced 1 pint boiling water 

1 carrot 

Put hamburger, cold water and salt to soak, let 
stand thirty minutes. Put diced carrot, potato, bay leaf, 
minced onion and peppercorns into boiling water and 
cook thirty minutes. Now turn the hamburger mixture 
into the vegetable mixture, add one tablespoon minute 
tapioca and let soup simmer for five minutes. Remove 
the bay leaf, serve very hot. If you have any tomato, 
corn, lima beans, string beans — in fact, almost any vege- 
table as a left-over — it can be added to soup. Left-over 
macaroni or spaghetti and cheese can be used. 

RECIPE 57. VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cut up a sufficient amount of soup vegetables, cover 
with just enough hot water to keep them from burning, 
boil until they are tender, when the water should be just 
about cooked away. Add these vegetables to a sufficient 



20 SOUPS 

quantity of the stock, season with salt, pepper to taste. 
Serve very hot. Do not boil vegetables with the stock 
when it is in the making, unless intending to use it all 
at once, as the stock will sour more easily. 

RECIPE 58. RICE TOMATO SOUP. 

Follow directions for making rice chicken soup, 
adding to it one-fourth cup tomatoes, either left-over 
stewed, fresh or canned. Season to taste. A little onion 
salt or onion juice can be added. 

RECIPE 59. CLEAR TOMATO SOUP. 

For each cup of stock add one-half cup of tomatoes. 
Simmer until the tomatoes are tender. Mash through a 
puree strainer. Season to taste. One or two cloves, a 
pinch of nutmeg or mace are nice with this soup. A 
little celery or onion salt can be added for a change. 
Whole black peppercorns are preferable to the ground 
pepper in seasoning soups of any kind. 



Cream of Vegetable Soups. 



RECIPE 60. CREAM SOUP NO. 1. 

1 tablespoon butter i^ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour % teaspoon paprika 

2 cups milk or cream 1 cup any cooked vege- 
1 bay leaf table 

1/^ teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, add flour and then milk. Simmer 
until it thickens, add seasoning. Last add any vegetable 
desired. The vegetable used will determine what kind 
of soup it will be — cream of corn, cream of spinach, etc. 

RECIPE 61. CREAM SOUP NO. 2. 

1 cup White Stock V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk or cream i^ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon butter 6 whole peppercorns 

1 tablespoon flour 

Melt butter, add flour, then milk and stock. Stir 
until it thickens, season to taste. For each cupful allow 
one-fourth cupful cooked vegetables. 



SOUPS 21 



RECIPE 62. CREAM OF RICE TOMATO SOUP. 

2 cups No. 1 or 2 Cream i/4 cup cooked rice 

Soup 1^: cup cooked tomatoes 

Heat together, season. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 63. RICE-CHEESE SOUP. 

2 cups No. 1 White Sauce Season to taste. 
^ cup grated cheese 1 tablespoon minced 

1 cup cream parsley can be added 

RECIPE 64. CREAM OF TOMATO. 

2 cups No. 1 or 2 Cream i/4 teaspoon soda 

Soup 2 whole cloves 

1 cup stewed tomatoes pinch nutmeg 

Salt to taste 

Simmer the tomatoes until smooth and tender, add 
the soda to them. Strain through a puree strainer. 
When just ready to send to the table add tomato pruee 
and serve at once. A teaspoonful of sugar can be added 
to tomatoes when they are cooking if desired. One- 
fourth teaspoonful onion salt is also nice. Add the 
tomatoes to the Cream Soup, and not the soup to the 
tomatoes, then soup will not be so apt to curdle. 

RECIPE 65. SURPRISE SOUP. 

Pour into a stew pan the water from one can peas 
and one can of asparagus. Add one pint milk, one table- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, two tablespoons butter, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon each of white 
pepper and paprika. Thicken with one tablespoon corn- 
starch. One chopped hard boiled egg can be added for 
a change. 



Cream Soups. 



RECIPE 66. CREAM OF FISH SOUP. 

For all ordinary fish chowders make a No. 1 Cream 
Soup, then add one-fourth cup cooked fish for each cup 
cream soup. Some variety of white fish is preferable, 
though salmon is also very nice. Rub the cooked fish 
through a strainer. Add to hot soup and serve at once. 



22 ^ SOUPS 

RECIPE 67. FISH CHOWDERS. 

If left-over fish is used carefully remove the skin 
and bones. Rub fish through a strainer. Cover bones 
and skin (head and tail also, if you have them) with 
one pint of cold water and let simmer down to one cup 
of fish stock. 

1 sliced onion 1 cup fish stock 

2 tablespoons small 1 cup milk 

cubes salt pork 3 peppercorns 

1 cupful potato cubes 1 whole clove 

Vs teaspoon paprika 1 pint boiling water 

1/4 teaspoon Worcester- Salt to taste 
shire sauce 

Put potato cubes on to cook in the pint of boiling 
water. Cook a few minutes until tender, drain. Put 
cubes of salt pork into a frying pan with sliced onion. 
Cook for a few minutes until cubes are brown, then 
strain the fat into the fish stock, scald milk and add to 
stock, add potato cubes, seasoning and serve very hot. 
One or two crackers can be broken up and added to 
chowder when just ready to serve. 



RECIPE 68. CLAM CHOAVDER. 


1 pint clams 


2 tablespoons butter 


2 cups boiled potato 


1 tablespoon flour 


cubes 


1 teaspoon salt 


1 minced onion 


4 soda crackers 


Pepper to taste 


2 tablespoons salt pork 


2 cups milk 


cubes 



Put the small cubes of pork into a frying pan, add 
minced onion, cook until pork begins to brown. Strain 
fat into a stew pan, add milk, scald, add seasoning and 
potatoes. Rub flour into butter, stir this into milk and 
let it thicken a little. If canned clams are used, remove 
tough portions and mince well, leaving soft part of the 
body whole. If fresh clams are used, remove them from 
their shells, wash well, cover with just enough water 
in which to parboil chem. Add this water to the milk, 
chop tough portions of clams fine, and add to milk with 
the bodies of the clams. 

RECIPE 69. OYSTER SOUP NO. 1. 

1 pint milk % teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon butter i/4 teaspoon paprika 

y2 teaspoon salt i/^ pint oysters 



SOUPS 23 

Put milk on to scald, add butter and seasoning. 
When milk is boiling add the oysters, let them cook 
until they ruffle (about two minutes). Serve hot. 

RECIPE 70. OYSTER SOUP NO. 2. 

2 cups milk 1 cup oysters 

2 tablespoons butter V2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour i/4 teaspoon pepper 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 

Melt the butter, add flour, then milk and seasoning. 
When it has thickened add the oysters and cook for two 
or three minutes until the oysters ruffle. One or two 
soda crackers can be broken and added when ready to 
serve if desired. 



Purees. 



RECIPE 71. PUREE OF PEAS. 

Soak one cupful dried peas in two quarts of cold 
water over night. In the morning drain off this water. 
1 cup soaked peas 2 tablespoons butter 

3 pints cold water 1 tablespoon flour 

1 small onion 1 bay leaf 

6 peppercorns 1 teaspoon salt 

Cook the peas, onion, salt and peppercorns until the 
peas are soft. The length of time depends upon the age 
of the peas. When soft, press the peas through a wire 
strainer. Rub the flour and butter together and add to 
the peas. Purees need this flour to act as a binder to 
hold the pulp smoothly together. A small piece of salt 
pork or a ham hock boiled with the peas gives a puree 
a delicious flavor. If used then omit the salt. 

RECIPE 72. PUREE OF NAVY BEANS. 

Follow the directions for Puree of Peas, substituting 
beans for the peas. 

RECIPE 73. PUREE OF LIMA BEANS. 

Follow the directions for Puree of Peas, substituting 
lima beans for peas. 

RECIPE 74. PUREE OF LENTILS. 

Follow the directions for Puree of Peas, substituting 
lentils for peas. 



24 FISH 



CHAPTER IV 
Fish. 

GENERAL RULES FOR PLANKING. 



PLANKED FISH. 

Take any kind of fish whicli is large enough to 
split. Have plank warmed in oven for five minutes. 
Butter it well. Place the fish on the plank, skin side 
down. Put a little melted butter over it and brush with 
the juice of one-half of a lemon. Broil for about fifteen 
minutes, then remove plank from stove for a minute or 
two while you put on the decorations, which can be of 
many different things. One of the nicest ways to gar- 
nish fish is to slice ripe tomatoes over it (one slice for 
each serving) ; a few very thin slices or rings of green 
peppers or pimientoes or onions can be used. Around 
the fish there should be a border of mashed potatoes. 
Learn to use a pastry tube and press potatoes through 
it around fish. A few oysters or clams in shells can be 
placed at intervals around the fish, and on each one 
put buttered bread crumbs. If tomatoes are used put 
a few buttered bread crumbs on each slice. Place the 
planked fish back into the broiler and broil slowly until 
the vegetables are done — about five minutes. If potatoes 
are used as a border they should be lightly brushed with 
the yolk of an egg to make them brown quickly. When 
fish is done, serve it on the plank placed on a large plat- 
ter. It can be garnished at the time of serving with a 
few slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Planked fish 
is considered one of the most delicious and attractive of 
all ways to serve fish. A little practice with the pastry 
bag and tube will give charming effects to the border of 
potatoes. Left-over boiled rice or macaroni and cheese 
or spaghetti and cheese can be used for making the 
border around the plank, or can be used in addition to 
potatoes. In this case make a ring of potatoes around 
the outer edge of plank and fill in the rice or other in- 
gredients in space between fish and potatoes. Pimien- 
toes stuffed with macaroni and cheese or spaghetti and 
cheese can be placed at intervals around the fish. 



FISH 25 

Stuffed baked tomatoes are nice. Green peppers, par- 
boiled in salted water for fifteen minutes, then stuffed 
with anything desired, can also be used on all planked 
dishes. The decorations of planked meats and fish can 
be varied according to the ingenuity of the cook. There 
is almost no limit to the combinations which can be 
worked out. 

RECIPE 75. BROILED FISH. 

Have the broiler well greased and very hot. Place 
the fish skin side down on the broiler, and when half 
done season with pepper and salt. If a dry fish it 
should have a little melted butter poured on it once or 
twice while cooking. If a very oily fish it requires no 
butter. The time of cooking will depend upon the size 
and shape of a fish. If it is a fish which can be split 
and spread open like a shad or white fish it will take 
less time than if it is a fresh mackerel or some kind of 
bass, which is broiled whole and needs to be turned. 
Try the fish with a fork, and when the meat is white 
and firm and readily leaves the bones, it is done. Serve 
on a hot platter, garnish with parsley or slices of lemon 
or potato chips. Fish that is inclined to be dry is best 
served with a sauce of some kind. Maitre d'Hotel butter 
is especially good. So is Sauce Tartare, Nebiche Sauce, 
etc. 

RECIPE 76. BAKED FISH. 

Clean fish, seeing that no scales remain on outside. 
Brush inside of fish with lemon juice, shake a little salt 
and pepper into it and stuff with any good stuffing. The 
following is nice: 

Equal parts of bread juice Vz lemon 

and cracker crumbs seasoning to taste 

1 tablespoon butter enough hot water to 

1/4 teaspoon poultry sea- hold crumbs together 

soning i/4 teaspoon onion salt 

For a two or three pound fish use about one-half 
cup each of bread and cracker crumbs. Stuff and sew 
up fish. Bake twenty minutes to the pound. 

RECIPE 77. FRIED FISH. 

Wash and clean the fish. See that no scales re- 
main on it. Small fish like smelts can be fried in deep 
fat, but the larger fish are sauted in a frying pan. They 



26 FISH 

can be dipped in plain flour or rolled in cornmeal, or 
rolled in dry bread crumbs, then in yolk of egg and again 
in bread crumbs. Sauted in the grease from salt pork 
gives them a delicious flavor, but can be sauted in any 
kind of fat. If butter is used, be careful that it does 
not scorch. Large fish like salmon, halibut, sturgeon, 
shad or white fish should be cut in slices about one inch 
thick and then sauted. Slices from large fish, rolled in 
bread crumbs, then in yolk of egg and then in bread 
crumbs and sauted, can be served with any of the dif- 
ferent fish sauces (see Index), especially Sauce Tartare. 
Slices of large fish can also be fried in deep fat, but 
should be first put into a pan and covered with boiling 
water for a couple of minutes, then wipe them dry and 
carefully cover with bread crumbs, then yolk of egg, 
then again in the dry bread crumbs. Have the kettle 
of fat just hot enough to fry them brown in about one 
minute. If any hotter, the fish may not cook clear to 
the center. Fish cooked this way should always be 
served with a sauce, such as Sauce Tartare, Maitre 
d'Hotel (see Fish Sauces, Index). 

RECIPE 78. BOILED FISH FOR TWO. 

1 pound fish 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 quart boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

Select a short, thick piece of any fish desired, such 
as halibut, salmon, white fish, etc., tie it in a clean piece 
cheesecloth boil fifteen minutes, in water to which had 
been added lemon juice and salt. Remove from cloth, 
serve on hot platter, garnish with a Fish Sauce (see 
Index). Fish cooked in a steamer is preferable to the 
boiling process. If a steamer is used, place fish (with- 
out cloth) in the steamer, cook till it flakes. About 
twenty minutes for each pound is usually required. 

RECIPE 79. FRIED FILLETS OF FISH. 

Many kinds of fish can be boned and fried. When 
boned they are called fillets. Smelts, soles, flounders 
are all delicious when boned, crumbed, egged and 
crumbed again and fried in deep fat. Serve with a sour 
sauce (see Index). To fillet a fish use a sharp, small 
knife and run it along the bone, gently cutting away the 
flesh from the bone. If you buy your fish the fish mer- 
chant will usually fillet them upon request, or show you 
how to do it. 



FISH 27 

RECIFE 80. FILLETS OF FISH TURBANS. 

Have slices cut one inch thick from any large fish, 
halibut preferred. Carefully trim each fillet from the 
bones. Cut skin from off the edges of slices, add also 
the bones to cook with one pint water, one bay leaf, a 
slice of onion, salt, pepper and paprika to taste. Let 
these simmer about fifteen minutes for a fish stock. 
While stock is cooking roll up the fillets like jelly roll, 
commencing with the wide end. Fasten end securely 
with a buttered wooden toothpick. Place these Turbans 
in a casserole or any deep baking dish. Parboil about 
six small potato balls for each person to be served. 
Small button onions are also nice. Place them all in the 
pan together and cover with the fish stock. Let simmer 
about thirty minutes. 

RECIPE 81. MEDALLIONS OF FISH. 

Take some fillets of any large fish, such as halibut 
or salmon. Have all bones removed, cut off skin. Turn 
fillet and fasten with buttered toothpicks so. fillet forms 
a round shape like a medallion. Lay them on a plate 
for a few minutes and cover with thinly sliced onions 
and a few drops of lemon juice, then take them from 
the onions and bake fish in an agate flat baking dish 
or Savory roaster for twenty minutes, having them partly 
covered with a Fish Stock (see Index) made of the skin 
and bones from the fillets. Have ready two hard boiled 
eggs. Chop the whites and rice the yolks. Make a Fish 
Bechamel sauce, a Perigeux sauce or Mornay sauce. Add 
chopped whites of eggs to sauce, pour part of sauce over 
medallions placed on a hot platter, and then pour the 
rest of sauce around medallions. Sprinkle riced yolks 
over the tops of the medallions. Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 82. TURBAN OF SALMON TROUT. 

Remove the skin and bones from a salmon trout, 
leaving it in fillet about 4x2 inches, season with salt, 
pepper and lemon juice. Pour over half a cup of white 
wine and let stand for one-half hour, then drain. Then 
dip each piece in egg and crumbs. Roll and fasten with 
a toothpick and thread. Fry in deep fat until nice and 
brown. Take the skin and bones and cook with pieces 
of carrot, an onion, one bay leaf, thin slice of lemon, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of whole mixed spices and two 
cups of water. Reduce to one cup of liquid and add 
three tablespoons of butter and three of flour, then 
strain. Add yoke of one egg and one-fourth cup of wine. 



28 FISH 

Make a border of mashed potatoes run through pastry 
bag and pour sauce around. Garnish with finely chopped 
egg, parsley and shrimps. 

RECIPE 83. BAKED SHAD. 

For average family get about a two-pound shad. 
Clean well, split open and carefully remove the back- 
bone. Place in a pan, season well with salt, pepper and 
paprika, also placing pieces of carrots and onions around 
the fish. Use equal parts of butter and lard for basting. 
Bake for 2 5 to 30 minutes in a hot oven. Place on hot 
serving platter, pouring over it melted butter. Serve 
with plenty of lemon, garnished with parsley. If roe is 
found in the shad, bake well in same pan, and serve 
with the fish. 

RECIPE 84. FRIED HALIBUT CHEEKS. 

Service for two persons. Take one pound of fresh 
halibut cheeks. Season well with pepper and salt and 
roll in flour. Fry in butter over slow fire for twenty 
minutes in closely covered pan. Take up carefully and 
place in round covered casserole. Wipe clean the fry- 
ing pan, then take one tablespoonful of butter, one 
young onion, one-half green pepper well chopped. Stir 
briskly on fire for about three minutes, then pour over 
the halibut cheek, sprinkling with chopped parsley. 
Serve very hot, with potato salad or cold slaw. 

RECIPE 85. BAKED SALMON. 

Take a small salmon, well scaled and cleaned. Re- 
move center bone and as much of backbone as possible 
without cutting the skin. Make a stuffing the same as 
for fowl and add half cup of tomatoes, which will im- 
part a delicious flavor. Place salmon in well buttered 
pan and fill with stuffing. Cover with a greased paper 
and bake for about twenty minutes for each pound. 

RECIPE 86. BAKED HALIBUT, HOME STYLE, FOR 
TWO PERSONS. 

Get about one pound of halibut. Place in a deep 
granite roasting pan with enough water to cover the 
bottom of the pan. Put in a small onion, a few sprigs 
of celery, two or three bay leaves and some sprigs of 
parsley, then salt and a small piece of butter. Cover 
the pan tightly and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty-five minutes, basting occasionally. When cooked, 



FICH 29 

take fish from pan, placing on service dish, and remove 
skin and large bone. With the sauce in the pan make 
a gravy, adding a little broth if necessary. Let this 
come to a boil, then squeeze a few drops of lemon juice 
and thicken slightly. Then strain, add a hard boiled egg 
chopped fine. Serve with a little chopped parsley sprin- 
kled over the fish, A covered granite roasting pan 
should be used in order to detain the best flavor of the 
fish. 

RECIPE 87. SMELTS FRENCH STYLE. 

Take the required number of smelts for the needs 
of the family. After they have been cleaned, cut three 
or four gashes on each side of each fish. If the smelts 
are the small variety, this is not necessary. Season them 
with salt, pepper and paprika, and cover with lemon 
juice and let them stand for ten minutes. Then dip 
them in milk or cream, roll them in flour and saute a 
delicate brown. Make a sauce as follows to cover them: 

RECIPE 88. FISH SAUCE. 

When buying the smelts allow two or three more 
than needed for serving. Put these extra fish into a 
saucepan with one and a half cupsful cold water, one 
slice onion, one slice carrot, three peppercorns, one very 
small piece bay leaf, one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Allow 
this stock to simmer for ten or fifteen minutes while 
the other fish are in the lemon juice. When stock is 
done, strain it. Now saute the fish for serving as di- 
rected in the recipe for Smelts French style. When fish 
are brown, pour off the fat from the pan, except one 
tablespoonful. To this add one tablespoonful flour, stir 
till smooth, then add the fish stock, which should have 
simmered down to about one cupful. When the sauce 
has thickened, add one tablespoonful of minced parsley 
or pimientoes or green peppers. Season with a little 
Worcestershire sauce and a dash of Tobasco or paprika 
if desired. Put the sauted smelts on a hot platter and 
pour the sauce over them. 

RECIPE 89. HALIBUT EN BLANQUETTE. 

Have a sufficient quantity of halibut cut into slices 
about inch thick. Place two or three slices of very 
thinly sliced salt pork in an agate roasting pan. Lay 
slices of halibut on the salt pork. Cover halibut with a 
layer of tomatoes, then a light layer of minced boiled 
onions, then a sprinkling of minced parsley and on top 



30 FISH 

some buttered bread crumbs. Put a little hot water in 
the pan around the fish — not over a cupful. Season with 
salt, pepper and paprika. A tablespoon of Worcester- 
snire sauce or tomato catsup in the water in pan is nice. 
Baste once or twice. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve 
at once very hot. The pan must not be allowed to get 
dry, retain all the juices possible. Left-over cooked 
tomatoes may be used or a tomato puree. 

RECIPE 90. FRIED OYSTERS NO. 1. 

Take a suffici-ent number of fine large oysters. Dip 
them in lemon juice, then in dry bread crumbs, then in 
an egg wet with a little water, then dip again in bread 
crumbs and fry for one minute in hot, deep fat. Drain 
on paper. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 91. FRIED OYSTERS NO. 2. 

Melt a generous portion of butter in an iron frying 
pan. Dip the oysters, which should be fine, large ones, 
first in lemon juice, then in cracker crumbs, then in 
egg, then again in cracker crumbs. Have the butter hot 
in frying pan and saute oysters until a delicate brown. 
Turn frequently. As soon as browned they are done. 
Serve hot, after draining on paper. Garnish with sliced 
lemons. 

RECIPE 92. FRIED OYSTERS NO. 3. 

Make Fritter Batter No. 1 and let it stand an hour. 
When ready to fry the oysters put on a deep kettle of 
fat to heat.. Dip oysters one by one into fritter batter 
and as soon as fat is smoking hot, fry oysters in it until 
a delicate brown. Have fat just hot enough so that it 
will take at least sixty "counts" before the oysters are a 
nice brown (see directions for Deep Fat Frying). When 
oysters are removed from the fat let them drain in a 
warm place on paper to take up any superfluous fat. 
Garnish with quartered lemons. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 93. ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Take a sufficient quantity of oysters and for each 
cupful oysters allow one cupful No. 2 White Sauce. Stir 
the oysters well through the hot sauce. Put a layer of 
oysters and sauce into a deep baking dish, cover with a 
layer of buttered cracker crumbs, then alternate layers 
of oysters and sauce and cracker crumbs until the dish 
is full. Have the last layer of the cracker crumbs but- 



FISH 31 

tered and bake in oven about fifteen minutes for a quart 
pan full, longer for a larger pan. Serve hot in the pan 
in which they baked. 

RECIPE 94. ESCALLOPED OYSTERS NO. 2. 

Butter a deep baking dish. Place a layer of crumbs 
on the bottom, then alternate layers of oysters, crumbs 
and bits of butter until the pan is full, having buttered 
crumbs on top. Season each layer of oysters as you put 
them in. Fill the dish two-thirds full of sweet milk, put 
into oven and allow it to cook about thirty minutes for a 
quart pan full. Longer for a larger pan. Cook until the 
oysters ruffle. 

RECIPE 95. OYSTERS IN BLANKETS. 

Pick over a sufficient quantity of fine large oysters 
to see there are no bits of shell attached. Shake a little 
salt and pepper over them. Wrap each oyster in a very 
thin slice of bacon. Fasten bacon securely with a wooden 
toothpick. Place the blanketed oysters on a broiler and 
cook until the oysters ruffle. Turn once during the 
broiling so that bacon will be a delicate brown. Will only 
take a few minutes to cook. May be served on toast if 
desired. 

RECIPE 96. CREAMED OYSTERS ON HALF SHELL. 

W^ash some deep oyster shells thoroughly. Pick over 
a sufficient quantity of oysters, removing any bits of 
shell. Cover with one cupful sweet milk and bring just 
to the boiling point. Into a saucepan put one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, melt, add two tablespoonfuls flour, stir 
until smooth. To this add the milk the oysters were 
cooked in. Season with salt, pepper and paprika to taste. 
Add the oysters. Place this oyster mixture into the oyster 
shells, cover with a thick layer of buttered bread or 
cracker crumbs. Bake until brown in the oven. Serve 
very hot. If oyster shells are not available clam shell 
may be used or small individual dishes which will stand 
the heat of oven. A very dainty way to serve creamed 
oysters is in the little "ramekins" sold in every house 
furnishing store for that purpose. The patty shells made 
at every bakery are also very nice. 

RECIPE 97. BROILED OYSTERS. 

Wash and pick over a sufficient number of large 
oysters. Melt a tablespoonful butter, add one table- 
spoonful lemon juice, season with salt, pepper and pap- 



32 PISH 

rika. Dip each oyster in this melted butter. Lay them 
on a hot, well-greased broiler. Let cook until they 
ruffle. Serve with slices of lemon. Minced parsley may 
be lightly shaken over them. If desired, a few drops of 
Worcestershire sauce may be added to the melted butter 
before dipping the oysters. 



RECIPE 98. PLANKED OYSTERS. 

Take a sufficient quantity of oysters. For a small 
family a half pint will be enough. To these oysters add a 
No. 2 White sauce, one hard boiled egg, 1 minced 
pimiento. 

Make the sauce, add the oysters, stir them a moment, 
add the chopped white of egg and the minced pimiento. 
A tablespoonful parsley minced is good. Season to taste 
with salt, pepper and paprika. Warm the plank in the 
broiler for five minutes. Then butter it slightly and 
spread the oyster mixture on the plank. If desired, a 
border of mashed potatoes or some hot boiled rice may 
be placed around the oyster mixture. Shake the buttered 
bread crumbs lightly over the oysters. Brown under the 
gas flame at bottom of broiler for five minutes. Serve on 
the plank. If a coal or wood stove is used, the plank 
may be placed in the oven, but it will take a little longer 
to bake. When done sprinkle the riced yolk of the hard 
boiled egg on top. 



RECIPE 99. OYSTER COCKTAIL FOR ONE PERSON. 

6 small oysters V4, teaspoonful horse- 
1 tablespoonful catsup radish 

1 teaspoonful lemon 2 drops Tabasco sauce 
juice 

Mix all together about one hour before wanted. Set 
on ice to become very cold. 



RECIPE 100. CRAB COCIiTAIL FOR ONE PERSON. 

1 heaping tablespoonful 1 tablespoonful Sherry 

crab meat wine 

1 tablespoonful tomato 3 drops Tobasco sauce 

catsup 1 teaspoonful finely 

1 tablespoonful lemon chopped onions 

juice Salt to taste 
Set on ice to become very cold. 



FISH- 33 

RECIPE 101. CRAB COCKTAIL NO. 2 FOR ONE 
PERSON. 

1/4 cup plain Mayonnaise 1 teaspoon minced green 
2 tablespoons tomato cat- pepper 

sup 1 teaspoon minced 

1 teaspoon minced young onions 

pimiento 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons crab meat if desired 

Serve ice cold 

RECIPE 102, LOBSTER COCKTAIL FOR ONE 
PERSON. 

Follow either recipe for Crabmeat cocktail, substi- 
tuting Lobster for Crabmeat. 

RECIPE 103. CREAMED CRAB MEAT. 

Make a No. 2 White Sauce, add one cupful crab- 
meat, put into crab shells, or ramekins, cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs. Bake till crumbs are brown. 

RECIPE 104. FISH OR MEAT CUTLETS. 

Make any meat or fish croquette mixture. Press 
into flat shapes, like cutlets, crumb, egg and crumb, and 
fry like croquettes. 

RECIPE 105. DEVILED CRABS. 

% cup crabmeat 1 tablespoon Worces- 
Vs cup cracker crumbs tershire Sauce 

2 tablespoons melted % teaspoon salt 

butter 1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Vs teaspoon dry mustard 14 teaspoon paprika 

Mix all together, place in cleaned crab shells, dust 
lightly with buttered bread crumbs. Bake until crumbs 
brown. Serve with a quartered lemon. 

RECIPE 106. CREAMED CODFISH. 

Soak the codfish over night in cold water. For a 
family of two take 

1 cup codfish flakes 1 cup No. 2 White Sauce 

1 hard boiled egg 2 slices toast 

Make the White Sauce, add codfish flakes and the 
minced hard boiled egg. Serve very hot on toast. Egg 
can be omitted if desired. 



34 FISH 

RECIPE 107. CODFISH PYRAMIDS. 

1 cup well beaten mashed potatoes 
y2 cup shredded codfish 

Mix thoroughly with one egg well beaten. Shape 
into cones or pyramids. Place on well buttered pan. 
Bake until a nice brown. 

RECIPE 108. SAUCE FOR PYRAMIDS. 

V2 cup No. 2 White 1 tablespoon minced 

Sauce pickles 

1 tablespoon parsley i/^ tablespoon lemon juice 

and last one tablespoon butter creamed with yolk of one 
egg. Stir till egg sets. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 109. CODFISH BALLS. 

Equal parts of hot mashed well beaten potatoes 
and shredded codfish. Shape into balls. Fry in deep 
fat. One egg can be added to potatoes if desired. Serve 
very hot. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 35 

CHAPTER V 
Meat and Fish Sauces. 



Nearly every kind of fish is the better for being 
served with a sauce. 

For boiled fish all of the White or Drawn Butter 
sauces and their derivatives are nice. 

For baked fish the White, Drawn Butter, Creole, Nut, 
Mushroom and Parsley sauces in their variations are 
used. 

For fried fish some kind of sour sauce should be 
used. From the plain Mayonnaise and Hollandaise sauces 
a great variety is formed and Maitre 'd hotel butter is 
also used. The acid helps digest the oil of the fried fish. 
Tomato sauce is nice with boiled, baked or fried fish. 

RECIPE 110. WHITE SAUCE NO. 1. 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour 14 teaspoon salt 

Pepper to taste 

Melt butter, add flour, rub smooth, add milk, stir 
until it thickens, add pepper, salt and if desired one 
quarter teaspoonful paprika. This sauce is used for 
serving vegetables and over croquettes, cutlets, etc. 

RECIPE 111. WHITE SAUCE NO. 3. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 14 teaspoon salt 

Pepper to taste 

Follow directions for making No. 1 sauce. This 
sauce makes the base of most meat croquettes and 
cutlets. 

RECIPE 112. WHITE SAUCE NO. 3. 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons flour % teaspoon salt 

Pepper to taste 
Follow directions for making No. 1 White Sauce. 
This sauce is used as a base for many souffles, fish 
croquettes and cutlets. 



36 MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 

RECIPE 113. CREAM SAUCE WITH EGGS. 

y2 cup White Sauce No. 1 1 hard boiled egg 

The yolk may be riced and the white chopped, or 
egg may be sliced. 



RECIPE 114. PEAS AND CARROTS IN CREAM. 

y2 cup White Sauce No. 1 3 tablespoons sliced 
3 tablespoons cooked cooked carrots 

peas Season to taste 



RECIPE 115. BROWN SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter i/^ teaspoon kitchen 

1 tablespoon flour bouquet 

y2 cupful hot water or 14 teaspoon salt 

soup stock Vs teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, then hot water or stock and 
kitchen boquet. Season to taste. 



RECIPE 116. DRAWN BUTTER. 

1 tablespoon butter 14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour % teaspoon pepper 

1/^ cup boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, add flour, rub smooth, 
then add hot water and seasoning and then last beat in 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



RECIPE 117. DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE WITH EGGS. 

Add 1 hard boiled egg, sliced. 

RECIPE 118. TOMATO SAUCE NO. 1. 

1 cup tomatoes 1 tablespoon flour 

1 small onion sliced i/4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter l^ teaspoon pepper 

Simmer tomatoes, onions and seasonings 15 min- 
utes, then add flour and butter which has been rubbed 
together. If a very smooth sauce is desired rub tomato 
and onions through a strainer before adding the flour and 
butter. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 37 



RECIPE 119. TOMATO SAUOE NO. 2. 

1 cup stewed toma- 1 tablespoon flour 

toes 1 slice carrot 

V2 cup hot water 1 slice onion 

1 teaspoon kitchen 1 spring parsley 

boquet 14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon pepper 

Simmer together 15 minutes the tomatoes, water, 
vegetables and seasoning. Then strain and add kitchen 
boquet and then* flour and butter which has been rubbed 
together. Cook until smooth. 



RECIPE 120. TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

One cupful Tomato Sauce No. 2, add 1 whole clove, 
a few grains nutmeg and V2 cupful sliced mushrooms. 



RECIPE 121. CREAM OF TOMATO SAUCE. 

% cup White Sauce No. 1 (see Index). 
1/4 cup stewed tomatoes 
Do not stir in tomatoes until ready to serve. 

RECIPE 122. SPANISH SAUCE. 

1 pint tomatoes 2 or 3 drops Tabasco 
3 sliced olives sauce 

1 green pepper, minced i/^ teaspoon salt 

1 minced onion 5/4 teaspoon each of pep- 
1 teaspoon Worcester- per and paprika 

shire sauce 

Put tomatoes, onions, green pepper, olives and sea- 
soning into a granite pan and simmer slowly thirty min- 
utes. Then rub butter and flour together and stir them 
into tomato mixture. This sauce can be strained and 
served clear, or served with vegetables in it. A few 
grains of red pepper can be used if you have no Tabasco 
sauce. 

Some tomatoes have more juice than others, or if 
you cook same too rapidly there will be less moisture, 
so if a little too thick add a few drops of hot water — - 
keeps several days. 

RECIPE 123. CREOLE SAUCE. 

See Spanish Sauce. 



38 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 



RECIPE 124. NUT AND OLIVE SAUCE. 

1 cup White Sauce 2 teaspoons lemon 

No. 1 juice 

y^ cup shredded 6 olives stoned and 

almonds quartered 

2 drops Tabasco sauce 
Good on boiled fish. 



RECIPE 125. FIGARO SAUCE. 



tablespoon minced 

carrot 
tablespoon minced 

onion 
tablespoon minced 

ham 



tablespoon flour 
tablespoon butter 
cup thick tomato 

puree 
teaspoon minced 

parsley 



y2 stalk celery 

Chop the ham and all the vegetables together and 
brown them in the butter, then add flour and then 
tomato puree, simmer slowly (over an asbestos mat) till 
thick, skimming frequently, then strain and when cold 
fold into it ^4 cupful plain Mayonnaise (see Index). Nice 
for steaks, fish or croquettes. 



RECIPE 126. HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons cracker 4 



crumbs 
2 tablespoons grated 
horseradish 
% cup milk 



V4. 



level teaspoons 

butter 
teaspoon salt 
Pinch pepper 



Boil milk, crackers and horseradish fifteen minutes 
in double boiler, add salt, pepper and butter. Good with 
boiled meats or fish. 



RECIPE 127. SAUCE MORNAY. 

One cup Bechamel sauce (see Index), add 1 table- 
spoonful of grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, or % 
tablespoonful of each can be used. When cheese has 
melted stir in slowly 1 tablespoonful butter, a little at 
a time. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 39 



RECIPE 128. PLAIN UNCOOKED MAYONNAISE. 

1 egg yolk 1/^ teaspoon pepper * 

2 tablespoons vinegar i/4 teaspoon paprika 

or lemon juice i/^ teaspoon dry mus- 
1/^ to 1 teaspoon tard 

salt 2 tablespoons boiling 
1 cup oil water 

To mix: Break the yolk of the egg into a bowl. 
Cream it well, add one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon 
juice, beat with Dover egg beater for a minute, then add 
the second tablespoon of acid; beat well. Now add the 
dry seasonings and beat for a minute, then add one tea- 
spoon of oil, stir with the egg beater rapidly for a minute, 
add another teaspoon of oil, beat rapidly, repeating the 
process until you have beaten in six teaspoons of oil. 
Then take one tablespoon of oil, beat it in, repeating this 
until you have added six tablespoons of oil. After this 
the oil can be added more rapidly, until it has all been 
beaten in. 

To remove the oily look and give it a velvety smootli- 
.ness, after Mayonnaise is made, add 1 tablespoon boiling 
water and beat it in thoroughly. Then add a second 
tablespoon of boiling water and beat well. This Mayon- 
naise will keep several weeks well bottled in a cool place. 
It is the Mother sauce of many other sauces. 

RECIPE 129. TARTARE SAUCE. 

V2 cup Mayonnaise (see Index) 
1 young onion, minced 
One tablespoon each sour minced pickles, olives, 
capers and parsley. 

RECIPE 130. GREEN RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

To Tartare Sauce add a little chopped, boiled 
spinach. 

RECIPE 131. TARTARE MOUSSELAINE SAUCE. 

To % cup of Tartare sauce, just before serving, add 
^ cup stiffly beaten sweet cream. 

RECIPE 132. AVHICHE SAUCE. 

y2 cup plain Mayonaise 1 minced sour cucum- 

^ cup tomato catsup ber pickle 

1 minced pimiento 1 tablespoon minced 

1 minced green pepper parsley 

1 minced young onion 
Delicious on croquettes or fried fish. 



40 MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 



RECIPE 133. CUCUMBER PICIiLE SAUCE. 

Shred sour cucumber pickles into shoe strings. Add 
1 or 2 tablespoons to i/^ cup plain Mayonnaise and i/4 cup 
tomato catsup. 



RECIPE 134. MAYONNAISE CAPER SAUCE. 

V2 cup plain Mayonnaise 2 tablespoons capers 
1^ cup tomato catsup 



RECIPE 135. THOUSAND ISLAND SAUCE. 

V2 cup plain Mayonnaise 1 tablespoon minced 

^ cup tomato catsup beets 

1 minced pimiento 1 teaspoon Worces- 

1 minced green pepper tershire sauce 

1 peeled and minced i/4 teaspoon dry mus- 

cucumber tard 



RECIPE 136. BORDELAISE SAUCE. 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, add 1 minced onion, 2 
slices carrots, 2 sprigs parsley, 1 small bay leaf, 1 whole 
clove and i/4 teaspoon pepper. Cook slowly until brown. 
In meantime put into a stew pan, 14 cup claret and 1 or 2 
slices garlic or onion. Simmer until reduced one-half. 
When vegetables have browned, add 2 tablespoons flour, 
Vz cup stock and the claret. Let simmer 5 minutes. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper and paprika. Parboil 
a few pieces of marrow, lay on steak and pour hot. 
strained sauce over the steak. 



RECIPE 137. MAITRE d'HOTEL BUTTER. 

V4, cup butter i/4 teaspoon each of 
1 tablespoon minced pepper and paprika 

parsley 1 tablespoon lemon 

. 'Y2 teaspoon salt juice 

Cream the butter, add parsley and seasoning, then 
add the lemon juice drop by drop, stirring it in thor- 
oughly. Do not cook it, but put on hot steak, fish or 
chicken just before serving. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 41 

RECIPE 138. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

This can be made from either meat stock or fish 
stock, according to whether it is to be served with meat 
or fish. 

For stock simmer vegetables 2 5 minutes. 
1 small onion sliced V2 teaspoon salt 

1 small carrot sliced % teaspoon pepper or 

2 sprigs of parsley 6 peppercorns 

1 cup of White Stock, strain 

2nd Part. 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, add 2 tablespoons flour, 
stir together over fire, till smooth, then add ^/^ cup boil- 
ing milk, 14 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper. Into this 
white sauce slowly add the hot stock. 

RECIPE 139. YELLOW BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

If Yellow Bechamel Sauce is desired beat the yolks 
of 2 or 3 eggs till creamy, stir into them 2 or 3 spoons of 
the hot sauce, then stir the eggs into the remaining 
sauce. This will prevent the eggs from curdling. 

RECIPE 140. SAUCE ROYALE FOR COLD FISH. 

2 tablespoons oil 14 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar If desired add 1 table- 

1 tablespoon Worces- spoon minced on- 

tershire sauce ions or parsley or 

Vs teaspoon pepper pimientoes 

Beat oil and vinegar well, add sauce, then season- 
ing. Pour this over any cold left over fish, but is espe- 
cially nice over salmon or fresh mackerel. Canned fish 
can be used. Put the fish on a platter, garnish with 
border of hard boiled eggs, or pickled beets or sour 
cucumber pickles, then pour Sauce Royale over all. 

RECIPE 141. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

V2 cup butter 1 tablespoon lemon 

2 yolks eggs juice 

1/4 teaspoon salt l^ cup boiling water 

Pinch red pepper 

Divide butter into three pieces, beat the yolks of the 
eggs slightly, add lemon juice and one-third of the butter. 
Heat in a double boiler, stirring constantly until it thick- 
ens, then add one-third of the butter, beat in well and 
last the third piece of butter. Stir for a moment, then 
remove from fire or it will curdle. 



42 MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 

RECIPE 142. BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

3 eggs, yolks 2 tablespoons hot water 

3 tablespoons olive i/4 teaspoon salt 

oil Pinch red pepper 

% tablespoon vinegar 

Beat eggs slightly, add other ingredients, cook in a 
double boiler until it thickens. If desired, add a little 
thick tomato puree to make a red sauce. 

RECIPE 143. CAPER SAUCE. 

To % cup Drawn Butter Sauce add 1 or 2 table- 
spoons capers and 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

RECIPE 144. PARSLEY SAUCE. 

1/^ cup White Sauce No. 1 (see 110) 
3 tablespoons minced parsley 

RECIPE 145. CREAM MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

14 cup White Sauce No. 1 (see 110) 
3 tablespoons sliced mushrooms 

RECIPE 146. BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

To V2 cup No. 116, add i/i cup sliced or minced 
mushrooms. 

RECIPE 147. PERIGEUX SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons tomato 

2 thin slices onion puree 

2 thin slices carrots i^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour i/4 teaspoon paprika 

Vi cup white wine 
1/4 cup meat broth 

Melt butter and brown in it onions and carrots, add 
flour, stir, add broth, tomato puree and seasonings. Let 
it boil up once then add wine; strain and serve. 

RECIPE 148. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Parboil V2 cup of oysters for three minutes till they 
curl, then add to them 14 cup White Sauce No. 1 (see 
110). Serve hot on boiled fish. * 

RECIPE 149. CELERY SAUCE. 

Boil 1 cup celery in just enough salted water to cook 
until celery is soft, then rub it through a strainer and add 
it to V2 cup No. 1 White Sauce (see 110). 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 43 

RECIPE 150. MINT SAUCE. 

1/^ cup vinegar 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons minced mint leaves 

Stir all together in sauce pan and let it stand where 
it will get a little warm and have it infuse at least 3 
minutes. If vinegar is very strong add a little hot water. 

RECIPE 151. MINT JELLY FOR ROAST LAJMB. 

1/^ cup vinegar i/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup sugar i/^ tablespoon gelatine 

1/2 cup chopped mint 

Cover gelatine with one tablespoon cold water. Boil 
mint, vinegar, sugar and salt for five minutes, add the 
soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain through a 
cloth and if a beautiful green color is desired use a few 
drops of any good green fruit coloring. Pour into a 
jelly glass. Set away to get cold. Will keep several 
days. 

RECIPE 152. RUSSIAN SAUCE. 

1 cup White Stock 1 teaspoon minced 

No. 2 onion 

1/^ teaspoon French 1 teaspoon lemon 

mustard juice 

1 teaspoon horseradish i/4 cup cream 

Heat together for two minutes the white stock, 
mustard, horseradish and onion, then add cream and 
then the lemon juice. Delicious over hamburger steak 
or small steaks, like fillet mignons. 



RECIPE 153. VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon vinegar % teaspoon paprika 
3 tablespoons oil 1 tablespoon sour 

14 teaspoon salt cucumber minced 

V2 teaspoon capers 1 tablespoon olives 

Vs teaspoon pepper minced 

Vinaigrette sauce is a French dressing with chopped 
pickles, onions, or olives, or capers, added to it in about 
this proportion for each person. 

Nice on cold canned asparagus and is also good on 
cold lamb. 



44 MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 

RECIPE 154, CUMBERLAND SAUCE FOR VEMSON. 

114 cup currant jelly 2 tablespoons Sultana 
% cup Port wine raisins 

2 tablespoons citron 2 tablespoons shredded 
2 tablespoons Mara- almonds 

schino cherries 

Cut the citron into very thin, small pieces, slice the 
cherries in half, add the raisins and cover the mixture 
with port wine for several hours. Drain and add i/4 cup 
port wine ana let simmer for a few minutes. Make a 
Brown Sauce (see Index), and the Currant Jelly, then 
blanche and shred the almonds and add the fruit. Stir 
well, serve hot. 

RECIPE 155. SAUBISE SAUCE. 

Boil 1 cup onions until soft, press through a 
strainer. Stir into 1 cup No. 1 White Sauce (see 110). 
Season to taste. 

RECIPE 156. SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Mince 1 young onion, fry golden brown in 1 table- 
spoon butter, add 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
capers and 1 tablespoon chopped cucumber pickles. Heat 
well and add 



ENTREES 45 



CHAPTER VI 
Entrees. 



To the careful housewife the judicious use of 
Entrees offers an endless field for economical cooking. 
Under recipes to be found in this chapter and also in 
chapter on Left Overs will be found many suggestions 
which will make it unnecessary for a crumb of anything 
left from the table, to be wasted. Frequently there is 
a small portion of two or three dishes, not enough of any 
one for another meeal, but in combination with other 
things an entirely new dish can be built up with very 
little expense. Study these two chapters carefully and 
you will be delighted with the unlimited opportunities 
they offer for reducing household expenses. 

Entrees are served at almost any stage of a meal, 
sometimes several at the same meal, in elaborate meals, 
and they are formed from every possible article than can 
be cooked, such as meat, fish game, shell fish, vegetables, 
milk, eggs, cheese, fruit, etc. 

Entrees cover all of the escalloped dishes, souffles, 
casserole cooking, sauted dishes, deep fat fried articles 
like croquettes and cutlets, etc. 

ESCALIiOPED DISHES. 

Study the many sauces in Chapter V. They are the 
foundation of nearly all escalloped dishes and by the 
judicious choice of a sauce you can use up all of the Left- 
overs from day to day. 

SOUFFLES. 

The foundation of nearly all souffles is one of the 
White sauces and many left-over vegetables, fish, fruit, 
meats and desserts can be utilized in souffles. Study the 
chapters on Entrees and Left-Overs. 

CASSEROLE COOKING. 

Cooking in a casserole is an especially desirable way 
of retaining the flavors and juices of articles cooking, and 
is a dainty and appetizing way of using up Left-Overs. 



ENTREES 



RULES FOR DEEP FAT FRYING. 

A granite sauce pan with a handle or an iron pot 
called a Scotch bowl should be used for deep fat frying. 
Have the pot not more than one-half full of melted fat. 
All of the vegetable oil preparations are better than lard 
as they can be neated to a greater degree of heat than can 
any animal fat. In deep fat frying the article to be 
cooked must be subjected to the. fat hot enough to 
quickly seal in the juices, and to seal out the grease so 
that it cannot penetrate the article which is frying. There- 
fore the fat must be very hot before placing any articles 
in it. For all articles which are prepared of cooked 
materials, like meat or vegetable croquettes or cutlets, 
the fat should be just hot enough to fry the article in 40 
seconds. When uncooked articles are to be used, such 
as fish slices or small fish, like smelts, or raw potatoes 
for French fried potatoes, or raw bananas for banana 
croquettes, the fat must not be so hot, for the article 
must not brown in less than 6 seconds. To ascertain the 
state of the heat of fat, throw a small piece of bread 
crust into the hot fat. Then count about as fast as a 
watch ticks (allowing one count to the second), and you 
can tell at once whether the fat is right heat. When 
articles are cooked, remove and drain on a paper. Do 
not cook too many at one time, and always heat the fat 
for a minute before adding next articles to be cooked. 
When articles have all been fried, the fat in the sauce 
pan should be strained through a clean cloth to remove 
all the bread crumbs which have cooked loose from dif- 
ferent articles. If allowed to remain in the fat, they 
will stick to articles cooKed in it the next time you use 
it. Fat strained in this way may be used many times 
over and over. When it begins to get too brown looking 
for deep fat frying it can still be used for sauteing any 
articles in the frying pan and so all of it can be used 
without any loss. 

Dry bread crumbs are better than cracker crumbs 
for deep fat frying as they do not absorb the fat so 
readily. All articles for deep fat frying are subjected 
to the following process. The crumbs must be dry and 
crisp. Put crumbs into a flat dish so that they are easily 
handled. Break an egg into another flat dish, add about 
one tablespoon of milk or water. Dip articles to be fried 
first into bread crumbs, then into the egg, then again 
into the bread crumbs. This process is called, "Crumb, 
egg and crumb" and will be referred to many times in 
this book. Egg is used because the albumen in it readily 
hardens and forms a crisp crust with the crumbs, leaving 



ENTREES 47 

the inside of croquette or cutlet nice and creamy, while 
outside is in a firm crust. This crust forms so quickly 
that with fat at proper heat when article is put into it, 
there will be no grease absorbed by it. 



RECIPE 157. MEAT CROQUETTES OF EITHER BEEP, 
LAMB, VEAIi, CHICKEN, TURKEY, ETC. 

A general rule for meat croquettes of all kinds, using 
either fresh meats or cooked over meats. Read care- 
fully the rules for Deep Fat Frying before beginning to 
cook croquettes. 

1 cup meat, minced 1 onion minced 

2 level tablespoons 8 mushrooms 

butter Yz teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour i/4 teaspoon each pep- 
1/2 cup stock or milk per and paprika 

1 egg 

Grind onion fine and put into frying pan with the 
butter. Saute it a light brown slowly, stirring it fre- 
quently. Add the flour, stir quickly for two or three 
minutes, add stock or milk and simmer until it thickens, 
add seasoning. Grind one cup meat and eight mush- 
rooms together and stir this into the onion mixture. Now 
stir in the egg yolk thoroughly for a minute or two until 
egg is "set," then take from fire and put away to cool 
and "set." This mixture can stand several hours or can 
be chilled quickly on ice. When within fifteen minutes 
of meal time put on a kettle with plenty of fat in it, 
about one-half full, and let it heat while you shape the 
croquettes. Stir mixture thoroughly, then take a heaping 
tablespoon of it, shape into a croquette, roll in dry bread 
crumbs, then in egg, white, diluted with milk or water, 
then again in bread crumbs. Make required number of 
croquettes. (This recipe makes six to eight.) When 
fat is hot fry them about forty seconds until a nice brown. 
Drain on paper to absorb fat and serve hot at once. 

Serve with some nice sauce. See chapter on sauces. 



RECIPE 158. FISH OR MEAT CUTLETS. 

Use any croquette mixture, but shape with flat 
forms, instead of round. Fry in deep fat. 



48 ENTREES 

Fish Croquettes 



RECIPE 159. FISH, LOBSTER, SHRIMP, CRAB, 
SCALLOP, ETC. 

1 cup cold boiled 1 teaspoon lemon 

fish (flaked) juice 

Vz cup No. 3 White 1 teaspoon onion 

Sauce juice, or 

Vs teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon minced 

parsley 

Set away to cool, then shape — crumb, egg and 
crumb — fry in deep fat. Serve hot, with sauce (see Fish 
Sauces). 

RECIPE 160. RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 tablespoon butter i/4 teaspoon each of 

1 tablespoon flour paprika and pepper 

Vz cup milk 1 cup cooked rice 

1/4 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons grated 

cheese 

Melt butter, add flour, then milk and seasoning. 
When smooth add rice and then cheese. Stir well until 
cheese is all melted. Set away to get cold. When ready 
to serve take a tablespoon at a time, shape into cro- 
quettes. Crumb, egg and crumb. Fry in deep fat until 
brown (about one minute). Serve at once. 

RECIPE 161. OYSTER, SPAGHETTI OR MACARONI 
CROQUETTES. 

Vs cup spaghetti or 2 tablespoons grated 

macaroni cheese 

V2 cup No. 2 White % teaspoon paprika 

Sauce 1 pinch mace 

1 cup oysters i/^ teaspoon lemon 

juice 

Break spaghetti or macaroni in one-half inch pieces 
and cook in salted boiling water until tender, then pour 
off hot water and cover with cold water for five minutes. 
Parboil oysters until they "ruffle." Take only the soft 
part, chop it a little, then mix it with the macaroni or 
spaghetti. Make a No. 2 White Sauce, dissolve the cheese 
in this, add seasoning, then oyster mixture. Set away 
to get cold. Then shape into croquettes, dip in dry 
bread crumbs then egg and milk, then again crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat. Serve very hot, with a sauce of some 
kind (see Fish Sauces). 



ENTREES 49 

RECIPE 162. RICE CROQUETTES. 

1/^ cup boiling water 1 cup liot milk 

V2 cup rice 1 tablespoon butter 

V2 teaspoon salt yolks 2 eggs 

Cover rice with a little boiling water, let stand one 
minute, pour off hot water and wash rice, rubbing well 
in palms of hands, through cold water several times. 
This bleaches it. Put rice in double boiler with one-half 
cup boiling water. Cook till water is absorbed, then pour 
on boiling milk and cook until tender. Then remove 
from fire, add butter and beaten yolks. Spread on a plate 
to cool. Shape into balls, crumb, egg and crumb and fry. 
Can be made attractive by taking enough for a good- 
sized ball, flatten it a little as for a cutlet, dip in crumbs, 
then press a cup into it to make a hollow in it. Now 
roll it in egg and crumb again, fry in deep fat. This 
makes a "nest." Nice for jelly or creamed peas or car- 
rots. 

RECIPE 163. SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Parboil sweetbreads, remove membrane. Use recipe 
No. 15 8, substituting sweetbread for fish. 

SURPRISE CROQUETTES. 

See Index. 

PARSNIP CROQUETTES. 

See 389. 

RECIPE 164. FRITTER BATTER NO. 1. 

Sift % cup flour, % teaspoon baking powder and 
1/4 teaspoon salt together. Beat 1 egg until it is creamy, 
add % cup milk, then flour and baking powder. Let this 
batter stand one hour, then it is ready to use. Dip 
article in it until well covered. Fry in deep fat one 
minute. 

RECIPE 165. FRITTER BATTER NO. 2. 

1 cup flour 3 tablespoons pow- 
iy2 teaspoons baking dered sugar 

powder Vs cup milk 

l^ teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Sift dry ingredients together, add the milk slowly 
and last the well-beaten egg. Nice for fruit fritters. 



50 ENTREES 



RECIPE 166. ENGLISH SAUSAGE PIE. 

Lay in a buttered baking dish V2 pound of sausages 
that have been cut into short pieces. Turn into a mixing 
bowl 1 cup of flour and add a pinch each of sugar, pep- 
per and salt, one scant teaspoon of baking powder, 2 
well-beaten eggs, 1 large cup of tomato sauce and a very- 
little grated onion. Beat batter until very smooth, pour 
over the sausages and bake in a good hot oven until firm 
and brown. 

RECIPE 167. VEGETABLE SOUFFLE. 

1 cup vegetable 2 eggs 

mashed i^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup No. 3 White % teaspoon pepper 

Sauce (see Index) 

Mash well-cooked vegetables and press through a 
strainer. One vegetable alone may be used or several 
kinds together, such as tomatoes, onions, carrots, tur- 
nips, asparagus, etc. 

Cream the yolks of eggs, add them to the White 
Sauce, add vegetable and season. Beat whites of eggs 
as stiffly as possible, fold them into the White Sauce 
lightly, pour mixture into a well-buttered, deep-baking 
dish. Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes, or until 
the souffle has "set" clear to the center. To be eaten at 
once. The stiffer the whites of eggs are for all souffles 
the better they will be. 

RECIPE 168. CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoons butter i/4 cup grated sharp 
Vz cup milk cheese 

3 tablespoons flour Seasoning to taste 

3 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, rubbing it in smoothly, add 
milk, stir until it thickens, add seasoning of salt, pepper 
and a little paprika, then add cheese, stir until it has all 
melted smoothly. Cream yolks of eggs, add them to 
cheese sauce, and last, fold in stiffly beaten whites. But- 
ter a deep baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 
twenty minutes. Serve at once in dish in which it has 
baked. 

RECIPE 169. SPAGHETTI AND CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Boil one cup spaghetti until tender in boiling salted 
water, drain off the hot water, cover spaghetti with cold 
water for five minutes. Cut it in pieces about an inch 



ENTREES 51 

long. Make the Cheese Souffle recipe and add the cup 
spaghetti to it. Left-over spaghetti and cheese can be 
used for this souffle, but discard any hard brown pieces. 
Use fresh cheese. 



RECIPE 170. ]\IACARONI AND CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One-half cup cold boiled macaroni cut up into inch 
pieces. Follow directions for making Cheese Souffle. 
Add macaroni pieces to the White Sauce, then add cheese 
and proceed as for Cheese Souffle. Left-over macaroni 
and cheese can be used for this souffle. Discard any 
hard brown pieces. Pay no attention to cheese with 
which the left-over is flavored. Use fresh grated cheese 
also. 



RECIPE 171. CHEESE AND NOODLES SOUFFLE. 

Boil one cup noodles until tender in salted water. 
Drain off hot water. Cover with cold for a minute. Drain 
again and add noodles to recipe for Cheese Souffle. Have 
noodles cut in about one inch lengths after they are 
boiled. 



RECIPE 172. HAMBURGER SOUFFLE. 

1 cup hamburger y^ cup fresh bread 

1 tablespoon minced crumbs 

parsley 2 eggs 

1 cup No. 3 White Sauce 

Separate eggs, beat yolks and add to meat, bread 
crumbs and parsley. Stir the White Sauce through meat 
mixture, season with salt and pepper to taste, beat whites 
to a very stiff froth, and fold into mixture. Butter a 
deep baking dish, put in the souffle and bake fifteen 
minutes. This souffle will be all the better if three eggs 
are used. Serve hot in dish in which it baked. 



RECIPE 173. RICE-CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Follow the directions for making a Cheese Souffle, 
but add y^. cup boiled rice to the White Sauce just after 
you put in the cheese. 



52 ENTREES 

RECIPE 174. SPAGHETTI ROYALE. 

First Part. 

1 can tomatoes i/^ teaspoon salt 
3 medium onions, i/^ can hotel mush- 
minced rooms, sliced 
1 red pepper, minced ^ tablespoon Worces- 
1 garlic, minced tershire sauce 
1/4 cup Sherry wine ^ cup sharp cheese 
1/4 teaspoon Tabas(v grated 
sauce 

Mince the onion, add other ingredients and let them 
all simmer for one hour. Then add Sherry wine, and the 
cheese, stir until well mixed. 

Second Part. 

Make a strong broth from either i/^ pound of ham- 
burger steak or i/^ pound of lean soup meat, covered with 
1 pint cold water and simmered down to i/^ pint of broth. 
Let this be cooking at the same time as the First Part. 

Third Part. 

One-half package imported spaghetti. Cover it with 
plenty of boiling salted water and let cook until tender, 
then remove from fire, drain off hot water and cover it 
for five minutes with cold water. 

Fourth Part. 

When First Part has cooked one hour, also the Sec- 
ond Part, and spaghetti has been cooked and washed with 
cold water, put all three parts together in a large bowl 
and mix them all together well with a couple of forks, 
turning them until all of spaghetti is well covered with 
the tomato and cheese mixtures. Now place all of the 
mixture in a deep baking dish, cover with buttered bread 
crumbs, and bake in oven fifteen minutes. This will 
serve five people very bounteously and will leave enough 
for the next day. It is even better when warmed over, 
but it is well to add another cup of broth, or Sherry wine, 
before reheating in the oven. If a smaller recipe is de- 
sired, just divide this in half. 

RECIPE 175. SPAGHETTI ITALIAN. 

Boil spaghetti until tender, then wash well with 
cold water. Reheat well mixed with 1 can of any good 
canned tomato soup. Place on a hot platter and serve 
sharp grated cheese with it. 



ENTREES 53 

RECIPE 176. TOMATOES IN THE HALF SHELL. 

Cut solid tomatoes into halves. Put them in a bak- 
ing pan, dust them with salt and pepper and pour over 
four tablespoon of olive oil. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven for a half hour. Lift the tomatoes to a platter, 
add two tablespoons of flour to the pan, mix, add V2 pint 
of milk and stir until boiling. Add a teaspoon of kitchen 
boquet, a teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Pour over the tomatoes and serve on toast if desired. 

RECIPE 177. BEEF OLIVES. 

1 thin slice from the 1 tablespoon chopped 

round steak parsley 

^2 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons flour 1 saltspoon black 

1 pint stock or water pepper 

1 teaspoon kitchen 2 tablespoons butter 

bouquet 
Put the bread crumbs in a bowl, add salt, pepper and 
2 tablespoons butter. Cut the meat in strips one inch 
wide and three inches long; cover them with a layer of 
the bread crumbs, roll and tie. Put 4 tablespoons short- 
ening into a saucepan; when hot put in, a few at a time, 
the "beef olives," as they are now called, and shake until 
browned. Add the flour to hot fat in the pan, mix and 
add the stock or water, kitchen boquet and an extra V2 
teaspoon of salt and a dash of Tabasco Sauce. Put in 
the "olives," cover the saucepan and simmer gently for 
one hour. Remove the strings before sending to the 
table. 

RECIPE 178. GERMAN ROUND STEAK. 

(A good imitation of Breaded Veal Cutlet.) 
Pound round steak on both sides with the sharp edge 
of a knife. Cut into sizes for serving. Season each side, 
dip each piece into beaten egg, then fine dry bread 
crumbs and fry in hot drippings. When done, remove 
to a hot platter, mix flour with the drippings remaining 
in the pan and add 1 cup milk. Stir and cook three to 
five minutes, pour over the meat and serve. Garnish 
with parsley. 

RECIPE 179. VIENNA HAMBURGER STEAK. 

Form Hamburger steak into a large, flat cake. 
Brown quickly on both sides in a hot skillet, without add- 
ing any grease. To a pound of the meat, mix together 
1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt and i^ teaspoon pepper. Pour 
over the meat, cover, and cook slowly until all the mois- 
ture is absorbed. Enough for four persons. 



54 ENTREES 



RECIPE 180. VEGETABLE CURRY. 

1 large onion, sliced i^ teaspoon curry pow- 
1 pint green peas der 

1 cup diced turnips 2 tablespoons butter 
y2 cup shredded carrots 1 tablespoon lemon 

2 cups diced potatoes juice 
1 cup boiling water 

Fry onion in the butter till yellowed, and add to this 
the boiling water mixed with curry powder and lemon 
juice. Cook for five minutes; then turn in the remain- 
ing vegetables, which should all be cooked previously. 
Let stand for ten minutes in the curry and serve very hot. 
This is particularly good with cold lamb or veal, and can 
be made of various left-over vegetables as long as the 
general proportions are heeded. 

RECIPE 181. BEEFSTEAK PIE (French Style). 

Take a nice piece of beef, rump or sirloin, cut in 
small slices; slice also a little raw ham; put both in a 
frying pan, with 2 tablespoons butter and 1 chopped 
onion; let them simmer together a short time; add 2 
tablespoons flour and 1 cup stock to make sauce; salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley and a little Worcestershire sauce 
as seasoning; add also a few sliced potatoes, and cook 
together for about 2 minutes; put this into a pie-dish, 
with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top and cover 
with a layer of biscuit dous;h. Bake from 15 to 2 min- 
utes in a well-heated oven. All dark-meat pies can be 
treated precisely in the same way. If poultry, leave the 
potatoes out. 

RECIPE 182. HAMBURG LUNCHEON DISH. 

% pounds Hamburg 8 small round potatoes 

steak 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt or six small strips 

1^ teaspoon pepper of bacon 

Vz can condensed vegetable soup 

Mix the seasonings with the meat and pat into a 
thin loaf; sprinkle the bottom of the roasting pan with 
flour, place the meat in the pan, and dredge with a little 
flour and salt. Dispose the butter or bacon over the 
meat and place the potatoes around it, after paring and 
boiling for ten minutes. Dust them with flour and place 
a bit of butter on each. Roast for thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. In the meantime warm the soup, and 



ENTREES 55 

when meat is done, place it on a platter, pour the heated 
soup around it, and garnish with the potatoes. Boiled 
rice can be substituted for the latter and served in a ring 
round the meat. Sage or onion juice can be added to sea- 
son the meat further if desired. 

RECIPE 183. ESCALLOPED LEFT-OVER 3EEAT. 

1 cup chopped cooked 1 cup dry bread or 
meat cracker crumbs 

1 cup No. 2 White i/^ teaspoon salt 

Sauce, or % teaspoon pepper 

1 cup Creole sauce and paprika 

Put a layer of crumbs in a buttered baking dish, 
then alternate layers of meat, White Sauce, crumbs and 
seasoning, having the last layer White Sauce covered with 
buttered bread crumbs. Bake until brown. As "left- 
over" meat has not the flavor of fresh meat, special care 
should be given to the seasoning. The addition of 
onions, tomatoes, a green pepper, a pimiento, a little 
"poultry seasoning" — any one of these will give an added 
flavor. 

RECIPE 184. HAMBURGER AVITH SPAGHETTI OR 
MACARONI. 

1 cup tomatoes V2 cup minced green 

14 cup minced onion peppers 

1 teaspoon Worces- V2 teaspoon salt 

tershire sauce i/4 teaspoon pepper 

1 bay leaf 
Simmer slowly for one hour. 

Second Part. 

Put 1/4 package imported spaghetti or macaroni in 
rapidly boiling salted water, cook until tender, pour off 
hot water and cover v/ith cold water for five minutes; 
drain again, then toss lightly with % cup good sharp 
cheese, grated, and set on stove to keep warm. 

Third Part. 

Take V2 pound hamburger, place in a hot frying 
pan with 2 tablespoons of butter. Stir constantly until 
the meat takes on a gray look, then add the tomato mix- 
ture, stir well, and finally turn this over the macaroni 
and cheese mixture. Stir lightly for a minute or two and 
pile on a platter. Serve very hot. 



56 ENTREES 

RECIPE 185. STUFFED LAMB KIDNEYS. 

Cut 6 lamb kidneys partly in half, just enough to re- 
move white cord inside, and soak in salted water one- 
half hour. Then rinse in fresh water and wipe dry. 

Make a dressing of V2 cup cracker crumbs, yolk of 
one egg, V2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon each pepper and 
paprika. Stuff this into each kidney. Close the opening 
with two wooden toothpicks. Roll in flour in which is 
placed Vz teaspoon mustard and 14 teaspoon salt, and 
Vs teaspoon each pepper and paprika. Saute a nice 
brown in frying pan, cover with milk and let simmer 
thirty minutes. Thicken gravy. Place kidneys on toast 
and pour gravy over them. If Brown Sauce is desired 
add 1 teaspoon of kitchen bouquet. One teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce will add to flavor. 

RECIPE 186. KIDNEYS WITH AVINE SAUCE. 

Follow recipe for Stuffed Lamb Kidneys, substitut- 
ing Sherry wine for milk, using about V2 cup sherry and 
V2 cup hot water, simmer, thicken sauce a little. Serve' 
on toast. 

RECIPE 187. KIDNEYS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Stuff the kidneys as in Stuffed Kidneys (see 185), 
saute a nice brown, add 1 cup hot water, 1 teaspoon kit- 
chen bouquet, Vz can of mushroom liquor, and V2 can 
sliced mushrooms, simmer thirty minutes, thicken sauce, 
add 2 or 3 drops of Tabasco sauce. Serve on hot toast. 
One tablespoon of lemon juice adds to flavor. 

RECIPE 188. KIDNEYS COUNTRY STYLE. 

Follow recipe for Hamburger Country Style (see 
Index), substituting kidneys for hamburger. 

RECIPE 189. FRIED KIDNEYS WITH TOMATOES. 

Cut 6 lamb's kidneys in halves, take off the outside 
skin and remove the core; let stand % hour in salted 
water. Melt one tablespoon of butter in a frying pan, 
put in the kidneys, cut side down, and let them fry for 
two minutes; then turn them, and cook for three min- 
utes; keep hot. Prepare neat rounds of bread about 
three inches across; fry in the butter and gravy left in 
the pan. Cut three firm slices of tomato; cook until just 
tender, in the frying pan or oven. Arrange the bread on 
a hot dish, on each piece place a slice of tomato, then -a 
kidney sprinkled with salt and pepper. 



ENTREES 57 

RECIPE 190. TOASTED TOMATOES. 

Cut a sufficient number of slices of toast. Use a 
good-sized biscuit cutter and shape bread into rounds. 
Toast a nice brown and on each round lay a slice of 
tomato. Cover the tomato with a mild grated cheese, a 
few buttered bread crumbs, season well and bake until 
the tomato is done — about five minutes. Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 191. BAKED TOMATOES. 

Select firm tomatoes. Cut off a slice at the stem 
end; with a small spoon carefully remove inside pulp 
without breaking the skin. Season inside of tomato with 
pepper and salt and turn upside down on a plate to drain 
for half an hour. Save pulp from the inside of tomatoes 
and add it to a meat mixture with which you stuff tomato. 
This mixture can be varied. Use any sort of cold minced 
meat, a few buttered bread or cracker crumbs and the 
tomato pulp. Season well, put into the tomato, bake until 
tomato is done — about fifteen minutes. 

RECIPE 192. BAKED TOMATOES WITH SPAGHETTI 
OR MACARONI. 

Any left-over macaroni, or spaghetti and cheese can 
be cut into small pieces and added to the stuffing of a 
tomato then baked. 

RECIPE 193. TOMATOES BAKED WITH NUTS. 

1 cup canned toma- 1 cup dry bread 

toes crumbs 

1 cup chopped pecan 2 tablespoons butter 

nuts Seasoning to taste 

Melt butter, stir into it the bread crumbs. Butter 
a deep baking dish, spread a thin layer of bread crumbs 
on the bottom, then alternate layers of tomatoes, nuts 
and crumbs, season each layer lightly with salt, pepper 
and paprika. Have the last layer of buttered bread 
crumbs. Bake in oven about twenty minutes. 

RECIPE 194. SCOTCH HALIBUT — TWO PERSONS. 

(Any White Meat Fish may be substituted.) 

1 cup cooked fish 1 cup milk 

1/^ cup mashed pota- 2 tablespoons grated 

toes cheese 

1 egg yolk 1 tablespoon minced 

2 tablespoons butter parsley 

2 tablespoons flour Seasoning to taste 



58 ENTREES 

Remove skin and bone from fish and break into 
small flakes. Drop the egg yolk in the potato and whip 
with a fork until very light, then add the fish. Melt the 
butter, stir in the flour until smooth, pour on gradually 
the milk and cook until it thickens. Add the cheese (re- 
serving enough to sprinkle the top) and the parsley. 
Remove from fire and mix with the fish and potato. Sea- 
son. Turn into a well buttered casserole or baking dish, 
sprinkle balance of cheese and a few bits of butter over 
the top and bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes, 
until thoroughly heated and the top a delicate brown. 

RECIPE 195. FRESH TOjMATOES STUFFED WITH 
CORN. 

Use tender young green corn when possible. Canned 
corn may be used but should be drained dry as possible. 
Take one tomato for each person. It should be large and 
firm, but ripe. Cut off a slice from the stem end and 
carefully scoop out pulp from center, season the tomato 
with salt, turn upside down for half an hour to drain, 
then fill with a stuffing made as follows: 

Enough corn to fill the tomatoes, season well with 
salt and paprika, melt a little butter and mix the corn 
well with it. Bake twenty minutes. A few buttered 
bread crumbs can be added on top before baking. A 
minced green pepper added to the corn stuffing is very 
nice. Also, instead of using butter with the corn, fry 
a piece of bacon until very crisp, then crush it well, turn 
the corn into frying pan with bacon and its fat, then 
stuff the tomatoes with corn and bacon. 

RECIPE 196. FRESH TOMATOES STUFFED WITH 
NUTS. 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes. Cut off a slice from the 
stem end of each one. Carefully remove pulp from the 
center. To this minced pulp add a few ground nuts, a 
few buttered bread crumbs, a little minced onion, 2 or 3 
tablespoons minced boiled ham. Stuff the tomatoes and 
bake them twenty minutes. Seasoning to taste. 

RECIPE 197. STUFFING FOR BAKED T03IAT0ES. 

This can be varied according to the time of the year. 
The bread crumbs can have as an addition a green pepper 
or an onion minced, a few mushrooms or shrimps. Hard 
boiled eggs, chopped, added to buttered bread crumbs and 
tomato pulp are very nice. 



ENTREES 59 

RECIPE 198. BAKED TOMATOES WITH RICE. 

Mix a little cold boiled rice, a minced onion, one 
slice of thin crisped bacon (crushed), a few buttered 
bread crumbs and stuff tomatoes. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

RECIPE 199. ESCALLOPED CANNED TOMATOES. 

1 cup tomatoes 2 tablespoons minced 

1 cup minced boiled parsley 

onions 1 cup dry bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons butter 

Butter a deep baking dish, put into it alternate lay- 
ers of vegetables and bread crumbs. Place a layer of 
crumbs on top, spread butter in little bits over the 
crumbs. Bake ten minutes in oven. This dish can be 
altered by combining with it any vegetable in season. 
Very nice with corn, either fresh or canned. Green pep- 
pers minced. A few mushrooms. Left-over macaroni 
and cheese, or spaghetti and cheese can be used. 

RECIPE 200. DEVILED TOMATOES. 

2 tablespoons butter 14 teaspoon paprika 

V2 teaspoon mustard 3 drops Tabasco sauce 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk (raw) 

Vs teaspoon pepper 1 egg yolk hard 
1 white egg, chopped, boiled 

hard boiled 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Allow one tomato for each person. Wash, wipe and 
peel tomatoes and cut them into slices about half an inch 
thick. Season and dip them in flour and saute them in a 
little butter. Place on a hot platter to keep warm while 
you make the following sauce — this is enough for two 
persons: 

Cream the butter, add the seasoning, the yolk of 
hard boiled egg, the slightly beaten yolk (raw), then add 
the vinegar. Heat this sauce for a moment until the raw 
egg sets. Sprinkle over the tomatoes the chopped white 
of hard boiled egg and pour sauce over the tomatoes. 
Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 201. TOMATOES BAKED WITH EGGS. 

Take firm, medium-sized tomatoes and hollow out 
the inside, being careful not to break the skin. Break 
an egg into each one, season, sprinkle with a little grated 
cheese and a dot of butter on top. Bake in hot oven until 
egg is firm. The pulp of the tomato can be used for soup 
the next day. 



60 ENTREES 



RECIPE 202. BAKED GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED 
AVITH CORN. 

Select some large green peppers. Wash, cut a slice 
from the stem end, remove seeds, parboil peppers fifteen 
minutes. Make a stuffing of tender young green corn 
kernels mixed with a slice of crisp crushed bacon. Stir 
corn in the fat in frying pan, add a few bread crumbs, 
just enough to make the mixture hold lightly together. 
Season to taste. Stuff the green peppers with the mix- 
ture, bake ten minutes. 

RECIPE 203. BAKED GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED 
AVITH HAM. 

Prepare peppers as for Peppers Stuffed with Corn, 
substituting for the corn mixture the following: 

Minced ham, one small minced onion, a few minced 
mushrooms, some dry bread crumbs, seasoning to taste. 
Moisten the mixture with some Brown sauce. Fill with 
the stuffing, put a few buttered bread crumbs on top and 
bake ten minutes. Pour some Brown sauce over them 
when ready to serve. 

RECIPE 204. BAKED STUFFED PIMIENTOS. 

For each person butter a timbale mold slightly, 
place a canned pimiento in it and stuff the pimiento with 
a mixture of minced chicken, buttered bread crumbs, a 
tablespoon minced parsley, yolk of one egg, seasoning 
to taste, and just enough milk to make the stuffing hold 
softly together. Put a few buttered bread crumbs on 
top. Bake until crumbs are brown. Remove from tim- 
bale mold. Serve very hot. Minced ham can be used 
instead of chicken. 



RECIPE 205. ESCALLOPED ONIONS AND 
TOMATOES. 

Take equal parts of canned or fresh tomatoes and 
sliced onions. Let them simmer slowly until onions are 
very tender, probably a couple of hours. Stir frequently. 
When mixture is done, season to taste. Butter a deep 
baking dish, place a layer of mixture, then butterea bread 
crumbs, alternating until the dish is full. Have the top 
layer buttered crumbs. Bake ten minutes. A nice addi- 
tion to this dish is to add one or two layers of corn. 
Green peppers, minced and added to the tomatoes and 
onions when cooking are also good. 



ENTREES 61 

RECIPE 206. OYSTER SAUSAGE. 

V2 pound chopped veal i/^ cup dry bread 

2 tablespoons chopped crumbs 

suet ^ teaspoon salt 

y2 pint oysters Pepper and paprika 

1 egg to taste 

Put oysters into boiling salted water until they 
"ruffle," then chop them up with veal and suet. Add egg 
and bread crumbs, season, make up into small croquettes 
and fry in deep fat about one minute. Serve very hot 
with a nice White Sauce No. 1 (see Index). They can be 
served without a sauce as a side dish with fried chicken, 
veal or fish. 

RECIPE 207. CORN FRITTERS. 

1 egg well beaten 1 teaspoon baking 

1 cup sweet milk powder 

1 cup flour 1/^ teaspoon salt 

y2 cup corn 

Beat the egg, add it to the milk, add the flour in 
which has been sifted the baking powder and salt, and 
last stir in the corn. Drop a tablespoon at a time into 
deep fat and fry a delicate brown. 

RECIPE 208. CORN PUDDING. 

1 cup corn 14 teaspoon salt 

^ cup sweet milk % teaspoon pepper 

1 or 2 eggs % teaspoon paprika 

Stir all well together and put into a baking dish and 
bake in oven until firm and "set." Serve as a hot vege- 
table. 

RECIPE 209. CORN PUDDING WITH CHEESE. 

Add 2 tablespoons sharp grated cheese to recipe for 
Corn Pudding. 

RECIPE 210. ESCALLOPED CORN AND TOMATOES. 

Fresh, canned or left-over stewed tomatoes and corn 
can be used. Butter a deep baking dish, place a layer 
of buttered bread crumbs on the bottom, then alternate 
layers of corn, tomatoes and buttered crumbs. Place a 
layer of crumbs on top and bake in a slow oven for about 
fifteen minutes. One green pepper, minced and added to 
the tomato layer, or minced green parsley is nice. Serve 
hot in dish in which it baked. 



62 ENTREES 

RECIPE 211. CORN OYSTERS. 

1 cup of corn 1 egg 

y2 cup dry bread crumbs Season to taste 

Mix corn, bread crumbs and egg thoroughly together, 
season, and take a tablespoon of the mixture, form it 
into oblong shape, then fry one minute in deep fat. Nice 
with veal or chicken. 

RECIPE 212. MOCIi OYSTERS. 

3 ears or 1 can corn 2 tablespoons milk 

1 egg y^. teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour % saltspoon pepper 

Separate the egg and score and press out the corn. 
Add the yolk to the corn, then the milk, flour, salt and 
pepper. Fold in the well-beaten white. Put 8 or 9 table- 
spoons of fat into a shallow frying pan. When very hot 
put in the corn mixture by tablespoons; when brown, 
turn and fry on the other side. Serve as a supper or 
luncheon dish in place of meat, or as a vegetable. 

RECIPE 213. MOCK QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Select a piece of round steak about i/^ inch thick, 
and pound on both sides and cut into four-inch squares. 
To each pound of steak allow 3 thin slices of bacon, 1 1/^ 
tablespoons minced onion, 1 rounding tablespoon butter 
or drippings, 2 tablespoons flour and 2 cups milk. 

Pound the steak on both sides and cut into squares. 
On each piece lay a small piece of the bacon and a little 
onion. Roll up, fasten with toothpicks and roll in the 
flour. Melt the butter or drippings and when hot, lay 
in the meat to brown well on all sides. When well 
browned, pour over it the milk. Cover closely and let 
simmer very slowly for about two hours. Have ready 
some hot, slightly buttered toast from which the crusts 
have been removed, allowing one piece for each "bird." 
Arrange on a hot platter, put a "bird" on each slice and 
pour over it a gravy made from the remaining juice in 
the pan. Garnish with parsley. 

RECIPE 214. STEAK CREOLE EN CASSEROLE. 

(For two persons) 
Take V^. pound flank or round steak, score it lightly 
on both sides, dip in cold water for a minute, then brush 
both sides with vinegar. Roll it in flour and saute a nice 
brown in frying pan with 2 tablespoons of drippings. 
When brown place in casserole and follow recipe for Veal 
En Casserole. 



ENTREES 63 

RECIPE 215. VEAT. EN CASSEROIiE. 

(For two.) 
Take 2 veal chops or % pound veal cutlet, roll in 
flour, and then saute a nice brown in a frying pan. When 
brown put them in a casserole (or a Boston Baked Bean 
jar will do) and place on top of veal 1 cup tomatoes, 1 
green pepper sliced, 1 onion sliced, 1 pimiento sliced, ^4 
cup mushrooms sliced, V2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon each 
of pepper and paprika. To fat the veal was fried in add 
1 cup hot water and 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce (if 
you like it) and pour this (glaze ) over the meat and 
vegetables in casserole. Cover and let cook in a slow 
oven one hour, then add 1 tablespoon flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little water. Shake the casserole a little 
so that flour will be well mixed. The flour acts as a 
"binder" to thicken the sauce. Serve in the casserole. 

RECIPE 216. CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 

Disjoint a tender chicken, saute a light brown and 
follow Veal En Casserole recipe (see No. 215). 

RECIPE 217. RABBIT OR HARE EN CASSEROLE. 

Disjoint, roll in flour, saute and follow recipe for 
Veal En Casserole (see No. 215). 

RECIPE 218. KIDNEYS EN CASSEROIiE. 

Use either lamb or calf kidneys. Let them soak in 
salted water thirty minutes, then drain and dry them. 
If lamb kidneys remove the whitish membrane which cov- 
ers them and cut out the white cord from inside. Roll 
them in flour, then follow recipe for Veal En Casserole 
(see No. 215). 

RECIPE 219. MUTTON EN CASSEROLE. 

One pound neck of mutton, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 1 
onion, 1 heaping tablespoon of flour, 1 heaping table- 
spoon of butter, 12 preserved cherries, juice of ^/^ lemon, 
1 tablespoon catsup, 2 tomatoes, 1 cup of stock, salt and 
pepper. WMpe the meat, then cut it into neat, small 
pieces. Melt the butter, put in the meat, and fry it on 
both sides a good brown. Remove the meat, sprinkle in 
the flour, and brown it carefully. Add the stock, and 
stir until it boils. Put the meat into the casserole, add 
the sliced onions and tomatoes, some neatly cut pieces 
of carrot and turnip, the stock, and a little salt. Put on 
the lid, and simmer for about two hours, until the meat 



64 ENTREES 

is quite tender. Meanwhile, with ,a round vegetable cut- 
ter, cut out balls of carrot and turnip, using the reddest 
part of the former. Cook these in boiling salted water 
until tender, then drain and keep them hot. Season the 
stew with salt and pepper, and stir in the lemon and cat- 
sup. Arrange the vegetable balls and cherries on the 
top and serve as hot as possible. 

RECIPE 220. MEAT BALLS. 

1 pint cold cooked Vz cup water or stock 
meat, chopped fine 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup soft bread 1 saltspoon black 

crumbs pepper 

1 egg 

Mix the bread crumbs and the water or stock; add 
the meat and all the seasonings and stir over the fire 
until thoroughly heated. Break in the egg, stir again, 
and form the mixture into balls the size of an English 
walnut. Dip them in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with Brown or Bechamel 
sauce. 

RECIPE 221. MUTTON HARICOT. 

Cut 1 pound breast mutton in pieces, roll in flour 
and brown in drippings. Transfer to a stewpan, add 2 
sliced onions, cover with boiling water and simmer until 
very tender. Add 1 cup parboiled potatoes or 1 cup 
boiled macaroni and 1 cnp shelled peas. Season, simmer 
till vegetables are don§. 

RECIPE 222. CREAMED PORK (Mock Chicken). 

Left-over pork chops, pork roast or any cooked pork 
will answer. Cut into small pieces. Cut an equal quan- 
tity of celery into small pieces and stew celery in just 
enough water to cover until tender, but not soft. Make 
White Sauce and stir into it the pork and celery, with a 
little of the celery water. Cook a few minutes longer — 
very slowly. Season to taste and serve poured over toast. 

RECIPE 223. PORK PIE (Mock Chicken Pie). 

An excellent Mock Chicken Pie may be made from 
the above recipe. Line the sides of a baking dish with 
rich baking powder biscuit dough or puff paste; pour in 
the meat mixture, put a crust on top, make a few incisions 
in the top, brush over with a little beaten egg and bake in 
a hot oven until crust is done. 



ENTREES 65 

RECIPE 224. SPANISH HASH. 

One cup of chopped meat of any cold, cooked variety, 
1 cup of chopped potatoes, 2 small onions and 1 green 
pepper, chopped. Mix together, add 3 drops of Tabasco 
sauce, y^ teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, 1 egg and y^ 
cup of milk. Stir all together thoroughly and drop by 
spoon in buttered muffin ring, bake in hot oven for 
twenty minutes and serve with hot tomato sauce on toast. 



RECIPE 225. CHILI CON CARNE CON FRIJOLES. 

1 quart cooked beans 1 large teaspoon 

1 pound hamburger Spanish spice 

steak 4 tablespoons tomato 

1 large onion catsup 

One clove garlic 

Place beans in large frying pan or sauce pan with a 
small amount of water. Chop up onion and garlic fine 
and add to beans. Then place in the spice. When ma- 
terial comes to a boil add the hamburg steak in small 
pieces. Cook slowly and when nearly done add catsup. 
Chili may be added to suit taste. When the onions are 
cooked the material is ready to serve. 



RECIPE 226. ALBONDIGAS. 

y^. pound hamburger 1 teaspoon rice (un- 

steak cooked) 

1 medium-sized y^ cup dry bread 

onion crumbs 

1 clove garlic 1 or 2 eggs 

Beat egg slightly and mix all ingredients in bowl 
with garlic and onion chopped fine. Then add teaspoon 
Spanish spice. Roll into balls and drop them in a sauce 
pan with boiling water. Cook twenty minutes. Thicken 
gravy and serve. 



RECIPE 227. CHILI KILES. 

At any Mexican store procure about 1 dozen Tortillas 
and some Mexican cheese. Put about 2 tablespoons lard 
in frying pan. Cut Tortillas in pieces about 2 inches 
square. Fry a few minutes. Then add 1 large onion 
chopped fine and 1 rounded teaspoon Spanish spice. Add 
chili to taste and sufficient water to cook about y^ hour. 
Then add y^ cup Mexican cheese, grated. 



66 ENTREES 



RECIPE 228. CHOP SUEY. 

One pound of water chestnuts, 2 pounds of bean 
sprouts and gu yow, a Chinese sauce made only in China 
and which enters into nearly all Oriental meat dishes. It 
is a brown looking liquid with a peculiar flavor, and can 
be purchased of any Chinese dealer. The chestnuts must 
be shaved thin. Add a little sliced celery, 1 onion 
chopped, 1^ dozen mushrooms; cut a young chicken into 
small pieces, put 2 tablespoons of peanut oil in a sauce 
pan. Into this place the vegetable and chicken all to- 
gether. Let fry until tender, stirring often. Just be- 
fore taking off add the bean sprouts, which must not be 
cooked too long, as they are better when little more than 
half done. Drain off the liquor, add a little flour to the 
chicken, salt to taste. Just at the last add a teaspoon of 
the brown sauce. Pour all over the chop suey, stir to- 
gether and serve. 

RECIPE 229. TAMALES. 

Boil a fowl until tender; salt while boiling; remove 
the meat, chop fine and season with a little garlic and 
abundant cayenne pepper. Make a thick paste of a cup 
of cornmeal mixed with a little boiling water. Form the 
meat into rolls about the size of the little finger and in- 
case each roll in cornmeal paste. Wrap each tamale in 
the inner husk of an ear of corn, washing the husks well 
first; drop the tamales into the stock in which the chicken 
was boiled, add 2 or 6 Mexican peppers, and cook the 
tamales for fifteen minutes. 

RECIPE 231. SPANISH RICE. 

One onion, 1 piece of garlic cut fine, fry them with 
1 large green pepper, cut small and fry not too brown; 
then add 1 cup tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste and 
prepared chili. Take a pan with hot butter, put in rice 
and fry not too brown; then take rice and mix together 
with the sauce and cook slowly for 1 hour till rice is 
tender. 

RECIPE 232. SCOTCH HOT POT. 

Use for this 1 cup of cold beef or mutton, a cup of 
tomatoes, a large onion, 3 potatoes and some good gravy 
stock. Cut the meat in slices and fry in fat or drippings. 
Also fry the sliced onion until browned, and boil the 
potatoes until half done. Put a layer of meat in a shal- 
low pudding dish, then onion, tomatoes and potato slices. 



ENTREES 67 

Spread a little over the top and then pour over all some 
good stock well seasoned. Bake in a moderate oven until 
browned. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. 

RECIPE 233. GOULASH. 

Put in a sauce pan 2 tablespoons of butter, put on a 
quick fire and when butter boils add 3 small onions 
sliced and 2 or 3 slices of bacon. Cover the pan and Jet 
the onions and bacon get nice and brown. Then take 1 
cup of veal and lean pork and cut into small pieces and 
put into the pan with a little salt and a few tablespoons 
of tomato pulp. Do not put a drop of water in when 
meat is tender. Add paprika to taste and i/^ cup of 
cream. Reheat and serve with rice. 

RECIPE 234. ROAST LIVER. 

Take one-half of a calf's liver and wipe well with a 
cloth. Cut a deep gash in one side and into this stuff 
a dressing made of crumbs, an egg, chopped bacon and 
onions, seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, if needed. 
Sew or skewer the sides of the gash together, rub bacon 
drippings or other fat over the liver, and sprinkle over 
a little flour. Put a cup of water into the covered 
roaster, casserole or fireless cooker and let bake for an 
hour. Fry bacon in small bits with onion minced before 
putting it in dressing. 

RECIPE 235. SAVEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

1 cup sweet potato 1 tablespoon melted 

pulp butter 

V2 teaspoon salt V^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon sugar Vs cup chopped almonds 

One egg well beaten 

Parboil potatoes and when tender force through a 
sieve; add butter and egg and seasoning. Allow to stand 
for several hours in a refrigerator. Shape into balls, dip 
in egg then in crumbs and fry in deep fat heated until a 
cube of bread will turn a golden brown in 40 seconds. 
Drain and use to garnish chicken dish. 

RECIPE 236. ESCALLOPED SPAGHETTI AND HAM. 

V2 pound spaghetti i/4 cup grated cheese 

1 cup cooked ham, 2 tablespoons flour 

minced 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup milk 



68 ENTREES 

Boil spaghetti until tender in salted water. Season 
the sauce to taste. 

In a buttered baking dish put a layer of spaghetti, 
sprinkle with minced ham and pour over some of the 
white sauce, then another layer of spaghetti, ham and 
sauce until all is used. Cover the top with the grated 
cheese and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

(This will serve about five or six.) 

RECIPE 237. EGG CROQUETTES. 



2 tablespoons butter 


1/4 


teaspoon pepper 


2 tablespoons flour 


1/2 


teaspoon salt 


1 cup milk 


1/4 


teaspoon paprika 


1 egg yolk 


1 


teaspoon onion 


4 hard boiled eggs 




juice 


1 white of egg 


8 


oysters 



Melt butter, add flour, then milk (with beaten yolk 
in it). Add seasoning, mince the hard boiled eggs and 
add to sauce. Parboil the oysters when the egg mixture 
gets cold. Take a spoonful and surround each oyster 
with it. Roll in dry bread crumbs, then in the raw 
white of egg, wet with a little water, then roll again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 238. TOMATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups tomatoes ,» V2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 14 teaspoon paprika 

% cup cream of wheat 1 bay leaf 

or Farina 1 pinch herbs 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Few drops onion juice if desired 

Simmer tomatoes with seasonings. Stir well until 
cooked smooth. Add Farina gradually, stirring it in as in 
making mush. Stir until well cooked and thick. Set 
away to get cold, then shape up into croquettes and fol- 
low rule for Deep Fat Frying (see Index). Nice served 
with chicken, veal or game, etc. 

RECIPE 239. CHEESE BALLS NO. 1. 

V2 cup dry bread 14 teaspoon salt 

crumbs i/4 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup grated cheese A few grains cayenne 

1 egg pepper 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg, shape in small balls 
and fry in deep fat. 



ENTREES 



RECIPE 240. CHEESE BALLS NO. 2. 

Put 3 tablespoons cheese in mortar with 1 tablespoon 
finely minced ham, 3 tablespoons grated bread crumbs, 1 
teaspoon dry mustard, butter size of an egg, 2 or 3 grains 
cayenne and yolk of 1 egg well beaten. Pound all to- 
gether until perfectly smooth, then form into balls the 
size of a walnut, flatten to thickness of Vz inch, dip in 
batter and fry until lightly browned. This will take 
2 or 3 minutes. Drain and serve. 

These can be used in consomme or served hot as a 
relish. 

RECIPE 241. CHEESE STRAAVS. 

1 cup grated cheese Salt and cayenne to 

1 cup flour taste 

Yolk of 1 egg 1 tablespoon butter 

Mix flour, cheese, salt and cayenne together. Moisten 
with beaten yolks and melted butter. Work into a paste, 
chill on ice, roll out in a thin sheet, cut in strips 4 inches 
long Ys inch wide. Bake a light brown in hot oven. 

RECIPE 242. WELSH RAREBIT. 

1 teaspoon butter 2 or 3 drops Tabasco 
Vs pound soft, sharp sauce 

cheese Vs cup ale or beer 

1/4 teaspoon mustard 1 egg 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, add cheese broken into small pieces and 
melt, stirring constantly, add seasoning, then slowly stir 
in the ale, then the slightly beaten egg. Serve at once 
on hot toast or wafers. 



RECIPE 243. SAGE RAREBIT. 

Vz pound full-cream i^ teaspoon salt 

sage cheese % teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons flour 1 Vz cups rich milk 

Cut the cheese fine and put together with the flour 
in a double boiler top. Slightly beat the egg yolks and add 
them with the other ingredients to the cheese. Cook over 
hot water till smooth, stirring often. Serve on heated 
crackers or buttered toast. When cold this makes a de- 
licious sandwich filling. 



70 ENTREES 



RECIPE 244. NUT BALLS. 

% pound cold sweetbreads or other meat and 
1 dozen chopped blanched almonds 
Add 1 egg and form into balls 

Roll in raw egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep 
hot fat, hot enough to brown a crumb of bread in 40 
seconds. 

CHAFING DISH. 

Many entrees are delightfully prepared in a chaffing 
dish. A careful study of the chapters on Entrees and 
also Left-Overs will show many recipes which are suit- 
able for chafing dish cooking. 

RECIPE 245. LOBSTER A LA NEWBURGH. 

1 cup lobster meat 2 or 3 drops Tabasco 

4 tablespoons butter sauce 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup thin cream 

2 egg yolks Pinch nutmeg 

V2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons Sherry 

wine 

Have lobster meat in small pieces, melt butter, add 
lobster, cook two minutes, add seasonings, then wine. 
Beat yolks a little, add them to the cream, then add this 
to the lobster in the pan, stir constantly until it thick- 
ens. Serve at once hot, with toast. 

RECIPE 246. CRABMEAT A LA NEWBURGH. 

Use crabmeat instead of lobster. 

RECIPE 247. LOBSTER BRITANNIA. 

Saute the meat of 2 small or 1 large boiled lobster 
in butter. Having cut it into small pieces, add to it 1 
small boiled cauliflower that has been cooked and cut 
in short lengths. Add a cup of cream in which an egg 
has been beaten, pepper, salt and a teaspoon of Worces- 
tershire sauce. Let it boil up once and serve garnished 
with cress. This may be served on toast or with hot 
finger rolls. 

RECIPE 248. CRAB FLAKES A LA DEWEY. 

For % pound of crab flakes, slice 4 or 6 mush- 
rooms and a large green pepper; cook them slowly in 
butter, then add the crab flakes, a gill of white wine and 



ENTREES 71 

sherry and enough cream to cover the crab flakes. Let 
simmer for five minutes without stirring, then add the 
belly part of a dozen steamed soft clams, bind the sauce 
with 3 raw egg yolks diluted in cream and 2 tablespoons 
of butter; season to taste and serve with fresh, hot 
toast on the side. 

REOIPE 249. MRS. JARVIS' CHICKEN AND CORN 
PIE. 

One 4-pound chicken, boiled till tender. Season with 
salt, pepper, 1 small onion and 1 sprig parsley and 1 bay 
leaf. Shred very fine and set to cool. 

Grate 8 cobs of corn very fine, add 1 1/^ tablespoons 
sugar, 1 y2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 
mix all the above with grated corn. Simmer 15 cents 
ground beef and veal mixed, with 1 small chopped onion, 
1 teaspoon butter and 1 tablespoon water to keep from 
burning. Add 2 chopped peppers, sprig of parsley and 1 
tomato. Season with salt, pepper, Spanish pepper, thyme 
and carmon seeds. Be sure to mix meat and tomatoes 
with peppers. When all is prepared, put in pie plates well 
lined with butter, then line same with layer of grated 
corn, layer of shredded chicken, layer of minced meat 
(as prepared above), and then layer of corn and con- 
tinue same until pie plate is full. Lastly take 10 or 12 
good sized olives, put on top of pie, and have prepared 
z hard boiled eggs, chopped very fine. Sprinkle same 
over top of pie, put on cover of grated corn to serve as 
crust, and small bits of butter on top. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

For a small family divide this recipe, reserving best 
parts of chicken for some other chicken dish. 



72 POULTRY AND GAME 



CHAPTER VII 
Poultry and Game 



RECIPE 250. ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a tender young hen turkey having a slightly 
bluish-lavender tinge. The big, fat white hens or gob- 
blers are frequently not so tender, as they are older and 
are carrying "weight for age." Two medium-sized hens 
are preferable to one very large bird, if a large number 
of persons are to be served. Pick the bird clean of all 
pinfeathers, singe and draw it. Be careful not to over- 
look the "craw," which lies at the base of the neck, in 
front, up over end of the breast bone. Pull skin back 
from over the neck, cut neck off short at the body, but 
allow neck skin to remain so that it can be sewed back 
under the body, leaving a trim, neat look when bird is 
trussed for cooking. 

If bird has not been drawn, have a sharp knife, take 
hold of bird by the lower end of breast bone and make 
a slit in the flesh across the bird, just under the breast 
bone. Now run your hand inside bird, close up to the 
neck, as far as the hand will go. Gently curve fingers 
downward until they take hold of the entrails of bird, 
now begin to draw hand out of the bird, having the fin- 
gers enclosing entrails and gradually loosening them 
from the little muscles which hold them to the backbone. 
If this is done carefully there is not the slightest danger 
of their breaking. Withdraw hand and bring entrails 
outside bird onto table. You will find one intestine at- 
tached to the "vent." Use your knife carefully and cut 
out the entire vent which will then release intestine at- 
tached to it. Now slip your hand back up into the bird 
and remove the lungs, which lie high up near the back 
bone. They are bright red and spongy looking. 

Pick up the entrails and you will find the liver, giz- 
zard and heart attached to them. You will also notice 
the little bright green sac which is attached to the liver. 
This is the gall bag and you must be very careful not to 
cut into it, for it is a well known saying, "bitter as gall," 
and one drop of this fluid on the meat would ruin it. 
Carefully cut far enough away from the gall bag not to 
cut it. It is attached to one side of one lobe of the liver. 



POULTRY AND GAME 73 

This side of the liver has a slightly green tinge. Do not 
use it. The gizzard is attached to the large intestine. 
Cut intestine short off at the gizzard. Make an incision 
on one side of gizzard, deep enough to reach the little 
sac which is inside and holds the sand or corn. Turn 
the gizzard inside out, wash well and pull from it 
the yellow lining which is there. Cut the heart loose, 
wash and trim neatly. Put the gizzard, heart and liver 
into sauce pan with water and let simmer all the time 
the turkey is roasting. 

Now wash the turkey quickly inside and out for a 
moment with cold water, wipe dry and shake inside of it, 
salt and pepper. Now lightly fill the body of the bird 
with a nice stuffing, recipes for which will be found be- 
low. Do not stuff bird too full, as the stuffing will swell 
a little as it bakes. Sew up neatly the place that you cut 
open. Take turkey firmly in the left hand, turn it up on 
end so that you can stuff the skin at the neck, from which 
you removed the craw. This will usually hold about two 
iron spoons of stuffing and this not only shapes the bird 
well but keeps the meat from drying too much. When 
the neck cavity has been filled, draw the skin from 
the neck well back under the bird, sew it down to place. 
Now gently press the turkey until you have given the 
neck stuffing a rounding shape. 

Trussing a bird means to securely fasten the wings 
and legs into place close to the body. A bird that is un- 
trussed while cooking will not have the neat appearance 
that a trussed bird has, as legs and wings will stick out 
at grotesque angles. To truss, run a long iron skewer 
into the bird through the body below the legs and another 
skewer just back of the wings. Now have a strong piece 
of string. Wrap it securely around each leg, drawing it 
closely to the body. Wrap the string also around the 
skewer and tie it tight so that it will not come loose 
when bird is cooking. The same string can be long 
enough to continue and wrap around the body of the bird 
by the wings, or a second piece of string may be used. 
See that it is well fastened. When the bird is well 
trussed rub it well with drippings or lard, then shake 
plenty of flour over it, then salt and pepper. Put into 
a very hot oven ana bake very fast for fifteen minutes, 
then turn the fire down to a medium heat and let the 
bird cook until done. The time is usually allowed for a 
tender bird, tv/enty minutes to the pound. 

To test when the bird is done, do not put the fork 
into the breast where the meat is more inclined to be dry, 
but just under the fleshy part of the thigh bone, Fre- 



74 POULTRY AND GAME 

quently the breast will cook first and if the bird is tested 
in breast, it may be done and the meat under the thigh 
still underdone. When you withdraw the fork look and 
see if the juice which runs from the bird is tinged with 
blood — if so, it is not done. If the juice which runs out 
is only a clear, oily-looking substance it is done. Turn 
off the fire from the oven, remove the bird onto another 
pan, while you make the gravy. 

Cut the giblets fine through the grinder and add the 
water they cooked in, with the giblets, to the gravy in 
the turkey pan. If the gravy is very oily looking, remove 
part of the fat and put it away for the next day. Add 
the giblets, season, add enough boiling water to make a 
nice gravy, thicken with flour and water. Let simmer 
until well cooked. Turn into the gravy boat, place the 
turkey on the platter and serve hot. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SERVING POULTRY AND GAME. 

Serve turkey with brown gravy, cranberry sauce or 
cranberry jelly, or wild plums or Damson plum jam. 
Many persons who do not care for cranberries will find 
plum jam a delightful addition. A little spice added to 
plum jam gives a welcome flavor. 

Wild or domestic ducks are usually served with 
onions prepared in some way. Creamed onions or onions 
stuffed with nuts are very nice. Duck is always served 
with currant jelly. Spiced plum jam is also nice. 

Venison roasted or broiled is served with currant 
jelly or with Cumberland sauce (see Index). 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter (see Index) is nice with 
broiled venison. Game is always served rare. Fifteen 
minutes baking to the pound, or less. Rice Croquettes 
with jelly are nice with grouse, partridges or quail. 
Parsnip balls are nice with chicken or game. Corn oys- 
ters can be served with chicken instead of corn fritters. 
Surprise croquettes with peas are nice with poultry or 
game. 

RECIPE 251. ONION AND SAUSAGE STUFFING FOR 
TURKEY, CHICKEN AND GAME. 

Before beginning to clean the bird, put into a frying 
or sauce pan, 14 pound bulk sausage, 1 large onion sliced 
very thin, 1 quart boiling water. Let this simmer gently 
all the time you are cleaning the bird. Have ready 1 
stale loaf of baker's bread. Break it into small pieces, 
crumbing it well with the fingers, or by rubbing the 
bread together, one piece on another. When bread is well 
crumbled into fine little pieces, add enough salt and 



POULTRY AND GAME 75 

pepper to taste well. Then add any herbs desired. 
Poultry seasoning is nice. This is a preparation which 
comes already ground and is composed of several kinds 
of herbs ground together. For a medium-sized loaf of 
bread (which is large enough for a seven-pound hen), 
add 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning, i^ teaspoon of paprika 
can be added. When onions and sausage are done gently 
add them, with the water they boiled in, to the seasoned 
bread crumbs. Use a fork to turn the crumbs lightly as 
onions and water go in. Do not use your hand to the 
mixing as it will make the stuffing heavy. Use just 
enough onion water to make the bread crumbs moder- 
ately moist. Break the sausage into small pieces and stir 
with the onions gently through the bread crumbs. See 
directions for stuffing the bird, sewing it up, etc., under 
Roast Turkey. 

Small birds like quail, partridges, etc., may also be 
stuffed, but require a much smaller amount, of course. 

A string of four to six link sausage are sometimes 
hung over the breast of a turkey when it is roasting. The 
fat from the sausage bastes the turkey nicely. All birds 
require frequent basting. 

RECIPE 252. OYSTER STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
CHICKEN. 

For a turkey, 1 quart, or for a chicken, 1 pint of 
oysters will be required. For a turkey, melt V2 cup of 
butter, add the oysters to the butter and stir them for 
a minute or two until they "ruffle." Take enough 
cracker crumbs, which, added to the oysters, will fill the 
turkey. Stir the melted butter and oysters into the 
cracker crumbs, add a little hot water to the frying pan 
to get the melted butter from it, add this water to the 
cracker crumbs, having them moderately moist. Add 
salt, pepper and paprika to season very highly. Put the 
stuffing lightly into the bird. See directions for stuffing 
under Roast Turkey. 

RECIPE 253. CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR TURKEYS. 

4 cups chestnuts i^ cup milk or cream 

1 cup cracker crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 cup melted butter i/4 teaspoon pepper 



Shell the chestnuts and cover with boiling water for 
a minute or two, then remove the brown skin. Put the 
blanched chestnuts into salted boiling water and cook 



76 POULTRY AND GAME 

until tender. Drain and mash them well. If you have a 
potato ricer, use that. Add melted butter to cracker 
crumbs, stir them into the chestnuts thoroughly, add 
cream and seasoning. Mix with a fork. Stuff lightly 
into bird. Follow directions for stuffing and trussing 
the bird in recipe for Roast Turkey. 



RECIPE 254. NUT AND RAISIN STUFFING FOR 
TURKEYS. 



1 loaf stale bread 


1 


teaspoon salt 


crumbled 


1/4 


teaspoon pepper 


% cup chopped Eng- 


% 


teaspoon paprika 


lish walnuts 


1 


teaspoon poultry 


% cup raisins 




seasoning 



Use seeded raisins, put them on in 1 cup water and 
let them simmer for five minutes. Use the water they 
cooked in to add a little moisture to the stuffing. Use 
just enough to make bread only a little moist. The 
amount will depend upon staleness and quality of the 
bread. Chop the raisins slightly before adding them to 
the dressing. Stir all the ingredients lightly into the 
bread. Proceed for stuffing and trussing the turkey as in 
recipe given under Roast Turkey. 



RECIPE 255. PEANUT STUFFING. 

1 cup cracker crumbs % teaspoon onion salt 
Vz cup cream V2 cup minced peanuts 

2 tablespoons melted V2 spoon salt 

butter Vs teaspoon pepper 

1^ teaspoon celery seed % teaspoon paprika 

For a change try stuffing duck or goose with Peanut 
Stuffing. 

Mix all of the ingredients lightly together with a 
fork. Follow directions for stuffing and trussing birds 
under recipe for Roast Turkey. The legs of a duck or 
goose are much shorter than a turkey or chicken, so the 
string must be well fastened to each leg (wrap it around 
each leg twice), and drawn tightly back to the body of 
the bird and tied securely to the skewer run through the 
body for that purpose. Geese and ducks should have 
strips of salt pork or bacon laid over the breasts to keep 
them from becoming too dry in the roasting. 



POULTRY AND GAME 77 



RECIPE 256. POTATO 


STUFFING. 


1/^ pound bulk sausage 


2 cups hot mashed 


1/^ teaspoon poultry 


potatoes 


seasoning 


11/^ cups soft, stale 


iy2 teaspoon salt 


bread crumbs 


1/^ teaspoon pepper 


1 egg 


1/4 teaspoon paprika 


1 minced onion 



Fat from the pan sausage fried out 

Break the sausage into little pieces, put it into a hot 
frying pan with the minced onion, let them cook for a 
few minutes until the onion begins to turn yellow. Beat 
the egg into the mashed potato thoroughly, add the other 
ingredients, putting in the sausage and onion last. One- 
half cup of salt pork minced can be used instead of sau- 
sage if desired. In this case also add about Vs cup melted 
butter to the potato mixture. Cook the onion for a few 
minutes in the salt pork. 

RECIPE 257. ONION STUFFING FOR WILD DUCIvS. 

The stuffing with Onions and Sausage (see Index) is 
nice for wild birds of all kinds. Sometimes a small 
onion has a whole clove stuck into it and the onion is 
then placed inside of the bird. These onions are not 
eaten as they are for seasoning purposes only. 

RECIPE 258. POULTRY OR FISH DRESSING. 

(This quantity is sufficient for a medium-sized 
chicken, or a large fish. For turkey, the recipe will have 
to be tripled or quadrupled.) 

cup milk (hot) 
teaspoon salt 
teaspoon pepper 
teaspoon sage 
teaspoon savory 

1 level tablespoon grated onion 
Mix together the crumbs and seasoning. Mix the 
hot milk and the butter and add to the crumbs. 

RECIPE 259. CORN MEAL STUFFING. 

1 cup yellow corn 1 teaspoon salt 

meal % teaspoon pepper 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 teaspoon herbs 

3 tablespoons butter 14 teaspoon paprika 
1 cup hot water 



'z, cups dry bread 


% 


crumbs 


11/2 


1 cup cracker crumbs 


1/4 


V2 cup butter or part 


1 


drippings 


1/4 



78 POULTRY AND GAME 

Mix dry ingredient, melt butter in hot water, toss 
lightly through dry ingredients, having them moderately 
moist. Bread crumbs about one day old. 

RECIPE 260. FRICASSEE OF CHICIiEN. 

Cut up a fowl which has been picked, singed and 
washed. Put it on in a deep sauce pan and cover with 
cold water. If it seems to be a very tough fowl add a 
quarter of a teaspoon of baking soda to water. Let it 
cook at a slow, simmering heat until tender. The time 
will depend upon the age of bird, usually about three to 
four hours. Season when about half cooked. Allow plenty 
of time, for if the bird is tender before it is needed it can 
be left in its broth until needed and simply warmed up 
again, while a bird which is underdone is undesirable. 
When the fowl is ready to serve, remove for a few mo- 
ments onto a hot pan while you thicken the gravy. If 
desired, milk or cream may be added to the broth in 
which the fowl was stewed. Thicken the broth with 
flour which has been wet with enough water to make a 
paste thin enough to pour. Stir until the gravy thickens, 
put the chicken back into the gravy to heat again for a 
moment. Put hot baking powder biscuits on a platter, 
place the pieces of fowl on top and pour over part of the 
gravy. Serve more gravy in a sauceboat. 

RECIPE 261. CHICIiEN FRICASSEE SOUTHERN 
STYLE. 

Follow the directions for cleaning, singing and cut- 
ting up the fowl. Roll each piece in flour and saute it in 
salt pork fat, until nice and brown. Put the chicken 
when it is brown into a deep sauce pan, cover with boil- 
ing water, add a bay leaf, a slice of onion and let simmer 
until tender. Add salt and pepper when the bird is about 
half done. When tender, thicken the gravy with flour 
and water and serve over hot baking powder biscuits. 
Sometimes rich pie dough is rolled about half an inch 
thick, cut into diamond-shaped pieces, and baked and 
then used under the fowl on the platter. Cover with 
gravy and serve hot. 

RECIPE 262. PLAIN FRIED CHICIiEN. 

For this purpose be sure to select a young chicken. 
Clean, singe and disjoint. Roll in flour and saute in the 
frying pan with enough fat to brown it well. Salt fat 
pork "tried out" makes a very nice fat for sauteing 
chickens. Cut the salt pork into small pieces and fry it 



POULTRY AND GAME 79 

slowly in the pan. When the pork is brown and crisp re- 
move the pork scraps, leaving the fat in the pan for the 
chicken. Cook chicken slowly, turning frequently. It 
will take about twenty to thirty minutes in which to cook 
the chicken. Remove chicken from the pan, add hot 
water or milk to the fat in the pan, thicken witn flour 
and water. Put the chicken on a hot platter and serve 
the gravy in a sauceboat. The chicken may be served on 
buttered toast if desired. Season when about half done. 

RECIPE 263. FRIED CHICKEN COUNTRY STYLE. 

Proceed as for Plain Fried Chicken. When chicken 
has been cooked until a light brown, cover it with cream 
or milk and let simmer very slowly for about twenty-five 
minutes. Remove from the pan onto slices of hot toast 
on a platter. Thicken the gravy in the pan with flour 
and water, pour over the pieces of chicken and toast. 
Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 264. FRIED CHICKEN MARYLAND STYLE. 

Clean, singe and disjoint a young chicken, having it 
cut into at least ten pieces, roll each piece in flour, then 
in egg, then in dry bread crumbs. Take 14 pound of salt 
pork, cut it into small pieces and saute it in an iron fry- 
ing pan until the pork is crisp, then skim out the bits of 
pork. Into this hot fat lay the pieces of chicken. Cover 
well and let cook very slowly for about thirty minutes 
until well done and nice and brown. Turn each piece 
frequently so that it may be brown on all sides. When 
chicken is done remove from the pan to a warm place. 
Pour off all the fat from the pan except 4 tablespoons. 
Into these 4 tablespoons of fat, add 3 level spoons flour. 
Stir rapidly until flour is mixed, then add 1 1/^ cups of 
cream or milk, stir until it thickens. Add i/^ teaspoon 
salt to the gravy and pepper and paprika to taste. Put 
the chicken on slices of buttered toast, pour the gravy 
over the chicken. Serve with Corn Fritters (see Index), 
or Corn Oysters (see Index). 

RECIPE 265. FRITOT OF CHICKEN. 

Prepare a young chicken by cleaning, singing and 
disjointing into about ten pieces. Put the pieces of 
chicken into an iron frying pan and cover them with 
cold milk or cream. Cover and let simmer for thirty 
minutes very slowly. Have a slow fire and the milk will 
not burn. W^hen chicken is cooked add enough flour 
and water to the milk in the pan to make a very thick 



80 POULTRY AND GAME 

White Sauce, as heavy as a No. 3 White Sauce (see 
Index). Have each piece of chicken well covered with 
this White sauce. Remove from pan and set away for 
at least half an hour to get cool, then roll each piece of 
chicken in dry bread crumbs, then in egg, then in bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat until brown, about a minute. 
Heat the White sauce which remains from the first pro- 
cess and thin it down to the right consistency for a gravy. 
The chicken can be served on toast if desired. Serve 
gravy in a sauceboat. Do not pour it over the chicken, 
as that will soften the crisp crust around the chickeii. 
Serve very hot. Garnish with parsley if desired. In the 
winter, when young chickens are scarce, fowl may be used 
but must first be stewed until tender in water, then cov- 
ered with the thick White sauce and set away to cool. 
Then follow directions for frying, proceeding just as for 
the young chicken. 

RECIPE 266. CHICIvEN CREOLE. 

Cut up a young chicken weighing about one and one- 
half pounds into quarters. Roll each piece in flour and 
saute a nice brown in any fat desired, salt pork, lard or 
butter. Cook very slowly about thirty minutes. When 
done put it in a hot pan in the oven to keep warm. Put 
into the fat the chicken fried in, 14 cup of minced onion, 
and if desired a small piece of garlic. Saute these for 
two or three minutes, then stir in 1 cup of tomato puree 
or cooked tomatoes, 2 tablespoons of minced cold boiled 
ham, 1 minced pimiento, and 1 tablespoon minced pars- 
ley. Add 1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon kitchen 
bouquet and stir all the ingredients well. Then add the 
chicken, cover it well and let all simmer together slowly 
for ten minutes until chicken absorbs the flavor of the 
sauce. Serve on toast with the sauce poured over it. The 
sauce can be strained or not, as desired. 

RECIPE 267. BROILED CHICKEN. 

Clean and singe a tender young chicken and split it 
down the back. Press it down hard on the board to make 
the inside bones flatten down a little. Cover the skin 
side with melted butter and place on a broiler with skin 
side up. Let it broil for five minutes, then turn it over 
with skin down. Let it cook slowly for ten minutes. Re- 
move from broiler and put into a shallow pan, add some 
butter and season well and put into the oven to bake for 
five or ten minutes. It needs the oven finishing, as a 
chicken is apt to get too brown under the broiler l3efore 



POULTRY AND GAME 81 

inside of the chicken has time to cook. Baste once or 
twice with melted butter, while it is in the oven. When 
ready to serve place on toast on a hot platter and serve 
with Maitre d'Hotel Butter (see Index). 

RECIPE 268. CHICKEN GOULASH. 

Disjoint a young chicken, saute a nice brown, then 
put into Dutch oven or a casserole. To the fat in which 
the chicken was sauted, add 2 medium-sized minced 
onions, 1 carrot which has been boiled and sliced, saute 
for two or three minutes then skim them out and add to 
the chicken in. the casserole. Pour out of the frying pan 
all of the fat except about 4 tablespoons, add to this 2 
tablespoons of flour, stir for a minute until smooth, then 
add 2 cups of hot water, stir well, season to taste with 
salt, pepper and paprika, add 1 cup tomatoes or a tomato 
puree, stir until it boils, then pour this sauce over the 
chicken in the casserole. Cover and let cook very slowly 
about twenty minutes if it is a very young chicken. A 
hen may be cooked in this way but more water must be 
added and the hen must be cookea slowly in the casserole 
at least three hours. Serve hot boiled rice with this dish 
or Corn Fritters or Corn Oysters are nice with it. 

RECIPE 368B. ROAST CHICIiEN. 

See recipe for Roast Turkey. Proceed in the same 
manner, substituting chicken for the turkey. 

RECIPE 269. PLANIOED CHICKEN. 

Clean, singe and thoroughly wash a tender young 
chicken. Split it down the backbone, wipe out the inside 
with a damp cloth, being sure to remove the lungs and 
any cords which may be clinging to it. With a cleaver 
or a potato masher, crack the inside bones a little so that 
the chicken will lie flat. Put little skewers into the 
chicken to fasten the wings to the body and the legs flat. 
Cover with a little melted butter and put under the gas 
broiler or over coals for about five minutes, with the 
skin side away from the fire. Then turn and let the 
chicken cook on the skin side for five minutes. Now put 
it in a shallow pan in the oven and let it bake about 
twenty minutes, basting frequently. Heat the plank in 
the oven for five minutes. Place the chicken on it, skin 
side up. Make a border of mashed potatoes, of boiled rice 
or hominy around the chicken, on the plank. Stuffed 
baked tomatoes may be placed on the plank with the 



82 POULTRY AND GAME 

potatoes. See Index for directions for planking. Place 
the planked chicken in the broiler, or in oven and let 
the potatoes brown nicely. Serve on the plank, 

RECIPE 270. CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Pick a tender young hen, have it drawn, washed and 
singed. Put it whole into a deep vessel of cold water. 
Let it come slowly to the boil and then let it simmer until 
tender. Add seasoning when about one-half done. A 
bay leaf and one onion can be cooked with it if desired. 
The time of cooking varies according to the age of the 
chicken. Probably three to four hours. When tender 
remove from fire, let it stand in the broth until cold. 
For a small family one-half the chicken will be enough. 
The legs, wings, neck and giblets can be reserved for 
Chicken Hash Southern Style (see Index), or Chicken 
Croquettes (see Index), or Chicken With Rice (see 
Index). 

Cut the breasts and thighs into pieces about one 
inch in size. This will make about a cupful. Then fol- 
low recipe as below. 

For a small family, if desired, reserve the breasts 
and thigh for Fritot of Chicken (see Index), or a 
Chicken Supreme (see Index). In this case, use the legs, 
wings, neck and giblets for the Chicken a la King, cut- 
ting in as large pieces e.s possible. 

One large hen will serve eight people plenteously, 
by adding double the amount of all the other ingredients. 

RECIPE 271. CHICKEN A LA KING FOR TWO. 

First Part. 

1 tablespoon of butter 1 pimiento 

1 tablespoon minced i/^ can mushrooms, 

onion sliced 

1 tablespoon flour 3 cups sweet cream or 

1 green pepper milk 

y2 teaspoon salt 

Second Part. 

1 cup chicken 1 tablespoon lemon 

2 tablespoons butter juice 

2 yolks eggs i^ teaspoon paprika 

To mix First Part, melt butter, stir in onion, fry for 
a moment, then add pimiento, green pepper, mushrooms 
and seasoning; stir two or three minutes, add flour, stir 
this in thoroughly, then add cream or milk, and last the 



POULTRY AND GAME 83 

little knife and run it along the breast bone on either side 
chicken. Set this where it will keep hot while you pre- 
pare the Second Part. 

To mix Second Part, cream the yolks of eggs, then 
cream the butter and slowly stir in the yolks into the 
creamy butter; when nice and smooth stir this butter 
and egg mixture into the chicken mixture. Let this cook 
for just a minute or two until the egg has "set," then add 
the lemon juice. Have a sufficient number of slices of 
toast ready and pour the meat and sauce on the toast. 
Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 272. PLAIN CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Boil hen until tender, then reserve wings, giblets 
and legs for some other dish and cut up the breast and 
thighs for Chicken a la King. 

Cut in pieces 
y2 can mushrooms 1 pimiento 1 green pepper 

Take 1 pint of the chicken broth, add the pimientos, 
green pepper and mushrooms, 1 cup of milk or cream, 
season to taste and thicken with enough flour to make 
a nice thick sauce. Serve hot on toast. 

RECIPE 273. CHICKEN AVINGS AVITH RICE. 

Nice way to use the left-over wings and legs. Boil 
1/^ cup of rice until tender in 1 quart of boiling water. 
Drain and dry. Put rice on a platter, place wings and 
legs on the rice and pour over all a nice chicken gravy 
from the broth in which chicken was cooked. 

RECIPE 274. EGGS POACHED IN CHICIiEN GRAVY. 

Take the required number of eggs, poach them in 
chicken gravy, place them on toast and pour over them 
the gravy in which they were poached. A minced 
pimiento or a green pepper can be added for a change. 

RECIPE 275. SUPREME OF CHICKEN NO. 1. 

Clean, draw and singe a tender hen. Put it on 
whole to cook in a kettle of cold water. Let it come 
slowly to boiling point and let it simmer until tender. 
When about half done add salt and a few peppercorns. 
A bay leaf can be added and an onion if desired. When 
tender let it cool in the broth in which it cooked. When 
ready to serve remove the fillets attached to the top joint 
of the wing. The fillets are the breasts which lie along 
the breast bone. To remove them nicely have a sharp 



84 POULTRY AND GAME 

of the bone. Gently slip it under the meat, continuing 
the process until the meat is loose from the bone up to 
the wing joint. Do not remove the meat from the wing, 
but cut the wing loose fro.m the body of the chicken and 
have the fillet still attached to it. Cut off the lower tip of 
the wing, leaving only the upper joint attached to the 
fillet. Dip these fillets and wing joints in a nice fritter 
batter and fry in deep fat. When brown (in about one 
minute) lay them on slices of toast and pour around them 
a White Sauce No. 1, or a Perigeux Sauce (see Index). 
The rest of the chicken can be used up in various ways, 
in Chicken Croquettes, a Supreme of Chicken No. 2, lOr 
Creamed Chicken Southern Style (see Index). 

RECIPE 276. SUPREME OF CHICIiEN NO. 2. 

Boil chicken whole until very tender. For a small 
family make a Supreme No. 1, for the first day, out of the 
two breasts (fillets) of chicken. The next day put the 
meat from the rest of the chicken through a grinder. 
This will make about 1 cup of ground chicken. Take the 
recipe for Chicken Croquettes (see Index) and make up 
the chicken croquette mixture and set it away to get cold, 
just as you do for croquettes. When ready to cook the 
Supremes, take the leg and thigh bones, scrape and clean 
them well of all gristle. Now take the bone and shape 
the chicken mixture around each bone, just as nearly as 
possible making it into the shape of the original meat 
which came around the bones. Roll each supreme in dry 
bread crumbs, then in egg, again in crumbs. Fry them 
in deep fat like a doughnut. Have the fat just hot 
enough to fry them brown in one to two minutes. Serve 
on toast, very hot. Serve with a White Sauce, a Perigeux 
Sauce or a Tomato Sauce or sauce with Peas and Carrots 
in Cream. Do not pour the sauce over but around them, 
as the Supremes want a crisp crust over them and the 
sauce will soften it. 

RECIPE 277. SUPREME OF CHICKEN NO. 3. 

Cut the fillets (or breasts) from tender young 
chickens, weighing from three to four pounds. See the 
recipe for Supreme of Chicken No. 1, for the process of 
removing the fillets with the wing first joint. Make the 
following White Sauce (Veloute Sauce) and let the fillets 
simmer in it for half an hour: 

1/4 cup butter V2 teaspoon salt 

1^ cup flour ~ 14 teaspoon pepper 

1 quart white stock i^ teaspoon paprika 

(chicken or veal) 



POULTRY AND GAME 85 

Melt butter, add flour, rub into a smooth paste, add 
the white stock and seasonings. Stir until it is smooth. 
Place fillets of the chicken into this sauce in a frying pan 
and put a slow fire under them. . Do not have a hot fire or 
the sauce will burn. When the fillets are done, see that 
each one is well covered with the White Sauce and set 
them away to get cool and the sauce to get firm. This 
should be done at least an hour before ready to finish 
cooking them. They are all the better for standing sev- 
eral hours. When nearly ready for the meal, put on a 
kettle of deep fat to heat. Roll the fillets in dry bread 
crumbs, egg, and then again in crumbs. Fry them in 
the hot fat for two or three minutes until nice and brown. 
Serve them on toast and pour the White Sauce which was 
left in the pan, well heated, around them. Serve at once. 
The entire chicken can be cooked in this way if desired, 
in which case disjoint it just as for plain fried chicken. 
If a Brown Sauce is desired add a few drops of Kitchen 
Bouquet to the milk sauce. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

See Recipe 157. 

RECIPE 278. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 

tablespoons flour 
cup strained tomato 
tablespoons sherry 

nutmeg grated 
teaspoon thyme 
teaspoon salt 
Dash Tabasco sauce 

Singe and draw the chicken. Cut it as you would 
for a fricassee. Dust with salt and pepper, then rub into 
the flesh the powdered thyme and nutmeg. Put the 
chicken in a frying basket and plunge it into deep hot 
fat. Cook slowly for fifteen minutes, then drain. Put it 
into a sauce pan with 4 tablespoons butter, the onion 
chopped fine, the mushrooms, the garlic sliced and 
mashed, and one chopped pickled walnut, if you have it. 
Shake over the fire for about three minutes, then dust 
over the flour. Mix, and add the tomato strained, the 
milk and i/^ cup of water. Cover and cook slowly for 
three-quarters of an hour. Then add the sherry and dish 
in a pyramid form. Garnish with fried eggs and serve 
at once. 



21/2 


pound chicken 


2 


1 


small onion 


1 


1 


tablespoon chopped 


4 




parsley 


1/4 


V2 


can mushrooms 


1 


1 


clove garlic 


1 


1/2 


cup milk 





86 POULTRY AND GAME 

Game 



RECIPE 279. ROAST DUCK. 

The feathers of ducks are easily removed by first 
wetting the thumb of the right hand. Hold bird by the 
leg and pick the feathers with an upward movement. The 
very fine down which lies close to the body may be singed 
off. The bird should be well washed after the singeing. 
The meat of all wild birds is inclined to be a little dry. 
For this reason do not cook them too long and it is well 
to wrap a piece of salt pork or bacon over the breasts 
while they are baking. Many persons lard the breasts 
with salt pork. This is done by means of a larding needle 
made for this purpose. The pork strips are drawn 
through the breasts several times and then allowed to 
remain there during the roasting process. Wild game is 
usually served more rare than domestic birds like 
chicken and goose. Do not allow over fifteen, minutes to 
tne pound for roasting. See general directions for stuff- 
ing (see Index). 

RECIPE 280. ROAST PARTRIDGE. 

See directions for Roast Duck. 

RECIPE 281. BROILED QUAIL. 

After the bird is picked and cleaned, split it down 
the back, rub a little salt and pepper on the inside and 
over the breast. Fasten with wooden toothpicks or a 
small skewer, a piece of bacon or salt pork over the 
breasts, and broil over a hot fire for a few minutes. The 
time required depends upon individual taste, some like 
all game very rare, so that the blood follows the knife 
when it is cut, others prefer their game well done. Game 
should not be overdone. 



RECIPE 282. ROAST QUAIL. 

Roast Quail may be served with a stuffing or not, as 
desired. Put a piece of bacon or salt pork over the 
breast while roasting. 



RECIPE 283. RABBIT OR HARE COUNTRY STYLE. 

Follow recipe for Chicken Country Style (see Recipe 
263), substituting rabbit or hare for chicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME 87 

RECIPE 284. FRIED BELGIAN HARE. 

Skin the hare carefully and see that no hairs re- 
main on the flesh. Disjoint the hare, cutting the hind 
legs each for one portion. Cut across the back, making 
two or three portions more, and then remove each front 
leg. The hind legs are considered the best part of the 
animal. Roll them in flour and saute in an iron fry- 
ing pan with sufficient fat to keep them from burning. 
Cook slowly with a cover over the pan and turn the 
pieces frequently that they may brown evenly on all 
sides. It will take about twenty minutes. When done, 
make a gravy from the fat in the pan. Allow one table- 
spoonful flour for each spoonful of fat. Rub the flour 
into the hot fat until smooth, then add either milk or 
water, one cupful for each spoonful of fat and flour. 
Season to taste. The hare should be seasoned in cooking 
when it is about half cooked. 



RECIPE 285. PRIED RABBIT. 

See recipe for Fried Belgian Hare. 

RECIPE 286. ROAST SQUABS. 

See recipe for Roast Quail. No. 282. 

RECIPE 287. BROILED SQUABS. 

See recipe for Broiled Quail. No. 281. 

RECIPE 288. PIGEOX OR SQUIRREL PIE. 

Disjoint and cover with cold water. Let simmer 
until tender, adding, if desired, a very small bay leaf, a 
slice or two of onion and carrot. One whole clove, salt, 
pepper should be added. Make a rich pie dough (see 
Index), line a deep pan with it, roll out the upper. crust. 
Thicken the sauce around the pigeon or squirrel. Have 
plenty of the sauce. Turn the stew into pan, quickly put 
on the upper crust and place at once on the bottom of a 
hot oven. As soon as the crust is baked the pie is done. 
Serve at once. The secret of all good meat pies is to 
have an abundance of gravy in the pie. The seasoning 
can be changed from time to time by the addition of 
various left-overs. A few tomatoes, potatoes, pimientoes, 
green peppers, peas, an olive or two, Worcestershire 
sauce, tomato catsup, etc. Any of these will give a wel- 
come change from monotony in seasoning. 



88 POULTRY AND GAME 

RECIPE 289. PIGEON, SQUIRREL OR SQUAB EN 
CASSEROLE. 

Clean well, roll in flour, saute in frying pan until 
brown. Squirrel should be cut into two or three pieces, 
birds should be left whole. When brown, place in cas- 
serole, add one cupful hot water to grease in frying pan, 
pour this over the meat in casserole, add one green pep- 
per sliced, one-half cupful tomatoes, three or four sliced 
olives, one tablespoonful minced parsley or sliced onion 
if desired. Season well. Cover and simmer slowly one 
hour, add a little flour to thicken the meat sauce. 



MEATS 89 

CHAPTER VIII 
Meats 



RECIPE 290. ROAST BEEF. 

Select a one-rib roast for a small family. Heat the 
roasting pan good and hot, place the roast in it without 
any water and sear it well on both sides to seal in the 
juices. Bake it in a quick oven for about ten minutes 
without water or fat. Now add a cup of boiling water 
to the pan, shake some salt, pepper and a little flour on 
the roast, turn the fire down to just a moderate heat and 
bake slowly until done. Allow fifteen minutes for each 
pound if you wish it rare, or twenty minutes to the 
pound if you want it well done. Baste frequently and 
when half done turn over the roast and season it on the 
under side, with salt and pepper. 

When it is done make a nice brown sauce from the 
juices in the pan. A few drops of Worcestershire sauce 
adds to the flavor of the sauce. If the sauce is not brown 
enough, add a teaspoon of Kitchen Bouquet, which will 
give it the required color. 

RECIPE 291. ROAST L.AMB. 

Follow the same process as in cooking beef. Serve 
with Brown Gravy, Mint Sauce or Mint Jelly. 

RECIPE 292. ROAST VEAL. 

Follow the same process as in beef, only veal is 
never served rare, so allow the full twenty minutes for 
each pound. Serve with Brown Gravy. 

RECIPE 293. ROAST PORK. 

Follow the same process as for beef, but allow a full 
twenty minutes for each pound. Serve with Brown 
Gravy. 

RECIPE 294. VENISON ROAST OR BROILED. 

Follow recipe for Cooking Roast Beef or Beef Steak, 
substituting venison for beef. Serve with Cumberland 
Sauce (see Index). 



90 MEATS 

RECIPE 295. BEEF LOAF. 

1 pound hamburger 1 tablespoon Worces- 

steak tershire sauce 

1 cup cracker crumbs 1 egg 

iy2 cups water or 1 teaspoon salt 

milk 1 teaspoon pepper 

V2 teaspoon paprika 

Shape this mixture into a loaf in a baking or roast- 
ing pan, put a cup of hot water around it with a table- 
spoon of lard or drippings. Cover the loaf lightly with 
flour and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, basting 
frequently. Make a nice Brown Sauce from the juice in 
the pan. If sauce is not brown enough, add Kitchen 
Bouquet. 

RECIPE 296. BEEF IX)AF CREOLE. 

Follow directions for plain Beef Loaf, but cover the 
loaf when you get it in the pan with a layer of tomatoes, 
a layer of minced boiled onions, a little chopped parsley 
and a few buttered bread crumbs. To vary this dish use 
chopped green peppers when they are in season. A 
chopped pimiento is also nice. A few bits of minced 
bacon or salt pork placed on top the bread crumbs gives 
added flavor. 

RECIPE 297. BEEF LOAF SPANISH. 

Follow directions for making Beef Loaf (see Index). 
Serve with a Spanish Sauce. 

RECIPE 298. SPANISH SAUCE. 

Simmer two cups tomatoes, two whole cloves, three 
peppercorns, one bay leaf, two sprigs parsley, two minced 
onions, one-half teaspoon salt for fifteen minutes. Rub 
two tablespoons butter with one of flour until smooth, 
then add it to the tomato sauce, stir until it thickens. 
Strain and pour over the hot beef loaf and serve at once 
on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. This sauce can 
be strained if desired. 

RECIPE 299. TAMALE LOAF (Contributed). 

Put through the meat grinder: 
1 cup veal or 3 tablespoons salt pork 

chicken 1 medium onion 

1 medium onion 1 clove garlic 



MEATS 91 

Saute these for 5 minutes in the frying pan, then 
add 1 cup corn, 1 cup tomatoes, 1 cup ripe olives 
(minced), 1 cup yellow corn meal, Vz cup olive oil, 1 
teaspoon salt, i/4 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon paprika. 
Let them all simmer 15 minutes, then add 1 beaten egg 
stirred into ^^ cup milk. Continue boiling for 15 min- 
utes, then put it all into a baking pan. Shape into a loaf 
and bake 2 minutes. This will keep for several days. 

RECIPE 300. BEEF LOAF ^V1TH RICE. 

Vz pound hamburger 1 large onion minced 

1 cup boiled rice 1 green pepper minced 

1 cup tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon paprika i^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Cook slowly one-half hour the tomatoes, butter, 
onion, green pepper and seasoning. Add rice. Mix well 
with hamburger. Shape into a loaf. Bake 20 minutes, 
or until brown, 

SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANKED STEAK, CHICKEN 
OR FISH. 

A very choice way of serving steak, chicken or fish 
is to use a plank. These planks can be bought in any 
store for general house furnishings, which carry kitchen 
utensils. It consists of a piece of oak or hickory, cut an 
inch and a half thick. Meats can be planked in the oven 
or under the gas broiler. If a gas broiler is used, place 
the plank at the lowest possible slide in the broiler, 
resting on the regular gas broiler. Articles cooked in 
this way have a delightful flavor and are rich in juices. 
Keep one side of the plank for cooking fish and the other 
for meats. A small cut in the side of the plank will 
enable you to always know which side is for the meats. 
Before using the plank heat it in the oven for five min- 
utes. The entire cooking of fish is done on the plank, 
but steaks must be partly broiled first before being 
placed on the plank (see Planked Steak, Index). When 
chickens are planked they are placed at once on the hot 
plank, but when nice and brown the cooking is finished 
in the oven (see Planked Chicken, Index), 

The use of a plank enables the artistic housewife to 
serve many appetizing dishes with very dainty borders 
of left-over dishes. Left-over meats, served with White 
Sauce No, 2, can be planked and the plank garnished 
with other left-over dishes; for example, mashed pota- 
toes, spaghetti and cheese, or macaroni and cheese, cold 



92 MEATS 

boiled rice, stringed beans, baked beans, etc., can all be 
used in making a border around left-overs of all kinds. 
Hard boiled eggs, riced and used in borders with creamed 
left-overs make a very pretty border, having one border 
of the whites and one border of the yolks. The oppor- 
tunity for pretty decorations is limited only by the in- 
genuity of the housewife. Hash, planked, with a border 
of mashed potatoes or some other left-over, may become 
an artistic triumph. Sliced tomatoes, with a light cover- 
ing of buttered bread crumbs, gives a delightful bit of 
color as well as taste. 

RECIPE 301. PLANKED STEAK. 

First broil the steak. Follow directions for Broiled 
Steak (see Index), but take the steak from the broiler 
when it has about five minutes more to cook. Place 
steak on a hot plank, and surround by a border of 
mashed potatoes, leaving room for any further decora- 
tion desired. For instance, when fresh tomatoes are in 
season, you can select nice, firm tomatoes, stuff and bake 
them (see Index), and have them ready cooked to put 
on the plank with the steak for a decoration. Allow 
one tomato for each person. Place them at proper dis- 
tance from one another to dress the plank well. Place 
plank into oven or bottom of broiler to cook for five 
minutes. Serve steak on the plank. The potato border 
will brown more quickly if slightly brushed with yolk of 
an egg. If the yolk or white of a left-over egg is well 
beaten with the potato before it is placed on the plank it 
will make it puff up nicely. By the use of a pastry tube 
and bag you can soon learn how to execute some very 
pretty designs with mashed potato borders. 

RECIPE 302. PLANKED FISH (see Index). 

RECIPE 303. PLANKED CHICIiEN (see Index). 

RECIPE 304. PLANKED LEFT-OVERS (see Index). 

RECIPE 305. BROILED STEAK. 

Do not make the mistake of having steak too thin. 
It should be at least an inch thick and it is all the better 
if one and one-half to two inches thick. Have broiler 
hot. Cook with a very hot fire for five minutes (turn it 
at the end of two or three minutes). As soon as the two 
sides are both well seared, so the juices cannot escape, 
reduce fire a little and let broil until done. Season with 
salt and pepper when steak is about half done. The time 



MEATS 93 

of cooking will depend upon thickness of steak and 
whether you like it well done, medium or rare. A 
medium steak should show a pinkish red in the center. 
Have a platter very hot, put steak on it, garnish with 
parsley and potato chips, if desired. Put a little butter 
over the top, or use a Maitre d'Hotel Butter (see Index). 
For a change, if you like it, gash the steak a little when 
it is on the platter, rub just a very little made mustard 
over it and pour on a sauce of three tablespoonsful 
melted butter in which you have put one teaspoonful 
Worcestershire sauce. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 306. STEAK COUNTRY STYLE. 

Take a flank or round steak, score it well on both 
sides, dip it in cold water for a minute, then brush it 
with vinegar and roll it in flour. Season with salt and 
pepper and saute it slowly in frying pan with dripping 
of ham, bacon or salt pork. When nice and brown, pour 
in one cupful of hot water or milk, cover well and let it 
simmer slowly one-half hour. Then thicken the gravy. 
Put meat on platter and pour gravy over it. 

RECIPE 307. VEAL STEAKS COUNTRY STYLE. 

Roll the slice of meat in flour. Saute in fat in fry- 
ing pan until a delicate brown. Cover with milk, put a 
lid on the pan and let the meat simmer for thirty min- 
utes. Season when about half done. Thicken the milk 
with a little flour. Serve on platter over the meat. If 
a Brown Sauce is desired, add a 'few drops of kitchen 
bouquet or caramel. 

RECIPE 308. MOCli DUCK. 

Take a round or flank steak. Cook it as in Steak 
Country Style until tender. Then lay it out flat and 
spread on it a stuffing of onions and bread crumbs (s^e 
Recipe 2.51). Roll up the steak, fasten the ends with 
little skewers, or tie it so that the stuffing cannot fall 
out. Place in the oven for fifteen minutes. Serve with 
the hot gravy from the pan. Extra nice if cooked in a 
casserole or a fireless cooker. 

RECIPE 309. GERMAN POT ROAST. 

Select a short, thick chunk of rump. Do not let the 
butcher sell you a long, thin piece of meat—insist upon 
a chunky cut. The "crosscut of the rump," it is some- 
times called. Different localities have different names 



94 MEATS 

for the same cuts. For a small family get about four 
pounds. It is difficult to cook a smaller roast well, and 
what is left over from the roast can be used up in many 
ways as a left-over. Have a heavy iron pot, deep enough 
to permit the roast to have an iron lid over the pot. A 
Dutch oven is ideal for this. Every house furnisher has 
them. Heat the pot very hot. Place the roast into it 
without any water in it. Turn the roast constantly every 
minute or two until the entire outside is well seared to 
keep the juices in. Let it simmer very slowly for fifteen 
minutes, well covered, and turning now and then. After 
this, add one teacupful hot water and let simmer for 
one hour. Then add one-fourth cupful vinegar, one bay 
leaf, one onion, one tablespoonful Worcestershire Sauce, 
one teaspoonful salt and four or five peppercorns. Let 
simmer well covered for four or five hours, very slowly. 
Look at it now and then that the water does not get too 
low. Never have over a cupful at a time in the pot. 
When very tender, remove from the pot and thicken the 
gravy with a little flour wet up with some water to a 
smooth, thin paste. If the gravy is not brown enough to 
suit, add a few drops of kitchen bouquet. Put the pot 
back where it will keep warm, put the roast into it and 
let stand until ready to serve. Put the roast on in plenty 
of time, so that you are sure it will have time to become 
tender. It can stand and wait for the dinner hour better 
than the dinner can wait for it. What is left of the roast 
after the meal can be used up in many ways. See Chap- 
ter on Left-Overs. If it is desired to serve carrots, to- 
matoes, turnips and potatoes with this roast, let the 
tomatoes cook with the roast for twenty minutes before 
you thicken the gravy. The other vegetables may be 
boiled in just enough salted water to keep them from 
scorching, until tender. Then at the last they may be 
added to the pot with the roast and thickened gravy and 
let stand for a few minutes that the flavors may blend. 
The vegetables are sometimes cooked with the roast, 
but great care must be taken that they do not slip under 
the roast and scorch. 

RECIPE 310. PLANK STEAK STUFFED AND 
BRAISED. 

Select a flank steak weighing about one and one- 
half pounds. Have the butcher peel off the superfluous 
fat and tissue and score both sides diagonally in opposite 
directions. Lay the steak flat on a meat board and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spread over it a thin 
layer of stuffing, roll lengthwise, very compactly, sew 



MEATS 95 

the overlaping edge securely, also the ends. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Place meat 
in well greased pan to brown richly, turning roll until 
it is browned all over. Then remove to a Dutch oven or 
casserole; rinse dripping pan with a little boiling water, 
pour over meat and surround with two cups stewed and 
strained tomato pulp, one onion thinly sliced, one green 
pepper shredded (after removing seeds and veins), two 
sprays parsley, the half of a small bay leaf and two 
tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce. Cover closely, place 
in oven and cook meat very slowly about three to four 
hours. Remove meat to serving platter. Dilute four 
tablespoons flour with cold water to the consistency to 
pour, add to sauce in pan, stir until well blended, season 
with salt and pepper, let simmer ten minutes, then strain 
around meat. Garnish with sprays of parsley or cress. 

RECIPE 311. MEAT PIE. 

Follow directions for Pigeon Pie or Squirrel Pie, 
substituting any left-over meat for the game. Have the 
meat simmer for several hours until it Is tender enough 
to fall apart. Tough meat may be treated in this way 
and with proper seasoning will make a delicious dish. 

RECIPE 312. SOUP MEAT PIE. 

Follow directions for Pigeon Pie or Squirrel Pie, 
remembering to add a tablespoonful of butter to the pie, 
to give a little richness which the soup lacks. It will 
require a little higher seasoning than meat from which 
the juice has not been taken. If onions are liked, add 
a generous portion of them. Tough parts of celery may 
be utilized by cooking tender and adding it with the 
water it boiled in to the stew of Soup Meat. 

RECIPE 313. SOUP MEAT CROQUETTES. 

See recipe for Meat Croquettes (see Recipe 157). 
Allow the seasoning to be a little higher and instead of 
using one teaspoon butter to one cupful meat, allow 
one tablespoon for each cup of meat to make up for 
the deficiency in fats. 

RECIPE 314. PLANKED HAMBURGER STEAK. 

Warm the plank for five minutes in the oven or 
broiler. Butter it v/ell. Spread the hamburger out in 
an oblong mass about one inch thick. Put a few bits of 
butter over it or bits of bacon or salt pork. Season well. 
Bake in oven twenty minutes, or broil under the gas for 



96 MEATS 

about ten minutes. Serve on the plank with a little 
melted butter poured over it, or a Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 
(see Index). 

RECIPE 315. PliANKED HAMBURGER SPANISH. 

Broil on the plank as in Planked Hamburger. At 
the end of about ten minutes remove from the broiler 
and lay slices of tomatoes and very thinly sliced onions 
and green peppers over it. Spread on a few buttered 
bread crumbs. A border of left-over rice or mashed po- 
tatoes or macaroni and cheese or spaghetti and cheese 
makes a pretty finish for the dish. Put them on the 
plank when you add the vegetables. Bake about ten 
minutes. If potatoes are used they should be brushed 
lightly with the yolk of an egg to make them brown 
nicely. 

RECIPE 316. BROILED HAMBURGER BALLS. 

Take two tablespoonsful of hamburger, press it out 
into an oblong flat shape, wrap a slice of thin bacon 
around it, fasten bacon securely with a wooden tooth- 
pick. Broil until done. Time will depend upon whether 
you want rare, medium or well done meat. Do not 
overcook it. Allow as many pieces as required. One- 
half pound of hamburger is enough for a small family. 

RECIPE 317. CREAMED HAMBURGER HASH ON 
TOAST. 

Follow the directions for plain Hamburger Hash on 
Toast, substituting cold milk for the water. If you use 
hot water or milk you harden the fiber of the meat and 
it will be lumpy. 

RECIPE 318. HAMBURGER HASH ON TOAST. 

1 cup raw hamburger salt, pepper and paprika 

1 cup cold water to taste 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon flour 

Stir the hamburger and water together, put over a 
slow fire and let come slowly to the boiling point, stir- 
ring all the time, so it will be smooth. Rub the flour 
and butter together, add to the meat, stir well, add sea- 
sonings. Butter some fresh toast, pour the hamburger 
on toast and serve at once. A tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup or a tablespoonful of minced parsley is nice. For 
a change serve poached eggs with it, allowing one egg 
for each slice of toast. Green peppers or a minced pimi- 
ento can be used. 



MEATS 97 

RECIPE 319. HAMBURGER COUNTRY STYLE. 

Make into balls, roll in flour, salt and pepper and 
saute a nice brown, then cover with milk and let simmer 
for fifteen minutes; thicken the gravy, serve hot. 

RECIPE 320. POT ROAST OF VEAL. OR LAMB. 

4 pounds rump of 1 pint stewed tomatoes 

veal or lamb 3 diced carrots 

2 ounces suet 2 teaspoons salt 

Vs teaspoonful pepper 
Try out the beef drippings in an iron kettle and 
remove the cracklings. Put in the meat and brown it 
slowly, taking care not to use too much heat, as that 
will make it stick and burn. When properly colored, 
remove from the pot, season and add balance of ingredi- 
ents to drippings. Pour in a pint of boiling water or 
stock, replace the meat and put in the bones. Cover 
tightly and cook slowly from three to four hours. When 
meat is tender, remove and let it cool slightly, so that it 
will not fall apart when cut. Thicken the gravy with a 
tablespoonful of flour or cornstarch dissolved in cold 
water and allow it to boil for five minutes, then strain 
and season it with a half teaspoonful of W^orcestershire 
Sauce. A small shoulder of veal or lamb, boned and 
rolled, can be used in this way. 

RECIPE 321. VEAL BIRDS ON TOAST. 

One pound veal cutlet cut one-half inch thick. Re- 
move tough skin and fibers and cut meat into strips two 
and a half inches long by about an inch and a half wide. 
Pound these strips thin and flat with wooden potato 
masher. Take one-half cup cracker crumbs, season 
highly, add one-fourth cupful of milk stirred into one- 
half an egg. Mixture should be rather firm and stick 
together well. Spread a thin layer of these cracker 
crumbs onto each strip of veal and then roll it up like 
a jelly roll, fastening each roll securely with two wooden 
toothpicks. Roll each one in flour and saute them in a 
hot frying pan with two tablespoonsful of butter or fat 
of some kind. Saute a nice brown. This will take only 
a few minutes, then pour into frying pan around the 
"birds" one cupful of milk and let meat simmer slowly 
in this milk for thirty minutes. Remove "birds," place 
on hot toast and thicken the milk in pan for a nice 
"gravy" and pour over the birds. If there is not enough 
milk in the pan add a little more, season and thicken 
with a little flour. By placing the wooden toothpicks 
properly they will resemble the "legs" of the "bird." 



98 MEATS 

RECIPE 322. VEAL OYSTERS. 

Cut pieces of lean veal into pieces about the size of 
an oyster. Dip each piece in cracker crumbs, shake salt, 
pepper and a little ground mace on them. Dip in egg 
and again in breau crumbs. Fry in deep fat until a 
delicate brown. Will taste like oysters. 

RECIPE 323. BEEF A LA MODE. 

Select a short, thick piece of the crosscut of the 
rump. Have the butcher remove the bone, leaving a 
"pocket" in the meat. Into this fill a stuffing (look 
under recipes for various stuffings). The one called 
Onion and Sausage Stuffing is nice for Beef a la Mode. 
Close up the opening with skewers or a heavy thread 
after the stuffing is in. Take some long, slender strips 
of salt pork, and with a larding needle sew pieces of 
pork into the meat, or slits made in the meat with a 
long sharp knife will answer. Into these slits force some 
thin strips of salt pork. Now proceed just as for Ger- 
man Pot Roast, thoroughly searing the roast. Before 
adding any water thoroughly dredge the roast with flour, 
turning it well over so that all sides may be brown. 
There will be enough fat from the roast in the pot to do 
this nicely. Now add the water, but see that the end 
of the roast which has the opened end of stuffing in it 
is on the top, so that water does not soak into it too 
much. A couple of cloves and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of nutmeg should be added to the water in the pot. 
Serve with a brown gravy from the roast. 

RECIPE 324. BREADED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Split the tenderloins, pound them flat and cut into 
convenient sized pieces. Roll each piece in a little egg 
and milk, then in dry bread crumbs. Fry in an iron fry- 
ing pan, cooking slowly till thoroughly done, in 2 or 3 
spoons of hot fat. Season. Nice served with a Spanish 
or Creole sauce, or a white sauce, or brown sauce. 

RECIPE 325. PORK TENDERLOIN COUNTRY STYLE. 

Split the tenderloins, pound flat, cut into convenient 
sized pieces, roll each piece in flour. Have ready a hot 
iron frying pan with 2 or 3 tablespoons hot fat. Fry 
tenderloins slowly. Cover frying pan with a lid. Season 
the tenderloins when you turn them, frying a nice brown. 
When done, remove from pan and add flour to fat in pan 
and 1 cup milk or water. Stir till it thickens. Pour 
over the tenderloins. 



MEATS 99 

RECIPE 326. STtTFFED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

1/2 pound pork tender- i tablespoon butter 

^^^^ 4 slices bacon or salt 

1 cup bread or pork 

cracker crumbs l onion minced 

Cut the pork tenderloin across the grain in one-inch 
pieces and pound them down to one-half inch thickness. 
Fry the minced onion in the butter until onion is soft 
and looks yellow, and add to the crumbs. Season highly. 
Now dust the slices of meat with a little salt and pepper. 
Make a sort of sandwich with two pieces of meat with 
the onions and crumbs placed between to thickness of 
about one-half inch. Wrap each "sandwich" with a very 
thin slice of bacon, fasten bacon securely with a wooden 
toothpick. Place in a roasting pan and bake in oven 
about thirty minutes. Have a little water in the pan, 
but not enough so it will reach up to the bread crumbs. 
Can be served with or without sauce. Nice cooked in a 
casserole. 

RECIPE 327. PORK TENDERLOIN LYONNAISE. 

Wipe and split two pork tenderloins in halves, 
lengthwise, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. Brown the meat in an iron frying pan in hot 
fat. Remove to well greased dripping pan and add to 
fat three onions thinly sliced, cook until delicately 
browned, stirring often. Sprinkle over onions two table- 
spoons flour and stir well. Put two tablespoons vinegar 
into one-half cup hot water, add slowly to onions. Mix 
thoroughly. Lay tenderloins over onions, cover closely 
and cook in the oven until the meat is tender. Dispose 
tenderloin on hot serving platter and pour over contents 
of frying pan. Vinegar may be omitted and more water 
added. 

RECIPE 328. PORK TENDERLOIN FINANCIERE. 

Take one pound of pork tenderloin, a few pieces salt 
pork in thin strips. Take a larding needle and put strips 
of salt pork through the tenderloin. Roast in a pan with 
a little water, carrots, onions and celery. Keep on bast- 
ing for three-quarters of an hour. 

FINANCIERE. 

Make a brown sauce by adding a little flour and 
water to gravy. Put in one-half glass of sherry, a few 
olives, chicken livers or sweetbreads cut in small dice 
and a few canned mushrooms. Pour this sauce over 
the baked tenderloin. 



100 MEATS 

RECIPE 329. STUFFED CHOPS. 

6 French mutton 2 potatoes 

chops 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped 1 saltspoon black 

ham pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 
Boil and mash the potatoes, add the chopped ham, 
salt and pepper and mix thoroughly. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter into a shallow frying pan. When 
hot throw in the chops and sear them on both sides. 
Heap on one side enough potato mixture to make a little 
mound. Dip the whole chop in an egg beaten with a 
tablespoonful of water, dust thickly with bread crumbs 
and fry in deep hot oil. Stand them in the center of a 
round dish, slip chop papers over the bones, fill the dish 
with nicely seasoned hot peas and send to the table. 

RECIPE 330. BREADED CHOPS. 

Select any chops desired, roll them in bread or 
cracker crumbs, then in egg and again in crumbs. Sauie 
in an iron frying pan with sufficient fat to cook them a 
delicate brown. Cook with a slow fire, turn several times 
so that both sides may brown evenly. May be served 
with a gravy made from the fat in which the meat has 
cooked, or with a White Sauce No. 1 or a Brown Sauce. 
If tne fat in the pan is used, which is a very nice way 
to serve the chops, pour off all the fat from the pan 
except two tablespoonsful. Add one tablespoonful flour, 
rub smooth and add one cupful hot water or milk. Stir 
until it thickens. Season to taste. Pour over the chops, 
on a hot platter. 

RECIPE 331. BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Have the broiler very hot. Cook the chops until 
done to your taste. Season when about half cooked with 
pepper and salt. When daintily served they are placed 
on a hot platter between hot slices of buttered toast. 
The toast should be cut in rather longer than wide slices. 
They can be cut with a sharp point (dipped in butter, 
then in minced parsley). Have the toast freshly made 
and hot. Garnish platter with parsley and potato chips 
if desired. 

RECIPE 332. BROILED ENGLISH MUTTON CHOPS. 

These are cut not less than two inches thick. Broil 
in a very hot oven for five minutes, season and then broil 
in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes longer. Have 
them medium rare. Serve hot, with slices of hot but- 



MEATS 101 

tered toast for a garnish. A Special Baked Potato (see 
Index) is nice with broiled steaks or chops. 

RECIPE 333. BOILED LEG OF MTJTTON. 

Put the leg into boiling salted water, let cook tender, 
allowing twenty minutes for each pound. Allow 1 tea- 
spoonful salt for each quart water. Serve with Drawn 
Butter, Caper Sauce or Mint Sauce. Serve Currant Jelly 
also. 

RECIPE 334. BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Have butcher remove the bone. Prepare a nice 
stuffing (see Index), fill and sew and place in a double 
roaster. Cut carrots, turnips into dice. Slice onions, 
cook vegetables in frying pan with one-quarter cup butter 
five minutes, then add three cups water, simmer five min- 
utes, then pour all into the pan with the mutton, cover 
tightly, bake two and one-half hours slowly, then remove 
cover and brown thirty minutes. Make brown gravy, 
serve with the vegetables. 

RECIPE 335. STUFFED ROAST SHOULDER OF LAMB, 
VEAL, PORK. 

For small family three pounds is sufficient. Have 
the butcher make a "pocket" and remove the blade bone, 
and crack the joints between the ribs. This assists the 
carver, (See Index for Onion Sausage Stuffing.) Shake 
a little pepper and salt into the "pocket," fill with 
stuffing. Tie the roast sufficiently to hold in the stuffing, 
dust over outside with a little flour, salt and pepper. 
(See Index for directions for roasting meats.) 

RECIPE 336. BRAISED VEAL SHOULDER. 

Have shoulder boned. Fill with stuffing (see 
Stuffings). Prepare bed of vegetables as for braised 
beef. Lay veal on it, add 1 pint boiling water, 1 pint 
stewed tomatoes, % teaspoon salt, 1^4 teaspoon pepper. 
Cover and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. Uncover and 
brown. Serve strained gravy separately. 

RECIPE 337. BRAISED BEEF. 

Wipe and trim 4 pounds round or rump of beef 
without bone. Sear brown on all sides in very hot frying 
pan over hot fire. In braising pan or iron kettle put 
layers of sliced onions, turnips and carrots; add bunch 
of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon salt, ^/^ teaspoon pepper; on 
this lay meat. Add 1 pint boiling water (or water and 
stewed tomatoes). Cover closely and cook 4 hours in 



102 MEATS 

moderate oven. If water evaporates rapidly add more. 
Transfer meat to hot platter. Strain, thicken and sea- 
son gravy. The vegetables may be served separately if 
desired. 

RECIPE 338. BRAISED BEEF TONGUE. 

Order a fresh tongue, wash it and put in a kettle. 
Cover with boiling water; cook slowly two to three hours. 
Remove tongue from water, peel off skin and trim off 
roots. Place in Dutch oven or deep earthen dish and 
surround with one-half cup each of carrot, turnip, celery 
and onion, cut in half-inch dice, one green pepper (seeds 
and veins removed) cut in shreds and two sprays parsley. 
Pour over a quart of brown sauce seasoned with one- 
half tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. (Stock in which 
tongue was used may be used for making sauce.) Cover 
closely and simmer slowly (do not allow sauce to boil) 
two hours, or until tongue is tender. Serve on a hot 
platter. 

RECIPE 339. BOILED BEEF TONGUE. 

Cover a well pickled tongue with plenty of cold 
water, add 1 bay leaf, 2 or 3 whole cloves. Let come 
to the boil, pour off this water (and save it for soup 
stock). Cover tongue with fresh boiling water and let 
boil three or four hours, until so tender that the small 
bones at top fall out. 

RECIPE 340. BOILED CORN BEEF. 

Select a good rump, or a brisket piece. Cover with 
cold water, bring to the boil, pour off water. Cover 
again with water and let simmer three or four hours 
until very tender. 

RECIPE 341. NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER. 

Serve corn beef with cabbage, turnips, carrots, beets 
and potatoes, boiled until tender with corn beef. See 
time table for time of cooking vegetables, and put vege- 
tables in to cook according to necessary time to cook 
them. 

RECIPE 342. CORN BEEF HASH. 

Chop together equal parts corn beef and cold boiled 
potatoes. Put in frying pan with some hot fat, press a 
plate down on the meat, let saute a nice brown. If a 
moist hash is desired, add a little hot water, cover fry- 
ing pan and let cook until brown underneath. Some- 
times corn beef hash is baked in oven in baking pan. 



MEATS 10 3 

RECIPE 343. BROILED HAM. 

Have ham at least one-half inch thick. Broil in a 
hot broiler for about five minutes. Serve with eggs or 
any kind of potatoes. Potatoes diced in cream are espe- 
cially nice. 

RECIPE 344. FRIED HAM. 

Put into a hot frying pan, cook for two or three min- 
utes, turn and cook two or three minutes more. A very 
nice way for a change is to add a cupful of milk after 
the ham has been fried brown, let it simmer slowly in 
the milk for about ten minutes. The milk can be served 
as a gravy around it and can be thickened with a little 
flour, or not, as desired. 

RECIPE 345. BOILED HAM NO. 1. 

Soak over night, covered with cold water. In morn- 
ing trim off the meat at small, hard end. Put in a deep 
kettle, cover with cold water and bring slowly to a sim- 
mering point. Let cook four or five hours until tender. 
A few whole cloves added to the water as it boils adds 
flavor. After boiling remove ham from the water, take 
off the brown skin, cover with sugar and dry bread 
crumbs, bake slowly one hour. Serve hot or cold. 

RECIPE 346. BROILED BACON. 

Follow directions for Broiling Ham, substituting 
bacon for ham, and do not let it cook too long. 

RECIPE 347. FRIED BACON. 

If you desire the bacon to be very crisp, do not have 
the pan too hot when you put it in. Let it fry slowly and 
until cooked to your taste. Can also be cooked with the 
milk sauce as in Fried Ham, but it will not be so crisp. 

RECIPE 348. FRIED SALT PORK WITH CREAM 
GRAVY. 

Cut the salt pork into thin pieces. Fry slowly until 
very crisp. Make a No. 1 Cream (White) Sauce, using 
cream instead of milk. Of course, milk can be used, but 
is not so rich. This dish is usually served with baked or 
boiled potatoes. 



104 .POTATOES 



CHAPTER IX 
Potatoes. 



RECIPE 349. PLAIN BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash a sufficient number of potatoes. Use a little, 
vegetable brush. It saves the hands and clean potatoes 
better. Bake until soft and mealy. The time will de- 
pend upon size and age of potatoes. New potatoes cook 
more easily. If potatoes are large and it is late in the 
season, cut off a slice from one end of potato and it will 
be more mealy. Where there is a large family of chil- 
dren, and if milk is plentiful, serve a No. 1 White Sauce 
in a sauceboat, and use sauce instead of butter over pota- 
toes. 

RECIPE 350. PLAIN BOILED POTATOES. 

They can be boiled with skins on or not, as desired, 
but if pared certain of the elementary salts are lost. The 
time of cooking will depend upon age and size of potato. 
Usually about forty-five minutes is required for a me- 
dium-sized potato. Where milk is plentiful many people 
make a No. 1 White Sauce to serve with boiled potatoes. 
Serve it in a gravy boat. 

RECIPE 351. MASHED POTATOES FOR TWO 
PERSONS. 

Pare 4 medium sized potatoes, boil in salted water 
until tender. Pour off water, cover again and let steam 
for two or three minutes to dry them a little. Mash 
them thoroughly. If you have cream use that, if only 
milk, scald enougn to make the potatoes easy to beat, 
add 1 heaping tablespoon butter, i/4 teaspoon pepper, 
a little paprika. Now beat the potatoes until they are 
smooth and creamy. The more you beat them the lighter 
they will be. Pile into a hot dish,- put a piece of butter 
on top and serve very hot. A little minced parsley 
sprinkled over the top is nice. Left-over mashed potatoes 
can be used in many ways (see Index). 

RECIPE 352. POTATOES IN CREAM. 

Pare and boil a sufficient number of new potatoes in 
enough salted water to cover well. Boil them gently, 
not too hard. When tender, cover with a No. 1 White 
Sauce (see Index). 



POTATOES 105 

RECIPE 353. DICED POTATOES IN CREAM. 

Always use cold boiled potatoes, if they have been 
cooked the day before they will be all the better. Dice 
them neatly, make a No. 1 White Sauce (see Index), drop 
the potatoes in gently, shake until well covered by the 
sauce, and serve very hot. A tablespoon of minced pars- 
ley is nice. 

RECIPE 354. POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

2 cups small diced V2 cup grated cheese 

cold potatoes V2 cup buttered bread 

2 cups No. 3 White crumbs 

Sauce 
Boil the potatoes the day before you want to use 
them. 

Make a No. 3 White Sauce (see Index) and while it 
is thickening add 14 cup of the cheese, which should be 
sharp. When sauce has thickened stir in 1 1/^ cups of 
sauce gently through the potatoes, until potatoes are all 
mixed with sauce. Now put potatoes into a deep baking 
dish, spread over them remaining half cup of sauce, then 
rest of the grated cheese, and last buttered bread crumbs. 
Bake about fifteen minutes, or until the top cheese has 
melted and the crumbs have browned. The crumbs can 
be omitted if desired. A dash of pepper and paprika on 
top adds to the appearance of the dish. Serve very hot in 
dish in which they bake. 

RECIPE 355. POTATOES O'BRIAN. 

Cut raw potatoes into round balls with a French 
potato cutter, or slice them into very small cubes. Fry 
in deep fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper and place on a 
paper to drain. Fry 1 onion in a little butter, for two or 
three minutes, then remove onion and add to butter in 
pan 2 minced canned pimientoes. When pimientoes are 
heated, add potatoes, sprinkle in a tablespoon of minced 
parsley, stir for a minute, turn into a hot dish and serve 
at once. 

RECIPE 356. POTATO NESTS. 

Cut up a sufficient number of raw potatoes into very 
small pieces, like shoe strings. Throw into ice water for 
fifteen minutes. Dry on a towel. Put a deep kettle of 
fat to heat. Have ready two wire strainers, one about 
four inches across, the other strainer about two inches in 
diameter. Line the larger strainer with a layer of the 
potatoes, press smaller strainer in the center of the larger 



106 POTATOES 

one so as to make potatoes "nest" about the smaller one. 
Hold small strainer in place with a long handled spoon. 
When fat is hot, fry potatoes a delicate brown. Remove 
from the strainer and you will find them in a nest. Cook 
as many of these as needed. Nice for serving small 
articles in . Creamed Peas, Mushrooms, Sweetbreads, 
small Fillets of Fish. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 357. JULIENNE POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes in long slender strips (shoe 
strings). Throw into cold water until ready to cook. 
Have a kettle of hot deep fat. Wipe potatoes dry. Throw 
part of them into the hot fat, fry until brown, drain on 
soft paper. Shake on salt and pepper. Keep hot while 
frying balance of potatoes. 

RECIPE 358. FRIED POTATO BALLS. 

Cut out potatoes with a French vegetable scoop. 
Either cold boiled or raw potatoes can be used. If the 
latter, soak fifteen minutes in ice water, wipe dry, allow- 
ing a little more time for frying than if they are cold 
boiled. Fry in deep fat like Doughnuts. Drain on paper, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 359. COTTAGE FRIED POTATOES. 

Slice one large or two medium potatoes (raw). 
Saute in a frying pan slowly with 2 tablespoons fat, 
stirring often. Cook until tender, with a lid on the pan. 
Have them nice and brown. Parsley minced can be added. 
Season to taste. 

RECIPE 360. MINCED RAW FRIED POTATOES. 

Chop raw potatoes very fine. Saute slowly in two 
tablespoons fat. Stir frequently. Season to taste. Cook 
until tender and nicely browned. 

RECIPE 361. POTATO CHIPS. 

Wash and pare potatoes and slice them as thin as 
possible, using a potato slicer if you have one. Cover 
them with ice water and let stand for at least two hours, 
but change the water at least twice. Drain them, cover 
with boiling water and boil one second, drain again and 
cover with ice water again. Take them from the water, 
dry between two towels and fry in deep fat like Dough- 
nuts. While they are frying keep them moving a little, 
stirring with long handled wire dipper. Drain on paper 
and sprinkle with salt. 



POTATOES 107 

RECIPE 362. FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes and cut in long cubes. 
Cover with boiling water for one minute. Drain, wipe dry 
and fry in deep fat. If fat is too hot they .will brown 
before they are cooked to the center. Try fat with small 
crust of bread. If you can count sixty before it is too 
brown, the fat is just right. Do not put too many pota- 
toes in at one time, and let the fat heat for a moment 
before each lot of potatoes is added. Drain on paper and 
serve hot. Sprinkle well with salt and pepper. 

RECIPE 303. ESCAIiLOPED POTATOES. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin. Put in a baking dish 
with seasoning to taste. Break up a tablespoon of but- 
ter into small pieces and place on top of the potatoes. 
Fill the dish with enough sweet milk to come up to the 
top of the potatoes. Bake in a slow oven about thirty 
minutes. Serve hot in the dish they were baked in. 

RECIPE 364. SPECIAL BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large perfect potatoes, wash thoroughly with 
a vegetable brush. Bake until soft and mealy. Cut a 
slice off of one side of each potato, scoop out the potato 
pulp, mash it with a little cream, butter and seasoning. 
Beat up very smooth and light. Fill it back into potato 
shell, cover with buttered bread crumbs and bake again 
until crumbs are brown. Serve very hot. This dish may 
be varied by adding a little minced cold boiled ham, 
minced parsley or pimiento to potatoes. If you have the 
yolk or the white of an egg left over, stir it well into the 
mashed potato pulp, which gives another variation in 
seasoning. Another way is to scoop a "well" in each 
potato and drop in one whole raw egg. Bake until egg 
has "set." 



Sweet Potatoes, 



RECIPE 365. SWEET POTATOES SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes and cook in boiling 
salted water ten minutes. Drain and cut in half length- 
wise. Boil y2 cup sugar and 4 tablespoons of water for 
three minutes, add 2 tablespoons butter. Dip each piece 
of potato in this syrup, then lay it in a buttered baking 
dish. Bake in a slow oven forty-five minutes, pouring 
a few drops of the syrup on each potato several times dur- 
ing the baking. Serve hot in dish they are baked in. 



108 POTATOES 

RECIPE 366. SWEET POTATOES MASHED AND 
BAKED. 

Wash, pare and cook in salted boiling water until 
tender. Mash them and add to each cup of potatoes 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon cream and seasoning to 
taste. Pile them roughly in a deep buttered baking dish. 
Make a syrup of 3 tablespoons of molasses and 2 of but- 
ter, boiled together for five minutes. Pour -this syrup 
over the potatoes and bake until nice and brown. Serve 
hot in dish in which they were baked. 

RECIPE 367. FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Slice cold boiled sweet potatoes in thin slices, saute 
in butter and season with a little pepper, salt and pap- 
rika. A teaspoon of sugar can be shaken over them as 
they are frying. 

RECIPE 368. SWEET POTATO BALLS OR 
CROQUETTES. 

1 cup hot mashed sweet 3 teaspoons butter 
potatoes salt and pepper to 

yolk of 1 egg taste 

Mix the beaten yolk, butter and seasoning with the 
potatoes. Shape into small balls, roll in a little flour, 
fry in deep fat like Doughnuts. Drain, serve very hot. 



Left Over Potatoes. 



RECIPE 369. CREAMED POTATOES SOUTHERN 
STYLE. 

1 cup cold boiled i/4 teaspoon paprika 

potatoes 1 tablespoon minced 

1 tablespoon butter parsley 

V2 teaspoon salt 1 cup cream 

Cut potatoes into small cubes, put into a deep baking 
dish, add butter and seasoning. Cover with the cream 
and bake slowly thirty minutes. When ready to serve 
sprinkle on the parsley. Serve all very hot, in dish in 
which potatoes were baked. 

RECIPE 370. HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, hash them fine and put 
into a hot frying pan, with a generous allowance of fat. 
Season them, cover with a plate, bottom side down, 
pressed well onto the potatoes. Put the potatoes on a 



POTATOES 109 

very slow fire and cook without turning for fifteen min- 
utes. There will be a nice crust on the bottom. Fold 
potatoes like an omelette and serve at once very hot. If 
desired a few minced onions can be cooked with the pota- 
toes or a little minced parsley is nice. 

RECIPE 371. BOSTON POTATOES. 

2 cups cold boiled sliced 2 cups No. 1 White Sauce 

potatoes (see Index) 

3 hard boiled eggs V4, cup buttered bread 

crumbs 
Butter a deep baking dish, place in it alternate lay- 
ers of sliced potatoes, sliced hard boiled eggs. White 
Sauce No. 1, seasoning. Have the last layer, White Sauce 
No. 1 and spread on top the buttered bread crumbs. Dash 
lightly with salt, pepper and paprika and bake until 
crumbs are brown. 

RECIPE 372. LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Slice the cold boiled potatoes very thin. Fry one 
medium-sized onion in three tablespoons butter until the 
onions begin to brown. Add the potatoes, let them brown 
one side, then turn them over and brown the other side. 
Fold like an omelette and serve on a hot platter. A little 
minced parsley adds to the flavor. 



Left Over Mashed Potatoes. 



RECIPE 373. POTATO CAKES. 

Take a cup cold mashed potatoes, shape into small 
flat cakes, roll in flour and saute in plenty of butter. 
Cook first on one side until brown. Add a little more 
butter to the pan, turn the cakes over and brown on the 
other side. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 374. POTATO SURPRISE CROQUETTES. 

Get three very small link sausages. Boil them ten 
minutes. Remove the membrane from around them. Cut 
them in half across, not lengthwise. Take a tablespoon 
cold mashed potatoes and entirely surround each piece 
of sausage, shaping into an oblong croquette. Roll in 
dry bread crumbs, egg and crumb again and fry in deep 
fat. Serve very hot. A little minced parsley can be 
added to the potato mixture. Creamed peas or chicken 
can be substituted for the sausage, in which case it will 



110 POTATOES 

be necessary to take a tablespoon of potatoes, make a 
little "well" on one side, place the creamed mixture in 
it, then take a little more potato and cover the "well," 
roll croquette in crumbs, egg, crumb and fry a nice 
brown, in deep fat. Serve at once very hot. 
RECIPE 375. POTATO BALL CROQUETTES. 

One teaspoon at a time of cold mashed potatoes. 
Roll into little balls, crumb, egg, crumb and fry in deep 
fat. 

RECIPE 376. BAKED MASHED POTATOES. 

One cup cold mashed potatoes. The yolk of 1 egg, 
beaten into 2 tablespoons of milk and then added to the 
potatoes. Put in a deep buttered baking dish and bake 
ten minutes or until they are a nice brown. Two table- 
spoons minced parsley or ham is nice. 

RECIPE 377. VIENNA POTATO ROLLS. 

Take a tablespoon at a time cold mashed potatoes, 
shape them like a Vienna bread roll, score across the top 
four times, brush with yolk of an egg. Brown in the 
oven. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 378. POTATO PYRAMIDS. 

Take a tablespoon at a time of mashed potatoes, 
shape into pyramids, brush with the yolk of an egg, 
brown in the oven. 



CHAPTER X 
Vegetables. 



RECIPE 379. ONIONS IN CREAM. 

Pare and boil the onions in salted boiling water until 
tender. Make a No. 1 White Sauce (see Index), drain 
the water off the onions, put the onions in the White 
Sauce, shake well for a minute until they are covered 
with the sauce, serve very hot. 

RECIPE 380. ONIONS WITH DRAWN BUTTER 
SAUCE. 

Pare and boil the onions until tender. Take 1 cup 
of the water in which they are boiled, add 1 tablespoon 
of butter, a little pepper and paprika, and about 1 tea- 
spoon of flour to thicken the sauce. It is well to rub the 
flour with the butter so that the flour will not lump. 



VEGETABLES 111 

RECIPE 381. ONIONS BAKED WITH NUTS. 

Pare and boil good sized Bermuda onions in boiling 
salted water until they are very tender. Make a stuffing 
of equal parts of ground English walnuts and buttered, 
dry bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper and paprika. 
Take a sharp knife and cut out the center of the onions, 
and pull out several layers to make a "well," in the cen- 
ter. Fill this "well" with the stuffing of nuts and crumbs. 
Put onions in a baking dish, surround with plenty of 
water in which onions were boiled, bake in oven until 
the crumbs are browned. Serve with a Drawn Butter 
or Cream Sauce poured around them. The water in the 
dish should not be deep enough to come up to the stuff- 
ing. 

RECIPE 382. ONIONS WITH SAVORY SAUCE. 

Cook young onions in boiling water until tender. 
Then drain them and pour over them a cup of good meat 
stock. Let them simmer for a few minutes, then remove 
to a hot dish while you add to the stock a tablespoon of 
tomato catsup, 1 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet, and last 1 
tablespoon of butter rubbed into 1 tablespoon flour. Stir 
until sauce thickens, season to taste and pour over the 
onions. 

RECIPE 383. FRIED ONIONS. 

Slice very thin a sufficient number of onions, heat 
a very little fat in a frying pan, add onions. Cook slowly, 
stirring frequently so they will not scorch. It takes 
twenty to thirty minutes to fry onions well done. 

RECIPE 384. ONIONS WITH CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Cook onions in boiling salted water until tender. 
Then make a No. 1 White Sauce (see Index). Drain the 
onions, place them in a buttered baking dish, add the 
beaten yolks of 1 or 2 eggs to the White Sauce, pour the 
sauce over the onions, sprinkle with buttered dry bread 
crumbs and bake until the crumbs are brown, by which 
time the eggs will also be set. 

RECIPE 385. ONIONS WITH CHICKEN STUFFING. 

Prepare as for Onions Stuffed with Nuts, substitut- 
ing a little finely minced chicken and some of the boiled 
onions removed from the center. Serve with a sauce. 

RECIPE 386. FRENCH FRIED ONIONS. 

Take good sized onions, peel and cut across in one- 
quarter inch slices. Separate the rings. Dip them in 



112 VEGETABLES 

milk, drain and then roll them in a little flour. Fry in 
deep fat like Doughnuts. Drain on paper, season with 
salt and pepper. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 387. ESCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Peel and cook onions in salted water until tender. 
Cut them in quarters and place in a baking dish. Cover 
with a No. 1 White Sauce (see Index), sprinkle thickly 
with buttered dry bread crumbs, bake in oven until 
crumbs are brown. Dash on top a little paprika. 

RECIPE 388. FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Cook parsnips in boiling water until tender. Cool, 
remove the skins, then slice them in one-quarter inch 
slices, roll them in flour and saute them in butter. Sea- 
son to taste. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 389. PARSNIP BAIiLS OR CROQUETTES. 

Cook parsnips until tender in boiling water. Let 
cool, remove the skins and mash them smooth with a 
potato masher. Pick out any stringy parts. 

1 cup mashed parsnips 6 English walnuts 

Yz cup cracker crumbs in halves 

1 egg yolk salt, pepper and pap- 

rika to taste 
Mix parsnips, crumbs, egg and seasoning together. 
Take V2 a walnut and surround it entirely with the par- 
snip mixture, forming a ball with the walnut as the cen- 
ter. Fry these balls in deep fat like Doughnuts. Drain 
on paper and serve very hot. 

RECIPE 390. PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Cook parsnips in boiling water until tender. Remove 
the skins, mash, season with gait and pepper. 

1 cup mashed parsnips 1 tablespoon butter 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 
Shape into small flat cakes, roll in flour and saute 
in a little butter. 

RECIPE 391. FRENCH FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Cut, wash and pare parsnips. Cut into inch cubes. 
Fry in deep fat until brown and tender. Do not have 
fat too hot. See directions for Deep Fat Frying. 

RECIPE 392. SAUTED PARSNIPS. 

Wash and boil a sufficient quantity of parsnips. Two 
good sized ones will be enough for a family of two. Cook 
until tender. Let cool. Peel them and Cut in long thin 



VEGETABLES 113 

strips lengthwise. Roll in flour and saute a nice brown 
in sufficient fat to keep from scorching. A heavy iron 
skillet is best. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 393. SOUFFLE OF PARSNIPS. 

Wash and boil until tender enough parsnips to make 
a cup when mashed. When tender, let cool, then pare 
and mash well, removing any stringy parts. 

1 cup mashed parsnips Vz cup cracker crumbs 

1 cup No. 2 Sauce salt, pepper and pap- 

2 eggs rika to taste 

Add parsnips, seasoning and cracker crumbs to 
White Sauce. Cream the yolks and add to parsnip mix- 
ture. Beat white of eggs to a very stiff froth and fold 
into souffle. Butter a deep baking dish and pour in the 
souffle. Bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve 
m dish in which it is baked as soon* as taken from the 
oven. 

RECIPE 394. BOILED BEETS. 

Wash beets, cut off some of the tops, but do not cut 
within three inches of the beets or they will bleed and 
lose their color. Cook in boiling water until tender. If 
the beets are young and tender it will take about forty- 
five minutes to cook them. If winter beets from three to 
four hours. W^hen they are tender, remove from the 
water and peel them. They can be served with a Drawn 
Butter Sauce (see Index) or a Vinegar Sauce (see Index) 
or just with plain hot vinegar. 

RECIPE 395. PICKLED BEETS. 

Follow directions for boiling beets. Put them in 
cold vinegar. They are nice added in small quantities to 
many forms of salads and for decorating many dishes. 

RECIPE 396. BOILED BEET TOPS. 

Wash beets very thoroughly. When young tender 
beets are used, save tops, cook in boiling water until ten- 
der. Serve with vinegar. Season to taste. 

RECIPE 397. BOILED DANDELION GREENS. 

In the spring, cut the early tender dandelion tops. 
Wash thoroughly through several waters. Cook uniil 
tender in boiling water. Drain well. Serve with a lutie 
melted butter and hot vinegar. Season to taste. 
RECIPE 398. PEAS IN CREAM. 

If fresh peas are obtainable, pick over a sufficient 
quantity, remove from pods. Cook in boiling salted 



114 VEGETABLES 

water until tender. About thirty to forty minutes if 
young. Drain off water and add milk to cover, season to 
taste, add a little butter and thicken the milk with a little 
cornstarch wet up with a spoon of milk or water. When 
the milk has thickened they are ready to serve. When 
canned peas are served, pour off the liquor from the can, 
rinse the peas in cold water for a minute, then put into 
the milk sauce. Serve hot. Save the water from the 
can of peas. (See Surprise Soup, Index.) 

RECIPE 399. PEAS IN BUTTER. 

Follow directions for boiling peas. When cooked 
tender, pour off the water and pour over the peas a little 
melted butter. Season to taste; serve hot. 

RECIPE 400. BOILED SPINACH. 

Spinach is one of the cheapest and most healthful of 
foods and should be eaten freely for the salts it contains. 

Wash one-half peck very thoroughly. It will take 
several waters to get it clean from sand. Pick it all over 
carefully, cutting each leaf from the root. Cook in a 
little boiling water. Young Spincah requires almost no 
water, but old Spinach requires about two quarts of boil- 
ing salted water, for each peck of Spinach. Cook about 
thirty minutes. When tender press all the water from 
it, put it in a chopping bowl and chop it up fine. Put 
back on fire to heat it again, add a little melted butter 
and season to taste. Put it into a hot serving dish and 
sprinkle a minced hard-boiled egg over the top, or the 
egg can be sliced and laid on. All green vegetables retain 
their color best by not covering the pot in which they 
boil. 

RECIPE 401. ESCALLOPED SPINACH. 

Chop boiled Spinach very fine. Make a No. 2 White 
Sauce. Take a baking dish, put a layer White Sauce, then 
a layer of Spinach, then a layer of sliced hard boiled eggs, 
then a layer of White Sauce, alternating layers till pan 
is filled, having top layer White Sauce, with buttered 
bread or cracker crumbs on top. Bake about fifteen min- 
utes. 

RECIPE 402. SPINACH AU GRATIN. 

Follow recipe for Escalloped Spinach, only add i/4 
cup cheese for each cup of White Sauce. Dissolve cheese 
in White Sauce as it is cooking. If eggs are very ex- 
pensive, they can be omitted and cracker crumbs used 
instead. 



VEGETABLES 115 

RECIPE 403. SPINACH IN CREAM. 

Prepare Spinach as for Boiled Spinach. When cooked 
tender drain thoroughly, press out all the water, chop 
Spinach fine, put back in stew pan, add a little hot milk. 
Rub together one teaspoon flour with one of butter, stir 
into the milk and spinach. Season to taste. Can be 
served on toast or without. 

RECIPE 404. STEWED FRESH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut stems away from the caps. Pare caps and break 
into pieces. Scrape stems, cut into pieces, serve in a 
Brown Sauce as follows: 

1 cup mushrooms i/g teaspoon each pep- 

1 tablespoon butter per and paprika 

1 teaspoon flour i^ cup water 

1/4 Teaspoon salt 
Melt the butter, brown it a little, add mushrooms and 
saute them for three minutes in the butter. Add flour 
stir in well, then add water, stir until it thickens Add 
seasoning. Cover the pan and let mushrooms simmer in 
the sauce for five minutes. Can be served on toast or 
not as desired. 

RECIPE 405. FRESH MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Prepare the mushrooms as for Stewed Mushrooms. 
Instead of using water use milk or cream. 

RECIPE 406. FRESH SAUTED MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare the mushrooms as for Stewed Mushrooms. 

1 cup mushrooms 14 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter Vg teaspoon each pep- 
1 teaspoon minced per and paprika 

parsley 1 teaspoon flour 

% cup boiling water dash onion salt 

Melt the butter, let it brown a little, add the mush- 
rooms, saute them for five minutes, add the flour, stir 
m well, add the water, stir for a minute and let the mush- 
rooms simmer for a minute, then serve on toast. 

RECIPE 407. FRESH ESCALLOPED MUSHR003fS. 

Prepare mushrooms as for Sauted Mushrooms. When 
they are sauted make a No. 1 White Sauce (see Index), 
take a deep baking dish, butter it slightly and place al- 
ternate layers of bread crumbs. White Sauce and Sauted 
Mushrooms in the dish, having a layer of White Sauce 
on top. Last cover lightly with a layer of buttered bread 
crumbs and brown in the oven for a few minutes. 



116 VEGETABLES 

RECIPE 408. FRESH BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash mushrooms, cut off stems. Butter a wire 
broiler, place mushroom caps on it with cap side down 
for two or three minutes. Turn them over, put a small 
piece of butter on each cap, broil for two minutes and 
carefully remove to pieces of hot buttered toast. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. The toast should be cut 
in circular pieces with a biscuit cutter before it is toasted. 

RECIPE 409. FRESH STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 

Select 6 large mushrooms, remove caps and peel 
tnem. Scrape stems and mince them. Set caps aside 
and make a mixture of the minced stems as follows: 

2 tablespoons butter i/4 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon minced % teaspoon each pep- 

onion • per and paprika 

y2 teaspoon minced pinch nutmeg 

parsley % teaspoon flour 

1/4 cup milk or stock 

Melt butter, add minced mushroom stems, parsley 
and onion, saute for a minute, add flour, stir for a min- 
ute, add milk or stock and seasoning, cook for a min- 
ute, then remove from fire and let cool for a few minutes. 
About twenty minutes before dinner take the mushroom 
caps and fill them with the mushroom mixture, cover 
with a thin layer of buttered bread crumbs, and bake in 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at once very hot. 

RECIPE 410. BAKED FRESH IVIUSHROOMS WITH 
OYSTERS. 

Select large mushrooms. Wash them and cut off 
stems. Peel the caps. Take a shallow pan, butter it and 
place the mushroom caps in it, on each cap place an 
oyster. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. On top of 
each one, a bit of butter. Cook in a hot oven until the, 
oysters have ruffled. Serve on toast, very hot, and pour 
over them a Brown Sauce (see Index). 

RECIPE 411. CANNED MUSHROOMS. 

Canned Mushrooms can be used for recipes as follows: 
Creamed, Stewed, Sauted, Escalloped and Mushrooms 
with Cheese. 

RECIPE 412. FRESH MUSHROOMS WITH CHEESE. 

To the recipe for Stewed Mushrooms add two table- 
spoons grated cheese. 



VEGETABLES 117 

RECIPE 413. BOILED SU]\OIER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut into thick slices without paring. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender, about thirty minutes. 
Place in a cheesecloth, wring as dry as possible. Mash 
well, season with melted butter, pepper, salt and a little 
paprika. S*:^rve hot. 

RECIPE 414. FRENCH FRIED SLriVOffiR SQUASH. 

Wash, then cut into slices one-half inch thick. Roll 
in dry bread crumbs, dip in egg, then again in crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 415. FRIED SUM3IER SQUASH. 

Pare and cut the squash into slices about three- 
fourths of an inch thick. Dip each slice in cracker 
crumbs, then in egg, then again in cracker crumbs. 
Saute in the frying pan in just enough fat to keep from 
scorching. They taste much like egg-plant when treated 
in this way. 

RECIPE 416. BAKED WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut into pieces about three or four inches square. 
Take out the seeds and stringy part and bake in a double 
roasting pan about two hours, or until soft. Use a slow 
oven. Can have a slight sprinkling of sugar on it if de- 
sired. Is served simply plain baked, or it can be removed 
from the shell, mashed thoroughly, butter, and seasoning 
added, and put back into shell, a few butter crumbs on 
top. Bake again until brown. 

RECIPE 417. STEAMED WINTER SQUASH. 

Winter squash is much better if steamed than boiled. 
Wash, pare the squash, cut into small pieces, not over 
two inches. Remove seeds and stringy portion. Steam 
for forty minutes over boiling water, longer if not tender. 
When cooked, mash it well, add butter and seasonmg 

RECIPE 418. BOILED WINTER SQUASH. 

Winter squash can be prepared as for Steamed Win- 
ter Squash, then boiled in salted water until tender, but 
unless it is a very dry squash it is better steamed than 
boiled. 

RECIPE 419. STEWED TOMATOES. 

Fresh or canned tomatoes can be used. Put over a 
slow fire and let them simmer slowly about twenty min- 
utes, stirring frequently so that the core will be broken 
up. Season with butter, salt and pepper. Some persons 



118 VEGETABLES 

add stale bread to thicken the juice a little. A teaspoon 
of flour is preferable. One teaspoon of sugar may be 
added if desired. If tomatoes are very acid, add a small 
pinch of baking soda or 1 teaspoon cornstarch before 
cooking. 

RECIPE 420. FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take large, firm tomatoes. Cut across in one-fourth 
inch slices. Dip each slice in break crumbs, then in yolk 
of egg, then again in crumbs. Saute in butter for about 
five minutes until tender. Season with salt, pepper and 
a dash of paprika. Serve at once very hot. Nice with 
fried chicken or fish of any kind. 

RECIPE 421. BAKED TOMATOES (see Index). 

RECIPE 422. ESCALLOPED TOMATOES (see Index). 

RECIPE 423. CROQUETTES OF TOMATOES (see In- 
dex). 

RECIPE 424. MASHED TURNIPS. 

Wash and pare turnips. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain, mash thoroughly, beating until 
smooth. Add a little butter, season to taste, pile into a 
hot serving dish. 

RECIPE 425. CREAMED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare and cook turnips until tender in boiling 
slightly salted water until tender. Cut into dice and put 
them into some No. 1 White Sauce. When heated through 
serve at once. 

RECIPE 426. BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Wash fresh young asparagus, trim off the tough end 
at the bottom, tie in bunches and cook until tender in 
slightly salted boiling water. Arrange neatly on salad 
plates and pour over it a Vinegar Sauce, Drawn Butter 
Sauce or Hot Hollandaise Sauce (see Index). 

RECIPE 427. VINEGAR SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS OR 
BEETS. 

Vz cup vinegar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon paprika 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

Bring vinegar to the boil with the butter, add season- 
ing, then cornstarch wet up with a little cold water, stir 
until it thickens. Pour over the asparagus or beets 
while hot. If vinegar is too strong use part water. 



VEGETABLES 119 

RECIPE 428. CANNED ASPARAGUS VINAIGRETTE. 

Have the asparagus ice cola. Place the stalks on a 
platter, or on salad plates. Pour over the tips some Vin- 
aigrette Sauce (see 153). 

RECIPE 429. CANNED ASPARAGUS, HOIiLANDAISE 
SAUCE. 

Have asparagus ice cold. Place on a platter or on 
salad plates and put on each plate a tablespoonful of cold 
Hollandaise Sauce (see 141). 

RECIPE 430. CREAMED ASPARAGUS. 

Cut a sufficient quantity of tender asparagus into 
one-inch lengths. Cook in boiling salt water until tender. 
Drain. Make a No, 1 White Sauce, put the asparagus in 
it for a moment, then pour asparagus and sauce on 
slightly buttered toast, or it can be served without the 
toast. 

RECIPE 431. ESCALLOPED ASPARAGUS. 

Wash and cut into inch pieces some tender aspara- 
gus. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. 
For every cup of cooked asparagus, have one-half cup 
No. 1 White Sauce. Place the asparagus in the sauce, 
pour it all into buttered, deep baking dish. Cover with 
buttered bread crumbs. Bake in oven until crumbs are 
brown. Serve in dish in which it was cooked. This 
creamed asparagus can be served in little ramekins for 
individual serving or in patty shells. 

RECIPE 432. ASPARAGUS SOUFFLE. 

1 cup cooked 1 egg 

asparagus season to taste 

1 cup No. 3 White Sauce 
Beat the yolk until creamy, add it to the asparagus 
and White Sauce. Beat the white to a stiff froth, fold 
into the asparagus mixture. Bake in a deep, baking dish 
until it is firm in the center. Probably fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

RECIPE 433. ESCALIX)PED EGGPLANT. 

Pare an eggplant. Cut it into inch cubes. Cook 
gently in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. But- 
ter a deep baking dish. Cook two tablespoons butter with 
a small minced onion for a few minutes until onions are 
a little yellow, add one tablespoonful minced parsley. Stir 
into the cooked eggplant. Season to taste. Pour mix- 



120 VEGETABLES 

ture into the baking dish, cover with buttered bread 
crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 

RECIPE 434. STUFFED EGGPLANT. 

Wash a fine large eggplant. Do not pare. Cook it 
in boiling salted water fifteen minutes. Remove from 
the water, cut a slice off the stem end, gently remove 
most of the pulp from the inside, but do not break 
the skin. To the pulp from the inside of eggplant add 
half as much cracker crumbs, two tablespoons melted but- 
ter, a little onion salt, pepper and paprika. If too dry 
add a little water. Stuff the eggplant, bake twenty-five 
minutes. 

RECIPE 435. FRIED EGGPLANT. 

Wash and pare nice firm eggplant. Slice across the 
eggplant in about one-fourth inch slices. Season with 
pepper and salt and put between two plates for an hour 
to drain. When ready to serve, roll in egg, then in bread 
or cracker crumbs and saute in butter for a few minutes 
until tender. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 436. BOILED CABBAGE. 

Cut in quarters, remove main stalk in center and 
soak cabbage for an hour in cold salted water. Then 
cover with boiling water. Cook until tender. New cab- 
bage will cook in about an hour. Winter cabbage re- 
quires a longer time. Add one-fourth teaspoon soda to 
water in which it boils to prevent odor when boiling. 

RECIPE 437. ESCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Take equal parts cold boiled cabbage, cut in small 
pieces and No. 2 White Sauce. Put in buttered baking 
dish, cover with buttered crumbs, bake fifteen minutes. 

RECIPE 438. CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

Use cold boiled cabbage. Make No. 2 White Sauce, 
add 1^ cup cheese for each cup White Sauce, using one 
cup cabbage for each cup White Sauce. Place in layers 
in baking dish having White Sauce and some crumbs on 
top. Bake fifteen minutes. 

RECIPE 439. BOILED CAULIFLOAVER. 

Soak cauliflower upside down in cold salted water 
for thirty minutes. Then cover with fresh boiling water 
slightly salted and with one-fourth teaspoonful soda to 
prevent odor. Boil until tender, about forty-five minutes 
to one hour. Serve with Drawn Butter or Vinegar Sauce 
or White Sauce No. 1. 



VEGETABLES 121 

RECIPE 440. ESCALLOPED CAULIFIiOAVER. 

Cook same as Escalloped Cabbage, substituting cauli- 
flower for cabbage. 

RECIPE 441. FRIED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil a small head of cauliflower in salted water. Let 
get cold, then break the branches into pieces. Dip them 
in dry bread crumbs, egg and crumbs; fry in deep fat. 
Can be served with a No. 1 White Sauce if desired. 

For a change, add 1 tablespoon of grated cheese to 
the White Sauce, or two tablespoons stewed tomatoes. 

RECIPE 442. BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

- It requires such a long time to prepare the beans 
that even for a small family it is well to make the follow- 
ing recipe as beans are good cold or warmed over: 

Soak one quart navy beans in cold water over night. 
Pour off this water in the morning and cover beans with 
fresh cold water and bring slowly just to the simmering 
point. Let cook until tender, having one-fourth teaspoon 
of soda and one teaspoon of salt in the water. W^hen 
beans are tender, drain off this water. In a Boston Bean 
jar place on the bottom a slice of salt pork, about one- 
fourth inch thick. Fill the jar with cooked beans, adding 
to the jar about one-fourth cup New Orleans molasses 
and one-fourth cupful brown sugar and a little pepper. 
Take one-half pound salt pork, score it deeply, saute it in 
a frying pan for two or three minutes, then bury it in the 
beans in the jar, add hot water to the grease in the pan 
and pour it over the beans in jar just until it shows 
through the beans. One-quarter teaspoon of mustard can 
be used in seasoning if desired. Let cook several hours 
slowly until beans are thoroughly brown. Add more 
water as needed. W^ill require from six to seven hours 
to bake. Fine cooked in fireless cooker. 

RECIPE 443. NEW ENGLAND BEANS. 

Follow recipe for Boston Beans, but instead of plac- 
ing beans in a jar put them in a flat roasting pan, cover 
with bean water and put several bits of salt pork on top. 
Season. Bake slowly till brown. Can be stirred fre- 
quently. If wished more brown, let water cook partly 
away. 

RECIPE 444. STRING BEANS. 

W^ash a sufficient quantity of string beans, pull off 
the stem and strip off the string down the back. Pick 
off the lower tip also. Cut each bean into 2 or 3 lengths. 



122 VEGETABLES 

Cover with salted water and boil till tender — about 
thirty to forty-five minutes — then drain off the water. 
Can be served plain with butter or a No. 1 White Sauce, 
or Vinegar Sauce (Recipe 427). 

RECIPE 445. FRENCH STRING BEANS. 

Wash and string the beans, then take a pair of scis- 
sors and cut them lengthwise in long, thin strips; put 
them on to boil in slightly salted water and add a very 
small piece of washing soda, about the size of a small pea. 
When tender, drain off water and serve with hot butter 
poured over them. 

RECIPE 446. LIMA BEANS. 

Hull fresh lima beans, put into boiling water, cook 
until tender — about thirty minutes. Pour off water. Sea- 
son and serve with hot butter or No, 1 White Sauce. 

RECIPE 447. SUCCOTASH. 

Cooked Lima beans, added to cooked corn, makes 
succotash. 

RECIPE 448. DRY LIMA BEANS. 

Cover beans over night with cold water. In morning 
pour off the water and cover beans with fresh boiling 
water. Cook until tender, thirty to forty-five minutes. 
Drain and serve as you would fresh beans. 



CHAPTER XI 
Salads and Salad Dressings. 



When we use the word "marinate" in cookery we 
mean to add salt, pepper, oil and vinegar to any salad 
ingredient or combination, and lee stand until the season- 
ing has had time to blend. 

There are only about five great families of salads — 
meat, fish, fruit, vegetables and the combination of meat 
and vegetables, usually called Russian Salads. 

From these salads there can be a great variety, lim- 
ited only by the ingenuity of the cook. Salads made 
from green vegetaoles must be crisp and cold. If salad 
dressing is added to green vegetables they quickly wilt, 
so add it just before serving. All greens should be thor- 
oughly washed, put in a damp cloth and placed in a cool 
place until ready to use. Lettuce should be washed when 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 123 

it comes from the market, and if placed in a wet cloth on 
the ice will keep crisp and fresh for days. 

Cold meats are best marinated a few hours before 
using. Left-over canned vegetables can many of them 
be utilized in salads; in fact, with the great variety of 
escalloped dishes and the possibilities of different com- 
binations of salads the careful housewife need never have 
a crumb wasted from her kitchen. 

Many salads are not especially nutritious, but are 
valuable for the salts and water they contain. The oil 
used in the dressings should always be kept in a cool 
place. Buy oil by the quart or gallon if you use many 
salads, as it is much cheaper oought in this way than by 
the small bottle. 

RECIPE 449. FRENCH DRESSING NO. 1. 

The genuine French Dressing is made as follows: 
For each person allow: 
1 tablespoon vinegar % teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons oil 14 teaspoon salt 

Mix all these ingredients with a fork and stir until 
they have blended. More salt can be used, a little pap- 
rika or dry mustard or few drops of Worcestershire 
Satice can be added if desired for a change. Tarragon 
vinegar is considered the best. If this dressing is too 
oily to suit you, use more vinegar and less oil, to taste. 

RECIPE 450. FRENCH DRESSING NO. 2. 

minced pimento 
minced green 

peppers 
teaspoon pepper 
teaspoon salt 
teaspoon paprika 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
Use this dressing on any of the green salads. 

RECIPE 451. BOILED MAYONNAISE. 

V2 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 
Heat these together in a saucepan until the butter 
is melted, then set it aside to get lukewarm while you 
prepare the following: 

2 or 3 eggs 14 teaspoon papriak 

V2 teaspoon dry mus- 1 cup cream or milk 

tard 1/2 teaspoon salt 
y2 teaspoon pepper 



6 


tablespoons oil 


1 


2 


tablespoons vinegar 


2 


/2 


tablespoon minced 






onion 


V2 


1 


tablespoon minced 


1 




parsley 


V2 



124 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Beat eggs without separating until they are creamy, 
add seasoning and beat well, using a Dover egg beater. 
Add cream or milk, stir well. When vinegar mixture is 
lukewarm, stir egg mixture into it, place over a very 
slow fire and stir all the time until sauce thickens, then 
remove from fire ana beat with egg beater for at least 
five minutes. The more you beat it the nicer it will be. 
Either sweet or sour cream can be used. More creani 
can be used at time of serving to make it less thick, if 
desired. Serve very cold. 

RECIPE 452. BOILED MAYONNAISE AVITH CORN 
► STARCH. 

In the winter when eggs are very dear make the 
Boiled Mayonnaise with only one egg, but at the last, 
when sauce is done, add one teaspoonful of cornstarch 
wet up with a little milk or water. This will give the 
desired consistency, which otherwise it would lack. 

PLAIN UNCOOKED MAYONNAISE (see 128). 

TARTAR SAUCE (see 129). 

TARTAR MOUSSELAINE SAUCE (see 131). 

RECIPE 453. CHEESE MAYONNAISE. 

Roquefort or Gorgonzola cheese is preferable. Take 
two tablespoonsful, crush well, adding enough oil, a little 
at a time, to make a smooth paste. Add a few drops of 
vinegar, work it in well, alternating oil and vinegar until 
a creamy mayonnaise results. Season with paprika. One 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire Sauce adds much to the 
flavor. This Cheese Mayonnaise is best on a plain let- 
tuce salad, although it can also be used on green vege- 
tables. 

RECIPE 454. WHITE SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT 

OIL. 

1 tablespoon butter i/4 teaspoon paprika 
1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon lemon 

1 cup milk juice 

Vz teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 

1/4 teaspoon white 1 teaspoon mustard 

pepper 2 to 4 egg yolks 

Melt butter, add flour, beat yolks and add to milk. 
Stir into flour and butter, add vinegar and seasonings. 
Stir until it thickens. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 125 

RECIPE 455. BOILED SALAD DRESSING FROM 
EA APORATED MILK. 

% cup evaporated milk dash cayenne 

^4 cup water l^^ teaspoons cornstarch 

1 teaspoon dry 2 egg yolks 

mustard 3 tablespoons vinegar 

% tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon melted 

11/^ teaspoon sugar butter 

Into the top of the double boiler or the stew pan 
in which it is to be cooked put the mustard, salt, sugar, 
cornstarch and cayenne. Mix well and add very slowly, 
stirring constantly, the mixed evaporated milk and water. 
Stir and cook until it begins to thicken, then add the 
beaten egg yolks and stir until thick. Draw aside and 
pour in the vinegar very slowly. Add melted butter and 
chill. 

RECIPE 456. ORIENTAL SALAD DRESSING. 

Slice a clove of garlic and mash it in a mixing bowl, 
add a half teaspoon of curry powder, a half teaspoon of 
salt and a dash of cayenne. Mix thoroughly, add a tea- 
spoon of onion juice, six tablespoons of olive oil and one 
tablespoon of lime or lemon juice. Beat until thoroughly 
mixed and pour over grape fruit, orange pulp or avacado 
pear. Slice fruit and serve on lettuce leaves. 

RECIPE 457. HONEY SALAD DRESSING FOR ONE 
PERSON. 

Beat together three tablespoons of olive oil, two 
tablespoons of honey, a tablespoon of lemon juice and a 
few grains of salt. Use at once. 

RECIPE 458. CREAM MAYONNAISE. 

Use the Plain Uncooked Mayonnaise (see 108), al- 
lowing an equal amount of stiffly beaten sweet or sour 
cream. Nice with cold cracked crab, lobster, etc. 

RECIPE 459. GREEN MAYONNAISE. 

This is used frequently for apple salad, and is made 
by adding two or three drops of green fruit coloring to 
Plain Uncooked Mayonnaise (see 108), or it may be col- 
ored by adding finely chopped parsley rubbed to a paste 
or pulverized spinach. 

RECIPE 460. DANISH MAYONNAISE. 

Add a teaspoon of anchovy paste to one cup of may- 
onnaise dressing. Stir in a tablespoon of tomato catsup, 
ten drops of Worcestershire Sauce and two drops of 
Tabasco, Use with broiled or fried fish. 



126 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

RECIPE 461. LEMON SALAD DRESSING. 

juice 2 lemons 14 cup sugar 

juice 1 orange 2 whole eggs 

Put all the ingredients into a double boiler and stir 
until well mixed, then put on the fire and stir constantly 
until it thickens. Set away to get cold. When ready to 
use, stir in half a cup of stiffly beaten sweet or sour 
cream. This dressing will keep for several weeks if 
cream is not added until ready to serve. 

RECIPE 462. FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

Pineapple juice, apricot juice, Maraschino cherry 
juice can all be used, following recipe for Lemon Salad 
Dressing, and substituting 6 tablespoons of the desired 
juice in tne place of orange juice. 

RECIPE 463. SWEET MAYONNAISE DRESSING FOR 
FRUIT SALADS. 

melt 1/^ cup butter 3 eggs (beaten to a 

add cream 

2 tablespoons flour i/4 cup vinegar 

1 cup milk 1^ cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon white 

y2 teaspoon mustard pepper 

% teaspoon paprika 
Melt butter, add flour, then milk and seasonings. 
Stir until it thickens. Remove from fire, beat in the 
eggs, add vinegar, sugar. Beat thoroughly. Set away 
to get cold. When ready to use, beat in Vq cup cream. 
Pineapple juice, cherry juice, strawberry or raspberry 
juice or pickled peach vinegar can, any one, be used 
instead of the plain vinegar. 

RECIPE 464. CHICKEN SALAD. 

1 cup cold boiled l^ cup plain Mayonnaise 

chicken 2 hard boiled eggs 

1 cup celery 1 teaspoon capers 

Cut the chicken in cubes about an inch in size. Dice 
the celery. Slice the hard boiled eggs or quarter them. 
Marinate the chicken for at least an hour. Drain well 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. The salad looks best 
for individual serving if it has been pressed into a cup 
to shape it nicely. Small pieces of green peppers or 
pimientoes can be cut out with a little vegetable cutter. 
These come in many designs and add much to the effec- 
tiveness of the decoration. The hard boiled eggs can be 
mixed in with the salad, but are usually placed on top 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 127 

or round the salad as a decoration. If celery is out of 
season, crisp shredded lettuce can be used, but must not 
be added until just ready to serve, or cold boiled pota- 
toes may be used instead of celery. 

RECIPE 465. LOBSTER SALAD. 

Follow the recipe for Chicken Salad, substituting 
lobster meat for chicken. 

RECIPE 466. SHRIiVIP SALAD. 

Follow recipe for Chicken Salad, substituting 
shrimps for chicken. 

RECIPE 467. CRAB MEAT SALAD. 

Follow recipe for Chicken Salad, substituting crab 
for chicken. 

RECIPE 468. LEFT-OVER MEAT SALAD. 

Follow recipe for Chicken Salad, substituting any 
other meat for chicken. 

RECIPE 469. LEFT-OVER BOILED FISH SALAD. 

Any firm white fish can be flaked and used instead 
of chicken. 

RECIPE 470. RUSSIAN SALAD. 

This salad is usually made of a combination of meat 
and green vegetables and is especially valuable for using 
up the odds and ends from the icebox. Beef, lamu, veal, 
cold roast pork, tongue, chicken, turkey can be used in 
combination with radishes, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, 
parsley, string beans, peas, green peppers, pimientoes or 
celery. A French dressing is commonly used, allowing 
the meat lo marinate in it for an nour or two, but a 
mayonnaise can be used if preferred. Do not use over 
two kinds of meat or any three or four vegetables at one 
time. Serve very cold on lettuce. 

RECIPE 471. EGG SALAD. 

4 hard boiled eggs, cut l^ cup plain Mayon- 
in quarters naisa 
equal part of diced sprinkle a little pap- 
celery , rika on the top 

RECIPE 472. GRAPE AND FILBERT SALAD. 

One cupful of Malaga grapes, skinned and seeded. 
An equal amount of filbert nuts, blanched. Stuff each 
grape with a filbert. Serve on lettuce with whipped 



128 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

cream sweetened a very little. This is a very rich salad. 
About two tablespoons to a person will be enough. 

RECIPE 473. FRESH CHERRY SALAD. 

Seed fresh cherries and stuff with blanched filbert 
nuts. Serve on lettuce with a French dressing or with 
a little sweetened whipped cream. 

RECIPE 474. AVEST INDIA SALAD. 

Slice cucumbers in half lengthwise, allowing one- 
half for each person. Remove all the seeds, making a 
sort of boat. Chop up young onions, green peppers, a 
pimiento. Marinate with a French dressing and fill into 
tne cucumber boat. Serve ice cold on a lettuce leaf. 
Dash a little paprika on top. 

RECIPE 475. FLORIDA SALAD. 

One-half pound figs, three oranges. Wash figs and 
cut in shreds, orange cut in dice. Mix with salad dress- 
ing thinned with cream. 

RECIPE 476. POTATO SALAD NO. 1. 

Wash potatoes well. Cook until just waxy in boil- 
ing salt water. Pare and slice while still hot. Let them 
stand after being cut until they are cold. Add very 
"thinly sliced young onions, pimiento, green pepper and 
two or three hard boiled eggs, which can be sliced, quar- 
tered or chopped. Mix ingredients well with a Plain 
Boiled Mayonnaise. Let cool. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 
A few capers are very nice, 

RECIPE 477. POTATO SALAD NO. 2. 

Wash and cook in boiling salted water a sufficient 
number of potatoes. For a family of two take 
2 potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 sliced onion i/4 pepper 

1 sliced pickled beet i/4 teaspoon paprika 

2 sour little cucum- V4, teaspoon minced 

ber pickles parsley 

1 teaspoon capers 
Marinate well with a French Dressing, or if pre- 
ferred use one-half cupful of either Plain or Boiled May- 
onnaise. Serve on lettuce. 

RECIPE 478. WILTED LETTUCE SALAD. 

Saute two thin pieces of bacon until brown and 
crisp. Remove from pan and crush into small pieces. 
To the fat in the pan add one-half cup vinegar, one-half 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 129 

teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper. Boil up once 
and pour over shredded lettuce, to which add the crushed 
bits of bacon. Sometimes one-half cup of milk is also 
added to the vinegar sauce. 

RECIPE 479. TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

1 cup tomatoes i/^ teaspoon sugar 

% package Knox i/^ teaspoon salt 

gelatine i/4 teaspoon onion salt 

1/4 cup cold water 1 bay leaf 

1 whole clove 
Put gelatine to soak for fifteen minutes with the 
cold water. Simmer the tomatoes with the seasoning, 
clove and bay leaf. When tomatoes have cooked until 
tender, add the soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, 
strain through a cloth and pour into individual molds. 
When thoroughly set and ready to serve, stand the mold 
in hot water for just a moment, when the jelly will 
easily slip from the mold. Serve on a lettuce leaf with 
a tablespoon of Plain or a Cold Boiled Mayonnaise. Hol- 
landaise Sauce is also nice with this salad. 

RECIPE 480. TOMATO JELLY SALAD NO. 2. 

1 cup strained 1^4 cup finely chopped 

tomatoes tender celery 

14 cup vinegar 3 pimientoes 

1/4 cup sugar 3 whole cloves 

% teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons granu- 

1/4 cup cold water lated gelatine 

Put gelatine to soak in the cold water ten minutes. 
Put the tomatoes, sugar, salt and vinegar into a granite 
saucepan and bring them slowly to the boiling point. Let 
simmer five minutes, add the soaked gelatine, stir until 
dissolved, then strain the mixture, add the celery and 
pimientoes. Turn into a flat dish to the depth of two 
inches and set away to get cold. Then cut into squares 
and serve on lettuce leaves, with a little mayonnaise on 
top of the gelatine. A few English walnuts can be laid 
on top. 

RECIPE 481. DEVILED EGG SALAD. 

4 hard boiled eggs 1 teaspoon Worces- 

1 teaspoon salt tershirc Sauce 

Vz teaspoon pepper i/4 teaspoon dry 

Vz teaspoon paprika mustard 

1 tablespoon oil 3 drops Tobasco 

Sauce 



130 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cut the eggs in half with a sharp knife. Gently re- 
move the yolks without breaking the whites. Mash yolks 
with a silver fork, add seasoning and just enough oil 
and vinegar to make a smooth paste, firm enough to 
keep in shape when you fill it into the holLpw part of 
the whites of eggs. Serve on lettuce leaves, very cold. 
You will have a little of the yolks left. Thin these with 
a little more vinegar and oil and pour over the eggs and 
lettuce. 

RECIPE 482. DEVILED EGGS. 

Follow directions above, only omit the lettuce and 
do not serve with the thin sauce. If used for picnics, 
place two stuffed halves together and wrap in oiled paper. 

RECIPE 483. KIDNEY BEAN SALAD. 

y^. cup red kidney y^ teaspoon salt 

beans i/4 teaspoon pepper 



Marinate well with a French Dressing. A teaspoon 
of Worcestershire Sauce added to the French Dressing is 
very good. 

RECIPE 484. ORIENTAL SALAD. 

1 tart apple 1 sweet pepper 

1 large solid tomato y^ teaspoon curry 

1 tablespoon chopped powder 

onion French dressing 

1 cup shredded 
cabbage 
Shred the cabbage, peel the tomato, cut it into 
halves and squeeze out the seeds, chop the flesh rather 
fine. Shred the pepper. At serving time put the cab- 
bage into the salad bowl, put over the apple pared and 
sliced, then the tomato, pepper, onion and the curry pow- 
der. Pour over the French Dressing, toss and serve. 

RECIPE 485. BEET AND NUT SALAD. 

Young beets, cooked tender, cut in fancy shapes, 
covered with chopped walnuts and served on lettuce 
leaves with Salad Dressing. 

RECIPE 486. CARROT AND AVALNUT SALAD. 

Five or six raw carrots put through meat chopper, 
one-half cup walnut meats cut fine. Mix together with 
Salad Dressing. Celery may be added. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 131 

RECIPE 487. NORWEGIAN SALAD. 

1/^ pint boiled corned 6 sardines 

beef 1 tablespoon capers 

2 good sized boiled 2 hard boiled eggs 

or pickled beets 2 tart apples 

2 gherkins 

Cut the beef into dice and chop the beets, gherkins 
and apples, add them to the beef, add the sardines, boned 
and cut into pieces, and the capers. Dish on lettuce 
leaves and garnish with the eggs cut into quarters. Make 
a French dressing from six tablespoons of olive oil, two 
tablespoons of vinegar, salt and pepper. Baste this over 
the salad, toss and serve. 

RECIPE 488. SWEET POTATO SALAD. 

On a bed of crisp lettuce place a layer of thinly 
sliced cold sweet potatoes, dusting each layer with pap- 
rika. Cover with a lai':r of shredded green peppers in 
which has been mixed some slicea green onions. A little 
cold minced chicken, cold lean roast pork, veal or lamb 
may then be added, with a final layer of the potatoes 
mixed with the peppers. Use French Dressing seasoned 
with chopped mint. 

RECIPE 489. MUSHROOM SALAD. 

Equal parts of canned mushrooms, diced celery and 
blanched Brazil nuts, one-fourth cup sliced stuffed olives. 
Chop the Brazil nuts a little. Serve on lettuce with a 
little mayonnaise. 

RECIPE 490. NEtv'CHATEL CHEESE SALAD. 

Make little balls of Neufchatel cheese, roll them in 
chopped nuts, serve on lettuce leaves with a French 
Dressing. 

RECIPE 491. NEUFCHATEL CHEESE NO. 2. 

Take one Neufchatel cheese, one pimiento, three 
tablespoons shredded lettuce. Press all together back 
into the original shape of cheese. Let stand one hour. 
Cut in slices, serve on lettuce with French Dressing. 

RECIPE 492. NEUFCHATEL CHEESE SALAD NO. 3. 

Take one cheese, divide into little balls about the 
size of marbles, roll them in dried minced parsley. Make 
a nest of them on lettuce leaves, garnish with sliced rad- 
ishes and serve with French Dressing. 



132 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

RECIPE 493. CHEESE SALAD WITH BAR-LE-DtTC. 

Mash one cream cheese with enough sweet cream to 
make a smooth paste. Add a little chopped lettuce. 
Shape into little marbles, place on lettuce leaves in a 
ring. In the center place a tablespoon of Bar-le-Duc or 
some currant or gooseberry jam. Serve with saltine 
wafers. 

RECIPE 494. ORANGE SALAD WITH SHERRY 
SAUCE. 

Cut large oranges in half, allowing one-half for each 
person. Scrape out the pulp with a spoon. For each 
half orange allow 

1 teaspoon powdered 1 teaspoon lemon 

sugar juice 

y2 teaspoon chopped 1 teaspoon sherry 

mint wine 

Marinate with orange pulp for an hour on ice. 
When ready to serve, put pulp back into orange shells 
and pour a little of the sauce over it. Serve icy cold. 
A small sprig of mint added to center of orange mixture 
in the shell make an appropriate decoration. 

RECIPE 495. PEAR SALAD. 

Slice firm ripe pears into eight strips lengthwise. 
Slice them carefully so as to keep them in the original 
shape. Lay on lettuce leaf. Serve with French Dress- 
ing. One pear for each person. 

RECIPE 496. GREEN PEPPER SALAD. 

Remove a slice from the stem end, take out the 
seeds, fill with a mixture composed of oranges or grape- 
fruit, diced celery and filberts or English walnuts. Can 
be served with a French Dressing or a little Cream May- 
onnaise. Lay on lettuce leaves. 

RECIPE 497. SHAD ROE SALAD. 

Parboil one shad roe fifteen minutes. Cool, remove 
membrane and mash fine and smooth. Shred some let- 
tuce very fine. Add to shad roe and mix with a little 
mayonnaise. Can be served on lettuce leaves or in a 
fresh tomato. If in the latter, place an extra tablespoon 
of mayonnaise on lettuce leaf beside the tomato. 

RECIPE 498. SHAD ROE SALAD NO. 2. 

For a small family one-half a roe will be enough. 
Put it in some salted boiling water and let it cook for 
fifteen minutes. Drain, remove membrane, wipe dry. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 133 

roll it in a little beaten egg, roll it in dry bread crumbs 
and cook it in a frying pan with a little grease until it 
browns. Now pour over it the juice of half a lemon and 
a little paprika. Set it away to get thoroughly cold, 
then cut it in slices or cubes, add an equal amount of 
cucumber cubes, one tablespoon capers and two table- 
spoons chopped olives. Mix gently together, serve on 
lettuce. leaves wua one tablespoon of Plain Mayonnaise 
poured on top of each serving of salad. 

RECIPE 499. ROQUEFORT CHEESE AND CAVIARE 
SALAD. 

For each person put on a plate one lettuce leaf. On 
this lay a very thin slice of Roquefort cheese, on this 
spread the thinest possible layer of caviare. Sprinkle 
lightly with paprika and pour over it two tablespoons 
of Sauce Royale (see Index). Place one or two olives on 
each plate. 

RECIPE 500. COMBINATION SALAD. 

1 small head lettuce i^ cucumber 

1 small onion 3 radishes 

2 small tomatoes i^ green pepper 

Have vegetables crisp and cold. Slice thin the 
onion, cucumber, radishes and green pepper. Quarter 
the tomato. Mix all these ingredients together with a 
French Dressing (see Index) and serve very cold on let- 
tuce. A little thinly sliced celery is nice and a few left- 
over canned string beans or peas can be used. 

RECIPE 501. BRUSSELS SPROUTS SALAD. 

Place cold boiled Brussels sprouts in a salad bowl 
with lettuce leaves. Mix together some finely chopped 
ham, onion, capers, olives and some green peppers. Then 
add a cup of green peas. The Brussels sprouts should 
marinate for several hours in French Dressing, the 
smallest sprouts being best for the salad. The chopped 
mixture should be between the Brussels sprouts some 
time before serving, so that they may absorb flavoring 
of the ingredients. Served with Mayonnaise. 

RECIPE 502. ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Lay stalks of asparagus on a lettuce leaf and pour 
over them a French Dressing. A pretty way to decorate 
them IS to cut a ring of green pepper about an inch wide 
and slip stalks through it. A ring of pimiento can be 
used instead of green pepper. 



134 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

RECIPE 503. ASPARAGUS VINAIGRETTE. 

Lay asparagus on a lettuce leaf and pour over it a 
Vinaigrette Sauce (see 153). 

RECIPE 504. ASPARAGUS HOLLANDAISE. 

Lay white stalks of canned asparagus on a lettuce 
leaf. Place on the tips a tablespoon of Hollandaise Sauce 
(see Index). 

RECIPE 505. ASPARAGUS LUNCHEON SALAD. 

2 cupri cooked aspar- 2 hard cooked eggs 

agus, diced lettuce leaves or 

2 cups ghredded cress 

lettuce scant teaspoon 

1 tablespoon olive oil vinegar 

boiled salad dressing 

Mix together asparagus and shredded lettuce with 
olive oil and vinegar. Add boiled dressing to moisten 
thoroughly, chill, arrange in nests of salad green and 
garnish with the hard boiled eggs and additional dress- 
ing. 

RECIPE 506. POINSETTA SALAD. 

Take solid red tomatoes, cut five petals from center 
(not blossom end), cut skin thin with sharp paring 
knife, lay leaves flat, cut out little of center of tomato 
and fill with Salad Dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

RECIPE 507. SARDINE AND SHRIMP SALAD. 

Take equal parts of shrimps and sardines, marinate 
separately in a little vinegar. Line salad bowl with let- 
tuce and fill with alternating layers of cold asparagus 
tips, sardines cut in dice, thinly sliced cucumbers and 
tomatoes, then one of shrimps divided in sections, if 
desired. Serve with French Dressing. 

RECIPE 508. PALACE SALAD. 

Take nice tender celery and cut it lengthwise in 
strips about the size of matches. Throw it into ice water 
to get crisp. Shred slices of fresh or canned pineapple, 
two green peppers and one or two pimientoes. Put all 
on the ice to chill. When ready to use, wipe celery dry, 
mix with other ingredients and pour over them a Cream 
Mayonnaise (see Index). Serve icy cold on lettuce hearts. 
If celery is out of season, use shredded lettuce, but do 
not put it into ice water. Shred it only when ready to 
use, as it will wilt quickly. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 135 

RECIPE 509. DATE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Cream cheese and mix with chopped walnuts, wash 
dates or figs and cut fine. Mix all together with Salad 
Dressing thinned with cream. Serve in apple scooped 
out. This makes a delicious filling for sandwiches, 

RECIPE 510. KIDNEY BEAN SALAD WITH BACON. 

Saute two thin slices of bacon until brown and crisp. 
Remove bacon from pan and crush into small pieces. To 
fat in pan add one-half cup vinegar, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon Wor- 
cestershire Sauce. Pour this over one-half cup red kid- 
ney beans and serve them on lettuce. 

RECIPE 511. STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Allow one nice firm tomato for each person. Put 
them in a deep pan and pour enough boiling water over 
to cover them. Let them lie in this but a minute, when 
the skins will come off readily. Put away to get very 
cold. When ready to use, carefully cut into the stem 
end with a spoon or small knife and remove a portion 
of the inside pulp. Season inside of tomato lightly with 
salt and pepper and turn upside down on a plate to 
drain while you prepare the stuffing. 

Tomatoes can be stuffed with any Meat or Fish 
Salad, such as Chicken, Veal, Russian, Shrimp, Lobster, 
Crab, Shad, Roe, etc. Make a small amount of any of 
these salads, using a Plain Mayonnaise to mix them with, 
then put a spoonful of salad in each tomato and pour 
over the tomato a little more mayonnaise. Salads mixed 
with French Dressings or Boiled Mayonnaise Dressings 
can all be used in combination with the tomato. 

Celery and nuts mixed with a mayonnaise make a 
very delicious combination. String beans, peas, carrots, 
hard boiled eggs, green peppers in many different com- 
binations are all good. Shredded lettuce with hard 
boiled eggs and either a French or Mayonnaise Dressing 
are nice. Young chopped onions can be added to almost 
any of these combinations when desired. 

RECIPE 512. CABBAGE SALAD (COLD SLAW). 

Chop up a sufficient quantity of cabbage nice and 
fine. For two persons about one cupful. Mix well with 
a Boiled Mayonnaise to make very moist. A few celery 
or mustard seeds are nice. Equal parts of chopped cel- 
ery and cabbage can be used. One pimiento chopped 
fine gives a very good taste to it. Serve very cold. Hard 
boiled eggs can be used as a garnish if desired. For 
more elaborate serving a very pretty way is to take an- 



136 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

other rather flat shaped head of cabbage, cut out the 
center (from the top end), making a deep well in it, 
and serve the Cold Slaw on table from this cabbage. 
This is nice where a large number of persons are to be 
served and you want something a little out of the usual 
way of serving. 

RECIPE 513. CELERY SALAD. 

Celery can be washed, scraped, cut in thin slices and 
thrown into slightly salted ice water to make it crisp. 
Serve with a Boiled Mayonnaise or a Cream Dressing. 
Celery is used in combination with many salads and is 
almost indispensable in all meat, fish and shell fish 
salads. 

RECIPE 514. STUFFED CELERY. 

Use white celery, picking out the tenderest parts 
(reserve the tougher parts for soups). Make a stuffing 
of Roquefort cheese, olive oil, Worcestershire Sauce and 
paprika. To make this stuffing, crush cheese and rub 
it until smooth, adding enough oil to make it about the 
consistency of butter. Add paprika and Worcestershire 
Sauce to taste. Take each stalk of celery and fill the 
hollow part of it with the Cheese Stuffing. This is 
served in same way as plain celery, as a relish, and is 
placed on table in celery tray at the beginning of the 
meal just as radishes and olives are, and is allowed to 
remain until dessert course is served. Very nice for 
afternoon entertainments when serving sandwiches, etc. 
Also good as a side dish with salads. 

RECIPE 515. ORANGE CUP SALAD. 

Put as many oranges as will be required on ice for 
at least an hour. Cut off a slice from the stem end. 
Cut the peeling half way down in quarters on each 
orange. Roll peeling back half way down and scrape out 
all the pulp. To pulp add shredded pineapple, bananas, 
green grapes (skinned and seeded). Put this into the 
orange shells, add one or two Maraschino cherries on the 
top and a tablespoon of sugar into each orange. Fill in 
with sherry wine and a few drops of the syrup from the 
bottle of Maraschino cherries. Serve in a big white rose 
or any green salad leaves. A bed of chicory makes a 
pretty background. 

RECIPE 516. COMBINATION FRUIT AND ORANGE 
SALAD. 

Have oranges and bananas ice cold. Slice oranges 
about one-half inch thick. Slice bananas rather thin. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 137 

Cut Maraschino cherries in half. Lay one slice of orange 
on a lettuce leaf. Have a layer of bananas running all 
around the edge of orange, having each slice of banana 
overlapping one another. In the center place a few 
Maraschino cherries. Put one drop of lemon juice on 
each slice of banana, sprinkle the fruit with a generous 
tablespoon powdered sugar and a few drops of Madeira 
or sherry wine and a few drops of syrup from out of the 
bottle of cherries. Serve very cold. Do not prepare 
until just ready to serve, as the bananas soon turn dark. 

RECIPE 517. OYSTER SALAD NO. 1. 

4 large or 8 small 2 tablespoons mush- 

oysters rooms 

4 stuffed olives 
Cover oysters with boiling salted water until they 
ruffle. Remove from water and let get cold. Mince 
mushrooms. On each plate place a lettuce leaf, lay 
oysters on it, put mushrooms on top, lay olives along 
side. Put one tablespoon cold plain mayonnaise on top. 
Saltine wafers sprinkled with grated cheese and browned 
for a minute in the oven are nice to serve with this salad. 
This recipe makes two plates of salad. 

RECIPE 518. OYSTER SALAD NO. 2. 

1 can cove oysters, or 14 cup thin sliced 

1 pint small fresh celery 

oysters ^/4 cup broken crackers 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 cup vinegar 

2 or 3 drops Tobasco 1 tablespoon butter 

sauce or olive oil 

Salt, pepper and paprika to taste 
If fresh oysters are used instead of canned (cove), 
put them on in a saucepan, cover with a pint boiling 
water, let them simmer for a minute or two until oysters 
"ruffle." Then remove from water and let stand until 
ice cold. Chop whites of hard boiled eggs. Mash yolks. 
Simmer together for a moment the mashed yolks of eggs, 
vinegar, butter and seasonings. As soon as butter has 
melted, set mixture away to cool. When cold mix oysters, 
celery, crackers and chopped whites of hard boiled eggs 
together. Put them on a lettuce leaf and pour vinegar 
dressing over them. Place one or two olives on each 
plate and serve with saltine wafers. 

RECIPE 519. GRAPEFRUIT AND OYSTER SALAD. 

Cut grapefruit sections into convenient sizes. Take 
an equal part of either raw or parboiled oysters or clams, 



138 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

the smaller ones being best for this salad. Line grape- 
fruit shells with lettuce, filling up with alternating layers 
of the fruit pulp and oysters or clams. Each layer of 
the shellfish should be covered with catsup or cocktail 
dressing. Rub the inside of each fruit shell with cloye 
of garlic before lining with the lettuce leaves. 

RECIPE 520. EGGS IN NESTS SALAD. 

Boil eggs hard, cut in half lengthwise, mash yolks 
to a paste, use three parts cold meat (veal or chicken 
preferred), season with salt, pepper and prepared mus- 
tard, add a few finely chopped nut meats, mold to the 
half of white to form a whole egg. Place in a nest made 
by cutting lettuce leaves across with scissors to look like 
grass. A spoonful of mayonnaise, four salted almonds, 
one stuffed olive to garnish. 

RECIPE 521. APPLE AND RIPE OLIVES. 

Two apples cut in dice, few stalks of celery cut fine, 
ripe olives pitted and cut fine. Thin Salad Dressing with 
cream or vinegar to suit taste, and mix well. 

RECIPE 522. NUT PINEAPPLE AND CELERY 
SALAD. 

Equal parts pineapple and celery cubes. For each 
cup of fruit, 1/4 cup English walnuts, or almonds, or pea- 
nuts or Brazil nuts, 1 teaspoon lemon juice over each cup 
of pineapple and celery cubes. Let stand until very 
cold on ice. When ready to serve add a cream Mayon- 
naise or any fruit Mayonnaise, using ^/^ cup for each cup 
fruit. Serve on lettuce. Garnish on top with nuts. 

RECIPE 523. STUFFED GREEN PEPPER SALAD. 

A pretty salad is made by cutting the top from a 
green pepper, removing the seeds with a knife and filling 
the basket thus made with chicken or lobster salad. Each 
pepper may be placed on a lettuce leaf. 

RECIPE 524. PINEAPPLE AND BANANA SALAD. 

Follow directions for making Combination Fruit 
and Orange Salad, substituting a slice of a pineapple for 
the slice of orange. 

RECIPE 525. ORANGE, PINEAPPLE AND BANANA 
SALAD. 

Have all the fruit very cold. Slice orange about 
one-half inch thick, across the orange. Allow one slice 
for each person. On each slice of orange arrange a row 
of thinly sliced bananas, having banana slices overlap- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 139 

ping one another. On top of orange in the center place 
one teaspoon grated pineapple, and on top place one 
whole Maraschino cherry. Spread with powdered sugar, 
a few drops of lemon juice, a few drops of Sherry wine 
and a few drops of Maraschino syrup from the bottle of 
cherries. One dash of salt (very little) and a few grains 
of paprika can be added. If salt and paprika are omitted 
a grain or two of grated nutmeg is nice. Serve in a 
white rose, or on a bed of some green salad. The fine 
feathery sprays of chicory (sometimes called endive) 
make a dainty background for a fruit salad. 

RECIPE 526. PICK-UP SALAD. 

Chop six or eight olives, one bunch of white grapes, 
skinned and seeded, one-fourth cup nuts, a sliced banana 
or an orange. Cut up a little sharp cheese into cubes. 
Mix all ingredients together lightly with a little Mayon- 
naise. Take some fine large apples, cut off a slice across 
the stem end. Polish them highly and cut out from cen- 
ter of apple as much of the pulp as possible without 
breaking through skin of apple. This will leave a hol- 
low into which put the other ingredients. Set "lid" back 
on. Serve very cold. 

RECIPE 527. APPLE CUPS. 

Take large red apples, polish them well, cut off a 
slice across the stem end. Gently remove the core and 
as much of the inside of the apple as you can without 
breaking the skin. Fill into the hollow the Waldorf 
Salad mixture. Replace the slice of apple on top. Serve 
very cold, on a lettuce leaf. 

RECIPE 528. SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Take a pair of sweetbreads and soak in cold water 
for one-half hour. Then remove membrane from around 
them. Parboil them in slightly salted water for one-half 
hour. When cold cut into one-inch pieces. Add an 
equal amount of diced celery and a dozen mushrooms 
sliced in half, one teaspoon capers. Mix this thoroughly 
with a plain Mayonnaise, serve very cold on a lettuce 
leaf. Place one or two olives on each plate. 

RECIPE 529. WALDORF SALAD. 

Equal parts of diced celery, apples and English wal- 
nuts. Mix with a plain or cream Mayonnaise. Can be 
served in apple cups or on lettuce leaves. 



140 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

RECIPE 530. PINEAPPLE CELERY SALAD. 

Equal parts of pineapple cubes and diced celery. 
Season lightly with salt, pepper and paprika. Take one- 
fourth cup plain Mayonnaise and stir into it one-fourth 
cup stiffly whipped cream. Mix the fruit with the cream 
Mayonnaise and serve very cold on lettuce leaves. Saltine 
wafers are nice served with this. 

RECIPE 531. FRUIT SALAD WITHOUT GELATINE. 

Equal parts of orange, pineapple cubes, green grapes 
(skinned and seeded), a few Maraschino cherries sliced, 
and quartered marshmallows. Serve in large flat fresh 
roses, or on lettuce leaves. Place two tablespoons of 
stiffly whipped cream on top. A few English walnuts or 
a little shredded cocoanut is nice on top of the whipped 
cream. 

RECIPE 532. GELATINE FRUIT SALAD NO. 1. 

V2 box Knox gelatine juice 2 lemons 

y2 pint cold water 1 banana, sliced 

1/^ pint boiling water i/4 can pineapple cubes 

1 1/^ cups sugar 1 small sliced orange 

Soak gelatine in cold water and lemon juice. When 
soft pour over it the boiling water, add sugar and stir 
well until all is dissolved. When liquid has cooled a 
little put all the fruit into molds, or one big mold, strain 
liquid through a cloth and pour over fruit. Stir down 
once or twice as it is cooling so that fruit will be well 
distributed. When ready to serve set mold for a minute 
in hot water, when it will easily slip from the mold. 
Serve very cold with slightly sweetened, stiffly beaten 
cream. 

RECIPE 533. FRUIT GELATINE NO. 2. 

Make exactly as Fruit Gelatine Salad No. 1, only 
use Sherry wine instead of water. In the boiling wine 
put two whole cloves and one small piece of stick cinna- 
mon for a moment. To the whipped cream served on 
top of this salad, add a few quartered marshmallows. 

RECIPE 534. LEMON CUBES FOR ANY FRUIT 
SALAD. 

1/4 box Knox gelatine i/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup cold water i/4 cup boiling water 

juice 1 lemon 
Let the gelatine soak with the cold water for ten 
minutes. Add lemon juice and boiling water, stir until 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 141 

dissolved, strain and pour into a dish to the depth of one 
inch. When ready to serve, cut into one-inch cubes. 
Serve two or three cubes on each plate of salad. 

RECIPE 535. ORANGE OR GRAPE FRUIT AND 
ONION SALAD. 

Take equal portions of very thinly sliced Bermuda 
onions and oranges or grape fruit. Serve icy cold with 
a French dressing over them. Add a dash of paprika on 
top. Serve on a lettuce leaf. A few English walnuts, 
halved, are good with this salad. 

RECIPE 536. GRAPEFRUIT COCKTAIL. 

For each person, place in a cocktail glass: 
1 layer shredded 1 tablespoon pow- 

grapefruit dered sugar 

1 layer preserved figs, 1 teaspoon sherry 

minced wine 

1 layer Maraschino 1 teaspoon Mar- 

cherries, sliced aschino 

Place one whole cherry on top. Set away to chill 
for at least one hour. Serve as a cocktail at the begin- 
ning of the meal or as a dessert at the end of a meal. 

RECIPE 537. FRUIT COCIvTAIL. 

Fruit cocktails may be made at different seasons of 
the year with the fruits then in season. They can be 
varied to suit the taste. The following combinations 
are nice: 

Grapefruit, pineapple, strawberries, sugar, Sherry 
wine. 

Oranges, bananas, Maraschino cherries, Maraschino 
syrup, sugar, Sherry wine. 

Oranges, raspberries, pineapple, apricot brandy, 
sugar. 

Pineapple, bananas sliced, strawberries, sherry or 
apricot brandy, sugar. 

Cut the fruit in shreds, the bananas in slices or 
cubes. Put the fruit into a bowl, add sugar to taste. To 
one cup of fruit add one-third cup Sherry wine or apri- 
cot brandy or Maraschino. Serve ice cold in cups made 
from orange or lemon skins or in thin cocktail glasses. 
When using lemons or oranges, cut in half, instead of 
throwing away the skins, wash them and put them into 
a pan of cold water to keep for serving fruit cocktails 
or salads in. Cut a small piece off the end of the lemon 
to make it set flat on the serving plate, but do not cut 
too deep, so that it will leak. 



142 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

CHAPTER XII 

Dumplings, Puddings and Pudding 
Sauces. 



RECIPE 538. CHEAP STEAMED PUI)DING. 

1 cup dry bread 2 tablespoons melted 

crumbs butter 

% cup cold water 1 cup raisins 

(over crumbs) 1 cup currants 

1 cup New Orleans 1 cup flour 

molasses i/^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda (in molasses) 
If desired, one teaspoon ground cinnamon, one-balf 
teaspoon allspice and nutmeg may be added. The cup 
of raisins may be omitted if desired. Serve with a 
brandy, vanilla, lemon or hard sauce, or any hot sauce. 
Put into a well buttered pudding mold or five-pound 
lard pail and steam from three to five hours. 

RECIPE 539. FIG PUDDING. 

1 cup finely chopped 
suet 

1 cup molasses 

1 cup milk 

3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda, or 

1 teaspoon baking 
powder 

Mix dry ingredients together, then mix molasses, 
milk and suet together and combine all the ingredients. 
Pour into buttered molds and steam five hours. This 
makes a good Plum Pudding. It is a very large recipe, 
but the puddings will keep for several weeks. Serve with 
any good, hot sauce. One pound baking powder cans 
make very nice little moulds. Be sure they do not leak. 
The pudding comes out of these cans, in nice round 
shapes, easy to slice. 

RECIPE 540. CEREAL PUDDING. 

1 cup cooked cereal i/^ cup milk 

(left over) V2 cup raisins 

y2 cup molasses 2 eggs 

Put all together into a double boiler. When smooth 
turn into a buttered baking dish and bake forty minutes. 
Eat with cream. 



V2 


teaspoon salt 


1 


cup raisins 


V2 


cup figs 


1 


teaspoon ground 




cinnamon 


V2 


teaspoon mace 


V2 


teaspoon allspice 



DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 143 

RECIPE 541. CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 



1/4 


pound shelled 


1 


pound brown sugar 




almonds 


1 


cup molasses 


1/2 


pound candied 


IV4 


pounds bread crumbs 




orange peel 


2\ 


cups flour 


3 


pounds raisins 


1/4 


cup cornstarch 


3 


pounds currants 


1 


tablespoon mixed 


2 


pounds chopped 




spices 




beef suet 


12 


eggs 



Milk to bind all together 
Chop the almonds, orange peel, raisins, currants 
and suet. Add the rest of the ingredients. Tie in a 
floured bag and boil for eight hours. 

RECIPE 542. VEGETABLE PUDDING. 

1 cup grated carrots 1 cup currants 

1 cup grated potatoes 1 cup molasses 

1 cup suet 2 cups flour 

1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon soda 

1/^ teaspoon salt (in molasses) 

Chop the suet fine. Tear the raisins apart, add salt 
and a little of the flour. One-half cup citron, cut in thin 
small strips may be added. Butter a pudding mold, 
put in the pudding and steam three hours. Serve with 
a vanilla or lemon or a brandy or a hard sauce. For 
small family reduce one-half. 

RECIPE 543. BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

V2. cup Indian meal ^ cup molasses 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg Salt to taste 

1/4 cup sugar 

Pour one cup of milk onto the meal and set to boil, 
stirring constantly. When thick, remove from the fire 
and add the egg well beaten, sugar, butter, salt and the 
rest of the milk. Steam or boil in a floured bag. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

RECIPE 544. GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Vz cup molasses V2 cup ^our milk 

V2 cup brown sugar % teaspoon soda 

1/4 cup butter 1 cup raisins 

1 egg Spices to taste 

l^^ cups graham flour 

Stir the molasses and sugar together, add the but- 
ter, melted, and the q^^, well beaten. Stir in the flour 
and the sour milk, in which the soda has been dissolved. 
Add the spices, and the raisins, well floured, last. Steam 
four hours and serve with sauce. 



144 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

RECIPE 545. BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Allow one apple for each person. Pare, core and 
quarter apples. Make a nice pie dough (see Index). 
Cut dough into squares, large enough to wrap well over 
apples. On each square of dough place the quartered 
apple, pour over it a tablespoon or more of sugar, add 
one-half teaspoon butter, a pinch of salt and a dash of 
ground cinnamon or nutmeg, if desired. Wrap dough 
well around and over the apple, place in a baking dish. 
Bake about forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
with a vanilla or lemon or hard sauce. The vanilla 
sauce is also very nice served with one teaspoon hard 
sauce on the top of dumplings. Apricots or peaches may 
be used instead of apples. 

RECIPE 546. STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Follow directions for making Baked Apple Dump- 
lings, but instead of putting dumplings into oven to bake, 
place them in a well buttered pudding mold and steam 
one hour and twenty-five minutes. Serve with a vanilla, 
lemon, hard or foamy sauce. 

RECIPE 547. BAKED APPLES. 

Take a sufficient number of apples, polish well, and 
remove cores witn an apple corer. Fill in cavity with 
any one of the following combinations: 

Buttered bread crumbs, a little sugar, salt and cin- 
namon. 

Ground English walnuts, buttered bread crumbs, 
sugar, cinnamon. 

Ground English walnuts, raisins, sugar and a small 
piece of butter. 

Dates or raisins and a marshmallow, cut into pieces. 

Put apples into a pan with a little sweetened water 
and a piece of butter. Baste frequently until tender. 
The time of cooking depends upon the apple. Serve with 
or without cream. Whipped cream is nice. 

RECIPE 548. APPLE JELLY ROLL. 

Pare, core and mince apples. Make a nice pie dough, 
roll it thin, spread with the minced apples, sprinkle well 
with sugar and a slight dash of cinnamon or nutmeg. 
Roll dough and apples like a jelly roll, put into a five- 
pound lard bucket or a pudding mold. Steam one hour 
and twenty minutes. Serve with any nice hot sauce. 
Have mold well buttered before putting in the roll. 
When done, cut it across like a jelly roll cake, making 
slices of it. 



DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 145 

RECIPE 549. BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

Butter a deep baking dish and in it put alternate 
layers thinly sliced apples, bits of butter and dry bread 
crumbs. Sprinkle each layer generously with sugar, on 
top place layer of buttered bread crumbs, bake in slow 
oven 30 to 45 minutes until apples are tender. 

RECIPE 550. STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Follow recipe for Steamed Apple Pudding, substi- 
tuting any other fruit for apples. 

RECIPE 551. STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

1 cup flour V4: teaspoon salt 

2 level teaspoons 2 apples 

baking powder % cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter 
Pare and core apples and cut into eighths. Sift 
dry ingredients together, rub in butter, then add milk 
to make a dough. Roll out dough, place apples on it. 
Sift one tablespoon sugar over apples, one-eighth tea- 
spoon cinnamon or nutmeg. Bring edges up all over the 
apples, "turn over" style. Butter a deep pudding mould 
or five-pound lard can, place apple pudding gently into 
it. Cover and steam about one hour. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce (see Index). Sliced peaches or apri- 
cots may be used instead of apples. 

RECIPE 552. STEAMED BERRY PUDDING. 

1 % cups flour 14 teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons butter 

powder 1 cup milk 

1 cup berries (blackberries, raspberries or blueberries) 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in butter and 
add the milk. Roll berries in 1 tablespoon of flour and 
add. Butter a mold and turn in the pudding, having it 
come not more than two-thirds to the top. Steam one 
and one-half hours. Serve with Pudding Sauce. 

RECIPE 553. OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

yolks of 2 eggs whites of 4 eggs 

14 cup powdered sugar % teaspoon vanilla 
small pinch of salt 
Beat the yolks of eggs until very creamy and lemon 
colored, add the salt, sugar and vanilla. Beat the whites 
of eggs to the stiffest possible froth. Have ready a plat- 
ter which can be placed in the oven without breaking. 
Butter it slightly. Fold the whites of eggs very gently 
into yolk mixture. Put omelette onto platter, sprinkle 



146 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

with a very little powdered sugar. Bake in a moderate 
oven about ten minutes. This must be eaten at once, 
as all souffles are inclined to settle when cold. 

RECIPE 554. RITM OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Follow directions for Plain Omelette Souffle, adding 
to tne yolks of eggs two tablespoons of rum before you 
fold in the whites. If desired, a very little rum can be 
poured around omelette just as you send to the table. 
Set fire to it and serve. Do not use over a tablespoonful 
for the burning. 

RECIPE 555. STRAWBERRY SNOWDRIFTS. 

Bake any good sponge cake mixture in thin sheets. 
When cold, cut with a sharp knife in narrow strips about 
four inches long. Pile these, log cabin fashion and about 
four inches high, on as many pretty small plates as there 
are guests. Heap the centers with whipped cream, 
slightly sweetened and flavored, and dispose sugared 
strawberries about the base. The cream may be gar- 
nished with a few crystalized rose petals, or no fruit 
need be used, and instead candied violets may be sprin- 
kled over the cream. This recipe may also be used with 
peaches. 

RECIPE 556. STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup bread-flour 

1 tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons baking 
2 V2 cups fresh straw- powder 

berries V4. teaspoon salt 

2 cups boiling water % cup rich milk 

Put together the sugar, butter, strawberries and hot 
water, and let simmer for a few minutes. In meantime 
mix together flour, baking powder, salt and milk. Drop 
batter in eight portions onto boiling sirup, cover tightly 
and boil for twenty minutes without removing the lid. 
Serve hot with the sauce. Raspberry dumplings may be 
made in same way. 

RECIPE 557. SNOW BALLS. 

V2 cup sugar 1 Vs cups flour 

iy2 teaspoons baking 
powder 
2 eggs (whites) 
Cream butter and sugar, add flour (with the baking 
powder) alternately with milk. Last, fold in very stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Put into buttered pudding mold 
or small baking powder cans and steam thirty-five min- 



DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 147 

utes. Can be steamed in deep, heavy buttered cups. 
Serve with a Maraschino Cherry Sauce or any preserved 
fruits. A Boiled Chocolate Sauce is nice. 

RECIPE 558. MARASCHINO CHERRY PUDDING. 



1/4 cup butter 




3 level teaspoons 


Vs cup sugar 




baking powder 


V2 cup milk 




1/4 teaspoon salt 


1 cup flour 




V2 cup chopped Maras- 


Vz cup cornstarch 




chino cherries 


2 eggs 




1/4 cup citron 


Cream butter and 


sugar. 


Sift together three times 



flour, cornstarch, baking powder and salt. Add this al- 
ternately with milk to butter and sugar. Next add fruit 
and citron, then well creamed yolks of two eggs, and 
last stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a well 
greased pudding mold and steam one and one-half 
hours. Can be served with a Maraschino Cherry Sauce 
or a Hard Sauce or any liquid sauce. Foamy Sauce is 
nice also. 

RECIPE 559. STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

3 tablespoons butter 2 1/^ squares Baker's 

% cup sugar chocolate 

1 cup milk 4 i/^ level teaspoons 

2 1/4 cups flour baking powder 

1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg, then 
the milk, flour, baking powder and salt. Have choco- 
late melted in a double boiler. Add it to cake mixture. 
Pour into a well buttered pudding mold and steam two 
hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

RECIPE 560. COTTAGE PUDDING. 

21/4 cups flour 
4 level teaspoons 
1 cup milk baking powder 

V2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg 
Cream butter, slowly add sugar, beat well. Add 
well beaten egg. Sift flour, salt and baking powder to- 
gether. Add them alternately with milk to the cake 
mJxture. Butter a rather deep baking pan. Pour in the 
dough and bake in a moderate oven about thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Lemon, Vanilla, Foamy or Hard Sauce. 

RECIPE 561. PLUM PUDDING. 

See Fig Pudding or Christmas Pudding. 



148 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

RECIPE 562. GINGER PUDDING. 

y^ cup molasses 1 % cups bread-flour 

1 y^ tablespoons melted 1 tablespoon orange 

butter juice 

y% cup sour milk y^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda i/^ teaspoon ginger 

Grated rind i/^ orange 
Dissolve the soda in the sour milk, then add to 
other ingredients. Beat all thoroughly, pour into a well 
buttered mold and steam about fifty minutes. Serve with 
Orange Sauce. 

RECIPE 5655. STRAWI5ERRY SHORT CAKB]. 

1 cup flour 2 level tablespoons 

2 teaspoons baking butter 

powder i^ to i/^ cup milk or 

1/4 teaspoon salt water 

1 teaspoon sugar 
Sift dry ingredients together, rub in butter thor- 
oughly, add milk enough for soft dough. Roll out 1 inch 
thick. Cut out with large biscuit cutter. Bake in mod- 
erately hot oven about 15 minutes. Remove from oven, 
break them apart and spread each part with a teaspoon 
melted butter and cover the melted butter with 1 tea- 
spoon powdered sugar. In preparing strawberries, wash 
and hull them and cut in half, add plenty of sugar and 
let them stand an hour before using. This "bleeds" 
them and gives more juice. Do not put strawberries 
into the biscuits until just ready to serve them. Spread 
one-half the biscuit with fruit, put on upper half of bis- 
cuit and on this a tablespoon of fruit. Have plenty of 
juice. If berries do not bleed well, allow one-quarter 
cup water well stirred into the fruit syrup. In making 
the biscuits, make them quickly, handling and rolling as 
little as possible. 

RECIPE 564. SHORT CAKE MADE FROM ANY 
FRUIT. 

Make the short cake dough as in strawberry short 
cake. Slice large fruits or mash small fruits (berries), 
add plenty of sugar and let stand long enough to bleed. 
Lemon juice should be put over sliced bananas. This 
gives a nice flavor and keeps them from turning dark 
too rapidly, 

RECIPE 565. CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup water 1 cup flour 

y^ teaspoon salt 4 eggs 

^ cup butter 



DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 149 

Put water, butter and salt in sauce pan and let come 
to a boil. Quickly stir in the flour and let the mixture 
cook until it leaves the sides of the pan. Stir constantly. 
When cool, beat in the unbeaten eggs, one at a time, then 
beat the whole mixture well. Drop on buttered pan, 
using spoon. Bake in cool oven 3 minutes, or until 
light and dry. If baked too quickly the puffs will shrivel. 
This makes one dozen large puffs. 



Pudding Sauces, 



RECIPE 566. PLAIN VANILLA SAUCE. 

1 cup water 1 level tablespoon 

V2 cup sugar cornstarch 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1/4 teaspoon salt extract 

Boil water, sugar, butter and salt together. Wet 
the cornstarch with a little water and add it to boiling 
syrup. When it has thickened, add vanilla. Serve hot. 
A pinch of nutmeg may be used if desired. If a sweeter 
sauce is desired, use more sugar to taste. 

RECIPE 567. HARD SAUCE. 

V2 cup powdered 14 cup butter 

sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

Cream butter with sugar and salt. Beat till very 
smooth. Add any desired flavoring. Set away in ice box 
to get hard. Puddings are frequently served with a 
Vanilla or Brandy Sauce and then one teaspoon of Hard 
Sauce is added to top of each individual serving. 

RECIPE 568. BRANDY SAUCE NO. 1. 

Follow recipe for making Vanilla Sauce, adding two 
tablespoons of brandy instead of vanilla. Do not add the 
brandy until after sauce has been cooked. 

RECIPE 569. BRANDY SAUCE NO. 2. 

1 cup powdered 2 tablespoons brandy 

sugar Yz cup cream or milk 

1/4 cup butter i/4 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Cream butter, add sugar, beat until smooth, then 
slowly beat in brandy. Beat yolks until creamy, add 
them slowly to sugar mixture and then add cream or 
milk. Put this on to cook in a double boiler, stirring all 



150 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

the time. When the yolks have set and it thickens into 
a custard, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Serve hot. 

RECIPE 570. CUSTARD SAUCE. 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

1 egs V2 teaspoon vanilla 

pinch of salt 

Put milk and salt into a double boiler. Beat the 
entire egg and sugar together until creamy, then add 
them to the boiling milk, stirring very rapidly as you 
put them in. Then add cornstarch wet with a little 
water. When custard thickens, add flavoring. Can be 
served hot, but is best served on cold puddings, such as 
Blanc Mange, Snow, Cornstarch, etc. 

RECIPE 571. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

This is a nice sauce to pour over stale cake which 
has first been steamed. It is also nice poured over Va- 
nilla Ice Cream, fresh tea cakes, Cottage Pudding, etc. 



y2 square bitter 


1 cup boiling water 


chocolate 


1 tablespoon corn 


V2 cup sugar 


starch 


2 tablespoons butter 


pinch of salt 



% teaspoon vanilla. 
Melt chocolate in double boiler, add hot water and 
butter, mix sugar, cornstarch and salt together thor- 
oughly and stir into chocolate mixture. Stir until it 
thickens, add vanilla, pour over cake. 

RECIPE 572. FOAMY SAUCE. 

1/4 cup hot milk whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup powdered V2 teaspoon vanilla 

sugar pinch of salt 

Beat whites of eggs stiff as possible, gradually add 
the sugar until all is in, then stir in the hot milk and 
vanilla and salt. 

RECIPE 57.3. BERRY SAUCE. 

Vs cup butter % cup berries 

1 cup powdered white 1 egg 

sugar 
Cream butter, slowly add sugar, beat until creamy, 
then the stiffly beaten white of egg, and last the berries. 
Stir until berries are well beaten in. 

RECIPE 574. PLAIN LEMON SAUCE. 

Follow the recipe for Vanilla Sauce, substituting 
lemon juice or extract for the vanilla. 



DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 151 

RECIPE 575. CHERRY SAUCE. 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon syrup 

V2 cup sugar from bottle of 

1/4 cup sliced Mara- cherries 

schino cherries 1 tablespoon corn 

pinch of salt starch 

Boil the water, sugar, salt and cherries together for 
a minute, then add the syrup and cornstarch, which you 
have wet smoothly with a very little water. Fresh 
cherries can be used instead of the Maraschino cherries, 
in which case cook them in water for five minutes be- 
fore adding sugar. Then add cornstarch, etc. 

RECIPE 576. BANANA SAUCE. 

1 large ripe banana 1 tablespoon corn 

2 tablespoons lemon starch 

juice V2 cup boiling water 

1/4 cup sugar 

Mash bananas and rub through seive into a sauce- 
pan. Cover immediately with lemon juice to prevent 
discoloration. Mix cornstarch and sugar, add to fruit, 
pour on the boiling water and stir till it thickens. Cook 
ten minutes. Strain and beat well. 

RECIPE 577. ORANGE SAUCE. 

V2 cup sugar % cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour 1 egg 

V2 tablespoon butter Grated rind ^ orange 

Mix sugar and flour thoroughly, pour over the water 
and boil for five minutes. Add butter, pour onto egg, 
well beaten, and return to heat for a moment, but do not 
boil. 

RECIPE 578. COFFEE SAUCE. 

1 cup strong coffee 1 egg 

Vs cup Karo % tablespoon cornstarch 

Boil coffee and Karo together. Pour while boiling 
over the egg and cornstarch. Beat vigorously. Strain 
and cool. 

RECIPE 579. BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE. 

1 cup granulated V2 tablespoon butter 

sugar 1/4 cup hot water 

2 tablespoons cane- V2 teaspoon lemon 

sugar syrup extract 

V2 cup cold water 

Boil sugar, sirup and cold water together until it is 
very hard when tried in cold water. Remove from heat, 



152 DUMPLINGS, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

beat in balance of ingredients, color light yellow, and 
serve hot on ice cream. 

RECIPE 580. PLAIN KARO SAUCE. 

V2 cup dark brown i/4 cup Karo 

sugar 1/^ cup cream 

1 tablespoon butter i/^ tablespoon Kings- 

yolk of 1 egg ford's cornstarch 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten yolk 
of the egg, Karo and cream and cornstarch. Boil till 
thick, add brandy or sherry wine if desired, after re- 
moving from the fire. 

RECIPE 581. MOCK CREAM. 

1 teaspoon corn- 1 cup scalded milk 

starch i/^ teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon sugar Whites of 1 egg 

Mix cornstarch and sugar and cook in the hot milk 
ten minutes. Strain and cool. Add vanilla and white of 
egg beaten stiff. Makes a good substitute for whipped 
cream. 

RECIPE 582. FRENCH SAUCE. 

14 cup butter 1 egg (well beaten) 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon flavoring 

1 cup evaporated milk 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, then add egg 
and gradually add the milk (or cream if you have it). 
Add flavoring. Do not cook it. Currants, chopped nuts 
or raisins or figs may be added, about i/4 cup. 

RECIPE 583. A CHEAP SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter V2 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons flour V2 teaspoon flavoring 

1 cup milk extract 

Vs teaspoon spice Vs teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, add flour, then milk. Stir until it 
thickens. Add spice and sugar, salt and flavoring. If 
desired, one egg beaten creamy can be added to the milk. 
Any fruit juice can be used instead of the cup of milk, 
and so give a variety to the sauce. 



PIES 153 



CHAPTER XIII 
Pies. 



PIE DOUGH SUGGESTIONS. 

Pastry flour is not necessary if a good quality of 
bread flour is used. It should be sifted with the salt 
and baking powder two or three times. The less water 
used, the better the pie dough. The amount varies ac- 
cording to quality of flour. The shortening must be well 
mixed and rubbed into the flour, but after water is added 
the less the dough is handled the better it is. The best 
way is to have the ingredients cold, but this is not abso- 
lutely necessary. Pie dough made from the following 
recipe will keep in a cool place for several days and is 
all the better for having been thoroughly chilled. It is 
a saving of time to mix enough at one time to last for 
several days. The dough for meat pies should be rolled 
thicken than for fruit pies. 

Pies should be placed on the bottom of oven so that 
the heat may be applied at once to the bottom crust 
before the juice of the pie has time to soak into it. Place 
one of the slides directly on bottom of the oven and on 
this place the pie. Do not add pie mixture to the pie 
until upper crust is rolled out, so that no time may be 
wasted in getting upper crust in place immediately after 
filling pie, thus avoiding letting under crust stand and 
soak with juices from the filling while rolling out the 
upper crust. The quicker pie gets into oven, after fill- 
ing is in crust, the better under crust will be. Pies 
which require a slow heat, like custard pies, are best 
when the under crust is placed in the oven and half 
baked before adding the custard mixture. 

RECIPE 584. PIE DOUGH FOR ONE PIE (2 crusts). 

1 cup flour Vs cup shortening 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons water 

1/4 teaspoon baking powder 

TO MIX PIE DOUGH. 

Put flour, salt and baking powder into sifter. Sift 
two or three times. Rub shortening in well until flour 
crumbles. Add water and handle the dough as little as 
possible after water is put in. 



154 



PIES 



RECIPE 585. MINCEMEAT FOR PIES. 



3 pints chopped meat 
5 pints chopped apples 
1 pint molasses 

1 pint vinegar 

2 pints cider 

1 pint chopped suet 

2 pints raisins 

1 pint currants 

5 pints brown sugar 

2 tablespoons ground 

cinnamon 



2 tablespoons ground 
nutmeg 

2 tablespoons ground 

cloves 
1 tablespoon salt 
1 tablespoon black 

pepper 

3 lemons, juice and 

grated rinds 
1 cup of chopped nuts 
(if desired) 



Cook all together for fifteen minutes except meat, 
spices and lemons; add these at the last. When cool, 
brandy can be added to taste if desired. This amount of 
mincemeat makes enough to last a small family for sev- 
eral weeks, and it will keep a long time without spoiling. 

RECIPE 586. MINCE PIES. 

Line a deep pie pan with a rich pie crust (see In- 
dex). Fill pan with mincemeat, put on a top crust and 
bake in a quick oven, placing pan on the bottom of the 
oven on a grate. As soon as crust is brown the pie is 
done. 

RECIPE 587. MINCEMEAT AVITHOUT MEAT. 



3 cups apples chopped 

fine 
1 V2 cups chopped 

walnuts 
1 V2 cup raisins 



Juice of iy2 lemons 
1 cup water or cider 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
4 teaspoon each, 

cloves and allspice 



1 V2 cups sugar 
Cook apples, raisins, nuts, currants, lemon juice, 
cider together for five minutes. Add spices, simmer one 
minute, remove from fire. This will make three pies. 



RECIPE 588. 

1 egg 



PUMPKIN PIE. 



1 teaspoon nutmeg 

or ginger 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 



1 cup boiled mashed 
pumpkin 

2 tablespoons molasses 
1 cup milk 

1/4 cup sugar (omit if 
desired) 
Beat all together. Do not separate egg. Bake 
slowly without an upper crust. 

RECIPE 589. SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Make just like a pumpkin pie, substituting potato 
for pumpkin. 



PIES 



155 



RECIPE 590. CARROT PIE. 

Make just like a pumpkin pie, substituting carrot 
for pumpkin. 

RECIPE 591. CUSTARD PIE. 

1 pint milk l^ teaspoon salt 

1/^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs extract 

Beat sugar and eggs together, stir them into milk, 
then strain and add salt and vanilla. Pour this into a 
pan lined with a rich crust. Bake slowly until custard 
has "set." You can tell when it is firm by gently stick- 
ing a silver knife into the center. If you have trouble 
with the under crust soaking, you can bake the "shell" 
until it is half done before you put into it the custard. 
These pies are best when eaten the day they are cooked. 



RECIPE 592. 

1 cup cranberries 

1 cup raisins 
% to 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons flour 



RAISIN AND CRANBERRY PIE. 



% cup cold water 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
extract 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
Chop cranberries and raisins together, add water, 
sugar and salt, cook until tender, then add flour to 
thicken, then vanilla. Bake with two crusts. 



RECIPE 593. LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

1 cup cold water Juice of 2 lemons 

1 cup sugar 1 heaping tablespoon 

2 or 3 eggs cornstarch 

1^ teaspoon salt 
Put water, lemon juice and salt into a double boiler. 
Stir cornstarch into the sugar, cream yolks of eggs and 
add the sugar to them, and then add this to the boiling 
lemon water. As soon as it thickens it is done. Bake 
a nice pastry shell (see Index). When shell is ready, 
beat whites of eggs very dry and stiff and add to them 
one level tablespoon of granulated sugar for each white 
of egg. This makes a meringue that will never fall if 
you have the whites beaten dry enough. When meringue 
is ready, pour lemon mixture into the baked pastry shell, 
spread meringue on top, place at once in oven to brown 
the meringue. Watch this carefully, as it only takes 
one or two minutes. This pie is best served cold, but 
should be eaten the day it is baked. 



156 PIES 

RECIPE 594. liEMON FLUFF PIE. 

Juice and grated rind 5 tablespoons cold 
of 1 lemon water 

6 tablespoons granu- 1 rounding teaspoon 

lated sugar butter 

4 eggs 14 teaspoon salt 

Stir lemon juice, sugar, water, butter, yolks of eggs 
and salt together and put into double boiler. Stir mix- 
ture in the double boiler constantly while it is cooking 
until it thickens. As soon as it is thick, beat in whites 
of two eggs stiffly beaten. When this has fluffed up 
and whites are well mixed with the custard, pour the 
mixture into a baked pastry shell and on top spread the 
other two stiffly beaten whites of eggs to which you have 
added two level tablespoons granulated sugar. Put pie 
into oven for a minute or two to brown the eggs. 

RECIPE 595. LEMON PIE WITH CRACKERS. 

Juice and grated rind 1 soda cracker 
of 1 lemon i^ cup milk (or 

1 cup sugar cream) 

2 eggs 

Roll the crackers fine, separate the eggs, beat yolks, 
add them to lemon, sugar and milk. Bake in a good 
rich pie crust. When pie is baked, spread on a meringue 
of the stiffly beaten whites of the two eggs, to which 
you have added 2 level tablespoons granulated sugar. 
Bake a few minutes until a golden brown. 

RECIPE 596. CHEAP LEMON PIE. 

2 lemons 1 cup sugar 

3 soda crackers 1 egg 

4 tablespoons water 

Follow Recipe 595 for directions to make this pie. 



RECIPE 597. SELF FROSTED LEMON PIE. 

(Contribiitecl.) 

Grated rind and juice Vs teaspoon salt 

of 1 lemon 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 
4 teaspoons flour 

Separate the eggs, add yolks to other ingredients, 
beat well, bring to the boil, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in one crust. 



PIES 157 

RECIPE 598. POTATO PIE. 

2 V2 cups mashed potato 1 teaspoon powdered 

1 cup sugar mace or nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 wineglass of brandy 

1/^ cup butter 4 eggs 

1 lemon 
Peel, boil and mash enough potatoes to make 2 1^ 
cups. Put mashed potato through a vegetable press to 
be sure there are no lumps in it. Cream sugar with 
butter and put with them the beaten yolks of four eggs. 
Stir in powdered mace or nutmeg and cinnamon, add 
potato, juice and grated rind of a lemon, the brandy and 
the whites of eggs, whipped stiff. Bake in an open shell 
of good pastry and sift a little powdered sugar over the 
top of the pie when sending it to table. 

RECIPE 599. liEMON POTATO PIE. 

Grate one medium sized potato, pour two cups on it 
of boiling water, slowly stirring all the while until you 
have a thick, starch-like mixture. Beat yolks of two 
eggs, put with them a piece of butter size of a walnut, 
one cup of sugar and grated rind and the juice of a 
lemon. Whip all to a cream, add potato and water, and 
bake in an open crust. Make a meringue of whites of 
eggs and a tablespoon of sugar, spread over pie, brown 
lightly and serve cold. 

RECIPE 600. RICE PIE. 

Boil a cup of rice in a quart of milk until tender. 
Beat into it a pinch of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, 
the juice and grated peel of a lemon and three eggs, 
these beaten light. Turn the mixture into a pie plate 
lined with pastry and bake half an hour. Sift sugar over 
it just before serving. 

RECIPE 601. STRAWBERRY CREAM PIE. 

Line a pie plate with a good crust, put in two cups 
of hulled berries, strew with sugar, cover with the top 
crust and bake. When done, lift the upper crust and 
pour in a cream made by putting the beaten whites of 
two eggs with a cup of cream, a tablespoon of sugar, 
half a teaspoon of cornstarch, cooking all together in a 
double boiler until thick. Replace the crust, sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the top, and serve. 

RECIPE 602. CHERRY PIE. 

1 quart of pie cherries V2 cup water 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

2 tablespoons butter i/4 teaspoon salt 



158 PIES 

Stone the cherries and put them on to stew for a 
few minutes with the water and salt. In about five 
minutes add sugar, and as soon as it is dissolved add the 
butter and cornstarch. As soon as juice has thickened, 
it is done. Line a deep pie pan with a rich crust (do not 
roll it too thin), add the fruit, cover with a crust and 
bake quickly on the bottom of the oven. As soon as the 
crust has baked, it is done. 

RECIPE 603. RASPBERRY PIE. 

Follow the directions for Cherry Pie, substituting 
raspberries for cherries. 

RECIPE 604. BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Follow the directions for Cherry Pie, substituting 
blackberries for cherries. 

RECIPE 605. LOGANBERRY PIE. 

Follow the directions for Cherry Pie, substituting 
loganberries for cherries. 

RECIPE 606. BLUEBERRY PIE. 

Follow the directions for Cherry Pie, substituting 
blueberries for cherries. 

RECIPE 607. PEACH, APRICOT OR PLUM PIE 
MADE FROM FRESH FRUIT. 

Stone the fruit, place in a deep pie pan lined with a 
rich crust, cover with one cupful of sugar, one-half table- 
spoon butter (in little bits), one tablespoon flour. Put 
on top crust and bake on bottom of oven for ten minutes, 
then put up on the slide and bake slowly about twenty 
minutes more. Cinnamon or nutmeg can be used at dis- 
cretion. Canned fruit may be used, in which case bake 
only until crust is done. 

RECIPE 608. PEAR PIE. 

Pare, quarter and core pears. Place in a rich pie 
crust, cover with three-fourths cup of sugar, two table- 
spoons butter, one tablespoon flour. Cover with an 
upper crust, bake on bottom of oven for ten minutes, 
then put up on slide and bake slowly with a moderate 
fire for about twenty-five minutes more. If pears are 
very ripe they will cook in a little less time. A dash of 
cinnamon or nutmeg can be used. 

RECIPE 609. RAISIN PIE. 

Seed two cups of raisins and cut them in halves, 
shred half a cup of citron, put them over the fire with 



PIES 159 

the juice of a lemon, one cup of sugar and a half cup of 
water, and stew gently for ten minutes. Take from the 
fire, add a tablespoon of brandy, turn the mixture into 
open pastry shell. 

RECIPE 610. LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup cold water 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted 

1 lemon grated rind butter 

and juice 1 tablespoon flour 

Vz each ground cinnamon and nutmeg 
Boil all together until thick and bake in two crusts. 

RECIPE 611. GRAPEFRUIT PIE. 

One cup of sugar mixed with two rounding table- 
spoons cornstarch, grated rind of one-half lemon, juice 
of one-half small grapefruit, yolks of two eggs, one table- 
spoon of butter, one cup of hot water. Mix the ingredi- 
ents, except the water, together. Then gradually add 
the hot water and stir briskly. Turn into double boiler 
and cook five minutes after it sets. Fill shell, which 
has been previously baked, and cover with meringue 
(see Index). 

RECIPE 612. DUTCH APPLE PIE. 

Line a pie pan with a good rich pastry (see recipe). 
Place into it very thinly sliced apples, add % cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons sweet milk, dash nut- 
meg. Let bake slowly about 30 minutes. Remove from 
fire and spread with marshmallows. Put back in oven 
until marshmallows have browned. For a change, omit 
the marshmallows and spread pie with 1 cup rich cream, 
beaten very stiff. (Do not bake again.) Another change, 
cover apples (when baked) with a meringue made from 
whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar. Bake. 

RECIPE 613. FRENCH APPLE PIE. 

Fill a greased pie plate with peeled and sliced apples, 
sprinkle over these sugar and a little grated nutmeg and 
pour over them a batter made by mixing the yolks of 
two eggs with half a cup of flour, a quarter cup of milk, 
and one tablespoon of butter. Bake until the apples are 
soft, reverse the plate over a platter so that the apples 
will come out on top, spread over them a meringue made 
of the whites of the two eggs beaten stiff with a table- 
spoon of powdered sugar, set the pie in oven until 
meringue is lightly browned and serve the pie either hot 
or cold. 



160 PIES 

RECIPE 614. CREAMED SWEET APPLE PIE. 

Peel, core and slice any good sweet apples, put them 
in a stew pan with a few spoonfuls of water to prevent 
scorching, cover closely and cook slowly until tender but 
not broken. To each cup of apples add one tablespoon 
of sugar after they are cooked and put them aside to get 
cold. When chilled cut into small pieces. Line a pie 
plate with pastry, sprinkle flour on it, lay on a top crust, 
and bake to a delicate brown, lift off the top crust care- 
fully, spread the lower crust with the apple, cover with 
whipped cream, lay on the upper crust, strew lightly 
with powdered sugar, and serve. 

RECIPE 615. APPLE PIE. 

Slice enough apples to fill your pan, line pan with 
a rich pie dough, fill it with thinly sliced apples, cover 
them with one cup of sugar, a quarter of a cup of butter 
in small bits, a dash of cinnamon or nutmeg if you like 
it. Put over the apples a rounding tablespoon of flour, 
then cover the pie with an upper crust. Place pie in a 
moderate oven. First on the bottom of the oven for a 
few minutes to bake the under crust, then place higher 
up on a slide and let the pie cook slowly for about thirty 
minutes. Some apples will cook in a little less time. 
There is no water put into the pie, but it will be nice 
and juicy. 

RECIPE 616. ITALIAN APPLE TART. 

Select firm, tart apples of medium size, peel, core 
and cut in half; put them over the fire in a shallow 
saucepan with a cup of water and a half cup of white 
sugar. Stew gently until tender, but not broken. Lift 
tne apples out carefully with a split spoon and lay them, 
the open side upward, in a pie dish lined with a baked 
crust. Let the sirup in which they were cooked boil down 
to half the original quantity. Fill the hollows from 
which the cores were taken with orange marmalade with 
which you have mixed a few chopped almonds, a few 
seeded and minced raisins and a little shredded citron. 
Pour the sirup you have boiled down around the apples, 
set them aside to cool, and before sending to the table 
mask the apples with whipped cream piled lightly over 
the top. 

RECIPE 617. DATE PIE. 

Cover one-fourth pound of dates with one pint of 
water; simmer until tender. Drain the dates and chop 
them fine. 



PIES 161 

1 pint of milk 14 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 3 level tablespoons 

^4 cup sugar granulated sugar 

Stir yolks of eggs, sugar and dates and salt together. 
Pour this mixture into a half-baked shell and bake cus- 
tard slowly about half an hour until custard sets, then 
beat up the whites of eggs very stiff, add the three table- 
spoons of sugar to them and spread this meringue on top 
the custard pie and bake for a minute until brown. Best 
eaten the day it is baked, 

RECIPE 618. DATE PIE. 

2 cups of stoned dates 3 tablespoons sugar 
1 lemon 2 tablespoons milk 

flour butter 

Stone the dates, cut them into bits, and put with 
them the juice and the grated rind of a lemon, the sugar 
and milk — just enough to soften the dates. Fill a lower 
crust with this, sprinkle very lightly with flour, put bits 
of butter here and there, put on an upper crust and bake. 

RECIPE 619. FIG PIE. 

Wash a half pound of pulled figs, put them over the 
fire with enough water to cover, simmer until tender and 
chop fine. Boil down the water in which they were 
cooked, put it with the figs, add two tablespoons of sherry 
or one tablespoon lemon juice, turn the mixture into an 
open shell, cover with a meringue and bake. If the 
filling is not sweet enough to suit the taste, add sugar 
to taste. 

RECIPE 620. SOUTHERN GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Cover a deep pie pan with a rich crust. Slice in 
enough green tomatoes to fill it. Add: 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons vinegar 

14 cup butter 1 tablespoon flour 

1/4 teaspoon salt pinch of nutmeg 

Bake on bottom of oven for ten minutes, then put it 
up on slide and bake slowly twenty minutes more. Two 
crusts. 

RECIPE 621. DAMSON PLUM PIE. 

1 pint sweet milk i/^ cup sugar 

hi teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

V2 cup Damson plum pre- 2 tablespoons granu- 
serves lated sugar 

Make a rich pie dough and line a deep pan with it. 
Do not bake. Cream yolks of three eggs, the white of 



162 PIES 

one egg and one-fourth cupful of sugar together. Add 
milk, salt and Damson plums. Stir well together, pour 
into the pie, bake in a moderate oven slowly until the 
custard has set. Beat the two remaining whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, add two tablespoons granulated sugar, 
spread on the pie and bake a moment until brown. 

RECIPE 622. BANANA PIE. 

IVb cups milk 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

1 scant cup sugar 2 eggs 

Put milk into a double boiler to cook. Beat yolks 
to a cream, add sugar and cornstarch to them, stir until 
the custard thickens. Add a pinch of salt and a little 
lemon or vanilla flavoring. Have ready a baked pastry 
shell. Beat whites to a very stiff froth, add two level 
tablespoons granulated sugar to them. Cut banana slices 
in sufficient quantity to cover the bottom of pastry shell. 
Pour the custard over bananas and spread on top a 
meringue of the whites of eggs. Put into the oven to 
brown for a minute or two. Should be eaten the day it 
is cooked. 

RECIPE 623. RHUBARB MERINGUE PIE. 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup sugar (heaping) 

yolks 2 eggs 2 eggs (whites) 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons granu- 

lated sugar 
Line a deeiDipie pan with a rich crust. Fill this with 
rhubard, cut fine. 

Beat yolks of eggs until creamy, add sugar, salt, 
milk and flour. Pour this over the rhubarb and bake 
slowly until rhubarb is done, probably about an hour', 
then beat the two whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, add 
the two level tablespoons of sugar, spread on top of pie 
and brown a moment in the oven. 

RECIPE 624. FRUIT MERINGUE PIE. 

(Peaches, Pears, Pineapple, Plums.) 

Line a deep pie pan with a rich crust and bake it. 
For filling: 
y2 can of large fruit 1 pinch salt 

1 cup juice whites 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons granu- 

1 tablespoon butter lated sugar 

Thicken juice with the cornstarch, add butter and 
salt. Cover the bottom of baked pastry shell with slices 



PIES 163 

of fruit, pour over the juice, and spread the meringue 
(made from the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and sugar) 
over the fruit. Bake in oven until meringue is brown. 
Best eaten the day it is baked. 



^ 



RECIPE 625. CREAM MERINGUE PIE. 

1 pint sweet milk 1 heaping tablespoon 

cup sugar cornstarch 

or 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1^ teaspoon salt extract 

Put milk and salt into a double boiler. Stir corn- 
starch into sugar, cream yolks of eggs and add sugar to 
them; stir this in the milk just before it begins to boil. 
When it thickens it is done. Remove from fire and add 
vanilla. Bake a pastry shell (see Index). Beat whites 
of the eggs to a very stiff dry froth, then add to them one 
level tablespoon of granulated sugar for each egg used. 
Pour the cream mixture into pastry shell, spread over it 
whites of the eggs (meringue) and bake in oven for a 
minute or two until the meringue browns. Serve eold, 
but is best eaten the day it is baked. 

RECIPE 626. CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Follow recipe for Cream Meringue Pie, adding to 
custard one square melted bitter chocolate and two extra 
tablespoons sugar. 

RECIPE 627. MAPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

• 2 cups milk 1 tablespoon vanilla 

, 1/4 cup grated maple 1 tablespoon powdered 

sugar sugar 

1 teaspoon butter 3 eggs 

Beat yolks of eggs, put with them the milk previ- 
ously heated, the maple sugar, butter and vanilla. Fill 
a crust and bake in a steady oven until set. Make a 
meringue of the whites of eggs and powdered sugaf^ 
spread on top of the pie and bake to a delicate brown. 

RECIPE 628. BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

1 cup of milk 2 tablespoons butter 
1^4 cups brown sugar (level) 

2 heaping tablespoons whites 2 eggs 

flour 2 tablespoons grann- 

ie teaspoon salt lated sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 
Line a deep pie pan with a rich pie dough and bake. 
Put milk into a double boiler to scald, with salt and but- 
ter. Mix flour well with the sugar, add well-beaten yolks 



164 PIES 

of eggs to milk. Stir until it thickens. Beat whites of 
eggs stiff, add two tablespoons granulated sugar. Pour 
custard into baked shell, spread on the whites of eggs 
and brown in oven. 

RECIPE 629. CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil chicken until tender. For a small family one- 
half the chicken will be enough. Take two cups of the 
chicken broth and in it boil one cup of raw diced potatoes 
until they are about half done, add chicken, one cup of 
cream or milk, season to taste, thicken the gravy, pour 
mixture into a deep baking dish lined with a rich crust, 
cover with an upper crust and bake until crust is done. 
Serve at once, very hot. Green peppers, onions or pimien- 
toes can be added for a change. About two tablespoons 
of any one of them, minced. For another change you can 
omit the milk but use enough of the broth to have plenty 
of gravy. All meat pies must be very juicy. 

RECIPE 630. CHICKEN TOMATO PIE. 

1 cup tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 onion minced fine % teaspoon salt 

2 olives minced fine % teaspoon pepper 
flour to thicken % teaspoon paprika 

Boil chicken until very tender. For a family of two 
take one-half a chicken, cut into fair-sized pieces; sim- 
mer chicken with all the other ingredients except flour 
for fifteen minutes. Add just enough flour to thicken 
the juice a little. The amount will depend upon the 
grade of tomatoes used. Line a deep baking dish with 
a rich pie dough. Do not roll it too thin. Pour in the 
chicken mixture, cover with a crust and bake on the 
bottom of the oven with a quick fire until crust is done. 
Serve at once, very hot. 



COLD DESSERTS 165 

CHAPTER XIV 
Cold Desserts. 



RECIPE 631. BLANC MANGE. 

2 cups milk i/^ cup sugar 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

i>4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Put milk to cook in a double boiler, reserving one- 
fourth of a cup to moisten cornstarch. Beat eggs until 
creamy with the sugar, add to them the cornstarch which 
has been wet with one-fourth cup of milk. When milk 
in double boiler has boiled, add sugar, eggs and corn- 
starch mixture, stirring rapidly as they are added. When 
custard has thickened, add salt and flavoring. Wet some 
individual molds in cold water, pour in the Blanc Mange 
and set away to cool. When ready to serve, turn out 
from the mold, invert and pour over each a plain Boiled 
Custard Sauce (see Index). Cream sweetened a little can 
be used for the sauce, in which case add a pinch of ground 
nutmeg. 

RECIPE 632. BLANC MANGE WITHOUT EGGS. 

'Follow recipe for Blanc Mange, but omit eggs and 
use only one-fourth cupful sugar. When cold serve with 
a Custard Sauce or plain cream. A teaspoonful of sour 
jelly to each mold of Blanc Mange is nice. Add it when 
ready to serve. 

RECIPE 633. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Follow directions for making Blanc Mange, melt one 
square of Baker s chocolate over hot water, add one-fourth 
cupful sugar and one-fourth cupful of milk. Stir until 
smooth and add to Blanc Mange while still hot. Serve 
with a Cream or Custard Sauce. 

RECIPE 634, CHOCOLATE CREAM PUDDING. 

1 pint milk 1 1^ squares Baker's 

% cup sugar chocolate 

i/i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cold milk 

3 whites of eggs 5 level tablespoons 

1 teaspoon vanilla cornstarch 

Put the pint of milk and salt into a double boiler. 
Mix the cornstarch with the sugar and two tablespoons 
cold milk. IV ^It the chocolate with two tablespoons hot 
water, add it to sugar and cornstarch When milk in the 



166 COLD DESSERTS 

boiler has scalded, add the chocolate mixture, stirring 
rapidly as it is going in. Cook until it thickens. Beat 
whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and stir them into the 
boiled custard; add vanilla. Set away to get cool. Serve 
with slightly sweetened cream. The cream can be whipped 
or served plain. A pinch of nutmeg is nice. 

RECIPE 635. PRUNE WHIP. 

prune pulp 2 teaspoons lemon juice, 

whites 5 eggs or 

V2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cover one-third of a pound of nice prunes with a 
quart of cold water and let them soak over night. In the 
morning stew them until tender in the water in which 
they soaked. When tender, remove stones and press 
them through a strainer. 

Beat eggs to a very stiff froth, add the sugar to the 
prunes and gently fold into the white of eggs. Flavor. 
Pour lightly into a well-buttered deep baking dish and 
bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. Can 
be served hot or cold, with or without a Custard Sauce 
(see Index). 

RECIPE 636. SOUFFLE OF PRUNES WITH NUTS. 

V2 cup chopped nuts whites of two eggs 

Make the recipe for Prune Pudding, and when ready 
to remove from the fire add the nuts and the whites of 
two eggs beaten very stiff. Put into molds and set away 
to get cold. Serve with Whipped Cream, sweetened a 
little. 

RECIPE 637. PRUNE PUDDING. 

2 cups cold water 1% cups boiling water 

Yz pound prunes 2 heaping tablespoons 

1 cup sugar cornstarch 

2 whole cloves 2 tablespoons lemon 
1/4 teaspoon salt juice 

Cover prunes at night with cold water. In the morn- 
ing boil them until tender in the water in which they 
were soaked. Remove stones, crack them and put kernels 
through the grinder and add them to the prunes again. 
Put prunes, cloves, sugar and salt into boiling water, let 
them simmer for fifteen minutes. Add a little cold water 
to cornstarch to make a smooth, thin paste, add it to the 
prunes and cook until it thickens. Add lemon juice or a 
teaspoon of vanilla. Wet some molds in cold water, pour 
in the prune custard and let it get cold. Serve with either 
whipped or plain cream which has been sweetened a little. 



COLD DESSERTS 167 

RECIPE 638. CREAM OF SHERRY WINE. 

Vs cup sherry wine i^ cup sugar 

2 eggs Vz lemon juice and 

pinch of salt grated rind 

Beat the yolks of eggs, salt and lemon juice to a 
creamy froth. Add the Sherry wine; beat well. Put into 
a double boiler, stirring all the time until it thickens, 
then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Put some stale 
cake slices (lady fingers or sponge cake is best) into a 
dish, pour the Wine Cream over them and set away to 
get cold. 

RECIPE 639. WINE JELLY. 

2 tablespoons Knox's 2 whole cloves 

gelatine 1 cup sugar 
Vz cup cold water juice 1 lemon 

1 % cups boiling water 1 Vs cups sherry wine 

V2 cup orange juice 
Put gelatine to soak for fifteen minutes with the 
cold water, then add boiling water, sugar, cloves, lemon 
and orange juice. Let this boil for one minute, add the 
wine, strain through a cloth and set away to harden. 
This will take several hours in summer. It is best to 
prepare it a day before it is to be used. Serve with 
whipjjed cream or Lemon Salad Dressing. 

RECIPE 640. LEMON JELLY. 

2 tablespoons granu- 2 Yz cups boiling water 

lated gelatine juice 3 lemons 

V2 cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

Soak gelatine with cold water for fifteen minutes. 
Add boiling water, sugar and lemon juice. Stir until 
gelatine is all dissolved. Strain through a cloth, pour 
into molds and set away to harden. Make it the day 
before it is to be used. Serve with slightly sweetened 
whipped cream. 

RECIPE 641. COFFEE JELLY. 

2 tablespoons granu- Vz cup sugar 

lated gelatine pinch salt 

V2 cup cold water Yz teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups boiling hot coffee (optional) 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling coffee, 
sugar, salt, stir well, add vanilla if desired, strain 
through a cloth and set away to harden. Serve with 
sweetened cream, whipped or plain. 



168 COLD DESSERTS 

RECIPE 642. ORANGE JELLY. 

2 tablespoons granu- 2 whole cloves 

lated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

V2. cup cold water 2 tablespoons lemon 

1 Vz cups boiling water juice 

pinch of salt 1% cups orange juice 

Follow directions for making Lemon Jelly. Strain 
through a cloth and set away to harden. Serve with 
sweetened cream, whipped or plain. 

RECIPE 643. FRUIT GELATINE. 

Take any of the jelly recipes and add a little sliced 
fruit. Nuts chopped a little can be added, about half a 
cup. Pour into molds and as it begins to harden a little 
stir the fruit down once or twice, so that it will not all 
remain on top. Serve with whipped cream. When ready 
to unmold set molds into a pan of hot water for a mo- 
ment, then turn out on a clean cloth for a moment to 
absorb the liquid gelatine, then put onto dish in which 
it is to be served and put the cream on top. Maraschino 
cherries laid on the top of the whipped cream are pretty. 

RECIPE 644. PRUNES IN JELLY. 

Put one-half pounds of prunes to soak over night 
with a quart of cold water. In the morning stew the 
prunes in the water in which they were soaked, until they 
are tender. Remove stones, fill the cavities with chopped 
nuts. 

2 tablespoons granu- hot water 

lated gelatine 1 cup sugar 

% cup cold water juice 2 lemons 

pinch salt 
Put gelatine to soak in cold water fifteen minutes. 
To the water prunes were boiled in add lemon juice and 
then enough hot water to make one quart of liquid. Add 
sugar, salt, and boil for a moment; add to soaked gela- 
tine. Strain through a cloth into a mold in which ^he 
prunes have been placed. While gelatine is hardening stir 
it once or twice so that prunes will not float on the top. 
Serve very cold with whipped cream slightly sweetened. 

RECIPE 645. MARSHMALLOW AND PRUNE JELLY. 

Follow the directions for making Prunes in Jelly, 
substituting quartered marshmallows for nuts in the 
prune cavities. Do not put the prunes into the gelatine 
until it has begun to harden a little or the marshmallows 
will melt. Serve with whipped cream to which add a few 
more marshmallows cut into halves or quarters. 



COLD DESSERTS 169 

RECIPE 646. MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

1 tablespoon granu- whites 3 eggs 

lated gelatine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup boiling water l cup macaroons minced 

1 cup sugar 
Put gelatine into a bowl, add boiling water, stir until 
dissolved, then add sugar. Stir well. Now set the bowl 
into a pan of ice water, add the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Beat with a wire whisk until the mixture begins 
to thicken. Dip a shallow pan in cold water, pour in the 
gelatine mixture and let stand until cold. When it is 
thoroughly chilled take a sharp knife and cut the gelatine 
into one-inch squares. Have some stale dry macaroons 
rolled into crumbs. Cover the marshmallow with these. 
Serve very cold with whipped cream sweetened a little. 
A little vanilla can be added to the cream. 

RECIPE 647. MARSHMALLOAV PUDDING. 

Whites of six eggs beaten stiff; add one cup sugar. 
To this add one heaping tablespoon of Knox's gelatine 
that has been dissolved in three-quarters cup boiling 
water. Stir vigorously. Then add one can grated pine- 
apple (or any fruit desired) and one cup nut meats. For 
fancy desserts add fruit coloring and mold. This is 
delicious, easily made and very pretty. 

RECIPE 648. MARSHMALLOW SNOW. 

2 level tablespoons 1 cup sugar 

granulated gelatine % cup ground nuts 

V2 cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

whites 4 eggs pinch of salt 

Cover gelatine with one-half cupful of water for ten 
minutes. Put over fire to dissolve. Let it cool a little. 
Then add one-half cupful more of cold water. Stir until 
well mixed. Beat the eggs to a very stiff froth, pour 
over them a little of the gelatine, then a little sugar, then 
alternate the gelatine and sugar until it is all in, beating 
briskly all the time with a wire whisk. Pile lightly into 
a dish and sprinkle the nuts on top. Serve with a Cold 
Custard Sauce (see Index). 

RECIPE 649. MARSHMALLOW TRIFLE. 

V2 cup whipping cream i^ cup sliced pineapple 

V2 pound marshmallows 1 diced orange, or 

14 cup Maraschino i^ cup green Malaga 

cherries grapes 

y^ cup powdet-ed sugar V2 cup English walnuts 
pinch of salt 1/2 teaspoon vanilla or 

lemon 



170 COLD DESSERTS 

Whip the cream until it is stiff, add sugar, fruit, salt, 
nuts and marshmallows; last the flavoring. Pile into a 
dish and set away to get ice cold. It should stand to 
blend the flavors for at least two hours. It will be all 
the better if it stands several hours. A teaspoon of the 
Maraschino syrup can be used instead of vanilla, if de- 
sired. To serve this dish attractively, pile it into very 
thin glasses (with long stems is preferable), put one 
cherry on top of each glass. 

RECIPE 650. FIG AND PRUNE CREAM. 

1 tablespoon granu- i/4 cup boiling milk 

lated gelatine whites of 2 eggs 

1/4 cup cold water V2 cup whipping cream 

1/^ cup sugar Vk cup chopped figs 

1/4 cup chopped cooked prunes 
Put the gelatine to soak for ten minutes in cold 
water, add boiling milk, stir until dissolved, add sugar, 
stir well. Set dish into a pan of ice water, beat with a 
wire whisk until it begins to thicken. Beat the whites 
of eggs to a very stiff froth, add the cream, prunes and 
figs and stir into the mixture. Wet a mold with cold 
water, pour the mixture into it and set away to harden. 

RECIPE 651. FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 

Can be made with either strawberries, raspberries, 
apricots or peaches. Have enough fruit to make about 
one and one-half cups pulp, let stand with one-half cup 
sugar for one-half hour, then put it through the potato 
ricer, or mash it well. Take whites of four eggs, beat 
them to a stiff froth, add fruit pulp slowly to beaten 
whites. Have a glass dish lined with slices of sponge 
cake, pile in the Fruit Charlotte, dot the top with a few 
whole berries, or thin slices of the fruit (peaches or apri- 
cots, if those are the fruits used). Should be eaten 
shortly after being mixed. Everything should be very 
cold. 

RECIPE 652. MACEDOINE OF FRUIT JELLY. 

Use the recipe for Wine Jelly (see Index). Have 
ready some strips of bananas, oranges, figs. Maraschino 
cherries and English walnuts, halved. Place a jelly mold 
in a pan of ice water, pour into mold the wine jelly mix- 
ture to depth of one-half inch. Let it get firm. When 
the design is finished, pour more wine jelly over it, a 
tablespoon at a time, so as not to disturb the design. 
When well covered let this layer harden. Again add the 
design, cover again with the jelly. Repeat until all is 



COLD DESSERTS 171 

used, letting each layer harden before adding the next 
layer. Serve with plain cream or whipped cream sweet- 
ened a little. By using some of the fruit coloring that 
comes in each package of gelatine, very effective designs 
can be worked out. To do this, divide the liquid gelatine 
into different lots and add a different coloring to each lot. 

RECIPE 653. FLOATING ISLAND CUSTARD. 

1 pint sweet milk i^ teaspoon salt 

1^ cup sugar 1 heaping teaspoon 

2 eggs cornstarch 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Put milk into a double boiler. Stir cornstarch and 
salt thoroughly into the sugar, add to them the yolks of 
eggs. Beat until creamy. When milk boils, add egg 
mixture to the milk, stirring rapidly. As soon as it thick- 
ens, add vanilla and pour custard into dish in which it is 
to be served. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff 
froth, add two level tablespoons granulated sugar to them 
and pile this meringue lightly on the custard. Serve very 
cold. 

RECIPE 654. FLOATING ISLAND WITH RICE. 

Follow directions for making Floating Island, but 
put one cupful boiled rice (hot or cold) into the double 
boiler with the milk and omit cornstarch. 

RECIPE 655. POOR 3IAN'S RICE PUDDING. 

1 quart sweet milk i^ cup sugar 

4 tablespoons rice i^ teaspoon salt 

pinch nutmeg 
Wash rice thoroughly, changing the water several 
times. Put milk into a deep baking dish, add to it the 
washed rice, sugar, salt and a few grains of ground nut- 
meg. Bake in a very slow oven from an hour and a half 
to two hours. Stir very often. This will make the pud- 
ding soft and creamy. When rice is very tender it is 
done. Raisins can be added, but must first be boiled in 
hot water a few minutes or they may make milk curdle. 
They can be added when the pudding is almost done. 
Sometimes a tablespoon of butter is added to this pud- 
ding. Just before the pudding is ready to come out of 
oven, add a teaspoon vanilla extract. Is best served icy 
cold, but can be eaten hot. If this pudding is cooked 
slowly it will be so creamy that no other sauce is neces- 
sary. If you find the pudding is baking a little too dry, 
add more milk. The time of baking depends upon the 
age of the rice. Old rice cooks more slowly. 



172 COLD DESSERTS 

RECIPE 656. BAKED RICE CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk y^. teaspoon salt 

Vz cup hot or cold i/4 cup sugar 

boiled rice 2 eggs beaten together 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Stir all ingredients together. Pour into a deep bak- 
ing dish and bake in a very slow oven from twenty to 
thirty minutes or until the custard has "set" in the mid- 
dle. If you bake it too fast it will separate and become 
watery. Can be served hot or cold. 

RECIPE 657. PLAIN BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Make exactly as the Baked Rice Custard, omitting 
rice, but use three eggs instead of two. If these custards 
are not sweet enough add a little more sugar. 

RECIPE 658. BAKED ''^HNUTE" TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

1 pint sweet milk % cup sugar 

1 tablespoon "minute" 2 eggs 

tapioca i/4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Add beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, salt and tapioca to 
the milk, pour into a deep pudding dish and bake about 
thirty minutes slowly. When about cooked, beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, add to them two level tablespoons 
granulated sugar. Spread this meringue on top of the 
baked pudding and put back in oven to brown. 

RECIPE 659. BAKED "PEARL" TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1 pint of milk a few grains of nut- 
Vz cup sugar meg can be added 
Vi teaspoon salt y^ cup soaked tapioca 

2 eggs 

Soak one-half cup Pearl tapioca in a quart of cold 
water over night. In the morning drain the tapioca. Stir 
the tapioca, milk, sugar, salt, beaten yolks of eggs and 
vanilla all together, pour into a deep baking dish, 
sprinkle the nutmeg on top and bake in a very slow oven. 
When pudding has "set" to the center remove from oven 
and spread on the top the meringue made from the beaten 
whites of the two eggs, to which you have added two level 
tablespoons granulated sugar. Put pudding back in the 
oven long enough to brown. Serve hot or cold. 



COLD DESSERTS 173 

RECIPE 660. BAVARIAN CREAM. 

^ cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 lemon juice and rind 1 tablespoon cold water 

1 cup sherry wine pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon granulated 
gelatine 
Put gelatine to soak with cold water ten minutes. 
Beat sugar, lemon, wine, salt and yolks of eggs until 
creamy. Put this mixture into a double boiler. Stir until 
it thickens. Beat eggs to a very stiff froth, pour boiling 
custard gradually over the whites, beating rapidly with 
a wire whisk. Set custard into a pan of ice water and 
beat it until it will stand alone. Have ready a mold, 
lined with lady fingers, pour the custard into this mold 
and set away to get icy cold. If desired, omit the wine 
and use an equal amount of orange or pineapple juice. 

RECIPE 661. VELVET CREAM. 

1 pint sweet cream or % cup cold water 

rich milk - pinch of salt 

% envelope of granulated sugar to taste 

gelatine Vz teaspoon of vanilla 

Put gelatine to soak with cold water for ten minutes. 
Scald one-half cup of milk and dissolve the softened 
gelatine in it. Add milk and gelatine to the cold milk or 
cream, add salt, vanilla and sugar to taste. Set away 
for several hours in a gelatine mold to harden. Can be 
served with a spoonful each of some kind of preserves, 
or a little sweetened cream or a Cold Boiled Custard 
Sauce. 

RECIPE 662. SPANISH CREAM. 

1 tablespoon granu- Vz cup sugar 

lated gelatine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups milk i^ teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 
Put gelatine to soak for ten minutes with three 
tablespoons of milk. Put rest of milk into a double 
boiler; when scalded add the soaked gelatine, stir well, 
add sugar. Beat yolks a little and slowly pour the boil- 
ing milk over them, beating with a wire whip rapidly 
until all the milk has been used. Put this mixture into 
the double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens. 
Take it from the fire, stir in the very stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs; last, add the salt and flavoring. Wet 
some individual molds in cold water, turn the gelatine 
into the molds and set away to harden. When cold serve 



174 COLD DESSERTS 

with whipped cream, sweetened a little. Plain cream can 
be used, to which add a few drops of vanilla and a little 
sugar. A pinch of nutmeg is also nice, 

RECIPE 663. FRENCH CREAM. 

Scald one and one-fourth cups of milk. Beat yolks 
of two eggs slightly and add two tablespoons of sugar 
and a few grains of salt. Add milk gradually to egg mix- 
ture and cook over hot water, stirring constantly until 
mixture thickens; then add one and one-fourth table- 
spoons of granulated gelatine soaked in one-fourth cup 
of cold water ten minutes. Strain and add whites of two 
eggs beaten until stiff. Set pan containing mixture in 
larger pan containing ice water, and stir, scraping from 
bottom and sides of pan until mixture begins to thicken. 
Then add one-half pint of heavy cream, beaten until stiff, 
mixed with three tablespoons of powdered sugar and one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Turn into a serving dish and chill. 
Garnish top with cubes of wine jelly. 

RECIPE 664. BAKED PEARL TAPIOCA PEACH PUD- 
DING. 

Soak one-half cup pearl tapioca over night in one 
quart cold water. In the morning drain off the water. 
Put tapioca in a double boiler with one-half cup cold 
water and one-fourth teaspoon salt. Boil until the tapioca 
looks clear. While tapioca is boiling, put peaches cut in 
half into the bottom of a deep baking dish. Add one- 
half cupful sugar to tapioca, and pour tapioca over the 
fruit. Bake until fruit is tender. Probably one-half 
hour, A meringue made of white of an egg beaten stiff 
and one tablespoon granulated sugar added to it is very 
nice spread onto pudding when it has baked. Put back 
into oven a minute until it browns. Canned fruit can 
also be used instead of the fresh. Does not need to be 
baked but a few minutes. 

RECIPE 665. BAKED PLUM OR APRICOT PEARL 
TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Make in the same way as the Baked Pearl Tapioca 
Peach Pudding, substituting plums or apricots for 
peaches. 

RECIPE 666. BAKED ORANGE PEATRL TAPIOCA 
PUDDING. 

Made like the Baked Pearl Tapioca Peach Pudding, 
substituting oranges for peaches. 



COLD DESSERTS 175 

RECIPE 667. BAKED ORANGE AND BANANA PEARL 
TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Made like Baked Pearl Tapioca Peach Pudding, sub- 
stituting oranges and bananas. It is well to sweeten 
oranges and bananas and let them stand for ten minutes 
before adding tapioca. 

RECIPE 668. PEARL TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING. 

1 pint sweet milk 14 cup sugar 

1/4 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

soaked tapioca 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak one-half cupful "Pearl" tapioca over night in 
one quart of cold water. In the morning drain off water. 
Put the milk, salt and tapioca into a double boiler. Beat 
the yolks of eggs and sugar together. When milk has 
boiled, add the creamy eggs and sugar to the milk, stir 
rapidly until the eggs have cooked, add the vanilla. Pour 
into the dish in which you wish to serve it. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add two level table- 
spoons granulated sugar and pile this meringue on top 
of the tapioca cream. Best served very cold. 

RECIPE 669. PEARL PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUD- 
DING. 

soaked tapioca white of 1 egg 

'juice 1 lemon % cup pineapple 

V2 ' cup cold water % cup sugar 

One-half cup Pearl tapioca soaked over night in a 
quart of cold water. Drain off the water in the morning. 
Put tapioca, cold water and lemon, juice into a double 
boiler. When the tapioca has become clear looking, stir 
in the sugar and pineapple, then stir into this mixture 
the stiffly beaten white of egg. Grated pineapple can be 
used, but small pieces of the fruit are better. Serve very 
cold, with or without cream. 

RECIPE 670. PEACH OR APRICOT OR PLUM TAPI- 
OCA PUDDING. 

Prepare exactly as for the Pineapple Tapioca, using 
cooked fruit. Do not cook the fruit in the pudding, but 
drain the juice from it and put fruit in the serving dish 
and pour the tapioca over it. 

RECIPE 671. MINUTE TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Put into a double boiler: 

1 pint sweet milk ^ cup sugar 

1/4 teaspoon salt 1 heaping tablespoon 

2 eggs "Minute" tapioca 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



176 COLD DESSERTS 

When milk has boiled add to it yolks of eggs which 
have been beaten creamy with the sugar. Stir well for a 
minute or two until eggs have set, then add the vanilla 
extract. Pour into dish in which you wish to serve it on 
the table. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, add 
two level tablespoons granulated sugar, spread this 
meringue on top of the custard. Serve very cold. 

RECIPE 672. TIPSEY PUDDING. 

Pieces of stale Sponge Cake or Lady Fingers can be 
dipped in a little Sherry Wine, then placed in a row 
around the edge of a glass bowl. Pour into the bowl 
over them some cold boiled Custard (or Floating Island) 
and in the center of the bowl pile the beaten whites of 
two or three eggs which you have made into meringue 
with granulated sugar. To make this meringue, beat the 
whites as stiff as possible and allow one level tablespoons 
granulated sugar, for each white of egg. A few Mara- 
schino cherries or little bits of red jelly or jam can be 
placed on top of the meringue if desired and gives not 
only a nice taste, but adds to the looks of the dish. Any 
kind of stale cake can be treated in the same way. 



CHAPTER XV 
Frozen Desserts and Fruit Beverages. 



RECIPE 673. VANILLA ICE CREAM NO. 1. 

1 cup scalded milk 1 egg 

1 heaping teaspoon flour pinch of salt 

% cup sugar 1 pint good cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Mix sugar, flour and salt together, beat the egg a 
little and add to dry ingredients, then slowly add hot 
milk, stirring it in until smooth. Put into a double boiler 
and stir constantly until it begins to thicken. Remove 
from fire, let it get cold, then add cream and vanilla. 
Strain it and then freeze. Let stand for an hour or so 
after it is frozen, so that it may ripen. 

RECIPE 674. VANILLA ICE CREAJVl NO. 2. 

1 quart of cream 14 teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 1 1/^ tablespoons vanilla 

Mix these ingredients, freeze and let ripen for an 
hour or more after being frozen. 



FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 177 

RECIPE 675. FROZEN CUSTARD. 

1 quart milk 1 heaping tablespoon 

V2 cup sugar cornstarch 

1/4 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

1 y2 tablespoon vanilla 
Put milk into a double boiler to scald. Mix the 
cornstarch, sugar, salt and eggs together, beat the eggs 
until creamy. When milk has scalded, add two or three 
tablespoons of hot milk to egg mixture, stir rapidly for 
a minute until well mixed, then turn egg mixture into hot 
milk, stir rapidly until it thickens. Remove from fire, 
add vanilla and let stand until cold. Freeze and let ripen 
at least two hours. 

RECIPE 676. CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Put one and one-half squares bitter chocolate to melt 
in double boiler while you mix Ice Cream Recipe No. 2. 
Add just enough boiling water to the melted chocolate to 
make it thin enough to pour easily (probably about two 
tablespoons of water), stir this liquid chocolate into Ice 
Cream Recipe No. 2. Freeze and let stand a couple of 
hours. One-quarter of a cup of cocoa melted in hot water 
is very nice instead of the chocolate. 

RECIPE 677. FROZEN EGGNOGG. 

Proceed exactly as for Frozen Custard, adding one- 
quarter cupful brandy instead of vanilla. Freeze and let 
ripen for two hours. 

RECIPE 678. FROZEN CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Melt one and one-half squares of bitter chocolate and 
add it to the recipe for Frozen Custard while it is still 
cooking in double boiler. Freeze and let ripen for a 
couple of hours. If desired sweeter, add more sugar to 
taste after adding chocolate. 

RECIPE 679. COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Vs cup strong coffee 1 pint rich cream 

liquid yolks of 2 eggs 

1 V2 cups milk % cup sugar 

1/4 teaspoon salt 
Scald milk and coffee together, mix sugar with eggs 
and stir into coffee mixture, add the salt. Let stand until 
cool, then freeze and let stand for an hour or two to 
ripen. 



178 FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 

RECIPE 680. FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

1 quart cream sugar to taste 

2 boxes berries, or 14 teaspoon salt 
2 cups fruit pulp 

Mash fruit and add enough sugar to make it very 
sweet. Let stand for an hour. Strain off juice and set 
it aside. Add fruit pulp to one quart rich cream, one- 
quarter teaspoon salt. Mix these ingredients well, freeze 
to a mush, then pour in the fruit juice and freeze solid. 
Let it ripen for an hour or two. Remember that in 
freezing much of the sweetness disappears, so use plenty 
of sugar with the fruit. The amount of course will vary 
according to the acidity of the fruit. 

RECIPE 681. BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Make No. 2 Ice Cream, omitting the vanilla and using 
one tablespoon lemon juice instead. Pare four bananas, 
scrape them lightly to remove the astringent matter 
which lies around them. Mash and force them through 
a strainer and add them to the cream mixture. Freeze. 

RECIPE 682. NUT ICE CREAM. 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons each of 

% cup sugar English walnuts, al- 

yolks 3 eggs monds, filberts and 

1/4 teaspoon salt pecans, well chopped 

1 pint rich cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

whites 3 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon 

Put milk on to scald in a double boiler. Cream yolks 
and sugar together, add them with the salt to the scalding 
milk. When cool add cream beaten to a very stiff froth, 
then eggs beaten stiff, then nuts chopped fine, and last 
the flavoring. Freeze. 

RECIPE 683. TUTTI FRUITTI ICE CREAM. 

Make a No. 2 Ice Cream, add to it one-quarter cup 
each of chopped Maraschino cherries, raisins, currants, 
pineapple and English walnuts. Freeze and let ripen two 
hours. 

RECIPE 684. ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

1 cup sweet milk 1 pint sweet cream 

2 cups orange juice % cup sugar (more if 
1^: teaspoon salt needed) 

juice one lemon 
Add sugar to lemon juice and orange juice. Slowly 
stir in the milk, then add the salt and cream. Freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 179 

RECIPE 685. LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Make a No. 2 Ice Cream using lemon extract instead 
of vanilla. 

RECIPE 686. CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Follow recipe for making No. 1 Ice Cream, reserving 
one-half of the sugar to make into a caramel. Put this 
one-quarter cup of sugar into a pan, set on a slow fire, 
stirring constantly until it is a dark brown. Then add 
one-quarter cup boiling water and let simmer until it is 
a dark brown syrup. Add this syrup to Ice Cream Mix- 
ture and freeze. 

RECIPE 687. MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Add one cup of macaroons to the No. 1 Ice Cream 
Mixture, Freeze. 

RECIPE 688. BISCUIT GLACE. 

114 pints cream 6 ounces crisp maca- 

12 ounces sugar roons, pound in mor- 

8 eggs (yolks) tar to dust 

1 tabl^spoon vanilla 

Mix cream, sugar, eggs and extract. Place on fire 
and stir composition until it begins to thicken. Strain 
and rub through hair sieve into basin." Put into freezer; 
when nearly frozen, mix in macaroon dust, another table- 
spoon extract vanilla, and finish freezing. 

RECIPE 689. ICE CREAM OF EVAPORATED MILK. 

Put two and one-half cans evaporated milk (10-cent 
size) into a bowl standing in a pan of ice. Use a Dover 
Egg Beater and whip it well, then pour whipped milk into 
ice cream freezer and freeze about half done. Have one 
tablespoon granulated gelatine soaked in one cup cold 
water. Boil two cups sugar and one cup water, dissolve 
softened gelatine in the boiling syrup, pour this all into 
the half frozen cream, add two tablespoons flavoring ex- 
tract and freeze. Any fruit juice may be used instead of 
water. 



Ices and Sherbets. 



RECIPE 690. LEMON ICE. 

2 cups sugar % cup lemon juice 

4 cups water 

Boil all the ingredients for ten minutes. Strain and 
let cool. Freeze. 



180 FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 

RECIPE 691. ORANGE ICE. 

2 cups sugar juice 1 lemon 

4 cups water grated rind 2 oranges 

2 cups orange juice 
Boil all ingredients together for ten minutes. Strain 
and freeze. 

RECIPE 692. PINEAPPLE ICE. 

li/^ cups sugar 2 cups grated pineapple 

4 cups water juice of Vz lemon 

Boil all together for ten minutes. Strain, let cool, 
then freeze. If desired, the fruit can be left in and not 
strained. 

RECIPE 693. RASPBERRY ICE. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup water 

1 quart raspberries juice V2 lemon 

Cover raspberries, without mashing them, with the 
sugar. Let stand one and one-half hours. Mash the fruit, 
strain through a cloth, add enough water to taste well, 
then the lemon juice. Freeze. 

RECIPE 694. STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Make like Raspberry Ice, substituting strawberries 
for raspberries. 

RECIPE 695. APRICOT ICE. 

Mash the fruit to ^ teaspoon salt 

make 1 cup of pulp 4 cups water 

1 cup sugar (more if desired) 
Let fruit stand one and one-half hours with the. 
sugar. Add the salt and water. Freeze. 

RECIPE 696. PEACH ICE. 

Follow recipe for Apricot Ice, substituting peaches 
for apricots. 

RECIPE 697. MINT ICE. 

1 quart water 1 teaspoon green 

2 cups sugar fruit coloring 

1 cup chopped mint 
Boil sugar and water for five minutes. Add chopped 
mint, boil five minutes. Strain, add green fruit coloring. 
Cool. Freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 181 

RECIPE 698. ICEBERGS. 

3 cups water juice 4 lemons 

2 cups sugar green fruit coloring 

Boil sugar, water and lemons for ten minutes. Strain 
and add enough green fruit coloring to make a nice green. 
Let cool. Freeze. Take sufficient number of tall thin 
stemmed glasses, put the frozen mixture in them, add to 
each glass one teaspoon creme de menthe. Shake over 
each Iceberg a teaspoon of chopped nuts. 

RECIPE 699. ORANGE SHERBET 

juice 12 oranges 2 cups sugar 

4 cups water 
Pour into freezer and freeze until a soft mush, then 
stir into it two cups Italian Meringue and finish freezing. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. 

RECIPE 700. ITALIAN MERINGUE. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup water 

whites 2 eggs 
Boil sugar and water until it threads from the spoon. 
Beat whites to a very stiff froth. Pour sirup slowly over 
them and beat until nearly cold, then add to orange 
sherbet. 

RECIPE 701. PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One can grated pineapple. 

Juice from can pineapple with enough cold water to 
make four cups juice. Follow directions for making 
Orange Sherbet, substituting the pineapple and juice for 
the orange juice. 

RECIPE 702. APRICOT SHERBET. 

Mash the contents of one can of apricots. Strain ofC 
the juice and add enough water to make four cups liquid. 
Add to the mashed fruit. Follow directions for making 
Orange Sherbet, substituting the mashed apricots for the 
oranges. 

RECIPE 703. LEMON SHERBET. 

Make like Orange Sherbet, substituting three-fourths 
cup lemon juice for the orange juice. 

RECIPE 704. PEACH SHERBET. 

Mash the ripe or canned peaches. Allow four cups 
syrup and juice. Follow directions for making Orange 
Sherbet, substituting twelve peaches for the oranges. If 



182 FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 

canned peaches are used strain off the juice and add 
enough water to make four cups juice. Mash the peaches. 
Follow directions for making Orange Sherbet, substitut- 
ing peaches for oranges. 

RECIPE 705. GENERAL RECIPE FOR PARFAIT. 

Boil together three-fourths cup water and one cup 
sugar until sirup will "spin a thread." Beat very stiff 
one pint heavy cream, also beat stiff the whites of three 
eggs. When sirup is done pour it over the beaten whites 
beating it in rapidly until cool, then add the stiffly beaten 
cream, one tablespoon of any flavor desired, then freeze. 
If fruit parfait is desired add one cup crushed fruit just 
before freezing. 

RECIPE 706. MAPLE PARFAIT. 

Make plain parfait recipe and add one-half cup 
maple sirup. 

CARAMEL PARFAIT. 

Add two tablespoons caramel sirup to plain parfait 
recipe. 

RECIPE 707. PINEAPPLE PARFAIT. 

Beat stiff yolks of six eggs and put into double 
boiler; add slowly to this a cup of sugar boiled in a cup 
of water for five minutes. When the whole thickens so 
it will coat the spoon, beat till cold; add a pint of cream 
beaten very stiff, two cups grated pineapple and the juice 
of a small lemon; pack in a mold; bury in ice and salt 
five hours. 

RECIPE 708. MAPLEINE FRANCO. 

3 eggs 1 cup maple syrup 

Put the syrup in the top of double boiler, let simmer 
two minutes, then stir in eggs (well beaten). Cook until 
mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Cool. When cool, 
fold in one and one-half pints of whipped cream. Pack 
in ice and salt (one part salt to two parts ice) and let 
stand three hours before serving. 

RECIPE 709. CUSTARD PARFAIT. 

Make a custard: 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

y2 cup sugar ^/4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs ' 

Separate the eggs; scald the milk; beat yolks till 

creamy, add the sugar to them, beat well. Stir eggs and 



FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 183 

sugar into hot milk, add cornstarch and salt dissolved in 
a little cold water or milk; stir until custard thickens. 
One tablespoon flavoring. Beat one pint cream very stiff, 
also beat whites of eggs very stiff. Mix cream and whites 
of eggs, pour custard over them, beat well. Freeze. One 
square melted chocolate and two extra tablespoons sugar 
added to custard will make a chocolate parfait. 

RECIPE 710. NESSEIiRODE PUDDING. 

Custard part: V^ cup pineapple juice 

1% cups sugar 1 pint cream 

3 cups milk 1 Vq cups chestnuts 

1/^ teaspoon salt yolks 5 eggs 

Shell the chestnuts, cook them in boiling water until 
tender enough to mash. Make a custard of the milk, 
sugar, yolks, pineapple juice; add mashed chestnuts and 
one-fourth cup Sultana raisins and one-half cup finely cut 
candied fruits and a few chopped chestnut meats which 
have been soaked four or five hours in Maraschino; add 
two tablespoons chopped Maraschino cherries; mix well, 
pack in a mold, cover tightly and pack in finely crushed 
ice and salt (one part of salt to two parts ice). Let 
stand two or three hours to freeze. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

RECIPE 711. GENERAL RECIPE FOR MOUSSE. 

Whip one pint of heavy cream to a froth. Dissolve 
one envelope granulated gelatine in one-fourth cup warm 
water. When dissolved, stir gelatine rapidly into the 
whipped cream, add one-half cup powdered sugar; beat 
well, then add one-half cup of any crushed fruit. Fill 
this mixture into a mold and pack in crushed ice with 
salt (two parts ice and one part salt). Let stand three 
hours. Serve with whipped cream and decorate with a 
little of the fruit. 

RECIPE 712. PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

Use the grated canned pineapple. Soak one-half 
envelope gelatine in a cup of cold water. Beat four eggs 
— ^the yolks and whites separate — very light. Put soaked 
gelatine into a double boiler, add a cup of boiling water 
and when the gelatine is dissolved add two cups granu- 
lated sugar. As soon as this is melted stir in the juice 
of a lemon and take from the fire. Beat the grated and 
drained pineapple gradually into the egg yolks and add — 
also gradually — the gelatine. Set the bowl containing 
these ingredients int ) an outer vessel of crushed ice, and 
beat in by the great spoonful the egg whites. When well- 



184 FROZEN DESSERTS, FRUIT BEVERAGES 

blended and the mixture begins to stiffen, add a pint of 
whipped cream and beat four or five minutes longer. Turn 
into a freezer and freeze. Serve in tall glasses with a 
Maraschino cherry on the top of each. 

RECIPE 713. JELL-O MOUSSE. 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0 in one pint of boiling 
water and cool it quickly. Whip one cup of thick chilled 
cream very stiff and stir into it gradually one cup strained 
canned or fresh fruit juice, sweetened to taste. When 
Jell-0 begins to stiffen, beat it into cream; pour it into 
a wet mold having a tight cover; lay buttered paper on 
top cover and immerse in one part salt and two parts ice 
for three hours. Serve in individual glasses. 

RECIPE 714. MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Cook in double boiler one cup of maple sirup and 
the yolks of four eggs. Cook twenty minutes. Add 
beaten white of one egg and remove at once from the 
fire. W^hen cold, add one pint of whipped cream. Freeze 
quickly. 



Fruit Beverages, 



RECIPE 715. LEMONADE. 

1 cup sugar 1 pint water 

Vs cup lemon juice 
Boil sugar, water and lemon juice ten minutes. Thi§ 
will make a sirup suitable for bottling, ready for use at 
any time. To this sirup add enough ice water to each 
glass to please the taste, as tastes differ greatly as to the 
amount of sugar desired. 

RECIPE 716. ORANGEADE. 

Make sirup as for Lemonade, substituting oranges 
for lemons. The juice of one lemon added to the orange 
juice is very pleasant. Add ice water to taste. 

RECIPE 717. PINEAPPLE LEMONADE. 

1 can grated pineapple 1 pint boiling water 

or 1 fresh pineapple juice of 3 lemons 

grated 1 cup sugar 

Put all on to boil for fifteen minutes. Strain and 
set away to cool. W^hen ready to serve, add one quart ice 
water. If fresh pineapples are used, add one-half cup 
more sugar to sirup as it is cooking. A little crushe(i 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 185 

mint added to the sirup for one or two minutes to the 
boiling sirup just before straining gives a delicious flavor. 
Serve with a sprig of fresh mint in each glass. 

RECIPE 718. FRUIT CUP. 

For each pint of water allow one cup sugar. Put on 
the fire and let sirup cook for ten minutes. For three 
pints of Fruit Cup allow: 

1 pint boiling water 1 cup sugar 

1 pint cold water juice 3 lemons 

1 pint AppoUinaris juice 3 oranges 

water, or 1/2 can grated pineapple 

1 pint ginger ale 1/2 cup chopped mint 

1 sliced orange Maraschino cherries 
Put the sugar and pint of boiling water on to cook 

for ten minutes, then add lemon and orange juice, pine- 
apple and mint. Let cook for five minutes, strain, and set 
away to cool. When ready to serve add the sliced quar- 
tered oranges, one pint ice water and one pint of ice cold 
Appolinaris water or ginger ale. Pour over crushed ice 
in the glass, add two or three Maraschino cherries, a sprig 
of mint, and serve icy cold. 

RECIPE 719. CLARET CUP. 

2 cups sugar 3 whole cloves 

1 quart boiling water 14 cup lemon juice 

1 small piece stick 1 1^ cups orange juice 

cinnamon 1 pint claret 

Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes. Add 
cinnamon, cloves, lemon and orange juice. Let cook for 
five minutes. Strain and set away to cool. When ready 
to serve add the claret, fill the glasses with a good portion 
of ice, pour liquid over the ice and serve. One-half cup 
of chopped mint added when the fruit juice is put in to 
boil gives a refreshing flavor to the cup. If mint is used 
then add a sprig of fresh mint to each glass when served. 

RECIPE 720. CLARET PUNCH NO. 2. 

1 pint water i/^ cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons brandy 

V2 cup chopped mint i/^ cup Orange Curacoa 

leaves 1 quart claret 

sliced rinds of 2 1 quart AppoUinaris 

cucuTibers water 

Boil sugar, water and orange juice for ten minutes. 
Add chopped mint; cook five minutes. Strain and put 
into a bowl with cucumber rinds, brandy and curacoa. 



186 FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Let stand for two hours. When ready to serve, put a 
large lump of ice into the punch bowl, remove the cucum- 
ber rinds, pour the punch mixture over the ice, add the 
claret and Appollinaris water, let stand five minutes. 
Serve very cold. 

RECIPE 721. SHERRY COBBLER. 

1 pint boiling water 1 pint sherry wine 

1 cup sugar i/^ cup grated pineapple 

3 lemons (juice) 1 pint Appollinaris 

1 cup orange (juice) water 

Maraschino cherries 
Boil sugar and water for ten minutes. Add fruit 
juices and pineapple. Cook together five minutes. Strain 
and set away to cool. When ready to serve add sherry 
and Appollinaris water, pour over ice in each glass, place 
a sprig of mint and two or three Maraschino cherries in 
each glass. Serve very cold. 

RECIPE 722. NEW YORK PUNCH. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup rum 

1 cup boiling water V4, cup brandy 

y2 can grated pineapple 1/2 cup Benedictine 

% cup lemon juice 1 quart Appollinaris 

14 cup orange juice water 

1 cup tea 3 oranges sliced thin 

1 quart Burgundy and quartered 

Ice water if desired 
Boil sugar, water, lemon and orange juice for ten 
minutes. Strain and set away to cool. W^hen ready to 
serve put a large piece of ice in punch bowl, pour in the 
fruit, syrup and all the other ingredients and let get cold. 
If too strong, ice water may be added to taste. 

RECIPE 723. CHAxMPAGNE PUNCH. 

2 cups sugar 3 tablespoons rum 

1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons orange 
1/4 cup lemon juice curacoa 

1/3 cup brandy 1 quart champagne 

2 cups tea 1 quart Appollinaris 

; water 

Boil sugar, water and lemon juice for ten minutes. 
Set away to cool. Put a large lump of ice into the punch 
bowl, add fruit sirup and all the ingredients except the 
champagne and Appollinaris. Let stand for ten minutes, 
then add champagne and Appollinaris. The latter must 
be ice cold when added to the punch. 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 187 

RECIPE 724. CURRANT SHRUB. 

Crush ripe red currants, strain through a cloth and 
for each pint of juice allow one cupful granulated sugar. 
Stir this in thoroughly. Fill the glass half full of the 
sirup, then fill glass up with crushed ice so that the pro- 
portion will be as much ice as currant sirup. A few 
grains of nutmeg should be grated into each glass. 

RECIPE 725. RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Fill a deep stone jar with fresh ripe black raspber- 
ries. Cover them with vinegar, just enough so that the 
vinegar will barely show through berries. If vinegar is 
too strong it can be diluted with water. Let berries 
stand in this vinegar thirty-six hours, then mash and 
strain through a cloth. For every pint of raspberry vine- 
gar allow a pound of granulated sugar. Let it cook for 
ten minutes at a slow boiling point. Then bottle and 
seal it for future use. This makes a delightful addition 
to many pudding sauces and fruit beverages. When used 
by itself, a refreshing drink. Put two tablespoons into 
a glass and fill it up with ice water and crushed ice. 

RECIPE 726. EGGNOGG. 

For each gl^ss of milk or cream allow: 
1 egg 1 pinch nutmeg 

1 pinch salt 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons whiskey 
Beat yolk until creamy, add sugar, salt and nutmeg, 
beat well. Have white of egg beaten to a very stiff froth, 
stir it into the yolks, add milk or cream, and last the 
whiskey. Beat all together for a moment. Serve very 
cold. 

RECIPE 727. SUIVOIER EGGNOGG. 

For each glass of eggnogg take one egg, separate it, 
beat the yolk until creamy, add a little sugar, a pinch of 
salt, a dash of nutmeg, two or three tablespoons of either 
cold coffee, orange or lemon juice, pineapple syrup or any 
desired fruit juice. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth. 
To yolk and juices add two-thirds of a glass of milk, stir 
in the beaten white of egg. Pour into a tall thin glass 
and serve cold. 

RECIPE 728. FRUIT CUP FOR FIFTY PEOPLE. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup tea 

1 cup boiling water 1 can grated pineapple 

2 cups raspberry or 1 cup Maraschino 

strawberry syrup cherries 

1/^ cup lem.on juice 1 quart Appollinaris 

1 cup orange juice water, or 

1 quart ginger ale 



188 FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Boil sugar and one cup water five minutes. Add 
lemon and orange juice, pineapple and strawberry or 
raspberry juice. Boil five minutes, strain, and set away 
to cool. If fresh mint is in season, add one cup chopped 
mint to the boiling sirup when fruit juices are added. 
When ready to serve place a large piece of ice in punch 
bowl, pour fruit syrup into it and Appolinaris water or 
ginger ale. Cut Maraschino cherries in half. Some of the 
sirup from the bottle of cherries can be added if desired. 
A few ripe raspberries or strawberries, a few slices of 
orange or pineapple can be cut into small pieces and 
added just before serving if desired. 

RECIPE 729. CANTON GINGER PUNCTI. 

V2 poun i Canton ginger 1 cup orange juice 

J. cup sugar i/^ cup lemon juice 

1 quart boiling water 
Cut ginger into small pieces, add to sugar and water 
and boil for twenty minutes. Add fruit juices, boil five 
minutes, strain, set away to cool. Ice water can be added 
to dilute if desired, or one pint Appolinaris may be added 
when ready to serve. Pour over ice. 



CHAPTER XVI 
Cakes. 



A FEW SIMPLE RULES FOR CAKE MAKING AND 
BAKING. 

Before you begin to mix your cake see that all ingre- 
dients are before you. Measure and sift flour with the 
baking powder, separate eggs (when the recipe calls for 
them to be beaten separately), measure sugar, etc. In 
this way you are less liable to make mistakes in quan- 
tities, besides when the mixing is once begun you can 
then proceed rapidly. 

Eggs for a sponge cake must be beaten until light 
lemon in color. The whites to stiffest froth possible. In 
angel cake and in sponge cakes it is necessary to sift both 
the sugar and also flour several times. Angel cake is 
frequently spoiled in mixing, but more often in putting 
it into too hot an oven. It wants a cool oven to start 
with. 



CAKES 189 

RULfES FOR MIXING. 

For a fine-grained cake, beat butter to a cream, add 
sugar and beat well. A tablespoon or two of the meas- 
ured milk can be added to the process of beating butter 
and sugar together and will make the task much easier. 
Add rest of milk and flour alternately. To make a fine- 
grained cake beat well before adding the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Do not beat after whites are in. Fold 
in whites the last thing, very lightly and gently, or you 
will break down air cells from whites. 

Where no milk or butter is used in the cake it is 
customary to add sifted ingredients gently to the beaten 
whites. 

Have your ingredients of a good quality, follow rules 
for mixing and baking and there will be no difficulty in 
making good cakes. 

More cakes are spoiled in baking than in making. 
Many times cake dough will be perfectly mixed, but the 
cake comes out of oven a failure, or a near failure, 
because oven was too hot. In all cakes without butter 
do not light gas oven fire until you are almost ready to 
put dough into oven. When a coal or wood fire is used 
see that you have a very slow fire. This gives cake time 
to rise to its full height before sugar forms a stiff crust. 

For cakes in which butter is used you may light gas 
stove about five minutes before you have dough ready 
for oven. 

If greased pans are to be used, or pans are to be 
lined with paper, have this done before mixing cake. Do 
not use butter in greasing pans, the salt makes cake stick 
to pans. Shake flour onto greased pans, then shake out 
all the flour that will come off. This will give smooth 
finish to bottom of cake for icing. 

If cake browns too rapidly, open oven door slightly. 
Do not move the cake until it has risen to its full height. 
After that it can be moved if necessary and turned so 
that it will brown evenly on all sides. 

Cake can be gently tried with a broom straw or 
wooden toothpick, to see if dough in center has baked. 
If the straw comes out clean, it is done, if there is any 
dough sticking to it, bake cake a few minutes longer. 

Baking powder and spices are added with the flour. 

Raisins and currants should have a tablespoonful of 
flour added to them to keep them from sinking to the 
bottom of the cake. Put raisins through a coarse cutter 
of your meat grinder. 



190 CAKES 

Layer Cakes. 



RECIPE 730. VELVET WHITE CAKE. 

l^ cup butter 3 teaspoons baking 

1 cup finely granulated powder (level) 

sugar whites 5 eggs 

Yz cup milk i/4 teaspoon cream of 

2 cups flour (sifted) tartar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream butter, slowly add sug ir, beating it in thor- 
oughly. Put the sifted flour into the sifter and shake a 
little of it into butter and sugar, then add a little milk, 
alternating flour and milk until all is in. Have baking 
powder in the last of the flour. Beat whites until half 
done, add the cream of tartar to them and finish beating 
them to a very stiff froth, add the vanilla and last fold 
in whites. Bake in a cool oven first five minutes, then 
increase the heat a little. Do not have a very hot oven 
at any time. Makes fine loaf cake. 

RECIPE 731. NORTHWEST WHITE CAKE. 

Vz cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups confectioner's 4 level teaspoons bak- 

sugar ing powder 

1 cup milk whites 4 eggs 

vanilla 
For mixing follow directions for mixing Velvet White 
Cake. Makes three big layers. Recipe can easily be 
divided which will make enough for a small family. Can 
also be baked as a loaf cake in a stem pan. 

RECIPE 732. ICE CREAM CAItE. 

V2 cup butter 2 1^ cups sifted flour 

1 Vz cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking 

Vz cup milk - powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla whites 6 eggs 

1/4 teaspoonful cream of tartar 
Follow directions for mixing Velvet White Cake. 
Makes three layers medium size. Can also be baked in a 
stem pan as a loaf cake. Fine for a bride's cake. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

(See Ice Cream Cake.) 



CAKES 191 

RECIPE 733. RIBBON CAKE. 

Make recipe 731. Divide dough into three parts. 
Leave one part plain white. Into one part add one- 
quarter teaspoon Rose Colored Fruit Coloring. Into third 
portion of dough add a green or yellow fruit coloring. 
Bake in separate pans for layer cake. When ready to 
put together have white layer the center one. Nice with 
Plain Boiled Frosting (recipe 790). 

RECIPE 734. LAYER SPICE CAKE. 

Make recipe 731. Reserve one-third of the dough 
to be white. Into the other two-thirds of dough stir in 
one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one-quarter each of nutmeg and allspice. Mix 
them with 2 teaspoons of flour before adding them to the 
dough. This will make two layers of spice cake and one 
layer of white cake. When putting together have the 
white layer in the center. Nice with Plain Boiled Frost- 
ing or Uncooked Frosting (791). 

RECIPE 735. CHOCOLATE AND WHITE LAYER 
CAKE. 

Make any White Cake recipe. Melt one square of 
Bakers' chocolate in a double boiler. Reserve one-third 
of dough to be white and into other two-thirds add 
melted chocolate. Bake in three layers having white 
layer for the center when you put the cake together. 

RECIPE 736. YELLOW AND WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

Make a White Layer Cake dough. Reserve one-third 
to be white. Into rest of the dough, stir yolks of two 
or three well beaten eggs. Bake in separate layers and 
put white layer in the center. Nice with Chocolate 
Frosting. 

RECIPE 737. FEATHER WHITE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

4 level tablespoons 1/2 cup milk 

butter 1/2 teaspoon baking 

1% cups sifted flour powder 

4 eggs (whites) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. . Add to it about one-third 
each of flour, milk and stiffly beaten eggs. Stir well be- 
fore adding next one-third, then beat again and add the 
last third eggs, flour and milk. Add flavoring, stir 
briskly, then bake forty minutes in stem pan. Can be 
baked in layers. 



192 CAKES 

RECIPE 738. ONE EGG CAKE. 

1/4 cup butter % cup milk 

Vz cup sugar 11/2 cups Hour 

1 egg 2 1/^ teaspoons baking 

Vz teaspoon salt powder 

1/^ teaspoon vanilla 
(See Rules for Mixing.) 

RECIPE 739. GOOD QUICK CAKE. 

l^ cup soft butter 3 teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

2 eggs V^ teaspoon cinnamon 
1^ cup milk 1/^ teaspoon nutmeg 

1 y^ cups flour y^. pound chopped dates 

Put all ingredients together at once before beating. 
Then beat hard for three minutes. Bake as a loaf cake 
or in stem pan. If as a loaf cake, allow 40 minutes in 
moderate oven. 

RECIPE 740. WALNUT CAKE. 

1/^ cup butter 2 y^. teaspoons baking 

1 cup sagar powder 

3 eggs (yolks) 2 eggs (whites) 

y^ cup milk % cup ground walnuts 

1% cups flour 2 teaspoons ground 

spice if desired 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks of eggs, 
then milk, then flour and baking powder, the nuts and 
last stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Reserve the> third 
white of egg for frosting. Bake in a moderate oven about 
45 minutes. Try with a toothpick very gently to see if 
it is done before removing it from the oven. Can be 
baked as layers, in a stem pan or as a loaf cake. 

RECIPE 741. MOLASSES CAKE. 

1 cup s'lgar y2. cup milk 

yz cup batter 2 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs powder 
1/^ teaspoon salt 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten eggs, and 
milk. Sift flour with salt and baking powder and add to 
above mixture. Divide dough into two parts, and to one 
part add 

2 tablespoons molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup raisins i/4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1/^ teaspoon cloves 



CAKES 



193 



Bake dark part 2 minutes. Take out of oven, 
spread white part on top, return to oven and bake until 
done. 



RECIPE 742. POTATO CAKE. 



1 cup butter 

2 cups granulated 

sugar 
4 eggs 
% cup grated chocolate 

1 cup cold mashed 

potatoes 

2 cups flour 



1 teaspoon cinnamon 
V2 teaspoon allspice 
V2 teaspoon cloves 
1 cup chopped walnuts 
1 cup currants or raisins 
2% teaspoons baking 

powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



1 cup milk 

Cream butter and sugar, add grated chocolate, pota- 
toes and milk. Beat yolks till creamy, add them. Sift 
baking powder and spices with flour. Put a little of the 
flour with fruit and nuts, add them to cake mixture, then 
balance of flour and last fold in stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs and vanilla. Dates can be used instead of currants 
or raisins. The fruit can be omitted entirely if desired. 
If baked as a loaf cake, give it an hour in a moderate 
oven. It makes delicious layer cake. Keeps moist sev- 
eral days. 



RECIPE 743. DEVILS FOOD. 

2 cups brown s'lgar 3 

6 tablespoons butter 1 

V2 cup hot water 1 

V2 cup cocoa 3 

V2 cup sour milk 1 



eggs 

teaspoon soda 
teaspoon salt 
cups sifted flour 
teaspoon vanilla 



Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, then eggs 
one at a time, beating thoroughly. Dissolve cocoa in the 
hot water, add the flour to which salt and soda have been 
added, and lastly the milk. Bake 45 minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 



RECIPE 744. DEVILS FOOD. 

V2 cup butter 
2 cups sugar 
1 cup milk 
4 eggs (yolks) 
2% cups flour 
4 whites eggs 
Put chocolate on 
you make dough as follows: 

Cream butter, add slowly, beating well the sugar. 
Beat yolks creamy and add them to sugar. Beat well. 



level teaspoons 
baking powder 

squares Baker's 
chocolate 

teaspoon vanilla 

teaspoon salt 



in a double boiler to melt while 



194 CAKES 

Add flour and milk alternately until all in. Have baking 
powder in last flour that goes in. Now stir in the melted 
chocolate and vanilla. Last fold in stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs. Bake in a stem pan in a slow oven 45 minutes. 
Can also be baked as a layer cake. The Plain Boiled 
Frosting with marshmallow filling is delicious on this 
cake. Ice the cake, then put a layer of marshmallows 
on the icing, cover marshmallows with icing, then put 
the top cake in place and ice it. Marshmallows can 
also be placed on top of the cake as a decoration. 

RECIPE 745. BLACIv CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 1/4 cups granulated 3 teaspoons baking 

sugar powder 

1/4 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs V2 cup milk 

4 squares Baker's 1 teaspoon vanilla 

chocolate 
iy2 cups flour (measured after sifting) 
Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, then 
chocolate melted, beat thoroughly. Sift salt and baking 
powder v/ith flour and add alternately with milk to pre- 
vious mixture. Add flavoring last and beat thoroughly 
before pouring into a pan well greased. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven about 4 minutes. 

RECIPE 746. WALNUT CHOCOLATE CAICB. 

1/^ cup butter 2 1^ teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

2 eggs (yolks) Vs teaspoon salt 
iy2 cups flour % cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon flavoring % cup grated chocolate 

extract 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 cup ground walnuts 
Cream butter and sugar, beat well. Cream the yolks 
and add them, then sift flour, salt and baking powder to- 
gether and add alternately with the milk. Melt choco- 
late in the hot water, beat in thoroughly and last add 
flavoring and walnuts. Bake in layers or loaf. Use 
whites for frosting (recipe). Decorate with walnut 
halves, 

RECIPE 747. BEACON STONE FRONT CAKE. 

5 teaspoons butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking 
Yz cup milk powder 

2 tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon flavoring 
1 egg (yolk beaten) 



CAKES 195 

Boil milk and cocoa till thick. Let cool. Add e^ 
yolk. Cream butter and sugar, add cocoa mixture, siTt 
in flour and baking powder, beat well. Add flavoring. 
Bake in two layers. Use white of egg for frosting (recipe 
790). 

RECIPE 748. JELLY ROLL CAKE NO. 1. 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking 

iy2 cups sugar powder 

IVz cups flour . Yz cup boiling water 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately and then 
beat them together. Add sugar and beat again. Sif^ to- 
gether one and a half cups of flour and two teaspoon's of 
baking powder, add this to the eggs and sugar and, last 
of all, add half a cup of boiling water. Beat the batter 
vigorously, flavor with a few drops of lemon juice and 
bake in a large dripping-pan or two smaller ones. Use 
a moderately hot oven. When baked, turn out on a 
hard surface that has been dusted with powdered sugar, 
trim off the edges, spread while hot with any preferred 
jelly and roll. (See recipe 7 49 for instructions for roll- 
ing jelly cakes.) 

RECIPE 749. ROLL JELLY CAKE NO. 2. 

6 eggs 1 cup unsifted flour 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 extra teaspoon flour 

1/4 teaspoon salt Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Separate eggs, beat yolks until foamy and lemon 
colored. Add sugar, then flour and salt. Beat whites 
of eggs until very stiff, fold them in, add vanilla. Bake 
in a thin sheet, on a well greased paper, in a thin pan. 
Jelly roll pans are the best, but any thin baking pan will 
do. When cake is baked remove at once from pan, re- 
move the paper, turning cake upside down on a clean 
cloth. Spread quickly with jelly, roll up quickly and 
wrap a towel or paraffine paper around it until cool. It 
is best to cut a thin edge from around the edge and sides 
before beginning to roll it up; it is less liable to split. 

RECIPE 750. WASHINGTON PIE. 

Va cup butter 2 1/^ teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

2 eggs 1 % cups flour 

V2 cup milk 

Follow rules for mixing, Page 188, Bake in a round 

layer pan, about 30 minutes. Make two layers, spread 

between with sweetened whipped cream (beaten very 

stiffly and flavored) or any jelly or jam can be used for 



196 CAKES 

the filling. The Cream Filling (Recipe 810) is nice also. 
Sprinkle top layer with powdered sugar. 

RECIPE 751. SUNSHINE CAKE. 

5 eggs 1/4 teaspoon cream of 

1 cup sugar tartar 

1 cup flour 1/4 teaspocn salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Sift flour and salt together five times. Beat yolks 
of eggs until lemon colored, add sugar to yolks and beat 
well. Beat whites until half done, then add cream of 
tartar and beat until stiff. Add yolks and sugar to the 
beaten whites, and last gently fold in the flour and 
vanilla. Bake as a solid cake, or in a stem pan or as 
layer cake. Have oven very moderate in heat. A But- 
ter Icing (see Index) is best on this cake but any icing 
can be used. This recipe is fine for a Roll Jelly Cake. 

RECIPE 752. LITTLE FANCY SPONGE CAKES. 

Bake the recipe for No. 2 Roll Jelly Cake in a thin 
layer. When cool, cut out in fancy cakes with any shaped 
cutter desired. A one-pound baking powder can makes 
a good cutter. Put two or three layers together with a 
filling. You can use the Butter Icing, a Chocolate Icing 
or a Cream Filling. Frost top layer and sides. Small 
pieces of candied cherries or citron can be used to dec- 
orate the frosting if desired. 

RECIPE 753. MRS. T'S FAIRY CAKE. 

4 eggs 1 cup potato flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking 

powder 
Separate the eggs, beat yolks very light and creamy. 
Beat whites very stiff. Stir potato flour and baking pow- 
der together well. To beaten yolks add half the sugar, 
to stiffly beaten whites add half the sugar, then add 
beaten yolks to whites and fold in flour and baking 
powder. Flavor to taste. Bake 45 minutes in stem pan, 
or can be baked in layers. 

RECIPE 754. DELICIOUS SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs 2V2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar (granu- 6 level teaspoons bak- 

lated) ing powder 

1 cup boiling water V4, teaspoon salt 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together four 
times. Sift sugar four times. Beat whites of eggs to 
stiffest froth possible. Beat yolks until they are lemon 



CAKES 197 

colored and nice and foamy. Add sugar to yolks of eggs 
Beat well. Add yolks and sugar to beaten whites, folding 
in very gently. Add freshly boiled water a little at a time 
until all is in. Sift in the flour and baking powder, fold 
very gently, using as few strokes as possible. Have a 
rather deep roasting pan ready, the bottom of which is 
covered with a piece of greased paper. Do not grease' 
the sides of the pan, only the bottom. Put into an almost 
cold oven, bake 45 minutes. It will rise to about two 
inches in height. Can be baked in a stem pan also. 
When ready to remove from pan loosen gently from all 
sides of pan with a knife. 

RECIPE 755. LAYER SPONGE CAKE WITH JELLY. 

Follow directions for making Sponge Cake (see In- 
dex). Put a very thin layer in each pan, bake in cool 
oven. When done let cool and spread each layer witb 
sour jelly. 

RECIPE 756. WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

whites 5 eggs 1 even teaspoon baking 

1 cup sugar e powder 

1 cup flour flavor to taste 

Sift flour and baking powder together five times. 
Sift sugar five times. Beat the whites of eggs to a very 
stiff froth. Fold in the sifted sugar and then the sifted 
flour with the baking powder. Last the flavoring. Handle 
as lightly as possible. Bake in an ungreased pan begin- 
ning the baking with a very cool oven. Bake about 2d 
minutes. 

RECIPE 757. CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR CAKE. 

1/2 cup butter 1 cup cold water 

11/2 cups sugar 21/2 cups sifted flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking 

3 tablespoons burnt powder 

swgar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

To mix: Cream butter, add gradually sugar and 
beaten yolks of eggs. Alternately add cold water and 
two cups of flour. Beat for five minutes, then add 
three tablespoons burnt sugar, then vanilla and other 
one-half cup of flour in which you have sifted the baking 
powder. Last, fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
in layers. 

Burnt Sugar. 

Take one cup white sugar, put into a small pan 
and scorch the sugar until it is quite black. After scorch- 



198 CAKES 



ing and while hot, add one cupful boiling water and stir 
rapidly. Let it boil for a few minutes until like molasses. 
Let cool. This will be enough for two cakes and the 
syrup will keep any length of time. 

Caramel Filling for Cake. 

Boil one cup sugar and one-third cup water until it 
forms a hair when poured from spoon. Beat white of 
one egg until very stiff. Put the beaten egg on a platter 
and slowly pour hot syrup over the egg, stirring all tjie 
time. Beat until nearly cool, then add two teaspoons 
of burnt sugar syrup and one teaspoon of vanilla. 
Spread between cake layers and on top of cake. This 
recipe makes a large three-layer cake. 

RECIPE 758. GOLDEN CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup sui'ar 1 y2 cups flour 

^A cup butter 2 teaspoons baking 

y2 cup milk powder 

whites 3 eggs 

Cream butter, add sugar, then alternately milk and 
flour. Add baking powder to flour. Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in layers. 

RECIPE 759. GOLDEN CREAM FILLING. 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons rich 

yolk 2 eggs sweet cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks until very light, add sugar and beat to a 
cream, then add sweet cream and flavoring. Spread on 
cake when it is cold. 

RECIPE 759A. HIGH ALTITUDE CAKES. 

(Colorado, Wyoming, Etc.) 

The usual recipes cannot be used in these high alti- 
tudes. Both sugar and butter have to be used in lesser 
quantities. HIGH ALTITUDES DO NOT AFFECT 
CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER. THE SAME RECIPES CAN 
BE USED. Almost any recipe using butter can be used 
if usual amount of both sugar and butter is reduced one- 
fourth. For instance, a cake calling for two cups sugar 
should be reduced in Colorado to one and one-half cups 
sugar. The following recipe is an example: 



CAKES 199 

RECIPE 759B. POTATO CAKE. 

Low Altitudes: High Altitudes: 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 1^ cups sugar 

1 cup butter % cup butter 

4 eggs (whites beaten) 4 eggs (whites beaten) 

% cup grated chocolate % cup chocolate grated 

1 cup cold mashed 1 cup cold mashed 

potatoes potatoes 

2 cups flour 2 cups flour 
1 cup milk 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon allspice 

V2 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup chopped walnuts 

1 cup currants or raisins 1 cup currants or raisins 

21/^ teaspoons baking 2 1^ teaspoons baking 

powder powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add grated chocolate, pota- 
toes and milk. Put a little of the flour with fruit and 
nuts, add them to cake mixture, then balance of flour 
with spices in it. Add vanilla and last fold in stiffly 
beaten whites of egg^. A cup of dates can be used 
instead of raisins or currants. The fruit can be omitted 
entirely if desired. If baked in a square loaf cake, let 
bake an hour in a moderate oven. It makes a delicious 
layer cake also, or can be baked in a stem pan if desired. 
This cake is especially good for high altitudes as it keeps 
moist for several days. 



RECIPE 760. HIGH ALTITUDE YELLOW LAYER 
CAKE. 

Follow recipe for 767, adding two yolks which have 
been well beaten. 



RECIPE 761. HIGH ALTITUDE SPICE CAKE. 

Follow recipe 765 or 767. Add to either recipe some 
ground spices, allowing about two teaspoons. Spice is 
best added to flour and sifted with flour and baking 
powder. 

RECIPE 762. HIGH ALTITUDE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Follow recipe 767, adding two squares of melted 
chocolate, just before whites of eggs are added. 



200 CAKES 

RECIPE 763. HIGH AliTITUDE DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 
Dark Part. 

1/4 cup sugar 2 squares bitter choco- 

1/4 cup sweet milk late 

1 egg yolk 
Melt chocolate, add sugar, egg and milk, stir in 
double boiler until it thickens, take off from fire and let 
cool while making. 

liight Part. 
1/^ cup butter 1 heaping teaspoon 

1 cup sugar baking powder 

% cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs 1/4 teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour 
Cream butter and sugar, add soda to sweet milk, 
sift flour, salt and baking powder together; beat yolks 
creamy. Add yolks to sugar and butter, then milk and 
flour alternately. Beat whites until stiff and add with 
vanilla to cake mixture. Now stir Dark Part of cake into 
this Light Part, bake in layers or as a solid cake in a 
stem pan. See Recipes 790-791 for Icing. 

RECIPE 764. HIGH ALTITUDE WALNUT CAKE. 

% cup sugar % cup chopped nuts 

% cup butter 2 cups flour 

% cup milk 2 teaspoons baking 

1/2 teaspoon soda in the powder 

milk 2 extra teaspoons flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla whites 3 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, nuts, flour (with 
baking powder sifted with it). Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites eggs. Layers or loaf cake. 

RECIPE 765. HIGH ALTITUDE ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
WHITE CAKE. 

3/4 cup butter 31/2 cups flour 

1 % cups powdered sugar 5 level teaspoons 
1 cup sweet milk baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon soda 7 eggs (whites) 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream butter, gradually add sugar, put soda into 
sweet milk, add them to butter and sugar. Sift baking 
powder into the flour, add flour and milk alternately. 
Beat well. Fold in tne very stiffly beaten whites of eggs, 
and last the vanilla. This recipe makes four good sized 
layers. Can be made one-half this recipe. Put layers 
together with Recipes 7 90, 791 or 795. 



CAKES 201 

RECIPE 766. HIGH ALTITUDE NUT AND RAISIN 
CAKE. 

V2 cup butter 2 level teaspoons bak- 

1 cup sugar ing powder 
'^ cup chopped, seeded i^ teaspoon salt 

raisins 1 teaspoon vanilla 

^^ cup milk (sweet) 2 squares bitter choco- 
1/4 teaspoon soda (in late 

milk) 1/^ cup chopped English 

2 eggs walnuts 
1 % cups flour 

Put chocolate into a double boiler to melt. Cream 
butter and sugar, add a little flour to the chopped raisins 
and add them to butter and sugar, add beaten yolks of 
eggs, then milk and soda, alternately with flour, baking 
powder and salt. Stir ground nuts into the melted 
chocolate and add to cake mixture. Last, fold in stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs and vanilla. Can be baked as a 
solid cake (45 minutes), or as a layer cake. Plain Boiled 
Icing is nice. (See Recipe 790.) 

RECIPE 767. HIGH ALTITUDE PLAIN WHITE LAYER 
CAKE. 

V2 cup butter 1 heaping teaspoon 

1 cup sugar baking powder 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
^ teaspoon soda V4 teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 2 eggs (whites) 
Cream butter, add sugar, put soda into sweet milk, 

sift flour, salt and baking powder together, add milk and 
flour alternately. Put in vanilla and last fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. If a yellow cake is de- 
sired, beat yolk until creamy and add to butter and 
sugar. Bake in layers or a stem pan. 



Loaf Cakes. 



RECIPE 768. GOLDEN POUND CAKE. 

2 cups butter 4 cups flour 

2 cups granulated sugar 10 eggs 
2 tablespoons brandy 
Cream butter, add sugar a little at a time, beating 
it in well. Beat yolks of eggs with Dover egg beater 
until they are a thick, creamy mass. Add yolks to butter 
and sugar. Beat whites of eggs until very stiff, add 



202 CAKES 

them to cake mixture, then brandy and last unsifted 
flour. Beat hard for five minutes. Line bottom of pan 
with greased paper, grease pan well. Bake in slow oven 
one and one-fourth hours. If necessary, cover cake the 
last fifteen minutes with a buttered paper, if it seems 
to be getting a little too brown. This recipe is fine for 
small, fancy cut cakes. If used in this way bake the 
mixture in shallow pan having dough about one inch 
deep, and baking only about thirty minutes. When cake 
is baked and cold, cut into rounds, squares, triangles and 
cover with frosting. 

RECIPE 769. PLAIN POUND CAKE. 

1 scant cup butter 1 teaspoon baking 

1 y2 cups powdered powder 

sugar 5 eggs 

1 V2 cups flour 
Follow 768 for directions to mix and bake. 

RECIPE 770. CITRON CAKE. 

1/^ cup butter 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 cup sugar 1 V2 teaspoons baking 
3 eggs powder 

1/^ cup milk 1 cup very thinly 

2 cups flour sliced citron 

Cream butter and sugar, adding a little of the milk 
to aid creaming process. Beat yolks of eggs to a cream, 
add to cake, then milk, flour sifted with baking powder 
and then stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Last, put in 
brandy and citron. Citron should be very thin and in 
pieces from an inch to one and one-half inches long. 
Use stem pan, paper the bottom, grease sides and bottom. 
Bake in moderate oven about an hour. 

RECIPE 771. CURRANT CAKE. 

Use same recipe as Citron Cake, substituting cur- 
rants for citron. Take out one tablespoon of the flour 
and add to currants before putting them into cake. 

RECIPE 772. FIG CAKE. 

Follow recipe for Citron Cake, using figs instead of 
citron. Cut figs into very thin, little slices. 

RECIPE 773. RAISIN CAKE. 

Use same recipe as for Citron Cake, substituting 
raisins for citron. Take out one tablespoon of the 
flour and add to raisins ( vhich should be torn apart with 
the fingers or put throui ti meat grinder) before putting 
them into cake. 



CAKES 203 

RECIPE 774. CHOCOLATE TRIANGLES. 

4 eggs 8 tablespoons almonds 

y2 cup sugar cut coarse 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 4 tablespoons citron 

1/4 teaspoon each cloves cut fine 

and mace 2 tablespoons brandy 

14 teaspoon salt % cup dry bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 even teaspoon baking 

2 tablespoons grated powder 

sweet chocolate 
Beat yolks and sugar until light and creamy. Add, 
as follows: Spice, chocolate, almonds (do not blanche 
them), citron, brandy and vanilla. Mix baking powder 
with bread crumbs and add to cake. Last, fold in stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Line a rather deep roasting pan 
with ungreased paper. Pour dough into depth of one- 
half inch. Bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. When 
done spread with an icing made as follows: 

RECIPE 775. ICING FOR CHOCOLATE TRIANGLES. 

Boil one-half cup milk and one-half cup granulated 
sugar until it threads from spoon. While this is cook- 
ing melt one and one-half squares of bitter chocolate in 
double boiler. Flavor With one teaspoon vanilla. When 
syrup threads stir it into the melted chocolate. Beat 
until it begins to feel creamy, then spread it quickly over 
the cake. If it seems a little too stiff a few drops of boil- 
ing mi'k or water will throw it back thinner again. While 
the icing is still warm cut the cake into squares of two 
inches. Cut each square across diagonally, thus making 
a triangle of it. 

RECIPE 776. ENGLISH WALNUT SQUARES. 

4 eggs 1 cup walnut meats 

% cup granulated sugar cut fine 

8 tablespoons almonds % cup dry bread crumbs 

cut coarse 1 even teaspoon baking 

4 tablespoons citron powder 

cut fine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup currants V^ teaspoon salt 

Follow Recipe 774 for mixing and baking. 

RECIPE 777. ICING FOR WALNUT SQUARES. 

] V2 cups granulated 1 rounding teaspoon 

sugar butter 

V^ cup milk 
Boil four minutes, take from fire, add one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla. Beat until it begins to feel creamy. 



204 CAKES 

If it grains, add a few drops of hot milk, just a drop 
or two at a time. Spread on cake while it is still warm, 
then cut into two-inch squares and on each square place 
one-half an English walnut. 

RECIPE 778. ANGEL FOOD NO. 1. 

whites 6 eggs i^ teaspoon cream of 

% cup sugar (granu- tartar 

lated) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 cup flour 
Sift flour by itself six times. Gift sugar six times. 
Beat whites of eggs until they are half done, then add 
cream of tartar and beat until eggs are dry and stiff. 
The lightness of the cake largely depends upon very dry 
eggs. To whites of eggs add sugar, gently folding it in, 
make as few moves as possible so as not to break down 
air cells in whites. When sugar is all in, fold in flour 
and vanilla. Fold always in one direction. Do not beat, 
the less you handle dough the lighter the cake. Paper 
bottom of pan but do not grease at all. Bake in layers, 
a solid cake or in stem pan. The stem pan will make 
lightest cake. Put into a very moderate oven, bake 
slowly about twenty-five minutes. The layers will not 
take as long. Butter Icing is nice on this, or any white 
icing. 

RECIPE 779. ANGEL CAKE NO. 2. 

whites of 11 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 1/4 cups granulated 1 teaspoon vanilla 

sugar 
Sift flour and sugar separately, each eight times. 
Beat whites to a very dry stiff froth, carefully sift sugar 
into whites, using as few strokes as possible, then sift in 
flour, using very few strokes. Bake in an ungreased pan 
45 minutes in a very moderate oven. A stem pan is best. 
Paper bottom of pan. 

RECIPE 780. SMALL PORK CAKE. 

1 scant cup fat pork 1 teaspoon mixed spices 

chopped fine ^/^ cup molasses 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup raisins 

pourea over the pork 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup sugar 2 Vz cups flour 

Add soda to molasses and spices to flour. Add sugar 
to pork, then molasses and soda, then flour and raisins. 
Bake about an hour in a slow oven. 



CAKES 205 



RECIPE 781. DARK FRUIT CAIvE. 




1 


cup 


butte:- 




cup milk 




% 


cup 


brown sugar 




cups flour 


1 


cup 


molasses 




teaspoon 


soda 


1 


cup 


citron 




teaspoon 


cinnamon 


11/2 


cups currants 




teaspoon 


allspice 


IV2 


cups seeded raisins 




teaspoon 


mace 


4 


eggs 


Vz 


teaspoon 


cloves 



1 teaspoon vanilla i/^ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar. Sift together flour and 
spices. Add soda to molasses. Cut citron into small, thin 
strips. Seed raisins and cut tnem up or tear them apart. 
Add a little of flour to raisins and currants. Beat eggs 
together until nice and foamy. Put cake together as 
follows: Butter and sugar, add molasses with soda, then 
fruit, eggs, flour and spices (alternately with milk) and, 
last, vanilla. This makes two large cakes. Can be 
divided in half if desired, but as it keeps well it is well 
to make it all. Bake in deep pans, lined with paper, 
about one and one-fourth hours. 



RECIPE 782. FRUIT AND XUT CAKE. 

^2 cup butter i/4 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup brown sugar i/4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sour milk 2 y^ cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda ^2 cup English walnuts 

Vz cup molasses IV2 teaspoons baking 

4 eggs (yolks) powder 

1 cup seeded raisins V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon lemon 

1 teaspoon cinnamon extract 

% teaspoon cloves 

Sift flour, spices, baking powder and salt together. 
Seed and tear apart raisins, add them to currants and 
shake a little of the flour over them. Beat yolks until 
creamy. Add soda to sour milk. Put walnuts through 
grinder or chop into small pieces. Put cake together in 
the order ingredients are given. This is a large recipe 
and can be divided in half if desired. Will keep a long 
time. Bake in deep pans about 1^4 hours. A stem pan 
is best for all cakes heavy with fruit. Line pan with 
paper. 



206 CAKES 

RECIPE 783. BOILED FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup water i/^ teaspoon cloves 

V2 cup butter i/^ teaspoon nutmeg 

1 level teaspoon salt i/^ teaspoon allspice 

1 cup currants 2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking 

powder 
Put all ingredients except flour and baking powder 
into a saucepan, stir well together and put over the fire. 
Let it boil for a minute, then set aside to get lukewarm, 
then add two cups baking powder and flour, stir well and 
pour into a pan. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. 
One-half cup thinly sliced citron may be added if de- 
sired. Recipe 805 makes a nice frosting for this cake. 

RECIPE 784. WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

V2 cup butter 3 teaspoons (level) 

1 cup sugar baking powder 
1/^ cup milk 4 eggs (whites) 

2 cups flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/^ cup raisins i/^ teaspoon vanilla 

1/4 cup citron 14 cup English walnuts 

Seed and tear apart raisins and add a tablespoon 
of flour to them. Cut citron in very thin small strips. 
Cut walnut meats fine. Sift baking powder, salt and 
flour together. Cream butter and sugar, then add milk 
and flour alternately, then fruit and nuts. Beat whites 
very stiff and fold them in and last add vanilla. Can be 
baked as a loaf cake, in a stem pan or as layers. If in 
layers use a Fig and Raisin Filling (Recipe 815). 

RECIPE 785. FRUIT CAItE WITHOUT BUTTER OR 
EGGS. 

2 cups flour V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon allspice 
V2 teaspoon ground i/4 teaspoon salt 

nutmeg 

Sift these all together, then add: 

l^ cup seeded raisins V2 cup thinly sliced citror 

V2 cup currants V2 cup chopped nuts 

Stir well and add: 

2 cups apple sauce 1/3 cup lard, or short- 
2 level teaspoons soda ening to taste 



CAKES 207 

Mix soda with the hot water and add to the apple 
sauce before putting it into cake. Stir well together. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

RECIPE 786. EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS AND MILK- 
LESS CAKE. 

Put into a sauce pan: 
1 cup sugar 1 cup raisins 

1 cup water 1 cup currants 

Va to y2 cup shortening 2 teaspoons spices 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

Boil three minutes, let become lukewarm, then add 
one teaspoon soda, two cups flour and one-half teaspoon 
baking powder. Stir well. Bake in loaf or layers. 

RECIPE 787. FRUIT TEA CAKES. 



y2 cup butter 


4 tablespoons chopped 


1 cup sugar 


almonds 


2 cups flour 


2 tablespoons citron 


2 teaspoons baking 


3 eggs 


powder 


% cup milk 


1 teaspoon salt 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


4 tablespoons curraijts 





Cream butter, add sugar and cream together, add 
beaten yolks of eggs. Beat whites stiffly and add altern- 
ately with milk. Add sifted flour, baking powder and 
salt, and last of all the fruit and vanilla. Bake in muffin 
pans, greased, for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

RECIPE 788. DATE STICKS. 

Beat 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs whipped light, 1 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, 2 teaspoons vanilla, 1 cup 
chopped dates and 1 cup chopped walnuts. Spread mix- 
ture thinly over bottom of shallow pans and bake quite 
brown in moderate oven. When baked cut into sticks 
of any desired size and roll, while warm, in powdered 
sugar. Or may be served with whipped cream which 
makes a delicious dessert. 

RECIPE 789. SPICE CAKES. 

V2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1/^ cup brown sugar i/^ teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cup boiling water % teaspoon cloves 

2 tablespoons molasses Ys teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon soda Vz teaspoon salt 

Walnut halves 
Cream butter and sugar, add water and molasses. 



208 CAKES 

Sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture. Drop from 
a spoon on baking tin, greased. Press a half walnut meat 
into each cake and bake in a moderate oven. 



Cake Frostings. 



RECIPE 790. PLAIN BOILED JbROSTING. 

1 cup sugar White 1 egg 

3 tablespoons boiling water 
Boil sugar and water until it threads when dropped 
from a spoon. While syrup is boiling quickly beat white 
of egg to the stiffest froth possible. When egg is stiff 
and dry, pile it onto a platter. When syrup threads take 
a wire whip in tne right hand, hold the saucepan of 
syrup in the left and slowly pour syrup over egg, while 
with the right hand you rapidly beat syrup into the egg 
witn wire whip. When all syrup is in, coniinue beating 
until the whole is smooth and creamy. If you do not beat 
it enough it will not harden on the cake. If you beat it 
too much it will not go on smoothly. Experience only 
can tell you when it is just ready. If it hardens too 
quickly add a few drops of hot water and beat it in well. 
One tablespoon of Karo Syrup added to the sugar and 
water when syrup is cooking will add very much to the 
tenderness of the icing. This recipe will only ice a small 
two-layer cake lightly. For a large four-layer cake with 
plenty of icing between, triple this recipe. If frosting 
does not beat creamy pour it into a double boiler and 
let it cook four or five minutes without stirring. It will 
then spread nicely. 

RECIPE 791. UNCOOKED AVHITE FROSTING. 

Allow for each layer of cake the following amount: 
1 cup confectioner's sugar White of 1 egg 

V2 teaspoon vanilla or lemon 
Beat white of an egg to a very stiff froth, add sugar, 
beat it in well and add flavoring. There is a difference 
between powdered sugar and confectioner's sugar. Be 
sure you have the latter if you wish good results. 

RECIPE 792. FROSTING AVITHOUT EGGS. 

One cup powdered sugar and 4 teaspoons boiling 
milk, stirring until it begins to cool. Add a few drops of 
vanilla or any extract to flavor. 



CAKES 209 

RECIPE 793. CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Use recipe 7 90, but add one square of Baker's choco- 
late (melted) to boiling syrup after it threads and just 
when you are ready to take it from the fire. Beat over 
egg in same way as in Plain Boiled Icing. 

RECIPE 794. COCOA FROSTING. 

2 cups confectioner's 4 tablespoons hot 

sugar coffee 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cocoa 

Cream butter, gradually add sugar and cocoa altern- 
ately with the coffee, beating well as it goes in. Spread 
quickly on cake, which must be cold. Do not cook. 

RECIPE 795. CHOCOLATE FUDGE FROSTING. 

4 1/^ tablespoons buter % cup milk 

1 cup cocoa (grated) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 % cups confectioner's sugar 

Have cake out of oven and cool before you begin to 
make fudge filling. Put butter, cocoa, sugar, milk and 
salt into saucepan. Stjr until sugar is moistened. Now 
put saucepan over a slow fire until mixture reaches the 
boiling point. When it begins to boil let it cook for 
eight minutes, then remove from fire and beat it until it 
begins to cream a little. Spread very quickly on cake 
because it sets rapidly. This recipe will be enough to ice 
a three-layer cake. 

RECIPE 796. CHOCOLATE jMARSH3IALLOW FUDGE 
FROSTING. 

Cut a ten-cent box of marshmallows into quarters. 
Follow recipe for Chocolate Fudge Frosting. When the 
fudge is ready to spread on cake put a layer of fudge on 
cake, then on fudge place layer of marshmallows, then 
over marshmallows pour another layer of fudge. Put 
top cake in place and pour rest of fudge over top cake 
and sides. This makes a two-layer cake. 

RECIPE 797. BURNT CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Put one tablespoon sugar into a small frying pan 
and let cook until very brown, then add two tablespoons 
boiling water and let simmer for a minute or two until 
sugar becomes a brown liquid. Use recipe for Plain 
Boiled Frosting and when you put the syrup on to cook, 
add this brown caramel liquid and let syrup boil until it 
threads from the spoon. See recipe 790 for beating egg, 
etc. Spread on cake when creamy. 



210 CAKES 

RECIPE 798. CHOCOLATE CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Four squares chocolate melted in double boiler. Put 
two scant cups sugar into a saucepan, add four table- 
spoons milk, pinch of salt and one egg, stir until well 
mixed, so that sugar is moistened, add chocolate and cook 
over a slow fire (without stirring) until liquid strings 
when dropped from a spoon, remove from fire, beat until 
it begins to cream, spread on cake. 

RECIPE 799. BUTTER FROSTINGS. 

2 cups confectioner's i/4 teaspoon salt 

sugar Beaten whites 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

(level) lemon 

Cream butter, add sugar and whites of eggs, beat 
until creamy, add salt and flavoring and spread on cool 
cake. This icing is delicious on sponge, angel and sun- 
shine cakes or any cake not too rich with butter. 

RECIPE 800. CHOCOLATE BUTTER FROSTINGS. 

Follow recipe 7 9'9, only omit the egg and add instead 
four tablespoons boiling coffee, beat in coffee, one table- 
spoon at a time, and then add two tablespoons grated 
cocoa, or two squares of melted Baker's chocolate. 

RECIPE 801. MOCHA FROSTING. 

To recipe 799 add one tablespoon Mocha Extract. If 
a stronger mocha flavor is desired, add a little more 
Mocha Extract. 

RECIPE 802. BROWN FROSTING. 

Follow the recipe for Plain Boiled Frosting, 790, 
using brown sugar instead of white. 

RECIPE 803. FUDGE FROSTING. 

2 cups powdered 4 tablespoons boiling 

sugar coffee 

2 tablespoons grated ^4 teaspoon salt 

cocoa 1/^ teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon butter 
Cream butter, add cocoa to sugar and salt. Rub 
sugar, cocoa and butter together, adding the boiling 
coffee gradually to make a smooth, creamy mass. Spread 
quickly on the cake. 

RECIPE 804. MILK FROSTING. 

V2 cup milk 1 teaspoon butter 

l^/^ cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

1/4 teaspoon salt lemon 



CAKES 211 

Melt butter, add sugar, salt and milk. Stir well to 
be sure sugar is all moistened, let it heat slowly and 
when it reaches the boiling point let it cook thirteen 
minutes without stirring. Remove from fire and beat 
until it is a creamy consistency. Add flavoring and spread 
on cake. 

RECIPE 805. MILK FROSTING NO. 2. 

1/^ cup milk 1 y2 cups granulated sugar 

Bring milk to boiling point, add sugar; when it 
again strikes the boiling point let it simmer five minutes 
wthout stirring, then remove from fire and beat until it 
creams, then add a few drops of any desired flavoring 
and spread on cake. 

RECIPE 806. SUGAR FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

2 cups powdered 3 tablespoons boiling 

sugar water 

Add water to sugar, stir well until sugar is all dis- 
solved. Do not cook. Spread over cake when it is cold. 

RECIPE 807. FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS NO. 2. 

1/^ teaspoon granulated % cup confectioner's 

gelatine sugar 

2 1/^ tablespoons boiling i^ teaspoon vanilla or 

water lemon 

Melt gelatine in the boiling water, then add sugar 
and flavor and beat until creamy. Spread at once on 
cake. 



Cake Filling. 



RECIPE 808. LEMON FILLING. 

1 cup water 1 heaping tablespoon 

1/4 teaspoon salt cornstarch 

1 cup sugar 
Juice and grated rind 1 large lemon 
Put water, lemon, sugar and salt on to cook in 
double boiler. When boiling add cornstarch, wet up with 
a little water to make a smooth paste. If desired, the 
yolk of one egg may be added which will give it a better 
color. Spread on tae layer cake. If desired, cake may 
be iced on top with the filling only between the layers. 



212 CAKES 

RECIPE 809. ORANGE FILLING. 

Follow directions for making Lemon Filling, sub- 
stituting orange juice and grated rind for lemon. 

RECIPE 810. CUSTARD CREAM FILLING. 

1 cup milk 1/4 teaspoon salt 

y^ cup sugar 1 heaping tablespoon 

Yolks 2 eggs cornstarch 

1/^ teaspoon vanilla 
Put milk in a double boiler until it comes to boiling 
point, then add yolks of eggs which have been beaten 
to a cream with sugar and salt. Stir eggs into milk, then 
add cornstarch which has been wet up in a little cold 
water. When custard has thickened, add vanilla and 
remove from fire to cool, spread on layer cake. 

RECIPE 811. CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING. 

Follow directions for making Recipe 810, adding to 
it two squares melted chocolate which have been sweet- 
ened with one quarter cup sugar. Stir chocolate and 
sugar into Custard Cream just before adding the corn- 
starch. 

RECIPE 813. COFFEE CREAM FILLING. 

Follow directions for making Recipe 810. Add two 
tablespoons strong coffee extract or mocha extract. 

RECIPE 813. COCOANUT FILLING. 

Shredded cocoanut may be added to Recipe 810, 
about one-third cup may be used. Spread more of cocoa- 
nut on top of each layer of custard. If top of the cake 
is iced, sprinkle more cocoanut on top. 

RECIPE 814. COCOANUT LEMON OR ORANGE FILL- 
ING. 

Add one-half cup shredded cocoanut to recipe for 
either Lemon or Orange Filling. 

RECIPE 815. FIG AND RAISIN FILLING. 

Vz pound seeded raisins i/^ pound figs 

Chop together until a smooth mass. Ice cake on 
bottom layer, then lay a thick layer of fig raisin mixture 
on icing. Cover the fig raisin filling thickly with more 
icing. Place top layer of cake on top of this filling and 
then thoroughly ice entire cake. Use Recipe 790 or 791 
for frosting. 



CAKES 213 

RECIPE 816. MARSHMALLOW FIIiLING. 

1 y2 cups sugar 14 cup boiling water 

^ cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 pound marshmallows 
Make a syrup of milk and sugar. Let it come slowly 
to the boiling point. Let simmer for six minutes. Put 
the marshmallows and hot water into double boiler and 
let marshmallows melt. Stir until it is smooth, then 
slowly stir in the boiling syrup and beat thoroughly until 
cool enough to spread on the cake. 

RECIPE 817. BANANA FILLING. 

Follow Recipe 810. Spread custard on the cake, 
then lay a thick layer of thinly sliced bananas on each 
layer of custard. Should be eaten the day it is made. 

RECIPE 818. NUT FILLING. 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup sugar 

1 cup water i/^ cup butter 

1/4 teaspoon salt i/4 cup chopped nuts 

1/4 cup chopped raisins V2 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter, add flour, then water, stir until it 
thickens, add sugar, salt, nuts and raisins. Spread be- 
tween cake. 

RECIPE 819. PINEAPPLE GELATINE FILLING. 

1 cup whipped cream 2 teaspoons gelatine 

1 cup grated pineapple 1 teaspoon lemon 

Vs cup sugar juice 

riace gelatine in quarter cup of pineapple juice for 
half an hour; then set it over hot water until dissolved; 
then add it to the sugar, pineapple and lemon juice; then 
beat in the whipped cream. Pin a paper "collar" around 
each layer cake; have it extending about one-half inch 
above cake. Pour one-third of filling on one cake. Put 
the next layer cake on top of the first one, pour on filling, 
etc. Set away to get firm. Then slice it in layers and 
serve like brick ice cream. Can have marshmallows and 
marischino cherries as a garnish. Any fruit colorings can 
be used, giving very pretty effects. 

RECIPE 820. BANANA CREAM CAKE FILLING. 

2 eggs (whites) 8 tablespoons powdered 

4 bananas sugar 

Beat egg whites until perfectly stiff and dry; mash 
bananas in a separate dish until quite smooth, sprink- 



214 CAKES 

ling powdered sugar over them to prevent their turn- 
ing dark. Add the banana mixture to the whites, a 
spoonful at a time, beating after each addition. Suffi- 
cient beatings will make the cream as light and fluffy as 
whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XVII 

Doughnuts, Cookies, Candies and 
Gingerbreads. 



RECIPE 821. PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking 

2 scant tablespoons powder 

melted shortening i^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup sweet milk ^/^ teaspoon nutmeg 

2 eggs Flour to roll out 

Stir melted shortening and sugar together, add well 
beaten eggs, then three cups of flour with baking powder, 
salt, and nutmeg in it. Add more flour to make a dough 
stiff enough to roll out. Flour rolling board well. Take 
one-fourth of mixture, roll out to about one-half inch 
thick, cut with a doughnut cutter. Take leavings from 
the first cutting, add another one-fourth of the dough to 
them, roll this out, cut out and repeat this process until 
all dough is cut out. Have a kettle of deep fat, just hot 
enough to fry doughnuts a nice brown (see Index for Deep 
Fat Frying time table). The doughnuts will quickly 
brown on one side, then must be turned and browned on 
other side. Drain on a paper. Cook only a few at a 
time. Repeat until all are cooked. If desired, sift pow- 
dered sugar over them, or roll them in the sugar. 

RECIPE 822. POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup hot mashed 2 Vz teaspoons baking 

potatoes powder 

2 tablespoons butter 1 Vz cups sweet milk 
1 Vz cups sugar % teaspoons salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Flour to roll out 

Make a cream of potatoes, shortening, sugar and 

eggs, then add milk and salt, then flavoring. Add baking 

powder to two cups flour. Stir in flour and then add 

enough more to make a dough ^tiff enough to roll out. 



DOUGHNUTS, COOKIES, CANDIES, ETC. 215 

Follow directions in recipe on Plain Doughnuts for the 
frying. This makes a large recipe. Can be divided for 
a small family. 

RECIPE 823. GINGER SNAPS. 

i/o cup butter 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 V2 teaspoons salt 

1/2 teaspoon soda 3 V4. cups flour 

Put dry ingredients (sifted together) in bowl with 
butter. Cook molasses until it reaches boiling point, then 
pour it over ingredients in the bowl, mix well and then 
let stand until thoroughly cold. Put plenty of Aour on 
rolling board, take one-fourth of the dough, roll out very 
thin, cut out with a cookie cutter, dipping cutter fre- 
quently in flour. Have a thin baking pan, well greased, 
put the snaps into pan as closely together as possible. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

RECIPE 824. JUMBLES. 

1/2 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon milk 2 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs powder 

21/2 cups flour V2 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, beat well, add eggs well 
beaten. Sift flour, salt, nutmeg and baking powder to- 
gether and add them to first mixture. Set away to get 
cold Keep dough as cold as possible while rolling out 
and it will take less flour. Roll very thin, cut out with 
a cookie cutter having a hole in the center. Bake m a 
moderate oven. 

RECIPE 825. MOLASSES COOKIES. 

1 % teaspoons soda V2 cup butter or lard 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Flour to roll out, about two cups 
Add soda to molasses, stir well, add melted shorten- 
ing milk, salt and flour. Put away several hours to get 
thoroughly chilled. Roll out only a little at a time, keep- 
ing the rest of the dough cold. In this way you can 
handle it with less flour and so have rich, soft cookies. 
Roll them thin, cut out with a w^ll-floured cookie cutter 
place in a well-greased pan close together, bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 



216 DOUGHNUTS, COOKIES, CANDIES, ETC. 

RECIPE 826. MOLASSES COOKIES NO. 2. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 cup molasses 2 level teaspoons 

1 cup lard soda 

2 heaping teaspoons 1 cup Graham flour 

ginger 14 teaspoon salt 

Flour to make a soft dough to roll out. Cut out 
cookies. Sprinkle a little sugar and put one raisin on 
each cookie. 



RECIPE 827. PLAIN COOKIES. 

y2 cup shortening % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sour milk 2 cups flour 

% teaspoon soda i^ teaspoon salt 

1/^ teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add soda to sour milk, 
stir it well, then add milk to butter and sugar. Sift flour, 
salt and spice together and add them to cake mixture. 
Do not add any more flour than you can help. Make a 
dough thick enough to roll out. Set it away to get 
thoroughly chilled. Take only a quarter of the dough at 
a time, roll it thin, cut out with cookie cutter, bake in 
a moderate oven. A little granulated sugar can be 
sprinkled on cookies just before putting them in the oven 
and one or two currants if desired. Spices may be 
omitted. 



RECIPE 828. CREAM COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar 2 or more cups flour 
% cup shortening 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 cup cream 2 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add slightly beaten eggs, 
then cream. Sift flour, salt and baking powder together 
and add to cake mixture. If more flour is needed to 
handle well, add it. Set away to get cold. Then take 
one-fourth of the dough, roll out thin, cut with a cookie 
cutter. Repeat until all are baked. Keep the dough 
cold and it will require less flour. Use as little flour as 
possible. 



DOUGHNUTS, COOKIES, CANDIES, ETC. 217 

RECIPE 829. HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

V2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs powder 

1 cup milk 2 cups chopped hick- 

1 teaspoon vanilla ory nuts 

14 teaspoon salt 
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs beaten to a cream, 
then milk and salt, and last, flour sifted with baking pow- 
der, and last hickory nuts. Drop from spoon onto a well- 
buttered pan. Leave ample roo: . between for the cookie 
to spread. Bake in moderate oven. 

RECIPE 830. OATMEAL COOKIES. 

1 cup shortening 1 cup raisins 

(butter, lard or suet) 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 cups Quaker rolled 

2 eggs oats 

• 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Mix soda, salt and spice with flour. Stir all ingre- 
dients quickly together. Drop from tip of a spoon onto a 
well-greased pan in drops about size of an English wal- 
nut. Leave plenty of space between. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. Will keep for months in a covered jar. 

RECIPE 831. FRUIT ROCKS. 

iy2 cups sugar 1 1^ cups chopped 

1 cup shortening raisins 

3 eggs 2 cups chopped nuts 
2 V2 cups flour 1/^ teaspoon each all- 

1 teaspoon soda spice, cloves 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs, beat well. 
Sift flour, baking powder, salt and spices together, and 
add to flrst mixture. Stir in slightly floured raisins and 
nuts. Grease pans well and drop cake mixture from a 
spoon, allowing a couple of inches between. If desired, 
one cup of currants may be used, allowing one cup of 
nuts. If a laxative effect is desired use two cups of flour 
and one-half cup bran. 

RECIPE 832. WHITE GINGERBREAD. 

4 cups sifted flout* ^/^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup butter 1 cup sour milk 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda- 
y2 teaspoon nutmeg 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons ginger 



218 DOUGHNUTS, COOKIES, CANDIES, ETC. 

Rub flour and butter together until it crumbs, then 
add sugar and rub again until well mixed. Measure out 
two cups of this mixture and set away to keep cool. Into 
what remains stir two well-beaten eggs, sour milk and 
soda and spices. Stir well. Butter a dripping pan and 
on this spread one cup of the first mixture (dry crumbs), 
then spread a layer of all batter and on top of this put 
the second cup of the crumbs. Bake in moderate oven. 

RECIPE 832B — YELLOW CAKE. 

% cup butter 4 eggs 

2 cups sugar 3 l^ cups flour 

1 cup milk 5 teaspoons baking 

powder 

See general directions for mixing cakes. Pages 18 9- 
190. This makes a large, light cake. For small family 
divide recipe. Unusually nice. 



RECIPE 833. SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

y2 cup melted shortening i^ teaspoon soda 

1 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

2 eggs 2 cups flour 

% cup New Orleans l^ teaspoon salt 

molasses 3 teaspoons ginger 

Butter, lard or any of the prepared shortenings can 
be used. Melt shortening, stir in sugar, well-beaten egg& 
(do not separate them), add molasses, put soda into boil- 
ing water, stir it into cake mixture, add flour sifted with 
ginger and salt. Paper the deep pan, grease sides and 
bottom well, bake about thirty minutes. One cup of 
raisins or one-half raisins and one-half currants can be 
added if desired. This makes one large or two medium- 
sized loaves. 



RECIPE 834. WALNUT DROPS. 

2 eggs 7 tablespoons sifted 

Pinch salt flour 

1 cup sugar yo teaspoon baking 

1 cup chopped walnuts powder 

Beat eggs together, add salt, then sugar. Sift bak- 
ing powder with flour and add to first part. Add nuts 
last. Drop onto buttered pan and bake until brown. 
Have them a sufficient distance apart. Makes 55 or 60. 



LEFT-OVERS 219 

RECIPE 835. WALNUT AVAFERS. 

1 cup brown sugar 3 heaping tablespoons 

1 cup chopped walnuts flour 

2 eggs V4: teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs to a cream, then stir in flour, salt and 
nuts; grease pans and drop batter in them in teaspoon- 
fuls; drop far apart to give them room to spread. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
Left Overs. 



RECIPE 836. COCIi:TAIL FROM BOILED FISH. 

Take any white firm fish and make a cocktail as fol- 
lows for each person: 

1 tablespoon tomato ^^ teaspoon horseradish 

catsup 1 tablespoon fish 

1 tablespoon lemon 2 drops Tabasco sauce 

juice 1 or 2 drops onion juice 

Let stand on ice until very cold. 

RECIPE 837. PLANKED LEFT-OVER FISH. 

1^ cup White sauce 2 hard boiled eggs 

1 cup fish 2 tablespoons minced 

1 cup mashed potato parsley 

season to taste 
Take a fish plank (or a baking platter will do). 
Make a border of mashed potatoes pressed through the 
pastry tube (or a potato ricer), put a layer of sauce on 
platter, then fish, sliced eggs, parsley, then a layer of 
Cream Sauce and over this a few buttered bread crumbs, 
bake in oven, or under gas broiler until crumbs have 
browned. Serve on dish or plank on which it baked. 

RECIPE 838. CREAMED FISH. 

1 cup No. 2 White 14 cup diced cold boiled 

sauce carrots 

1 cup fish flakes V4, teaspoon nutmeg 

V2 cup peas, or i/^ teaspoon onion juice 

1/4 cup peas and Season to taste 

Mix together, put into a baking dish, or into indi- 
vidual ramekins, cover with buttered bread crumbs, dust 
on top wi^h paprika, bake until bread crumbs are brown. 
Serve hot in dish in which it baked. 



220 LEFT-OVERS 

RECIPE 839. COIiD FISH SOUFFLE. 



1 


cup No. 2 White 


1 


teaspoon onion juice 




sauce (see Index) 


V2 


cup flaked fish 


V2 


cup mild cheese 


1/2 


teaspoon salt 


V2 


teaspoon mustard 


2 


eggs 


1 


teaspoon lemon 




Pepper and paprika 




juice 




to taste 



Melt cheese in hot sauce, add mustard, pepper, salt 
onion and lemon juice to the yolks of eggs, beat well, add 
fish flakes, then stir this into the White Sauce mixture 
and let cool. Then fold in stiffly beaten whites of two 
eggs. Set in a pan of hot water and bake about fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Serve at once in dish in which it 
baked. 

RECIPE 840. FISH WITH MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

1 cup W^hite Sauce i/^ cup macaroni 

No. 2 ( see Index) 14 cup cheese melted 

V2 cup fish flakes in White Sauce 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender, 
then remove from fire, drain off hot water and pour cold 
water over it for a minute or two to make it firm. Drain 
again and cut in about one-inch lengths. Now stir maca- 
roni into White Sauce, add fish flakes, stir gently, pour 
into baking dish, cover with layer of buttered bread 
crumbs and bake in oven just until crumbs are brown. 
Serve hot in dish in which it baked. 

RECIPE 841. FISH ESCALLOPED WITH TOMATOES 
AND ONIONS. 

Take alternate layers of very thinly sliced onions, 
raw potatoes, stewed tomatoes, and flakes of fish. Season 
each layer with a little salt, pepper and paprika and 
enough hot water poured over to almost fill the pan. 
Bake slowly until potatoes are done, about thirty minutes. 
To change this dish, minced parsley or green peppers can 
be added, or a few slices of bacon, fried crisp and crushed, 
can be added to the layers. 

RECIPE 842. CREAMED OYSTERS AND FISH. 

V2. cup cold fish 1 cup No. 2 White 

yz cup oysters (par- sauce 

boiled 2 minutes) Seasoning to taste 

Layer buttered bread crumbs 
Mix sauce, oysters and fish together, turn into a bak- 
ing dish or little ramekins. Cover with bread crumbs, 
dust with paprika. Bake until crumbs brown. Serve hot. 



LEFT-OVERS 221 

RECIPE 843. SLICED LEFT-OVER MEAT EN BLAN- 
QUETTE. 

Make a Brown Gravy (see Index) or a Creole Sauce 
(see Index), and lay slices of cold meat in it just long 
enough to warm it through. Serve at once with the sauce 
poured over it. 

RECIPE 844. POT ROAST HASH AND BROWN 
GRAVY. 

Mince one cup meat, add one cup brown gravy. 
Make four slices toast, put a spoonful of the hot hash on 
each slice of toast. 

RECIPE 845. STUFFED LEFT-OVER ROAST. 

Into cavity of a left-over leg of lamb, or a shoulder 
roast fill in a generous supply of mashed potatoes. Shape 
well, cover with buttered bread crumbs and heat for a 
short time in oven, until meat has had time to warm 
through. A double roasting pan is nice for this, adding 
a very little sauce, or a little hot water. Let the crumbs 
brown. Serve with a brown gravy or Mint Jelly (see 
Index). 

RECIPE 846. ROLLS OF LEFT-OVER ROAST MEAT. 

If the meat is in sufficient quantity so that it can be 
sliced, cut required number of slices rather thinly and 
spread on each slice a thin layer of stuffing made as 
follows: 

For each cup of bread crumbs (not too dry) allow 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one- 
eighth teaspoon paprika, two tablespoons of minced 
onions, one-fourth teaspoon poultry seasoning or a pinch 
of sage. If onions are not desired they can be left out. 
When each slice has been spread with this stuffing roll 
slice like a jelly roll, fasten securely, roll it in a little 
flour and saute it for a few minutes in the frying pan. 
Then cover with left-over gravy or enough milk to nearly^ 
cover the rolls. Let simmer for fifteen minutes, thicken 
gravy. Can be servea on toast if desired. Pour the gravy 
over the "Rolls." 

RECIPE 847. APPLES STUFFED WITH LEFT-OVER 
PORK. 

Take a sufficient number of apples. Wash and wipe 
clean. Cut off a slice from stem end. Take out core and 
make a "well" in the apples. Mince up enough left-over 
pork to fill apples. Season well, add a little gravy to 
moisten meat, fill into apples and add a few buttered 



222 LEFT-OVERS 

bread crumbs on top of meat, which should be piled up 
pyramid shape out of center of apple. Bake until apples 
are done. 

RECIPE 848. ESCALLOPED PORK WITH APPLES. 

1 cup cold chopped 1 cup buttered bread 

pork crumbs 

Sliced, pared apples Season to taste 

Butter a baking dish, lay a layer of apples in bottom, 
tnen a layer of meat, a layer of left-over gravy, a layer 
of bread crumbs, then a layer of apples and a layer of 
buttered bread crumbs. Bake in a slow oven until apples 
are done. 

RECIPE 849. FRIED APPLES WITH LEFT-OVER 
PORK. 

Slice apples with their skins on. Fry nicely in a 
little pork fat. Slice the pork thin, warm it in a little 
left-over gravy, just simmer it for a moment or two, then 
lay the slices of meat on a bed of the fried apples. Serve 
at once. 

RECIPE 850. ESCALLOP OF CABBAGE WITH ROAST 
PORK. 

1 cup minced boiled 1 cup No. 1 White 

cabbage sauce (see Index) 

1 cup cold roast ^/^ cup bread crumbs 

minced pork Season .to taste 

Mix cabbage, meat and White Sauce well together, 
season to taste. Place in a deep baking dish, cover witfi 
buttered bread crumbs. Cook until brown. 

RECIPE 851. RICE CAKES WITH HAM OR SAUSAGE. 

1 cup cold boiled rice i/^ cup minced ham or 

Yolk 1 egg cooked sausage 

season to taste 
Mix rice and meat together, add yolk, stir well, make 
into flat cakes and saute in a little fat. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 852. CREAMED HAM ON TOAST. 

1 cup minced cold 1 cup No. 1 White 

boiled ham sauce (see Index) 

1 hard boiled egg Slices of toast 

seasoning to taste 
Mix ham with the White Sauce, add mashed yolk of 
egg, spread meat mixture on the toast and sprinkle on 
top the chopped white of egg. Dash a little paprika on 
top. Minced parsley can also be used. One pimento 
minced and added to meat mixture is nice. 



LEFT-OVERS ' 223 

RECIPE 853. ESCALLOPED EGGS. 

Make one cup No. 2 White Sauce. Boil 4 eggs hard. 
When cold slice eggs. Butter a deep baking dish, place 
layer buttered cracker crumbs on bottom of pan, add 
alternate layers of sliced eggs. White Sauce and buttered 
cracker crumbs. Have top layer of White Sauce lightly 
sprinkled with buttered crumbs. Bake until crumbs are 
brown. . , , 

Boiled rice can be added to this dish and is nice, also 
two or three pimentos cut fine and added to the White 
Sauce. 

RECIPE 854. GERMAN POT ROAST HASH. 

1 cup minced meat 1 tablespoon minced 

1/2 cup cold boiled parsley 

potatoes diced Vz teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 
Put two tablespoons fat in frying pan, turn meat and 
potato mixture in it, press down well under a plate, set 
on a very slow fire to form a brown crust on bottom. 
When browned fold and serve like an omelette. 

RECIPE 855. ESCALLOPED POT ROAST. 

Alternate layers cold boiled macaroni or rice, meat, 
White Sauce No. 2 and sliced green peppers. Season 
each layer with salt and pepper, cover with buttered bread 
crumbs and bake until crumbs brown. 

RECIPE 856. ESCALLOPED POT ROAST WITH TO- 
MATOES. 

Alternate layers of minced meat, stewed tomatoes 
and onions and bread crumbs. Layer of butter and bread 
crumbs on top. Bake about ten minutes if onions are 
"left-overs" cooked, but if raw onions are used mince 
them fine and bake about thirty minutes, having added 
one-half cup water to mixture. 

RECIPE 857. MEAT AND POTATO PUFF. 

1 cup cold mashed 1 egg 

potatoes 1 teaspoon tomato cat- 

1 cup cooked meat sup 

(minced) V^ cup gravy or stock 

Seasoning to taste 

Butter a deep baking dish. Beat creamy yolk of 

egg into mashed potato. Moisten meat with gravy or 

stock, add catsup. Beat white of egg to a stiff froth and 

add to mashed potatoes. Put one-half the potatoes into 



224 LEFT-OVERS 

bottom of baking dish, spread meat mixture on top, then 
spread rest of the potatoes over the meat. Brown in 
oven. 

RECIPE 858. LEFT-OVER MEAT ON HOT BISCUITS. 

1 cup chopped meat 1 egg 

1 cup No. 1 White 1 teaspoon minced 

sauce capers or parsley- 

season to taste 
Make some Baking Powder Biscuits (see Index). 
When baked split them open and pour over theni meat 
mixture made as follows: 

To one cup White Sauce (see Index) add meat, 
capers, or parsley, stir well, add yolk of an egg, stir for 
a moment until egg has time to set. Season to taste. 
Serve on hot biscuits. If there is plenty of left-over 
gravy, a cup of that can be used instead of White 
Sauce. If gravy is not brown, add a few drops of Kitchen 
Bouquet. 

RECIPE 859. ESCALLOPED MEAT WITH OYSTERS. 

A very appetizing change from the regular escalloped 
meat dishes can be made by using one-half cup oysters 
to one-half cup meat. Then follow the directions for 
escalloped meat. 

RECIPE 860. ESCALLOPED MEAT. 

1 cup chopped cold V^ cup buttered bread 

meat crumbs 

1 cup White sauce or 2 tablespoons minced 

1 cup left-over gravy parsley 

Use either a cup rich left-over gravy or make a 
No. 1 White Sauce (see Index). Mix meat well with 
gravy or sauce, place in buttered baking dish, spread 
buttered bread crumbs on top and bake in oven until 
crumbs have browned. If desired, more crumbs can be 
used by taking a layer of meat, a layer of White Sauce, 
then a layer of bread crumbs, alternating layers until dish 
is full. A layer of tomatoes is also nice. A few minced 
mushrooms or onions or green peppers can also be used 
for a change. 

RECIPE 861. MACARONI AND CHEESE WITH LEFT- 
OVER MEAT OR FISH. 

A very nice way to use up left-over macaroni and 
cheese and cold meat or fish is as follows: 



LEFT-OVERS 22 5 

1 cup macaroni and 1 cup No. 1 White 

cheese sauce (see Index) 

1 cup cold chopped Salt, pepper and pap- 

meat or fish rika to taste 

Make a White Sauce, place a layer of it on the bot- 
tom of a buttered baking dish, then a layer of me maca- 
roni, cut in inch lengths, then a layer of meat or fish, 
then again White Sauce. Either buttered bread crumbs 
or a layer of grated cheese can be spread on top. Brown 
in oven. 

RECIPE 862. RICE SOUFFIiE WITH MEAT OR FISH. 

1 cup minced meat Vz cup White sauce 

1/4 cup boiled rice No. 3 

1 egg yolk 1 egg white 

seasoning to taste 
Mix meat (or fish) with rice and White Sauce. Sea- 
son well, add beaten yolk and last fold in stiffly beaten 
white of egg. Spread lightly with buttered bread crumbs. 
Bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. Serve at once 
very hot. 

RECIPE 863. COLD MEAT OR FISH SOUFFLE. 

1 cup minced cold 1 teaspoon onion juice 

meat or fish 1 teaspoon minced 

Vz cup fresh bread parsley 

crumbs V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup White Sauce i/4 teaspoon pepper 

No. 2 (see Index) % teaspoon paprika 

1 egg 
Make White Sauce and let cool while you mix meat, 
seasoning, parsley, onion juice, then add White Sauce, 
mix well, add beaten yolk and last fold in stiffly beaten 
white of egg. Butter a baking dish, turn Souffle into it 
and bake about twenty minutes. Serve at once in the 
dish in which it baked, 

RECIPE 864. HAMBURGER SOUFFLE. 

Fresh hamburger can be used instead of Cold Left- 
over Meat (see Index). 

RECIPE 865. CHICKEN OR VEAL SOUFFLE. 

1 cup of meat 2 eggs 

1 cup No. 3 White Vs teaspoon onion salt 

Sauce (see Index) Vs teaspoon paprika 

Mix meat with White Sauce. Cream yolks of eggs, 
add them to meat mixture, fold in stiffly beaten whites 



226 LEFT-OVERS 

of eggs and seasoning. Pour into buttered baking dish 
and bake about twenty-five minutes. One tablespoon of 
minced parsley can be added to White Sauce or three 
tablespoons cooked tomato gives a nice change. Put 
them into White Sauce before whites of eggs are 
folded in. 

RECIPE 866. RISSOLES OF COLD MEAT. 

One cup cold left-over meat which has been run 
through grinder, add to it one small minced onion. Add 
one-half cup soft bread crumbs, season to taste, add- 
ing enough milk to shape meat and crumbs into balls 
about size of an English walnut. Roll them in flour and 
saute a light brown. The balls want to be stiff enough 
to hold their shape, if more bread crumbs are needed add 
them. Serve a sauce (see Meat Sauces in Index). 

RECIPE 867. SURPRISE OF BEEF BISCU/TS. 

Make a nice Discuit dough. See recipe. Roll out 
very thin, cut with a good-sized buscuit cutter. Take 
some well seasoned beef which iias been minced, mix a 
little White or Brown Sauce with it, spread on a piece of 
the dough quite thickly, cover with another piece of 
dough, making a sandwich of it, pinch the edges together 
all around, so the sauce cannot escape, bake in oven until 
dough is done. This recipe will make about six Beef 
Biscuits. Serve very hot. 

RECIPE 868. ESCALLOPED MEAT WITH POTATO 
BORDER. 

1 cup No. 1 White 1 teaspoon minced 

Sauce parsley 

1 cup chopped meat 2 cups cold mashed 

potatoes 
Stir meat and parsley into W^hite Sauce, pour it onto 
a plank or a buttered baking platter. Surround meat 
with a border of mashed potatoes, which can be neatly 
scored. Brush top of potato with a little milk or egg to 
make it brown quickly. Put some buttered bread 
crumbs on meat and brown in oven or under broiler in 
gas stove. If you have a left-over egg, it can be well 
beaten into potatoes before they are placed on plank. 
This will make them brown readily. Brown gravy can 
be used instead of White Sauce if preferred. The meat 
can also be decorated with raw, sliced tomatoes covered 
with buttered bread crumbs. 



LEFT-OVERS 227 

RECIPE 869. SOUP MEAT CROQUETTES. 

The meat should be ground fine, seasoned highly 
with a tomato sauce or puree. 

1 cup meat V2 cup No. 3 White 

y2 cup tomato puree Sauce 

Stir meat, tomatoes and White Sauce together, add 
a touch of onion salt, a drop or two of Tabasco sauce. 
Cook a moment until egg has set. Turn out on a plater 
to cool. When quite cool shape into croquettes. Follow 
directions for frying croquettes (see Index). Serve at 
once very hot, with a sauce. 

RECIPE 870. LEFT-OVER MEAT PIE. 

Cut one cup cold meat into good-sized dice, cover 
with one quart soup stock or water, let simmer two or 
three hours until meat is very tender, add more water if 
needed. About half an hour before meat is done, add 
diced raw potatoes and one sliced onion and any left- 
over vegetables, such as peas, turnips, carrots or tomatoes 
can be used. Put in small bay leaf, season well. Have 
the stew very juicy. Thicken with one teaspoon of flour, 
wet with a little water. Make a ricfh pie dough. Line a 
deep baking dish with it, pour in stew, cover with upper 
pie crust. Bake until crust is done. Serve at once, hot. 

RECIPE 871. LEFT-OVER FISH PIE. 

For each cup cold fish allow one cup White Sauce 
No. 1, or Drawn Butter Sauce. Line a deep pan with 
crust, put in fish mixture, cover with upper crust. Bake 
until crust is done. Any left-over vegetables, such as 
cold boiled potatoes, peas, tomatoes, onions and sliced 
hard boiled eggs, one or two pimientoes can be added. 
If fresh potatoes are used slice them thin, cover with 
boiling water, let cook for five minutes then add pota- 
toes to fish mixture. 

RECTPE 872. CUTLETS OF ANY COLD MEAT NO. 1. 

Cut the meat into slices about V4. inch thick. Make 
a No. 3 White Sauce, or a Brown Sauce (see Index), and 
cover each slice with a thick layer of sauce. Dip slice in 
dry sifted bread crumbs, egg and crumb (see Index for 
rules for Deep Fat Frying) and fry in deep fat. Serve 
with any nice sauce. See Index for meat sauces. The 
cutlets may be prepared in advance, even the day before, 
ready for the frying, which will then take but a minute 
when meal is almost ready to serve. 



228 LEFT-OVERS 

RECIPE 873. CUTLETS OF COLD MEAT NO. 2. 

Prepare meat as in Recipe 87 2. Take any left-over 
macaroni or spaghetti (if it had cheese or Creole sauce in. 
it will be all the nicer), chop it fine, season to taste, add 
the yolk of an egg. Take each slice of sauce covered 
meat, and put all over it a layer of the macaroni or 
spaghetti (do not have it less than a quarter to half an 
inch thick). Crumb, egg and crumb (see Index) each 
cutlet, fry in deep fat. Serve at once very hot with any 
nice sauce. See Meat Sauces in Index. 

RECIPE 874. CUTLETS OF COLD MEAT NO. 3. 

Prepare meat as in Recipe 872. Take cold boiled 
rice, add yolk of egg, then cover meat slices all over 
with a thick layer of rice. Crumb, egg and crumb (see 
Index) and fry in deep fat. Serve with any nice saucfe 
for meats. 

RECIPE 875. CUTLETS OF COLD MEAT NO. 4. 

Prepare meat as in Recipe 872. Take cold mashed 
potatoes, beat in yolk of egg, cover meat with thick 
layer of potatoes, crumb, egg and crumb, fry in deep fat. 
Serve at once with nice sauce. 

RECIPE 876. MACARONI WITH CHEESE NO. 1. 

Cover macaroni with plenty of boiling salted water. 
Cook until tender. Drain and cover with cold water for 
five minutes. Drain again. Put alternate layers of maca- 
roni with grated cheese into a deep baking dish — season 
well. Have top layer of cheese. Pour in enough milk to 
show through the macaroni, bake slowly until cheese has 
melted and browned. If too dry add a little more milk. 

RECIPE 877. MACARONI AVITH CHEESE NO. 2. 

P^ollow recipe for boiling macaroni. For each cup 
of macaroni allow one cup No. 2 White Sauce and i/4 
cup ground up cheese. Dissolve cheese in hot White 
sauce as it is cooking. Stir cheese sauce all through 
macaroni. Put in baking dish with crumbs on top. Bake 
until crumbs brown. 

RECIPE 878. SPAGHETTI WITH CHEESE. 

Follow directions for Macaroni With Cheese, substi- 
tuting spaghetti for macaroni. 

RECIPE 879. FOR USING UP LEFT-OVER CAKE. 

See Recipe for Tipsey Pudding. 



LEFT-OVERS 229 

RECIPE 880. FOR USING UP LEFT-OVER FRUITS. 

See recipes for Fruit Meringue Pies; also recipes 
for any of the Tapioca Puddings. 

RECIPE 881. CAKE PUDDING FOR LEFT-OVER 
FRUITS. 

Make a cake batter from Recipe 7 38. Strain juice 
from left-over fruit, place fruit in baking dish, cover 
with cake batter and bake well done. Make a sauce 
with fruit juice using more water and sugar if there is 
not enough juice. Thicken with cornstarch, beat in one 
tablespoon butter, flavor to taste. Serve hot. Especially 
nice for large fruits sliced. 



CHAPTER XIX 
Meat Substitutes, 



Our bodies are living machines driven by the food 
we eat. The value of the necessary food for the body 
can easily be learned. 

In planning any meal, remember that in order to 
provide the needed energy and building material, you 
must include five elements: 

Proteins, for growth and repair of the tissues. 

Everyday foods and the elements they supply. 

For Growth and Repair — Meat, fish, eggs, milk, 
cheese, nuts and (combined with a fat) beans, peas and 
lentils. 

Carbohydrates, to supply heat and muscular energy. 

For Force and Heat — Potatoes, rice, corn, cereals, 
tapioca, sago (all of the foregoing are starchy foods); 
also fats and sugars. 

Vegetables and Fruits, for bulk. 

For Bulk — Vegetables with little or no starch, 
namely: Cabbage, turnip, beets, green beans, celery, 
asparagus, eggplant, artichoke, squash, tomatoes, cucum- 
bers, and all green vegetables. Also fruits. 

Water. 

Mineral matter, for bone structure and life generally. 

Meals should vary according to the needs of the 

family. Persons working out of doors actively need a 



230 MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

different diet from those leading sedentary lives. Young 
and old members of a family also need different diets. 

All foods must be clean, not greasy, therefore more 
easily digested. 

As a nation we need to become educated in the 
ideals of a simpler diet. It is not easy to establish new 
customs of eating, either in the matter of simplicity, or 
in the choice of foodstuffs, but science is coming forward 
to convince us that our health will be better for siich 
reformations. 

If in meal-planning the housekeeper gives careful 
thought to the choice of foods which include these essen- 
tial elements, the difficulties which arise from overeating 
and undereating will be greatly lessened. 

If one is not thoroughly nourished, it may mean 
that his diet contains too much tissue-building and heat- 
producing material, but lacks fat and foods which fur- 
nish bulk and mineral matter. Or, his diet may include 
too much sugar and bulk, while the proteins or tissue- 
building elements are lacking. 

The system calls for variety, but it need not be 
gained by serving many kinds of food at one meal. A 
simple, wholesome ration at each meal; that is, foods 
rich in proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mineral matter, and 
providing bulk, is far more satisfactory from every point 
of view. 

There is close connection between the thorough en- 
joyment of two or three harmonious dishes, simply and 
well prepared and served, and the beneficial results to the 
whole human body. We then appreciate more fully the 
natural flavors of food, because high seasoning is elimi- 
nated. When we chew more carefully, digestion and 
assimilation are more normal. 

Eat meat, if you like it, and can afford it; but give 
beans and peas, cereals and nuts, their rightful place in 
the menu, for they are foods in which nourishment is as 
concentrated as in meat. In some nuts, like peanuts and 
almonds, proteins are present in generous proportion; 
while all nuts, except chestnuts and black walnuts, fur- 
nish abundant fat. So we are in no sense dependent on 
meat to supply the strength^giving elements of our diet. 
By making the same combinations of concentrated vege- 
table and nut foods with starchy and bulky foods as 
when meat is used, we can keep the body in fine con- 
dition. 

BREAI^AST MENU COMBINATIONS. 
Fruits — Apples, prunes, raisins, bananas, oranges, 
grapefruit, etc. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 231 

Cereals — Of any kind. 

Breads — Toast, muffins, gems, biscuits, waffles, hot 
cakes. 

Drinks — Coffee, tea, milk, cocoa, or any of the cereal 
coffee substitutes. 

LUNCHEON COMBINATIONS. 

Cream Soups — Asparagus, tomato, rice, onion, corn, 
potato, etc. 

Meat Substitutes — Nut roasts or cutlets, nut and 
cheese roasts, cereal and nut roasts. 

Vegetables — Green vegetables if the soup is a starch 
combination, or use starchy vegetable if soup is of a 
green vegetable. 

Desserts — Custards, sagos, tapiocas, creams, fruits, 
cake, etc. 

Drinks — Water, tea, milk or cereal coffees, butter- 
milk, chocolate, etc. 

DINNER COMBINATIONS. 

Soup — Cream, vegetable, chowders, etc. 

Meat or Fish or Meat Substitutes. 

Vegetables — One starch, one green. 

Salads — Are especially valuable for bulk, mineral 
salts, olive oil. 

Desserts — For sugars, fats and starches. 

Drinks — Milk, cocoa, tea, coffee and cereal substi- 
tutes. To be avoided in large quantities. Fleshy per- 
sons should never drink with their meals, but between 
meals. 

SOME MEAT SUBSTITUTES. 
RECIPE 882. NUT AND CHEESE ROAST. 

1 cup grated or ground 1 tablespoon butter 

cheese i^ lemon (juice) 

1 cup ground nuts 2 tablespoons minced 

1 cup dry bread crumbs onions 

Season to taste 
Melt butter, add onions, fry till yellow, add Vz cup 
water, let simmer five minutes. Mix all ingredients to- 
gether with Vz cup milk or water. Bake like a beef 
loaf or in a deep square bread pan. Serve with brown 
or tomato sauce, if desired. 

RECIPE 883. RICE, CHEESE, NUT ROAST. 

Substitute boiled rice for bread crumbs in Recipe 
882. 



2 32 MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

RECIPE 884. BEAN, PEAS OR LENTIL AND CHEESE 
NUT ROAST. 

Substitute 1 cup boiled dry beans, peas or lentils, 
substituted for bread crumbs in Recipe 882. 

RECIPE 885. PEAS, LENTILS OR BEAN ROAST 
AVITHOUT NUTS. 

Mash 2 cups cooked peas, lentils or beans, or rub 
them through a sieve. Add half a pound of grated cheese, 
salt and pepper to taste, and fine bread crumbs to make 
the mixture thick enough to be formed into a roll. Lay- 
on a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven, basting 
with butter and water. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

RECIPE 886. MEAT SUBSTITUTE CUTLETS OR 
CROQUETES. 

Use Recipe 882, 883, 884 or 885. For each cup 
add V2 cup No. 2 White Sauce. Stir in well and set 
away to get cold. Then shape into cutlets or croquettes. 
Crumb, egg and crumb (see rules for Deep Fat Frying). 
Serve with any cream, brown or tomato sauce, 

RECIPE 887. PEAS, BEANS OR LENTILS WITH 
TOMATOES. 

Soak one cup peas, beans or lentils overnight; drain 
and cook until soft in plenty of boiling salted water. Boil 
an equal quantity of rice. Put V2 can of tomatoes into a 
sauce pan; add a chopped onion, a bay leaf, a blade of 
mace and one tablespoon of tomato catsup. Simmer 
until it has the consistency of a thick sauce. Drain the 
lentils, peas or beans and mix them with the rice. Press 
the tomato sauce through a sieve; add one tablespoon of 
melted butter, and pour over the cereals. Serve hot. 

RECIPE 888. HOMINY AND NUT ROAST. 

Grind one cup of English walnut meats and one cup 
of roasted peanuts and mix with them one pint of cold 
boiled hominy, half a cup of bread crumhs, three hard- 
cooked eggs chopped fine, one tablespoon of chopped 
parsley, one tablespoon of grated onion, one well-beaten 
egg, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg to taste. Form into 
a loaf, put into a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven for 
thirty minutes; baste with a little butter and water occa- 
sionally. Garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of 
parsley. Serve with brown sauce. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 233 



RECIPE 889. BARLEY ROAST. 

Melt three tablespoons of drippings or butter, stir in 
half a cup of browned flour and one cup of water or 
stock, and boil for three minutes; chop one large onion 
fine, and fry it in one tablespoon of butter; then add it to 
the sauce, with two cups of cold, boiled pearl barley, one 
cup of finely chopped nuts, one cup of dry bread crumbs, 
a quarter of a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, one teaspoon 
of salt and one saltspoon of pepper. Turn into a but- 
tered mould. Bake for one hour and serve with a tomato 
or a caper sauce. 

RECIPE 890. MRS. MILNER'S BANANA AND NUT 
MOULD. 

2 cups ground nuts V2 cup cream or milk 

1 cup bran or dry i/^ teaspoon salt 

bread crumbs i/4 teaspoon pepper 
1 cup mashed banana 

Mix all together and pack in buttered mould and 
steam three hours. Serve with lemon or tomato sauce. 
Can be cooked in tireless cooker. 



RECIPE 891. MRS. IVflLNER'S BEAN AND BANANA 
ROAST. 

1 cup cooked peas, 1 banana mashed 

beans or lentils V2 cup sour cream or 
1 cup strained tomatoes milk 

1 cup grapenuts or l^ teaspoon salt 

cooked whole wheat 14 teaspoon pepper 

Mix all together, if too dry add a little more milk. 
Shape into a loaf and bake one hour. Serve with cream 
of tomato sauce, or brown or creole sauce. 

RECIPE 892. NUT CUTLETS OR CROQUETTES. 

1 cup No. 3 White 1 minced onion 

Sauce 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup ground nuts i/4 teaspoon savory 

1 cup dry bread crumbs 

Pinch of mace or nutmeg 

Put butter into frying pan, cook onions till yellow 
and tender. Stir all the ingredients together and set 
away to get cool. Then shape into cutlets or croquettes, 
crumb, egg and crumb (see Index) and fry in deep fat, 
Serve with a sauce. 



234 MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

RECIPE 893. VEGETABLE HASH. 

^2 cup chopped cooked i/4 cup chopped cooked 





cabbage 


turnips 


V2 


cup chopped cooked 


14 cup chopped cooked 




beets 


carrots 


V2 


cup chopped cold 


1 teaspoon chopped 




potatoes 


parsley 


1/4 


teaspoon pepper 


1 teaspoon mined onion 


% 


teaspoon paprika 


1/4 cup milk 




Salt to taste 



Put two tablespoons butter or drippings in a fry- 
ing pan, when hot, put in the vegetable last (well mixed), 
spread down evenly, cover, cook slowly thirty minutes. 
Fold over, serve hot. 

RECIPE 894. NOODLES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put two cups of dried noodles into plenty of boiling 
salted water and boil rapidly for twenty minutes; drain 
and put into a saucepan with two tablespoons of melted 
butter, one cup of tomato sauce, one tablespoon of chut- 
ney, salt and paprika to taste, and three tablespoons of 
cream. Turn into a hot dish and sprinkle over with 
grated cheese. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 895. RICE CROQUETTES OR CUTLETS WITH 
CHEESE SAUCE. 

1 cup boiled rice V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup No. 3 White i/4 teaspoon paprika 

Sauce V4. teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped 
pimientos 
Stir all together and let get cool. Then shape into 
cutlets or croquettes, crumb, egg and crumb (see Index) 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with a cheese sauce, as fol- 
lows: Add V2 cup ground or grated cheese to 1 cup of 
No. 1 White sauce. 

RECIPE 895B. ITALIAN MEAT SUBSTITUTE. 

Soak two cups of dried peas and one cup of rice over 
night. Cut two small onions and about one tablespoon 
butter or olive oil in, add to the peas and rice, season 
with salt and pepper, then cover the whole with water. 
Cover the dish and stew in the oven for two hours or 
more, now and then stirring it. Add more water if too 
dry. About half an hour before serving, put in some 
chopped parsley. This is an excellent addition to cold 
meat, or can be used in place of meat. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 235 

RECIPE 895C. NUT AND CHEESE ROAST. 

1 cup grated cheese 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup ground English juice one-half lemon 

walnuts salt, pepper and pap- 

1 cup bread crumbs rika to taste 

2 tablespoons minced onions 
Melt the butter, add onion, let simmer until onion 
turns yellow, having one-half cupful water in the pan 
with the onion after the first five minutes. Let cook 
until tender. Add the other ingredients. If too dry add 
a little more water. Pour mixture into a shallow bak- 
ing pan and cook until brown. 



CHAPTER XX 

Jellies, Jams, Canned Fruits, Preserves 
and Pickles. 



A FEW RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL PRESERVING 
AND PICKLING. 

Never use old rubbers. 

Sterilize jars and glasses by putting them on in cold 
water in a deep kettle and bring them to boiling point for 
five minutes. Put a heavy cloth in bottom of kettle, or 
wire stand, so that glass does not touch bottom of kettle. 
Drain for a moment upside down, then fill while hot. 

Do not have over-ripe fruit, the fresher the fruit 
the better results. 

Glass jars must be filled to overflowing to keep out 
all air. 

If the last jar lacks a little fruit to make it full, add 
boiling water until jar overflows. 

Granite kettles are preferable — never use tin. 

Parafine wax is preferable for covering jellies, but 
when not available cut circular papers size of jelly glass 
(inside), dip them in brandy or white of egg, lay on 
jelly after it has set, cover glass with tin lid and paste 
a larger circle of paper over top and down over the glass, 
about an inch below tin lid. 

Fruit jars should be allowed to get cool after filling 
and settling, then dipped in parafine wax far enough 
down to thoroughly cover the rubber. This is easily 
done by having a deep kettle of melted wax, reverse the 
jar, upside down, and dip in wax once or twice until 



23 6 JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 

crevice around lid is well filled with wax. Fruit so 
treated keeps indefinitely. 

Some cooks heat the sugar in a pan in oven before 
adding it to fruit juices. 

RECIPE 896. CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash and pick currants, removing any that are too 
ripe. Do not remove from stems. Put into agate kettle, 
cover with enough cold water to just show through fruit. 
Boil until fruit looks bleached. Crush fruit a little as 
it cooks. Pour fruit into flannel jelly bag to drain. 
Then put juice back into kettle and boil twenty minutes. 
Remove from fire, measure it, allowing one cup sugar for 
each cup juice. Stir sugar thoroughly into juice and 
boil until it "jells" from end of the spoon. Pour into 
freshly sterilized hot jelly glasses and let stand over 
night until it has set. Then cover with parafine wax or 
paper (see Rules at beginning of chapter). 

RECIPE 897 — CURRANT AND RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Use equal parts of currants and raspberries and fol- 
low recipe for Currant Jelly. 

RECIPE 898. APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and cut stems from sour apples, quarter ap- 
ples and put into granite kettle with just enough cold 
water to show through fruit. Boil until apples are tender 
enough to mash; strain off juice, first through a col- 
lander and then through a flannel jelly bag. Do not 
squeeze bag hard enough to get the pulp through or 
jelly will not be clear. Put juice back into kettle, let 
it boil for fifteen minutes, then measure it and allow 
one cup sugar to each cup juice. Stir sugar in thor- 
oughly and simmer until juice "jells" from the spoon. 
Pour into sterilized glasses. (See Rules, beginning of 
this chapter.) 

RECIPE 899. CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash apples, cut in half, follow directions for mak- 
ing Apple Jelly, 

RECIPE 900. APPLE AND QUINCE JELLY. 

Use sour apples and skins of quinces (reserve quince 
for preserves). Make like Apple Jelly. 

RECIPE 901. BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Follow recipe for Currant Jelly, substituting black- 
berries for currants. 



JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 237 

RE<:?IPE 902. GRAPE JELLY. 

Follow recipe for Currant Jelly, substituting grapes 
for currants, but remove grapes from stems. Fruit that 
is not too ripe is best. A few quince seeds adds firmness 
to jelly. 

RECIPE 903. WILD PLUM JELLY. 

Make like Currant Jelly; after straining save pulp 
to make Plum Jam (see Index). 

RECIPE 904. DAMSON PLUM JELLY. 

Wash plums, prick them several times, then follow 
recipe for Currant Jelly, but only allow three-fourths 
cup of sugar for each cup juice. 

RECIPE 905. WILD GRAPE JELLY. 

4 quarts wild grapes 3 sticks of cinnamon 

1 quart vinegar 3 tablespoons cloves 

12 cups sugar whole 

Boil grapes, vinegar and spices until grapes are 
tender; strain; boil twenty minutes, add sugar, boil until 
it "jells" from spoon. 

RECIPE 906. >aNT JELLY FOR ROAST LAMB. 

14 cup vinegar i^ teaspoon salt 

1^ cup sugar i/^ tablespoon gelatine 

V2 cup chopped mint 
Cover gelatine with one tablespoon cold water. Boil 
mint, vinegar, sugar and salt for five minutes, add the 
soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain through a 
cloth and if a beautiful green color is desired use a few 
drops of any good green fruit coloring. Pour into a 
jelly glass. Set away to get cold. Will keep several 
days. 

RECIPE 907. APPLE MINT JELLY. 

When making apple jelly reserve some of the juice 
and to each pint juice add % cup chopped mint, boil 
five minutes, strain out mint and then proceed in regular 
way with apple jelly. Nice with cold meats. 

LEMON JELLY CUBES FOR SALAD (see Recipe 534). 

TOMATO JELLY FOR SALAD (see Recipes 479-480). 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNED FRUITS. 

Small fruits should be carefully picked over and then 
boiled in syrup. Hard-fibred fruits like pineapple and 
quinces should be pared and sliced, then boiled in water 



238 JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 

until almost done before cooking them in syrup. For 
canning, first weigh fruit, then allow one-third its weight 
in sugar. For each cup sugar allow one-third cup water. 
Boil sugar and water ten minutes, then add part of 
fruit, cook until tender but not broken, fill jars with 
fruit, cover with syrup. Seal at once. Repeat until all 
the fruit is cooked. 

RECIPE 908. CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare peaches, cut in thin slices or in halves, boil in 
syrup (see General Directions for Canning) until clear 
and tender. A few peach kernels boiled with syrup is 
nice. 

RECIPE 909. CANNED PEARS. 

Pare, cut in halves or quarters, boil in water until 
almost done, then finish boiling in syrup (see General 
Directions for Canning). 

RECIPE 910. CANNED QUINCES. 

Follow directions for Canning Pears, substituting 
quinces for pears. Nice to use half apples and half 
quinces. 

RECIPE 911. CANNED PINEAPPLE. 

Follow directions for Canning Pears, substituting 
sliced pineapple for pears. 

RECIPE 912. CANNED CHERRIES. 

Cherries may be stoned or not as desired. Follow 
general directions for canning small fruits. 

RECIPE 913. CANNED RASPBERRIES OR BLACK- 
BERRIES. 

Follow general directions for canning, cooking a 
small quantity at a time and being careful not to break 
fruit. 

RECIPE 914. CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Wash and hull berries, cook carefully in syrup. (See 
General Directions for Canning.) 

RECIPE 915. CANNED PLUMS OR APRICOTS. 

See directions for Canned Peaches. 

CANNED VEGETABLES. 

RECIPE 916. CANNED CORN. 

Take tender young ears, cut kernels lengthwise with 
sharp knife, scrape pulp from the cob. Sterilize glass 



JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 239 

jars, pack corn as tightly as possible into jars, pressing 
it down with handle of potato masher. Fill jars full, use 
fresh rubbers and screw on top. When jars are all full 
lay some hay or a thick cloth in bottom of clothes boiler, 
lay jars on their sides or let them stand up, as you 
choose. Cover jars with another cloth, place another 
layer of jars in boiler and cover them all with cold water. 
Bring to the boil and boil steadily for three hours. Do 
not let it fall below boiling point during that time. After 
three hours remove boiler from stove, let jars remain in 
boiler until water is cold. Then wipe them, wrap each 
jar in brown paper to exclude the light and put away in 
a cool, dark place. 

RECIPE 917. CANNED PEAS. 

Fill sterilized jars full of shelled peas. Shake down 
well to have as full as possible. Fill jars full of cold 
water, put on new rubbers and have lids sterilized. 
Cover and proceed as for boiling Canned Corn. 

RECIPE 918. CANNED BEANS. 

Fill jars with beans, follow process for Canned Peas. 

JAMS AND PRESERVES. 

For small family use jelly glasses for putting away 
jams and preserves, then there is not an open jar of 
fruit on hand until one is tired of that variety. 

RECIPE 919. SPICED CHERRIES. 

Add spices to taste to cherry preserves just before 
pouring into jelly glasses, about two teaspoons mixed 
spices for each quart of preserves. Delicious with game 
and poultry. 

RECIPE 920. PLUM JAM. 

After gently pressing out the juice from plums and 
using that juice to make jelly, take remaining pulp, add 
one-half cup water for each pint of pulp, let simmer five 
minutes, measure it, allowing one cup sugar for each 
cup fruit. Cook until thick, pour into jelly glasses, let 
cool, cover (see Directions for Covering Jellies). 

RECIPE 921. SPICED PLUM JAM. 

Follow directions for making Spiced Cherries. De- 
licious with poultry, game and lamb. 

RECIPE 922. BLACKBERRY, RASPBERRY OR 
CURRANT JAM. 

Mash fruit, measure one cup sugar for each cup 
fruit, stir sugar into fruit until well mixed. Simmer 



240 JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 

slowly, stirring often to keep from burning. When fruit 
has a glossy, varnished look, it is done. Pour into jelly 
glasses, let stand till cold, then cover as in making jelly. 

RECIPE 923. CHERRY PRESERVES. 

Stem and stone cherries, add a very little water, let 
simmer five minutes, then measure one cup sugar for each 
cup fruit. Cook until tender; fruit has a varnished look. 
Put into jelly glasses, let cool, follow directions for cov- 
ering jellies. 

RECIPE 924. YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Select small yellow egg-shaped tomatoes, prick them 
well, add just enough water to show through fruit, boil 
untl clear and tender, measure fruit, allowing one cup 
sugar for each cup fruit, boil until thick, cover carefully 
and keep in a dark, cool place. If great care is not 
taken they will not keep. A few whole cloves, boiled 
with preserves, adds to flavor; also a little Canton ginger 
is nice, cut into thin strips and cooked with tomatoes. 

RECIPE 925. MELON PRESERVES. 

Use rinds of ripe melons. Pare and cut in thin strips 
and cover with alum water (two teaspoons powdered 
alum for each quart water). Let come slowly to boil, 
simmer ten minutes, then drain and cover with cold water 
for two hours. Drain again, wipe each piece dry. Wei^h 
fruit, make a syrup of equal parts sugar and water arid 
for each cup fruit allow one cup syrup. Let syrup cook 
ten minutes, then add melon rinds and cook until tender. 
A few strips of Canton ginger is nice with these preserves, 
or a few whole cloves. Pour into jelly glasses and let 
cool. (See directions for Covering Jellies, beginning of 
chapter.) 

RECIPE 926. ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Choose smooth-skinned sour oranges, weigh them 
and allow three-fourths pound sugar for each pound 
oranges. Slice in very thin slices across oranges, remove 
seeds and pithy center, put in bowl and cover with two 
quarts water (or just enough to show through fruit), 
let stand thirty-six hours, then boil for two hours, then 
add sugar and boil until thick (about one hour). 

RECIPE 927. ENGLISH RECIPE FOR ORANGE 
MARMALADE. 

Take twelve large oranges and cut them in half. 
Remove the seeds and put them in a bowl. Cover with 
one pint of boiling water and let them stand overnight. 
Squeeze the orange juice into a bowl with as much of the 



JELLIES, JAMS, CANNED FRUITS, ETC. 241 

pith as will come away. Slice the peel into thin slices. 
Use all of the pulp as well as the peel. To every pound 
of fruit allow three pints of water, and let it stand over- 
night. Next day add the strained water from the seeds 
and boil until the peel is soft. Then weigh again and 
add one-half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Boil again forty minutes, pour into jars and cover. 

RECIPE 928. ORANGE AND LEMON MARMALADE. 

Follow directions for Orange Marmalade, allowing 
one-third of sliced lemons. 

RECIPE 929. ORANGE AND RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Follow directions for Orange Marmalade, allowing 
one-half orange and one-half rhubarb. Pare rhubarb 
and cut in one-inch pieces. 

RECIPE 930. GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE. 

Follow directions for Orange Marmalade, substitut- 
ing grapefruit. 

RECIPE 931. QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Pare quinces, cut in thin slices, boil in a little water 
until tender enough to mash, press through a fine sieve, 
measure. Follow directions for Orange Marmalade. 

RECIPE 932. SPICED RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Wash and wipe skin, if necessary, of five pounds 
rhubarb; cut in half-inch pieces. Put into a preserving 
kettle with four pounds sugar. Add one and three- 
fourth cups vinegar, two teaspoons cinnamon and one 
teaspoon cloves and two small pieces green ginger root. 
Heat to a boiling point; then simmer until of the consist- 
ency of marmalade. Store in jelly glasses. Cover with 
parafine and seal. 

RECIPE 933. HOME-MADE ROOT BEER. 

Dissolve five cakes of dry yeast and three tablespoons 
of sugar in one pint of luke-warm water. Keep in a 
warm place for twelve hours, then stir well and strain 
through cheese-cloth, discarding the meal left in the 
cloth. Add the contents of a bottle of root beer extract, 
four pounds of sugar and five gallons of luke-warm 
water. Mix thoroughly and bottle. Tie or fasten corks 
very securely. Keep in a warm place for forty-eight 
hours, then cool and it is ready to use. Store the bottles 
in a cool place. 



242 PICKLES 

Pickles, 



RECIPE 934. SMALL GHERKIN CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

2 cups salt 4 quarts small cucumbers 

4 quarts boiling water 
Dissolve salt in boiling water, wipe cucumbers clean, 
place in stone jar, cover with brine and let stand three 
days. Pour off brine, bring it again to boiling point, 
pour over cucumbers and again let them stand three days. 
Then repeat this the third time. On the ninth day pour 
off brine, wipe cucumbers dry and pour over them four 
quarts boiling water in which has been dissolved three 
level teaspoons powdered alum. Let stand in this six 
hours; drain. 

RECIPE 935. VINEGAR MIXTURE FOR PICKLES. 

4 quarts vinegar 2 tablespoons pepper- 

3 sticks cinnamon corns 

1 horseradish root 2 tablespoons whole 

cloves 
Boil this ten minutes, then pour it over cucumbers 
in a granite kettle and simmer them ten minutes, then 
place pickles in glass jars, cover with the spiced vinegar 
and tightly seal. 

RECIPE 936. PICKLED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Select firm, large peppers, make a slit in side, re- 
move seeds and cover peppers for twenty-four hours in a 
strong brine. Remove them into cold, clear water, let soak 
a day, then drain and cover them with hot vinegar in 
which has been dissolved one teaspoon alum for each 
quart of vinegar. Let them lay in this vinegar three 
days, then drain and fill with a stuffing as follows: 

RECIPE 937. PICKLED PEPPER STUFFING. 

Chopped cabbage and celery in equal parts, and if 
desired, an onion chopped, salt to taste and an ounce or 
two of mustard seed. Stuff peppers, sew or tie them up, 
place in glass jars and cover with boiling hot spiced vine- 
gar; seal. A small piece of horseradish root added to 
each jar is nice. 

RECIPE 938. SOUR GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

4 quarts green tomatoes 1 head cabbage 
6 large onions % pint salt 

Slice, sprinkle with salt and drain all night. In 
morning drain well, cover with cold water for a few 
minutes, then drain again and add one quart water and 



PICKLES 243 

one quart vinegar. Boil twenty minutes and drain then 
add: 

1 tablespoon black 1 tablespoon ground 

pepper cloves 

1 tablespoon allspice 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

2 quarts vinegar 
Boil until tender, bottle while hot. Mustard seed 
about one tablespoon for each quart of pickles, is nice' 
added just before bottling. 

RECIPE 939. SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

2 quarts green tomatoes 1 cup salt 

1 quart onions 
Slice, then cover with salt, let stand over night in 
brine. In morning drain well, and cover with cold water 
for five minutes. Drain again and add vinegar to cover 
two pounds brown sugar, one-fourth pound mustard seed' 
one tablespoon allspice, whole cloves and a few pieces 
stick cinnamon. Let cook until tomatoes and onions are 
tender. Bottle hot, or can be put away in jelly glasses 
like preserves. 

RECIPE 940. PICKLED PEACHES. 

Pare clingstone or freestone peaches and put them 
into stone jar and pour over them a syrup made by boil- 
ing together vinegar, sugar, cloves and cinnamon. For 
each pint vinegar one pound sugar, one teaspoon whole 
cloves. Allow enough vinegar to cover peaches, cover 
the jar. Each morning for nine mornings, pour off the 
syrup and scald it, then pour again over peaches. On 
ninth morning the peaches will be a delicate brown 
Place them in glass jars, pour scalding syrup over them 
seal tightly and put in a dark, cool place. One or two 
small sticks of cinnamon may be placed in each jar. 

RECIPE 941. PICCALILI. 

4 quarts chopped green 6 large onions, chopped 

tomatoes 1 cup salt 

Soaked together over night. In morning drain off 
and cover with one quart vinegar and two quarts water 
Boil twenty minutes, drain well in a sieve, then nut 
pickles back into kettle and add: 

1 pound brown sugar 2 tablespoons ground 
V2 pound mustard seed ginger 

2 tablespoons ground 2 quarts vinegar 

pepper 1 tablespoon ground 

2 tablespoons ground cloves 

cinnamon 1 tablespoon allspice 

V2 teaspoon red pepper 



244 PICKLES 

Boil together twenty minutes, stir frequently. Put 
pickles into glass jar, pour hot vinegar over them, seal 
tightly. 

RECIPE 942. TOMATO CATSUP. 

4 quarts tomato pulp l^ cup salt 

2 onions minced fine Vz cup brown sugar 

Boil together until thick, then strain through a 
sieve, working all the pulp through to extract seeds. 
Then add: 

4 tablespoons mus- 1 quart vinegar 

tard 2 tablespoons allspice 

2 tablespoons black 2 tablespoons nutmeg 

pepper 1 tablespoon ground 

2 tablespoons cinna-- cloves 

mon 1 teaspoon red pepper 

Boil until thick, stirring often to keep from burning. 
Seal while hot. 

RECIPE 943. TOMATO CHILiI SAUCE. 

18 large ripe tomatoes 6 large onions 

3 red peppers 2 tablespoons salt 

1 tablespoon each of 1 pound brown sugar 

cinnamon, cloves 1 quart vinegar 

and allspice 
Chop vegetables fine, add spices, sugar and vinegar. 
Let simmer until vegetables are tender and sauce is thick. 
Bottle and seal hot. 

RECIPE 944. PICKLED ONIONS. 

Select small button onions. Peel them and cook in 
slightly salted boiling water until tender. Remove from 
water, put into sterilized jars and cover them with boil- 
ing hot spiced vinegar. Seal tightly. Keep in a dark, 
cool place. 

RECIPE 945. PEACH MARMALADE. 

Weigh peaches, and allow three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to each pound and a quarter of fruit. Put the 
fruit over the fire with a little of its own liquor, , and 
boil, stirring often, until very soft. Take from the fire, 
chop the fruit, return it to the kettle with the sugar, and 
boil for fifteen minutes, add the juice of a lemon, cook 
for two minutes, and turn into glasses. 

RECIPE 946. PICKLED PEACHES. 

Pare peaches and weigh them. To three pounds of 
fruit, allow a generous pound of sugar, a cup of vinegar, 



PICKLES 245 

and a heaping teaspoon, each, of ground mace, cloves 
and cinnamon. Put spices into a thin muslin bag. Put 
fruit and sugar in alternate layers in a preserving kettle 
and bring slowly to a boil. Put bag of spices into the 
vinegar and pour this upon peaches. Bring again to the 
boil, take out fruit and put into jars while the syrup 
and vinegar cook hard for fifteen minutes, or until thick. 
Put hot syrup over peaches in glass jars and seal. 

RECIPE 947. PICKLED PEARS. 

Select small pears for this purpose. Pare and weigh 
and allow a half-pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Put into a kettle with the sugar, moisten with a gill of 
water and proceed as with pickled peaches. 

RECIFE 948. PICKLED PLUMS. 

Weigh the plums, and allow a half-pound of sugar 
to every pound of fruit. For each pound of plums meas- 
ure a gill of vinegar, and a saltspoon, each, of ground 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, putting these into a bag. 
Put vinegar, with the spice bag in it, into preserving ket- 
tle with sugar, and, as soon as the boil is reached, lay in 
the plums. Bring to the boil again, take out fruit, put 
into jars and boil the syrup until thick, then pour over 
plums in jars with the hot syrup and seal. 

RECIPE 949. TOMATO PICKLES. 

Skin whole tomatoes. Cut into thick slices. Put 
into preserving kettle a quart of vinegar, three and one- 
half pounds of sugar, a half-ounce, each, of cinnamon 
and mace, and one ounce of cloves. Bring to boil, lay 
tomatoes in this syrup and cook for five minutes, remove, 
put into wide-mouthed jars, and boil the syrup for an 
hour, or until very thick. Pill jars with the spiced syrup 
and seal. 

RECIPE 950. PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Wash cherries and measure them. For every quart 
of fruit put into the preserving kettle a half-pint of vine- 
gar and a heaping tablespoon of sugar, adding, when this 
boils, a dozen cloves and six blades of mace, broken into 
bits. Boil for five minutes, drop the cherries into the 
liquid and take from fire. Leave for twenty-four hours, 
drain out the cherries, put these into jars and boil up 
the vinegar again. Strain out the spices and allow the 
vinegar to get cold before filling the cherry jars with it. 
Seal and keep in a dark place. 



246 PICKLES 

RECIPE 951. SPICED PEAR PRESERVES. 

Pare the pears, cut into long slices and weigh. For 
four pounds of fruit allow three pounds of granulated 
sugar, a quarter-pound of ginger root, sliced very thin, 
six whole cloves, and the juice of two large lemons. Put 
into the kettle a gill of water, the ginger root and cloves, 
the sugar and the peel of a lemon, cut into thin strips. 
As soon as the sugar is melted, lay in the pears, sim- 
mer for ten minutes, take out and put into jars, boil 
up the syrup, and, when thick, pour it over the pears, 
filling the jars to the brim. Seal at once. 

RECIPE 952. BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Pare the peaches, weigh these and allow for every 
pound of fruit one and one-half pounds of granulated 
sugar. Put the liquor from the peaches and the sugar 
over the fire together; when melted, lay in the peaches, 
and when the boil is reached, take from the syrup and 
put into glass jars. Boil the syrup for twenty minutes 
more, and add for every four pounds of fruit a pint of 
brandy. Stir this into the syrup just before taking from 
the fire, pour into the jars of peaches, letting it flow in 
over all, and fill the jars to the brim. Seal and keep in 
a dark place. Do not use for six weeks. 

RECIPE 953. GOOSEBERRY CHUTNEY. 

Pick over gooseberries and measure. To a quart of 
the berries allow two ounces of mustard seed, two ounces 
of ground ginger, two and one-half ounces of brown 
sugar, ten ounces of seeded raisins, three ounces of salt, 
three ounces of garlic, and a quart of vinegar. Chop 
the garlic, raisins and gooseberries together, putting 
them through a fine meat grinder to convert them to a 
paste. Add all the other ingredients and boil for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add enough tumeric to make a 
good color, turn into jars and seal. 

COPIED FROM AN EXCHANGE. 

RECIPE 953B. CANNED FRUIT COOKED IN THE 
OVEN. 

Grandmother says that cooking canned fruit in the 
oven is the miethod to be preferred. The work is easily 
and quickly done and the fruit retains its shape, color 
and flavor better than when cooked in the preserving 
kettle. 

''Cover the bottom of the oven with asbestos, the 
kind plumbers use for covering pipes, as that is cheaper 
than the ordinary kind. However, if asbestos is not 



PICKLES 247 

available, there should be placed in the oven shallow 
pans containing about two inches of boiling water. 

"A'II the jars and utensils should be sterilized by- 
placing in boiling water. Make the syrup, prepare the 
fruit the same as for cooking in the preserving kettle. 
Fill the hot jars with it, and pour in enough to fill them 
solidly. Run the blade of a silver plated knife around 
the inside of the jar. Then place them in the oven, either 
on the asbestos or in the pans of water. The oven should 
be moderately hot. Cook the fruit for ten minutes; re- 
move from the oven and fill the jars with the boiling 
syrup after which they should be wiped and sealed. Do 
not let the jars get drafts of air as they are likely to 
crack. If the screw covers are used, tighten them after 
the glass has cooled. 

"The large fruits, such as peaches, pears, crab 
apples, quinces, etc., will require about a pint of syrup 
to a quart jar, while the smaller fruits will require a 
little over a pint of syrup. 

"The amount of sugar to each quart of syrup should 
be regulated to suit the fruit to which it is to be used. 

"In the case of most fruits, canning with a little 
sugar is to be preferred to preserving with a large quan- 
tity. There are, however, some fruits that are only good 
when preserved with a great deal of sugar. Of course, 
such preparations of fruit are only desirable for occas- 
ional use to be used as preserves. The fruits best adapted 
for preserving are sour cherries, quinces, sour plums and 
strawberries. These are best cooked on top of the stove." 



CHAPTER XXI 
Candies and Confections. 



RECIPE 954. FONDANT. 

Fondant is the base of many kinds of cream candies. 
It takes a little experience to learn to make it, but the 
knowledge once acquired is well worth having. It is made 
as follows: 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup hot water 
Vs teaspoon cream of tartar 
Place on a very slow fire and stir thoroughly until 
sugar is dissolved. If there are any grains of sugar on 
sides of the pan remove them gently with a clean damp 
cloth before sugar begins to boil. As soon as it strikes 
the boiling point let it cook quickly without stirring. 



248 CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 

until a little of it dropped from the spoon will form a 
soft ball in cold water. Remove it at once from the fire 
and set it away in the dish it cooked in to cool. Do not 
set dish in cold water but let it cool slowly. When cool 
(not cold) stir until it becomes a creamy mass. When 
you cannot stir it any more, because too hard, take it out 
and put on a marble slab or a board and knead thor- 
oughly. The more you knead it the finer grained it will 
be. Set away in a bowl to stand for at least twenty-four 
hours and it will be all the better if it stands two or 
three days. It will keep a week. Keep covered with a 
damp cloth. If it should become grainy in cooking add 
a little more hot water and let it cook again. Fondant 
can be colored as desired by use of the fruit colorings 
which all reliable grocers now have on sale. A few drops 
is all that will be required. Flavoring may be added as 
desired. 

When ready to use it can be divided into different 
parts, each part having a different color or flavoring. 
Shape into balls and let stand until the next day. For 
chocolate creams melt some bitter chocolate in a 
double boiler. Use a long wire hatpin to dip the balls 
under the chocolate. Set them on buttered paper to dry. 
For English walnut creams, shape the fondants in rather 
flat pieces and place a half walnut on either side. 

RECIPE 955. AFTER DINNER MINTS. 

Put some of the fondant into a double boiler, let 
it melt, add a few drops of any flavoring desired, oil of 
cloves, cinnamon or wintergreen. Be careful not to use 
too much. The fruit coloring may be added to match 
any color scheme for the dinner or luncheon. When 
essence and coloring is in the fondant let the mixture 
drop from end of the spoon onto buttered paper. 

RECIPE 956. NUT CREAMS. 

Melt some of fondant in a double boiler, use a wire 
hatpin or skewer, dip nut under the melted fondant, set 
it on buttered paper to dry. Brazil nuts, almonds, pecans, 
English walnuts, filberts — all may be treated in this way. 

RECIPE 957. FRENCH BONBONS. 

Take part of fondant mixture and work into small 
balls and set away until next day to dry. When ready to 
finish them melt some of the fondant (which you reserved 
in bulk form) in a double boiler. Use a wire skewer or 
hatpin, take each ball, dip into melted fondant and set 
on buttered paper to dry. 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 249 

RECIPE 958. BLACK WALNUT PANOUCHI. 

4 cups light brown 1 cup chopped walnut 

sugar meats 

V2 cup milk (or cream) 
Boil sugar and cream together for five minutes after 
it strikes the boiling point. Add walnut meats, boil 
three minutes, remove from fire and beat until it begins 
to cream. Pour on buttered pans. 

RECIPE 959. TURKISH DELIGHT. 

Soak one ounce sheet gelatine in one-half cup cold 
water for two and a half hours, with a pinch of salt. 
For the syrup: 
2 cups sugar Vs cup orange juice 

V2 cup cold water 3 tablespoons lemon 

Grated rind 1 orange juice 

Bring sugar, water and grated rind of orange to the 
boiling point, then add the soaked gelatine, stir well and 
let simmer for twenty minutes. Then add orange and 
lemon juice. Strain into pans that have been rinsed with 
cold water. Pour mixture in to the depth of about an 
inch. When cold cut into cubes and roll in powdered 
sugar. This makes one panful in an eight-inch cake pan. 

RECIPE 960. MINT DELIGHT. 

2 tablespoons lemon 4 drops oil peppermint 

juice Few drops green fruit 

4 tablespoons thick coloring 

sugar syrup Pinch salt 

Add the above to the recipe for Turkish Delight. 

RECIPE 961. BOLOGNA CANDY. 

1 cake sweet chocolate 1 cup chopped walnuts 

White 1 egg 
Put chocolate to melt in a double boiler. Beat 
white of egg to a stiff froth, add to it the melted choco- 
late, stir well and add the one-half cup chopped walnuts. 
Mould into a long shape like a bologna sausage. Slice it 
off in pieces. 

RECIPE 962. UNCOOKED CREAM CANDY. 

Put white of an unbeaten egg into a wineglass or 
small dish. Take an equal amount of sweet cream. Mix 
them well together, then slowly add enough confection- 
er's sugar to make a paste to handle easily. Take a small 
amount of the paste, about a teaspoon, and shape it as 
desired. It can be made into a flat shape about the size 
of a quarter and one-half a walnut on either side. 



250 CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 

Another way to use it is to blanclie some almonds, and 
surround each almond with some of the candy paste. 
Take a liberal amount, add to it some chopped nuts. 
Maraschino cherries, pineapple, citron cut in very thin 
slices. Work this all together into a round roll, then 
cut across in slices. 

Dates stoned and stuffed with this paste are de- 
licious. Strips of figs may be surrounded by the paste, or 
a round ball of paste made and a piece of fig placed on 
either side. If flavoring is desired add it to the egg and 
cream before adding the sugar. The paste dries quickly 
and it must be worked up rapidly.- If different colors are 
desired add a few drops of fruit coloring to the cream 
before adding the sugar. 

RECIPE 963. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup grated bitter 

1 cup molasses chocolate 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 level tablespoons butter 
Boil all together until it hardens when dropped from 
the tip of spoon in cold water. Pour into well-buttered 
pans. Let harden. Cut in squares. 

RECIPE 964. CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

2 cups sugar 1 level tablespoon butter 

1 cup sweet milk i/4 pound bitter chocolate 

(or cream) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Stir constantly from time it begins to boil. As soon 
as it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water re- 
move from fire and beat until it grains, then pour it onto 
buttered pans and mark off into squares. 

RECIPE 965. PEANUT FUDGE. 

2 cups granulated 2 teaspoons peanut 

sugar butter 

V2 cup milk 
Let boil five minutes, then remove from fire and 
when cold stir until it is thick. Pour on buttered plates 
and mark off into squares. 

RECIPE 966. DIVINITY FUDGE NO. 1. 

2 cups granulated i/^ cup boiling water 

sugar Whites 2 eggs 

y2 cup Karo syrup 1 cup nuts 

Boil first three ingredients together until the syrup 
forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Beat 
eggs to a stiff froth, pour half syrup over eggs, beat well. 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 251 

Put other half of syrup back on fire and let it cook until 
it forms a hard ball in cold water. Then pour this syrup 
over the eggs and beat until cold. Add the chopped nuts 
when fudge is about half cold. 

RECIPE 967. DIVINITY FUDGE NO. 2. 

5 cups sugar Whites 3 eggs 

Water to moisten 1 cup chopped nuts 

iy2 cups glucose 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put sugar with just enough water to moisten on the 
gas stove, add one and one-half cups glucose, let it boil. 
Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add to them one 
tablespoon glucose. As soon as syrup boils dip out three 
tablespoons and pour over the whites of eggs and stir 
well. Let syrup continue to boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into water, then pour it over the 
whites of eggs and beat until it thickens. Add nuts and 
vanilla. Pour onto buttered plates and mark into 
squares. 

RECIPE 968. CHOCOLATE DIVINITY FUDGE. 

If Chocolate Divinity is desired, melt enough bitter 
chocolate to make two tablespoons. Add this to the 
boiling syrup, making the recipe for either No. 1 or No. 
2 Divinity. 

RECIPE 969. MAPI/E FUDGE. 

2 cups maple sugar % cup milk (or cream) 

1/4 cup boiling water 1 level tablespoon butter 

Melt sugar with boiling water, add cream. Boil 

until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 

Keep it stirring constantly. When creamy, pour onto 

well buttered pans. Mark into squares. 

RECIPE 970. MAPLE NUT FUDGE. 

Any desired nuts may be added to the fudge when 
beating it to a cream. Use about a cup. 

RECIPE 971. MOLASSES TAFFY. 

4 cups New Orleans 2 tablespoons vinegar 

molasses 6 level tablespoons 

IV2 cups sugar butter 

Stir melted butter, molasses and sugar well together 
before putting on the fire. Let simmer until it is brittle 
when dropped from the end of the spoon into cold water. 
Watch carefully that it does not scorch. It will need 
constant stirring at the last. Just before removing from 
fire add the vinegar. Pour onto buttered pans, let it 



252 CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 

cool just long enough to handle well, then pull it until 
light colored. Can be cut into small pieces with the 
scissors or a knife. 

RECIPE 972. MARSHALLOWS. 

Soak one-half package granulated gelatine in two- 
thirds of a cup of cold water. Add pinch salt. Syrup: 
2 cups sugar % cup cold water 

Boil syrup until it will form a ball in cold water, then 
beat it into soaked gelatine with a flat egg beater until 
white and stiff. Add one teaspoon vanilla. If wanted 
light and fluffy, add well beaten whites of two eggs, whip 
well together, then pour into pans that have been well 
sprinkled with powdered sugar. This recipe makes two 
pans of candy about three-fourths of an inch thick when 
poured into eight-inch cake pans. 

THE FOI/IX)WING RECIPES WERE SUPPLIED BY 
THE "KARO" CO. 

RECIPE 973. SOFT KARO CANDY. 

iy2 cups dark brown sugar 2 tablespoons butter 
1/^ cup Karo 1 teaspoon lemon 

extract 
Boil sugar, Karo and butter to form a hard ball in 
cold water, adding lemon when nearly done. Turn into 
buttered tin till cool enough to pull. When light color 
pull into inch strips, cut in pieces and wrap in waxed 
paper. 

RECIPE 974. YELLOW JACK. 

To one quart Karo which has been boiled for thirty 
minutes add one-half teaspoon bicarbonate of soda which 
has been rubbed absolutely smooth. Allow to boil, stir- 
ring constantly or it may burn, until brittle when tested 
in cold water. Remove from fire and add one tablespoon 
lemon juice. When cool enough to handle, pull until a 
light, bright yellow. Twist two strands together and cut 
into desired lengths. 

RECIPE 975. KARO CREAM DROPS. 

Use the recipe for "Yellow Jack," but instead of 
twisting or braiding after it has been pulled, roll out into 
two half-inch sheets. Lay these together with a layer 
of Karo fondant between. Cut into squares or other 
shapes. 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 253 

RECIPE 976. PEANUT CANDY. 

1 pound brown sugar 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup Karo % pound shelled 

1 cup water ^ peanuts 

Boil sugar, Karo and water till it is crisp when 
dropped in cold water. Just before taking from the fire 
add the butter and the nuts. Pour into a well-buttered 
tin. 

RECIPE 977. BUTTER CANDY. 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 cup Karo 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons hot water 

Boil all except the butter, which should be added 
when nearly done, until brittle in cold water. Pour into 
buttered tins. 

RECIPE 978. KARO BUTTER SCOTCH. 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 cup Karo i/^ cup butter 

Boil all together until it becomes instantly brittle 
when dropped in cold water. Pour thinly onto buttered 
pans. If desired to mark in squares it must be done at 
once, as it cools immediately. 

RECIPE 979. KARO SEA FOAM. 

3 cups sugar l^ teaspoon salt 

1/^ cup Karo 1 cup chopped nuts 

% cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Whites of 2 eggs 
Boil sugar, water and Karo till it forms a soft ball 
in cold water. Pour slowly onto the whites of the eggs 
beaten with the salt. Continue to beat till nearly stiff 
enough to hold its form, add the nuts and flavoring and 
turn into brick-shaped bread tins. When cold turn onto 
waxed paper and cut in squares. 

RECIPE 980. KARO WAFERS. 

21^ cups sugar 14 cup Karo 

V2 cup water 
Boil together without stirring to form a soft ball in 
cold water and turn onto a buttered platter. Do not add 
scraping from saucepan. When cool enough to dent, 
work with a wooden spoon or paddle until creamy and 
firm. Cover closely with a bowl and stand thirty min- 
utes, when it should be kneaded like bread. Put the 
"loaf" into a double boiler and add one teaspoon vanilla. 



254 CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 

It will soon soften to a thick cream. When thin enough 
to drop from a spoon, make rounds on waxed paper. If 
too stiff, a very little hot water may be added (teaspoon 
at a time) while the mass is in the double boiler. If de- 
sired omit vanilla and add any other extract, or a few 
drops of peppermint. 

RECIPE 981. CHOICE KARO CARAMELS 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup butter 
1 % cups Karo 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups cream 1 cup chopped nuts 

Cook sugar, Karo, half the cream and butter to- 
gether. When it boils, stir in the rest of the cream, but 
do not allow boiling to cease. Test for a firm ball in cold 
water. Add vanilla and nut meats. Turn into buttered 
tin. When nearly cold, cut in cubes and wrap in waxed 
paper. The boiling sometimes requires nearly an hour, 
but when carefully made these caramels cannot be ex- 
celled. 

RECIPE 982. WAIiNUT CARAMELS. 

2 pounds brown sugar 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup Karo 6 squares bitter 

1 cup milk chocolate 

V2 pound walnuts 
Put all the ingredients except the nuts into a sauce- 
pan and bring slowly to the boiling point. Continue to 
boil till 240° P. on sugar thermometer is reached. Add 
the chopped nuts and turn into buttered tins. Mark in 
squares when cold. 

RECIPE 983. KARO CRExlM CARAMELS. 

1 cup cream 4 tablespoons butter 

Vs cup Karo 2 tablespoons flour 

% cup sugar 2 tablespoons Kings- 

1 teaspoon vanilla ford's cornstarch 

Put sugar, Karo and half the cream into saucepan 
and stir constantly till it boils; add the rest of the cream 
slowly. Do not let boiling cease. Cook till a soft ball 
forms in cold water. Add the flour, cornstarch and but- 
ter creamed together, and continue to cook till a firm 
soft ball forms in cold water. Turn into buttered tins, 
and mark in squares when cool. Nuts may be added if 
desired. 



SANDWICHES 255 

CHAPTER XXII 
Sandwiches. 



Sandwiches are best made from bread which bakers 
call sandwich bread. Have butter soft enough so that it 
will cream well before beginning to make sandwiches. 
Crusts can be left on or removed as preferred, but usu- 
ally they are removed. Spread the butter smoothly over 
the uncut slice of bread, then cut off the slice, butter loaf 
again and cut off slice, continuing this process until as 
many slices are cut off as required. Have the bread cut 
as thinly as possible. It should be bread one day old to 
cut well. Spread slices with any of the mixtures found in 
the recipes for sandwiches. If the sandwiches are to be 
carried, it is well to wrap each one in a parafine paper 
cover. If a large number are prepared for an entertain- 
ment place them in a deep bowl, dip a clean cloth in hot 
water, wring as dry as possible and lay it over the bowl. 
Brown bread, rye bread and whole wheat bread are used 
as well as white bread. One slice of white bread and one 
of some other kind is frequently used. 

RECIPE 984. SUGGESTIONS FOR DIFFERENT COM- 
BINATIONS FOR SANDWICH FILLINGS. 

No. 1. — Hard boiled eggs, minced olives or pickles, 
mayonnaise to make a paste. 

No. 2. — Hard boiled eggs, minced sardines, lemon 
juice, leaf of lettuce. 

No. 3. — Minced chicken, pickle or olives, lettuce. 

No. 4. — Neufchatel cheese, minced nuts. 

No. 5. — Neufchatel cheese, minced olives. 

No. 6. — Neufchatel cheese, sliced olives, mayon- 
naise, lettuce. 

No. 7. — Neufchatel cheese, minced pimientoes, salt 
and pepper. 

No. 8. — Neufchatel cheese, minced green peppers, 
paprika and salt to taste. 

No. 9. — Rye bread, limburger cheese, bologna 
sausage slices. 

No. 10. — Cream cheese, minced cucumbers, salt, 
paprika, lemon juice. 

No. 11. — Cream cheese, minced nuts, lettuce leaf. 

No. 12. — Roquefort cheese, brandy, Worcestershire 
sauce, rubbed to a paste. 

No. 13. — Roquefort cheese, caviare, Worcester- 
shire sauce, lettuce leaf. 



256 SANDWICHES 

No. 14. — English walnuts minced, mayonnaise, 
brown bread. 

No. 15. — English walnuts minced, chopped figs, a 
little sweet cream. 

No. 16. — English walnuts minced, chopped dates, 
sweet cream. 

No. 17. — English walnuts minced, chopped pre- 
served ginger, sweet cream. 

No. 18. — English walnuts minced, salted, put be- 
tween brown bread. 

No. 19. — English walnuts minced, chopped raisins, 
cream. 

No. 2 0. — Fried oysters, few drops lemon juice, may- 
onnaise, paprika, lettuce leaf. 

No. 21. — Caviare, chopped onions, lemon juice, 
paprika, toasted bread. 

No. 2 2. — Caviare, lemon juice, paprika, make a 
paste, spread on white bread. 

No. 2 3. — Shad roe, parboiled in salted water, may- 
onnaise, shredded lettuce. 

No. 2 4. — Shad roe, fried, mashed, lemon juice, 
paprika, lettuce leaf. 

No. 2 5. — Sardines mashed, boned, hard boiled egg, 
salt, paprika, lettuce leaf. 

No. 2 6. — Sardines mashed, boned, minced parsley, 
hard boiled egg, salt, paprika. 

No. 27. — Sardines mashed, boned, crisp bacon 
crushed, lemon juice, lettuce leaf. 

No. 28. — Lobster minced, chopped celery, mayon- 
naise, lettuce leaf, paprika. 

No. 2 9. — Sliced hard boiled eggs, salt, paprika, nut- 
meg, mayonnaise, lettuce. 

No. 30. — Fried eggs minced with crisp bacon, let- 
tuce leaf. 

No. 31. — Hard boiled eggs run through chopper 
with pickles, salt, pepper, lettuce leaf. 

No. 32. — Cold firm sliced tomatoes, lemon juice, 
salt, paprika, lettuce leaf. 

No. 3 3. — Chopped firm tomatoes, English walnuts, 
green pepper, salt, paprika. 

No. 34. — Chopped tomatoes green peppers, onions, 
salt, pepper, few drops lemon juice. 

No. 35. — Chopped olives, green pepper, pimiento, 
celery, salt, pepper, brown bread. 

No. 36. — Chopped olives, fried chicken livers, salt, 
pepper, paprika. 

No. 37. — Chopped olives, few capers, mayonnaise, 
paprika, lettuce leaf. 



SANDWICHES 257 

No. 38. — Leaves of watercress, thin slices of radish 
dipped in French dressing. 

No. 3 9. — Chopped apples and celery, mayonnaise to 
mix them, spread on white bread. 

No. 4 0. — Chopped apples, celery, sliced green 
grapes, French dressing. 

No. 41. — Minced cold roast beef, tomato catsup, pep- 
per, salt, little vinegar. 

No. 42. — Minced boiled beef, lettuce, beet, pickle, 
salt, pepper. 

No. 4 3. — Sliced boiled beef, horseradish, paprika, 
lettuce, salt. 

No. 44. — Minced peanuts, boiled ham, chopped cel- 
ery, mayonnaise, lettuce. 

No. 45. — Minced fried calves' liver, crisp bacon, 
tomato catsup, brown bread. 

No. 4 6. — Cold boiled tongue, hard boiled eggs, to- 
mato catsup, lettuce. 

No. 4 7. — Cold roast pork, minced celery, Worces- 
tershire sauce, brown bread. 

No. 48. — Cold cooked chicken, grated sharp cheese, 
mustard, sweet cream, salt, pepper. 

No. 4 9. — Sliced roast chicken, horseradish, pepper, 
salt, lettuce. 

No. 50. — Minced Maraschino cherries, cream cheese, 
maple syrup, brown bread. 

When mayonnaise or sweet cream is mentioned, use 
just enough to moisten the mixture to a paste. When 
mayonnaise and lettuce leaves are mentioned dip the leaf 
in the mayonnaise, and spread the other mixture on the 
leaf. 

RECIPE 985. TOMATO SANDAVICHES. 

Skin whole tomatoes, and cut in thick slices. Make 
a French dressing, and dip each slice into it, then lay on 
a lettuce leaf between slices of Boston brown bread. 

KEdPE 986. TOMATO AND PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

Drain the liquor from canned tomatoes and chop 
enough of them to make a small cup of tomato pulp. 
Work this into the contents of a jar of peanut butter, add- 
ing salt to taste. Spread between thin slices of bread. 
RECIPE 987. SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Drain a can of salmon, remove the bones, and flake 
the fish very fine. Dip a lettuce leaf in mayonnaise dress- 
ing, lay it on a thin slice of buttered bread from which 
the crust has been cut, put a layer of the flaked salmon 
on this, cover with another lettuce leaf, and put on the 
upper half of the sandwich. 



2 58 SANDWICHES 

RECIPE 988. SPINACH SANDWICHES. 

Drain the liquid from cooked spinach very dry, press- 
ing out all moisture. When cold, chop the spinach as 
fine as possible, seasoning with a little mayonaise and 
pickled cucumber, minced into tiny bits. Spread between 
buttered bread slices. 

RECIPE 989. SPINACH AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Drain spinach as directed above, squeezing out every 
drop of juice after boiling. While hot, beat into a cup 
of spinach a heaping tablespoon of melted butter, salt to 
taste, and a dash of white pepper. Rub in now a table- 
spoon of anchovy paste, or an equal quantity of boned 
and chopped anchovies. If the paste is used, do not put 
the suggested salt into the spinach. When you have a 
smooth paste, spread it on the crustless slices of bread. 

RECIPE 990. GREEN PEA AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Drain a cup of canned green peas and cover with 
salted, boiling water. Cook until soft, drain and rub to 
a smooth paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. 
Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter and spread 
between thin slices of white bread. 

RECIPE 991. FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Mix together three tablespoons of canned cherries — 
stoned and chopped fine, the same quantity of canned 
and grated pineapple, and a tablespoon of canned and 
minced apricots. Drain all the fruits dry from the liquor 
in which they were canned, and mix with a tablespoon of 
very thick, clotted cream. Spread between thin crackers, 
and serve at once. 

RECIPE 992. FRUIT PRESERVE SANDWICHES. 

Any preserved fruit can be combined with a layer of 
Neufchatel, cream, or cottage cheese, or the stiffly beaten 
white of an egg can be mixed with jam or preserves and 
spread on the sandwich. 

RECIPE 993. CLUB SANDWICHES. 

For each sandwich three slices of toast are used. Each 
slice nicely buttered, then on one slice a very thin layer 
of cold boiled ham is laid, on this ham a very thin slice 
of sour cucumber pickle. Then another piece of toast, 
and on this lay a very thin slice of cold roast chicken or 
turkey. On this place the third slice of toast. Each slice 
slightly seasoned with salt and pepper. 

In every case the foundation is the toasted bread. 



SANDWICHES 259 

With these sandwiches can be used the following com- 
binations: 

No. 1. — Cold chicken, fried ham, lettuce, mayon- 
naise, toast. 

No. 2. — Cold chicken, fried bacon, lettuce, a slice 
of tomato, mayonnaise, toast. 

No. 3. — Cold turkey, fried ham or bacon, a slice of 
tomato or sour pickle, toast. 

Always serve a slice of pickle, cut lengthwise of the 
pickle, and an olive or two on the plate with club sand- 
wich. 

RECIPE 994. MINCED HAM SANDWICHES. 

Take any of the least desirable cuts of cold boiled 
ham and mince very fine. To this add enough cold 
boiled salad dressing to make a thick paste. This can 
be used at once or placed in a glass jar which is air- 
tight. It will keep a long time. This is a good way to 
use up any left-over ham, fried or boiled. 

RECIPE 995. DEVILED EGG SAND\\^CHES. 

Boil eggs until hard. Remove from shells, take out 
yolks and mash them with a very little butter or oil. 
Season very highly with salt, pepper, paprika, Worcester- 
shire sauce, vinegar and mustard. Rub until a smooth 
paste. Chop the whites of eggs, add to yolk mixture and 
spread on the slices of bread. A little minced ham, or 
a sardine or two, or a green pepper, or a pimiento or some 
sharp grated cheese can any one of them be added to the 
yolk mixture and thus get a different combination. Sour 
cucumber pickles or olives are also nice. 



260 BREADS, ETC. 

CHAPTER XXIII 
Breads and Breakfast Breads 



BREAD BAKING. 

Every woman who makes bread seems to be a law 
unto herself. If ten women were gathered together I 
venture to say that each one would have her own way of 
making bread, which would vary a little from any other 
method. In the Middle West and Eastern states where 
the flour is made from hard wheat the process differs 
slightly from that which must be used in the Northwest 
or any locality where there is a great percentage of soft 
wheat used in the flour. Some flours are composed en- 
tirely of soft wheat. This requires less kneading and 
less liquid in the mixing. Each special blend of flour 
must vary a little in the manner of handling, so no abso- 
lute hard and fast rules can be given for the exact amount 
of liquid, flour or necessary kneading. This can only be 
learned by carefully following the general rules for 
bread making and then modifying them to suit the lo- 
cality, and the flour used. 

GENERAL RUI/ES FOR BREAD BAKING. 

The shorter the process from yeast to oven, the less 
danger there will be in having poor bread. Different 
qualities in flours require different handling. When 
bread is sour, the dough has stood too long and too 
much fermentation has taken place. This never occurs 
when a short process of bread making is used. Person- 
ally, I have abandoned all other processes and use only 
the "Two Hour" Bread. See Recipe 1003. The yeast 
sponge used in this process will keep several days and 
affords an opportunity for having many different kinds 
of "sweet bread" rolls and cakes within an hour of mix- 
ing the eggs, sugar, spices and fruits with the sponge. 
This is an advantage as it saves several hours' time. 

For Sweet Bread Dough take one cup of the sponge, 
add 1^ cup sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2 well beaten 
eggs, a cup of the desired fruits and 1 teaspoon of spice; 
add enough flour for a moderately soft dough. Read 
Recipes 1015, 1020, 1021, 1022, 1023. They will tell 
you how to knead, shape and bake the different styles of 
Sweet Doughs. 

Dough should be thoroughly mixed with a perforated 
spoon before kneading. 

Make small loaves and bake well. 



BREADS, ETC. 261 

If your dough is not light and spongy enough, give 
your dough more age; if too much so, take it younger. 

Cold and salt check fermentation; salt retards yeast, 
but helps control undesirable acids; heat hastens it. 
Sugar is food for yeast and helps it to bud and grow. 

If you use the "over night" process of bread making 
keep dough well covered to prevent crust from forming; 
a tin pan or earthen dish covered over bowl containing 
dough is better than a cloth or paper. 

Bread is ready for the oven when the dent produced 
by pressing the finger on loaf will remain. 

Bread and rolls should be set in a place only moder- 
ately warm. If dough becomes chilled, bread will be 
heavy, slow and coarse. If too warm, it will be coarse, 
dark and probably sour. 

Let dough double in size before baking; this should 
require one hour. 

If for any reason, dough has soured, a teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in a little water will help it, but will not 
bring back the sweet flavor home-made bread should 
have. 

RECIPE 996. SPONGE FOR TWO HOUR BREAD. 

This recipe will make three loaves and a pan of rolls. 
3 medium sized pota- 2 tablespoons sugar 

toes 1 tablespoon salt 

1 quart boiling water 2 tablespoons short- 

ly pint tepid water ening 

1 cake yeast (dry or i^ cup flour 

compressed) 
Pare and put the potatoes into boiling water to 
cook tender. Put yeast cake into V2 pint tepid water. 
When potatoes are tender enough to mash, pour off the 
potato water and measure it. There should be one pint. 
If there is less add enough more water to make it one 
pint. Put this potato water into a deep bowl and to it 
add the salt, sugar and lard. Let stand until lukewarm, 
then add the V2 pint of yeast water and i/4 cup of flour. 
Stir the flour in till smooth. Set away in a moderately 
cool place for 12 hours, although it can stand a week and 
will not spoil. 

TO MAKE TWO HOUR BREAD. 

(Sponge Method) 

When sponge has stood twelve hours and you are 
ready to make the bread, use a i/^-pint measuring cup. 
For each loaf of bread of medium size, allow one cup of 
the sponge. If larger loaves are desired take one and 



262 BREADS, ETC. 

one-half cups yeast sponge for each loaf. Do not add 
anything to the sponge but flour. Simply put sponge into 
a bowl and begin shaking in flour, beating it in hard with 
a perforated spoon. When you can no longer stir it, put 
it out on bread board, work in more flour, kneading it 
well, until dough does not stick to hands or board. Cut 
it into desired number of loaves, working each loaf 
smoothly into shape. Have greased bread pans ready and 
put loaves into pans to rise. They should not more than 
half fill pans. Grease top of loaves and set in warm 
place away from drafts. They will rise in from 45 min- 
utes to IVz hours (varies with different atmospheres and 
temperatures). When nice and light — doubled in bulk 
and up to top of pans, bake in a moderately hot oven 15 
minutes, when loaves should have risen to full height — 
then lower the heat a little for 15 minutes, when loaves 
will brown. Bake 15 minutes more with low heat to 
thoroughly cook loaves to center. When loaves give out 
a hollow sound when rapped, remove from pans. Let 
cool (out of drafts) before putting away in bread box. 

RECIPE 997. QUICK PARKER HOUSE ROLLS NO. 1. 

1 cup two-hour yeast sponge 

Flour to make soft dough 

1 tablespoon melted shortening 

Work the flour into the yeast sponge for about five 
minutes. Roll out on a bread board with the rolling pin. 
Cut out each roll with a large-sized biscuit cutter. Spread 
lightly with lard or butter, fold over like a pocketbook. 
Set to rise till very light — bake 2 minutes in moderate 
oven. 

RECIPE 998. PARKER HOUSE ROLLS NO. 2. 

For one pan of Parker House rolls, reserve a suf- 
ficient am,ount of the dough (Recipe 1009 or 1014). For 
a small family a lump of dough the size of your two 
fists will be enough. Set dough away in a very cool place 
until an hour and a half before you want the rolls. Then 
work about two tablespoons of shortening into the dough, 
fiour the bread board, roll out the dough to depth of one 
inch with the rolling pin. See Recipe 997 for cutting, 
shaping and baking rolls. 

RECIPE 999. QUICIi TEA-ROLLS. 

1 compressed yeast-cake 3 cups bread-flour 

V2 cup scalded milk 2 tablespoons lard or 

y2 cup tepid water butter 

1 tablespoon sugar i/^ teaspoon salt 



BREADS, ETC. 263 

Add shortening to milk and let cool till lukewarm. 
Dissolve yeast and sugar in the water, combine mixtures, 
beat in half of the flour, whipping till very smooth, then 
add the balance together with the salt. Knead thor- 
oughly. Take pieces dough size of hen eggs, work into 
round balls, grease over the top, place in greased pans. 
Set to rise in a warm place for about two hours, and bake 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. This makes two 
dozen small rolls. 

RECIPE 1000. SAVEET POTATO ROLLS. 

1 pint milk 1 compressed yeast cake 

1 pint flour 1 tablespoon shortening 

4 baked sweet potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

Scald milk and when lukewarm add yeast, moistened, 

the salt, shortening and sufficient fiour to make a batter. 

Beat well and stand in a warm place two hours. When 

the potatoes are done, press them through a sieve, add 

them to the light bread mixture, and add sufficient flour 

to make a soft dough. Knead carefully, cover and stand 

aside until very light. Form quickly into rolls and place 

in greased pans. Stand aside for one hour. Bake in a 

quick oven twenty minutes. 

RECIPE 1001. QUICK NUT BREAD. 

Three cups bread flour, four teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon salt, one-half cup sugar, one-third 
cup shortening, one and one-half cups sweet milk, one 
egg and yolk of another, one cup pecan nut meats broken 
in pieces. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. 
Rub in shortening with tips of fingers, add sugar, beaten 
egg and milk slowly, stirring constantly until mixture is 
smooth. Add nut meats dredged with one-fourth cup of 
flour. Turn mixture into a buttered brick-shaped bread 
pan, let rise twenty minutes. Bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

RECIPE 1002. QUICK SPONGE NUT BREAD. 

For one cup sponge (see 996) add one cup chopped 
nuts, work them in with enough flour to make a dough 
that will not stick to board. Put in square pan, let rise 
till double in size. Bake one hour. 

RECIPE 1003. NUT BREAD NO. 2. 

1 cake Fleischmann's % cup sugar 

yeast 2 tablespoons shortening 

1 cup milk, scalded and White of one egg 

cooled % cup chopped wal- 

1 tablespoon sugar nuts 

3 cups sifted flour Vs teaspoon salt 



264 BREADS, ETC. 

Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in luke- 
warm milk, add one and one-fourth cups flour and beat 
thoroughly. Cover and set aside in warm place fifty min- 
utes, or until light. Add sugar and shortening, creamed, 
white of egg beaten stiff, nuts, remainder of flour, or 
enough to make a dough, and the salt. Knead well. 
Place in greased bowl. Cover and set aside for about two 
and one-half hours to rise or until double in bulk. Mold 
into a loaf or small finger rolls, and fill well greased 
pans half full. Protect from draft and let rise until 
light — about one hour. Loaf should bake forty-five min- 
utes, finger rolls six to eight minutes. 

This recipe will make one medium sized loaf, or one 
dozen rolls. 

RECIPE 1003B. SANDWICH ROYALE. 

Remove all of the crust from a loaf of bread, then 
cut the loaf the long way of the loaf into five or six 
slices. Butter each slice. Now on each slice place a 
different sandwich mixture. These mixtures can be 
varied, but the following makes a nice combination: 

1st slice deviled ham OR 

2nd slice minced 1st slice minced olives 

chicken and cheese 

3rd slice canned 2nd deviled egg 

pimientoes 3rd canned pimientoes 

4th slice lettuce 4th any cold meat 

minced 

With the exception of the pimiento, which is laid 
on slice without chopping, all the other ingredients are 
mixed with mayonnaise to make a paste that will spread 
on. 

Place the long slices (each spread with a mixture) 
one on top of another (just as in a layer cake). The top 
slice is turned with butter side down as in any sand- 
wich. Press the loaf gently together to squeeze out 
superflous filling, then place sandwich loaf between two 
plates for half an hour to press well together. 

When ready to serve slice down as you do a layer 
cake, making slices about a half inch thick. Always 
have the pimiento in the center of the sanawich. The 
different fillings varying in colors please the eye as well 
as the palate. These sandwiches are not practical for 
packing, as they fall apart too easily, but for dainty home 
serving are very nice. 



BREADS, ETC. 265 

RECIPE 1004. DATE BREAD. 

1 cup warm wheat % cup walnut meats 

mush % cup dates 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup yeast sponge 

Vs cup sugar See Recipe 1003 

1 tablespoon shortening 

Flour to make a moderately stiff dough 
Use the sponge in usual way, adding the warm mush. 
When kneading down the dough into loaves, work in the 
chopped nuts and dates. This recipe is suitable for a 
small family. 

RECIPE 1005. RAISIN BREAD. 

Work in two cups of Sultana raisins when kneading 
loaves ready for pans. 

RECIPE 1006. WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Use the sponge from Recipe 996. Add whole wheat 
flour to make dough just easy to handle well. Follow 
directions for making the loaves, baking, etc., from the 
recipe for Two-Hour bread, Recipe 996. If desired, one- 
fourth cup molasses may be added to the sponge before 
adding the flour. 

RECIPE 1007. GRAHAM BREAD. 

Follow Recipe 996, substituting graham flour for 
white flour. Add one-fourth cup molasses to the sponge 
before adding the flour to make the dough into loaves. 
If some white flour is desired instead of all Graham use 
two-thirds of Graham and one-third of white flour. 

RECIPE 1008. SOFT GRAHAM BREAD. 

One and a half cups of warm water, three table- 
spoons of molasses, two tablespoons of fat, two teaspoons 
of salt, one-half yeast cake, dissolved in one-quarter of 
a cup of lukewarm water, one and a half cups of white 
flour and three cups of graham flour. 

Combine the first four materials while warm. Add 
the dissolved yeast. Beat in the combined flours. Stand 
till double in bulk. Beat again. Put in two greased pans, 
let dough double again and bake one hour in moderate 
oven. 

RECIPE 1009. MILfK BREAD (OVER NIGHT). 

Scald 1 pint sweet i/4 cup sugar 

milk 1 yeast cake dissolved in 

3 tablespoons shortening i^ cup tepid water 

2 teaspoons salt 6 cups sifted flour 



266 BREADS, ETC. 

Scald milk with shortening, sugar and salt. When 
it becomes lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake, add 
enough flour to make a stiff sponge. Set away over night 
out of draughts in a warm place. In morning work down 
with enough flour to make a dough that will not stick 
to board. Set in greased bowl to rise. When light work 
down into loaves. Put into greased pans, let double in 
bulk. Bake forty-five minutes. 

RECIPE 1010. RYE BREAD. 

1 cup boiling water Vs cup brown sugar 

1 cup scalded milk i/4 yeast cake dissolved in 

1 tablespoon lard i/4 cup tepid water 

1 tablespoon butter 3 cups flour 

iy2 teaspoons salt Rye meal to make a 

dough to knead 
Add lard, salt, sugar and milk to the boiling water. 
When it is lukewarm, add yeast water, then flour. Fol- 
low directions under Recipe 1014 and let sponge rise. 
When ready to work down the sponge, add enough rye 
meal to make a dough stiff enough to knead well. Work 
it about twenty minutes and set it away to rise. When 
light and spongy work down into loaves, set again to rise. 
When light, bake it until it is done — about forty-five to 
sixty minutes. 

RECIPE 1011 A. GERMAN RYE BREAD. 

In a quarter cup of lukewarm water, to which you 
have put a small teaspoon of white sugar, dissolve half 
a cake of yeast. Turn this into a wooden bread bowl 
with a pint of lukewarm water, a heaping teaspoon of 
salt and one of caraway seed and two cups of rye fiour. 
Stir well and let it rise in a warm place for two hours. 
It should be full of bubbles when ready to work. Put 
with it sufficient rye flour to make a very stiff dough, 
work it hard for ten minutes, let it rise two hours more 
and knead again — this time on a floured board. Put the 
loaves in pans and when they have risen so that they 
begin to crack on the surface dip your hand in cold 
water, wet the loaves and put them in the oven. Bake 
an hour, and do not open the door until the bread has 
been in ten minutes. The oven should be very hot at 
first. Cover the bread with paper as soon as it is brown 
on top. 

RECIPE 101 IB. SALT RISING BREAD. 
First Part. 

1 pint luke warm water 3 tablespoons corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt 33 level tablespoons flour 



BREADS, ETC. 267 

To luke warm water add the salt, corn meal and 
30 tablespoons sifted flour. Beat very smooth. Sprinkle 
3 more tablespoons sifted flour over this mixture and 
let stand in warm place five hours. By that time clear 
water will have risen to the top, drain this off, throw it 
away. Beat the mixture that is left thoroughly. Set 
away for one hour, when it should be very light and 
frothy. 

Second Part. 
1 pint luke warm milk i/^ teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons shortening 10 cups flour 

Sift into a mixing bowl 10 cups flour and % tea- 
spoon salt. Make a "well" in the center; pour in the 
yeast (First Part), then add the pint luke warm milk. 
Stir well with a perforated spoon and stir until mixture 
is stiff enough for bread board. Knead well, work out 
into four loaves. Set to rise until light (about 45 min- 
utes). Bake as you would any bread. See General Rules 
for Baking. 

RECIPE 1012. BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup rye meal % tablespoon soda 

1 cup graham flour 2 cups sour milk, or 

1 cup granulated 1 % cups sweet milk 

corn meal % cup molasses 

Add the soda to molasses, then stir in milk. Mix 
dry ingredients together and add to them the liquids. 
Stir until well mixed. Grease either some one-pound 
baking powder cans or a five-pound lard bucket. Grease 
lids also. Turn dough in, but do not fill cans over two- 
thirds full, as dough will rise to the top. Place the ves- 
sels containing the dough into a deep kettle, half full of 
boiling water. Let them steam about three and a half 
hours. Keep the vessels surrounded by the boiling water 
about half way up all the time and add water as needed to 
keep it at this height. Fine when cooked three hours in 
tireless cooker. 

RECIPE 1013. BAKED BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup molasses 1 % teaspoons soda 
3 cups buttermilk or V2 teaspoon salt 

sour milk 2 cups bread flour 

2 eggs About 5 cups graham 

flour 
Mix in order given, diluting the soda in a tablespoon 
of hot water. Enough graham flour should be added to 
make a stiff batter. Bake in pound-size coffee cans for 



268 BREADS, ETC. 

an hour, filling them two-thirds full. This makes three 
loaves. 

RECIPE 1013B. POTATO BREAD. 

1 yeast cake 3 tablespoons shortening 

y2, cup tepid water % cup sugar 

1 medium sized potato 3 tablespoons salt 

boiled 5 to 6 quarts sifted 

\y^ pints potato water flour 

Makes 5 or 6 loaves 
Dissolve yeast cake in tepid water. Let it stand in 
this while you boil one potato until soft, then mash it 
well and add it again to water in which it boiled. Have 
one and one-half pints of this water, which with the 
yeast water will make two quarts of liquid. When pota- 
to is mashed add the shortening, salt, sugar; stir well 
until all are mixed and the shortening is melted. When 
the potato water has become tepid add yeast water. Now 
gradually add sifted flour. If you have a Universal 
Mixer, put mixture all into the mixer and stir until 
dough forms a ball and leaves sides of the mixer. Cover 
it over with tin lid and let it stand until dough has 
doubled in size. It will riso more slowly in winter than 
in summer. See Recipe 99 6 for kneading, shaping and 
baking bread. 

If Parker House Rolls are desired take one-fifth of 
the dough and set it away in a cool place within an hour 
of wanting them, bee Recipe 9'9 7 for shaping and bak- 
ing rolls. 

Bread set at night should be baked and out of the 
oven by 10 o'clock the next morning. If the sponge is 
set about 8 o'clock in the morning the bread should be 
baked and out of the oven about 4 p. m. 

RECIPE 1015. FRENCH ROLLS. 

Scald 1 quart milk i/4 cup sugar 

with Soak 1 cake com- 

1 tablespoon salt pressed yeast in 

2 tablespoons butter y^ cup luke warm water 
When milk has grown luke warm take one and one- 
half pints compressed yeast dissolved in luke warm water. 
Stir in enough flour to make a batter; beat well, cover 
and set in a warm place until very light. Now add the 
other half pint of luke warm milk and go on adding 
flour until you have a dough stiff enough to knead. 
Knead this thoroughly for twenty minutes, put back in 
bowl and when it has doubled its bulk, roll it out care- 
fully in long narrow strips. Cut in pieces about four 



BREADS, ETC. 269 

inches long, put in a pan so they will not touch each 
other; cover, and when very light, bake in a quick oven 
fifteen minutes. French roll pans can be purchased at 
any good hardware store, and are to be preferred. 

RECIPE 1016. GLUTEN BREAD. 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tablespoon shortening 
1 cup milk, scalded melted 

and cooled 3 cups gluten flour 

1 cup luke warm water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in luke warm liquid. Add 
shortening, then flour gradually, and salt. Knead thor- 
oughly until smooth and elastic. Place in well-greased 
bowl. Cover and set aside in a warm place, free from 
draft, to rise until light, which should be in about two 
hours. Mold into loaves, place in greased pans, filling 
them half full. Cover, let rise again, and when double 
in bulk, which should be in about one hour, bake in mod- 
erate oven forty-five minutes. 

This will make two one-pound loaves. 

For diet use all water and omit shortening and 
sugar. 

RECIPE 1017. RAISED CINNAMON ROLLS. 

1 cup sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 

3 tablespoons butter 1 pint milk 

Flour 
Dissolve compressed yeast in one pint of luke warm 
milk; add flour to make sponge; let rise until it begins 
to drop. Rub together butter and sugar; add this to 
sponge with a cup of warm milk. Now add flour to 
make enough dough as soft as can be handled; roll out 
about one inch thick, spread thickly with butter, sugar 
and cinnamon. Roll as for jelly cake and cut off pieces 
from end of dough. Put in pan cut side down so they 
will not touch each other, let raise for one-half hour, then 
bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. 

RECIPE 1018. ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

1 pint milk 1 compressed yeast cake 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon salt 
1 V2 pints flour 

Scald the milk, add the shortening and salt and when 
luke warm add yeast, moistened, and flour. Beat thor- 
oughly, cover and stand in a warm place three and a half 
hours. Put two spoons of this mixture into greased 



270 BREADS, ETC. 

muffin rings on a greased griddle. When baked slightly 
on one side, turn with a cake turner, ring and all, and 
bake carefully on the other side. 

RECIPE 1019. CRUMPETS. 

See Recipe 1018. 
RECIPE 1020. CIRRANT TEA RING. 

1 cake compressed yeast 3 cups sifted flour 
1/^ cup milk, scalded and 3 tablespoons shortening 

cooled 14 cup sugar 

V2 cup luke warm water 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar 

V2 teaspoon salt 
Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in luke 
warm liquid. Add three cups of flour and beat until 
smooth. Add shortening and sugar, thoroughly 
creamed, and eggs beaten until light, flour gradually, 
enough to make a moderately soft dough, and the salt. 
Turn on board, knead lightly. Place in greased bowl. 
Cover and set aside in a warm place to rise, for about 
two hours, or until dough has doubled in bulk. Roll 
out in oblong piece, one-fourth inch thick. Brush with 
melted shortening. Sprinkle with sugar, currants and 
cinnamon. Roll up lengthwise and place in a circle on 
a large, shallow greased pan or baking sheet. With 
scissors cut three-fourth inch slices, almost through. 
Turn each slice partly on its side, pointing away from 
center. This should give the effect of a many-pointed 
star, and show the different layers with the filling. 
Cover and let rise one hour, or until light, and bake 
twenty-five minutes. Just before putting in oven, glaze 
with egg, diluted with milk. Ice while hot with plain 
frosting. 

This recipe will make one large or two small rings. 
Half this recipe for small family. 

RECIPE 1021. HOT CROSS BUNS. 

1 cake compressed yeast 14 cup shortening 
1 cup milk, scalded and % cup sugar 

cooled 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar i/4 cup raisins or currants 

3 1/4 cups sifted flour 

14 teaspoon salt 
Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in luke 
warm milk. Add one and one-half cups flour, to make 
■sponge. Beat until smooth, cover and let rise until 
light, in warm place, free from draft — about one hour. 
Add butter and sugar creamed, egg well beaten, raisins 



BREADS, ETC. 271 

or currants, which have been floured, rest of flour, or 
enough to make a moderately soft dough, and salt. Turn 
on board, knead lightly, place in greased bowl. Cover 
and set aside in warm place, until double in bulk, which 
should be in about two hours. Shape with hand into 
medium-sized round buns, place in well-greased, shallow 
pans about two inches apart. Cover and let rise again — 
about one hour, or until light. Glaze with egg diluted 
with water. With sharp knife cut a cross on top of each. 
Bake twenty minutes. Just before removing from oven, 
brush with sugar moistened with water. While hot, fill 
cross with plain frosting. 

Half this recipe for small family. 

RECIPE 1022. GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 
Bund Kuchen. 

1 V2 cakes compressed 1 cup sugar 

yeast % teaspoon mace 

1 cup milk, scalded and 1 1^ cups mixed fruit — 

cooked citron, raisins, cur- 

1 tablespoon sugar rants in equal parts 

3 cups sifted flour i^ teaspoon salt 

V2 cup shortening 3 eggs 

Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in the luke 
warm milk, add one and one-half cups of flour. Beat 
well. Cover and set aside, in a warm place, to rise one 
hour, or until light. Add to this the butter and sugar 
creamed, the mace, the fruit which has been floured, the 
balance of the flour, or enough to make a good cake bat- 
ter, the salt, and eggs well-beaten. Beat for ten min- 
utes. Pour into well-buttered molds, filling them about 
half full, cover and let rise until molds are nearly full, 
then bake in a moderate oven. If made into two cakes, 
they should bake forty-five minutes; one large cake 
should bake one hour. 

Half this recipe for small family. 

RECIPE 1023. APPLE CAKE. 

Apf el Kuchen. 

1 V2 cakes compressed 3 i/^ cups sifted flour 

yeast i/4 cup shortening 

1 cup milk, scalded and i/^ cup sugar 

cooled 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar i/4 teaspoon salt 

5 apples 
Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in luke 
warm milk, add one and one-half cups flour to make a 
sponge, and beat until smooth. Cover and set aside in a 



272 BREADS, ETC. 

warm place until light — about three-quarters of an hour. 
Have sugar and butter well creamed, add to sponge. 
Then add eggs well beaten, rest of flour, or enough to 
make a soft dough, and salt. Knead lightly. Place in 
well-greased bowl. Cover and set aside to rise — about 
two hours. Roll half an inch thick. Place in two well- 
greased, shallow pans. Brush with butter, sprinkle with 
sugar. Cut apples in eighths and press into dough, 
sharp edge downward. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Cover 
and let rise about one-half hour. Bake twenty minutes. 
Keep covered with pan first ten minutes, in order that 
the apples may be thoroughly cooked. 
Half this recipe for a small family. 

RECIPE 1023B. GENERAL, RULES FOR BAKING 
POWDER BISCUITS. 

Many cooks never make good biscuits, yet they are 
delicious if properly prepared. Flours vary, therefore 
the amount of milk or water must also vary, but have 
the dough soft and moist. Sift dry ingredients well to- 
gether (two or three times is better than only once). 
Melt the shortening and add to milk. If an egg is used, 
beat it until creamy, and add to dry ingredients, alter- 
nately with the milk and shortening. If biscuits are cut 
too large they do not bake well to center before the bis- 
cuit browns. The bottom of a ^/i -pound baking powder 
can (with a hole punched in end) makes biscuit an ideal 
size. Place close together in slightly greased pan. Spread 
lightly with a little melted shortening. After cutting bis- 
cuits and putting them in pan, let them stand about five 
minutes over a gentle heat before putting in oven; this 
is long enough if cream of tarter baking powders are used. 
In using phosphate powders let biscuits stand 15 to 20 
minutes before baking. Bake about 15 minutes in hot 
oven. 

RECIPE 1024. BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

Makes twelve. 
1 cup flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking 1 tablespoon shortening 

powder V2 cup sweet milk 

See General Rules for Mixing and Baking. 

RECIPE 1025. SOUTHERN BISCUIT (FOR TWO). 

1% cups flour 1/4 cup milk 

1 1/4 teaspoons baking 4 teaspoons short- 

powder ening 

1/4 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

1 teaspoon sugar 

See General Rules for Mixing and Baking Biscuits. 



BREADS, ETC. 273 

Rt]OIPE 1026. BISCUIT COFFEE CAKE (FOR TWO). 

Make Recipe 1025 and roll out one inch thick. 
Sprinkle with one cup chopped dates, almonds, figs, mixed 
together. Roll little thinner, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar. Lay on greased shallow pan, bake in hot oven. 
Break in squares, serve hot. 

RECIPE 1027. SANDWICH BISCUITS. 

Make Recipe 102 4. Roll the dough thin, like pie 
crust, cut, spread half the rounds with butter, add a 
filling of seasoned, finely ground, cooked ham, then lay 
on the covers and bake. 

RECIPE 1028. MARMALADE BISCUITS. 

Sift together 
.1 cup flour Beat 1 egg creamy 

1/4 teaspoon salt % cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon baking 
powder 

Add milk and egg alternately to dry ingredients. 
No shortening is used. Knead the dough lightly and roll 
thinner than biscuits are usually made. Cut the rounds 
with a cooky cutter or the open end of a pound baking 
powder can. Prom half of the rounds remove the cen- 
ters with a smaller cutter. Spread the whole rounds 
with melted butter, lay one of the dough ri-ngs on each 
and fill the centers with any stiff marmalade before 
baking. 

RECIPE 1029. HOT CROSS BISCUITS FOR TWO. 

egg 

tablespoons currants 

teaspoon chopped 

citron 
cup sweet milk 
tablespoon melted 
butter 
Sift dry ingredients, add currants and citron. Beat 
egg creamy. Melt butter and add to milk. Add milk and 
shortening alternately with egg. Flours vary, so use 
just enough milk to make a rather firm dough. Roll an 
inch thick, cut in large rounds, cut two gashes at right 
angles across the top of each, and moisten the tops with 
milk before baking. Some cooks like to fill the cross 
cuts with sugar. 



1 


cup flour 


1 


V4. 


teaspoon salt 


2 


1 


teaspoon baking 
powder 


1 


y* 


teaspoon each, cin- 


% 




namon, nutmeg 


1 



274 BREADS, ETC. 

RECIPE 1030. NUT "DROP" BISCUITS FOR TWO. 

Sift together 
1 cup flour Melt 2 teaspoons 

1/4 teaspoon salt butter and add to 

1 teaspoon baking i/^ cup milk 

powder 14 cup chopped nuts 

Add 1/4 cup of chopped nuts to dry ingredients, add 
milk and butter slowly. Flours vary in strength; add 
enough milk to make a thick batter. Drop the dough 
from a spoon onto well greased pan, leave an inch apart 
so that "Drops" have room to swell. 

RECIPE 1031. ENGLISH SWEET BUNS. 

Use Recipe 102 5 for dough and add one tablespoon 
candied peel (orange, lemon, citron, etc.), grated rind 
of 1/4 lemon, grated rind of i/4 orange. Mix flour, salt, 
sugar and baking powder together and sift three times. 
Add the well beaten egg, saving out one tablespoon of 
egg to paint the buns with. Add milk and shortening 
slowly, then add the candied peel, cut in small pieces, 
also grated lemon and orange rind. Mix well, place in 
well buttered tins. Add one teaspoon cold milk to the 
one tablespoon egg saved from the buns and paint them 
over well. Bake in hot oven one-quarter hour. Serve 
hot. 

RECIPE 1032. CLOVER BISCUITS. 

Use recipe 1024 for biscuit dough. Cut into rounds 
an inch in diameter. You can use the center of round 
loaf cake pan, inverted, as a cutter. Place the tiny 
rounds in threes in greased gem cake pans and glaze the 
tops with egg yolk mixed with a little water. When 
baked, the group of three from each mold will come out 
in clover leaf shape. 

RECIPE 1033. BISCUIT BRAIDS. 

Make biscuit dough. Recipe 1025. To one-third of 
the dough add grated chocolate and spices to darken. 
Cut dough into narrow strips and braid two white strips 
with one dark one. Twist ends of each braid carefully. 
Moistening them with white of egg makes the ends stick 
together better. Instead of making individual braids, 
you can, if you prefer, make one long braid and bake it 
coiled in a wreath around a cup set upon a baking sheet, 
or you can use a round cake pan. 

RECIPE 1034. SWEET POTATO BISCUIT. 

Put 1 cup of boiled mashed sweet potatoes into a 
basin, add one tablespoon of sugar and one tablespoon of 



BREADS, ETC. 275 

melted butter. Dissolve half a teaspoon of baking soda 
in 1 cup of buttermilk, then add 2 cups of sifted flour 
and one teaspoon of salt. Mix, roll out, cut with a small 
biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. 

RECIPE 1035. DATE TRIANGLES. 

Make Recipe 1025 for biscuit dough. Add V2 cup 
chopped dates to the dough. Roll thin, cut into three- 
inch squares, then cut each square into two triangles. 
Glaze with sugar and milk before baking. If pastry flour 
is substituted for bread flour, they will be particularly 
delicate. As pastry flour packs more than bread flour, it 
should be sifted several times. 

RECIPE 1036. SAI/AD STICKS. 

Make Recipe 1024 for biscuit dough. Cut your 
dough into finger-shaped strips, leaving a little space be- 
tween "fingers" as they bake. When nearly done, remove 
from the oven, spread quickly with melted butter and 
grated cheese, sprinkle lightly with salt and paprika, re- 
turn to oven to brown. These are nice to serve hot with 
salad. If the cheese were spread on at first, it would be 
overcooked. 

RECIPE 1037. DATE STICIiS. 

Beat together one cup of sugar, three eggs that have 
been whipped until light, one cup of flour, one teaspoon 
of baking powder, two teaspoons of vanilla, one cup of 
chopped dates and one cup of chopped English walnuts. 
Spread the mixture thinly over the bottom of shallow 
pans and bake quite brown in a moderate oven. When 
the mixture is baked cut it into sticks of any desired size 
and roll them while warm in powdered sugar. Or may 
be cut into squares and served with whipped cream. 
This makes a delicious dessert. 

RECIPE 1038. QUICK COFFEE CAKE FOR TWO. 

Make Recipe 1025 for dough. To this dough add 1/4 
cup currants, % cup chopped raisins. Turn into a well 
greased biscuit pan and bake in a moderate oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to the depth of the 
pan. If the cake is baked in a small, deep pan it will 
take longer to cook than if a larger and shallower pan is 
selected. Sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon over 
the top of the cake when serving, or, if to be used cold, 
make a thin sugar and water icing and spread this over 
the cake when it is cool. 



276 BREADS, ETC. 

RECIPE 1039. DUTCH APPLE OR PEACH CAKE. 

Make Recipe 1025 for dough. Flours vary, add 
enough milk for a very thick batter. Spread dough 1 
inch deep in greased shallow tin; have ready several 
pared, cored and sliced apples or peaches. Press points 
into dough, sprinkle thickly with sugar mixed with little 
cinnamon. Bake in hot oven. 

RECIPE 1040. BEATEN BISCUIT. 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk or water, or 

V2 teaspoon salt V2 cup of each 

1 tablespoon shortening 
When the flour and salt have been sifted together 
rub in the shortening until thoroughly incorporated. Mix 
these with the liquid, having the dough rather stiff. Turn 
it onto a lightly floured board, and beat with a rolling 
pin until the dough becomes perfectly smooth and small 
bubbles or blisters form, about 15 minutes. Roll thinly, 
cut into biscuits and prick with a fork. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven until the biscuits are a delicate brown color. 
This will take about fifteen minutes. The edges^ of the 
biscuit should crack slightly during the baking and the 
centers should be very fine grained and pure white in 
color. 

RECIPE 1041. SKON BREAD. 

Make 1024 dough. Heat cake griddle or an iron 
frying pan. Grease very lightly. Roll the biscuit dough 
one-fourth of an inch thick and about the size of a break- 
fast plate. Put it on griddle and bake one or two min- 
utes, then turn with a knife or pancake turner and cook 
on other side for a minute or two, just until dough is 
cooked through. Serve at once very hot. This makes 
a fine emergency bread for camping parties without bake 
ovens. Can be cooked over a camp fire in a long-handled 
frying pan. Pried bacon grease can be used for short- 
ening. Allow about two teaspoons bacon grease for each 
cup of flour. This recipe will make two "Skons." Do 
not roll it too thick or it will burn before dough is cooked 
to center. 

RECIPE 1042. WAFFLES. 

1 pint milk or cream 3 tablespoons melted 

2 or 3 eggs butter 

1/4 teaspoon salt 4 level teaspoons bak- 

2 cups flour ing powder 

Beat the eggs separately, having whites beaten to a 
very stiff froth. Add yolks to milk. Sift flour and bak- 



BREADS, P:TC. 277 

ing powder together into the milk, and last fold in whites 
of eggs. If sour milk is used, and it really makes Ihe 
best waffles, use also a half teaspoon of baking soda, but 
use the baking powder just the same. If milk is not very- 
sour, use one-fourth teaspoon soda only. 

RECIPE 1043. GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make the same dough as in Waffles, only bake the 
cakes on a griddle. 

RECIPE 1044. AVHEAT MUFFINS. 

Use same dough as in Waffles, only bake dough in 
well-buttered muffin rings, in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 



RECIPE 1045. L.EFT-OVER CEREAL FRUIT MUF- 
FINS. 



1/2 


cup cold cooked 


4 teaspoons butter 




cereal 


2 teaspoons sugar 


% 


cup flour 


1 egg 


1 


teaspoon baking 


Vs cup milk 




powder 


Vs cup dates or figs 


1/4 


teaspoon salt 





When flour, salt and baking powder have been 
sifted together, rub the butter in lightly with tips of the 
fingers; add fruit, floured and coarsely chopped; then 
cereal and sugar. Mix to a light dough with well-beaten 
eggs and milk. Have dough quite a little stiffer than is 
usual for muffins, in view of the fact that it is partly 
composed of cooked cereal, which has already absorbed 
all the moisture that it is capable of taking up, and if 
the muffin batter should be made as soft as where all 
dry flour is used, the muffins would be sticky when 
baked. 

RECIPE 1046. SOUTHERN RICE BREAD. 

1 cup white corn meal 1 tablespoon shortening 

1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 

% cup milk 2 teaspoons baking 

% cup cold boiled rice powder 

Beat the egg until light without separating; add the 
milk, meal, salt, rice and melted shortening. Beat thor- 
oughly for two minutes, add baking powder and mix 
again. Grease deep pie dish, turn in the mixture and 
bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 



278 BREADS, ETC. 

RECIPE 1047. FRUIT MUFFINS. 

Make 1042. To it add one cup currants or blue- 
berries. If desired a little sweet add one-fourth cup 
sugar. 

RECIPE 1048. PUMPKIN MUFFINS. 

2 cups flour 2 eggs 

Vz teaspoon salt 1 cup cooked sifted 

2 teaspoons baking pumpkin 

powder y^ cup melted butter 

% cup of milk 
Sift together all dry ingredients; beat eggs lightly 
and add to them the milk and the pumpkin; use the 
liquid to moisten the muffins. Melt the butter and pour 
it into the mixture. Beat very thoroughly, turn into hot 
greased pans, and bake about 2 minutes in a hot oven. 

RECIPE 1049. PUMPKIN AVAFFLES. 

1% cups flour 1 cup pumpkin 

V2 teaspoon salt pulp 

2 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons melted 

powder butter 

2 eggs 1 level teaspoon ground 

1 cup milk ginger 

Sift together flour, salt, baking powder and ginger. 
Beat the eggs until quite light, add milk to them, also 
the pumpkin pulp. Add these to the dry ingredients, 
beating and mixing thoroughly, so as to make a smooth 
batter. Melt and add the butter last of all; then bake 
just the same as ordinary waffles. 

RECIPE 1050. RICE OR HOMINY GRIDDLE CAKES, 
WAFFLES OR MUFFINS. 

To Recipe 1042 add one cup cold boiled rice or 
hominy grits. 

RECIPE 1051. DATE WAFFLES. 

To Recipe 1042 add one cup stoned dates, chopped 
through grinder. 

RECIPE 1052. GRAHAM GEMS. 

1 cup sour milk 1 y^ cup graham flour 

1 egg % teaspoon baking 

1 teaspoon salt soda 

% cup molasses 
Add soda, molasses and salt to the milk, sift in the 
flour. Stir well and pour into well-buttered iron gem 
pans. 



BREADS, ETC. 279 

RECIPE 1053. POPOVERS. 

1 cup sweet milk i/4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs V2 teaspoon cream of 

1 cup tlour tartar 

Beat yolks until creamy. Beat whites about half 
done, then add to them the cream of tartar, beat until 
very dry. Add yolks to milk and salt, then add flour, 
and last fold in beaten whites of eggs. Put one-fourth 
teaspoon of butter in bottom of each muffin pan (iron 
gem pans are best). Bake in a hot oven about fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Serve at once. 

RECIPE 1054. CORN MEAL PARKER HOUSE BIS- 
CUIT. 

1 cup flour V2 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 egg 

2 teaspoons baking V2 cup milk or water 

powder 
See rules for mixing Baking Powder Biscuits. 

RECIPE 1055. ST. CHARLES CORN BREAD FOR 

TWO. 

Sift together Then beat together 

1 cup yellow corn meal 1 tablespoon melted 

1/^ teaspoon salt butter 

1 teaspoon baking 1 egg 

powder 1 cup milk 

Add liquids to dry ingredients and beat hard for 
two minutes. Pour into well greased, shallow pan and 
bake in moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 

RECIPE 1056. CORN PUFFS FOR TWO. 

% cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

% cup white flour 1 egg 

14 teaspoon salt % cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon baking 
powder 
Sift together dry ingreidents, then add the yolk of 
the egg lightly beaten, and the milk. When these are 
thoroughly beaten in, add the butter, melted but not 
heated any more than is absolutely necessary. Last of 
all, fold in the stiffy beaten white of egg and bake the 
puffs in small, greased gem pans in a hot oven. 

RECIPE 1057. SOUTHERN SPOON CORN BREAD. 

One-half cup corn meal, one cup cold cooked rice, 
one tablespoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one egg 



280 BREADS, ETC. 

well beaten, one teaspoon baking powder, three-fourths 
cup milk. Wet corn meal with boiling water and stir 
until the consistency of mush. Add rice, butter and salt 
and let stand over night or several hours during the day. 
Then add egg and milk. Sift baking powder into mix- 
ture. Beat well and pour into a well-buttered, shallow 
pudding dish and bake thirty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. Dot over top with small bits of butter when al- 
most done. Serve with a spoon. 

RECIPE 1058. EGG BREAD. 

1 pint boiling water 1 tablespoon lard 

1 cup corn meal 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

Place the boiling water in a mixing bowl and sift 
the corn meal into it, stirring all the time. Next add the 
salt and the lard, then the milk and, last of all, the 
eggs very thoroughly beaten. Turn into a well-greased 
baking pan and bake in a quick oven. Serve piping hot 
and butter the bread generously. 

RECIPE 1059, OLD FASHIONED JOHNNY CAKE. 

1 cup flour 1 14 teaspoons salt 

1 cup yellow corn meal 2 teaspoons baking 

1/4 cup sugar powder 

1 tablespoon melted 1 egg well beaten 

shortening 1 cup milk 

Beat all well together, pour into greased pan. Bake 
in moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 

RECIPE 1060. DUMPLINGS FOR MEAT STEWS. 

2 cups flour 1/^ teaspoon salt 

3 level teaspoons baking 1 egg (beaten well) 
powder i/^ cup cold water 

Sift dry ingredients together, beat egg thick and 
light, add one-half cup of cold water, stir this into the 
dry mixture and enough more water to make a dough 
stiff enough to hold its shape when dropped from the 
spoon. Drop the dumplings on a plate a little distance 
apart and cook in a closely covered steamer for fifteen 
minutes; or, drop them on top of the boiling stew and 
cook for the same length of time. The secret of having 
them light and tender lies in their not being disturbed 
while cooking, and in not having much liquid around 
them, if cooked on top of the stew. 



BREADS, ETC. 281 

RECIPE 1061. POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Grate or put through vegetable press about six 
medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, add a little salt, one 
egg and one cup flour, mix thoroughly (if necessary add 
a little more flour in handling). Take a little at a time, 
roll in palm of hands either lengthwise or into balls and 
drop into boiling salted water. Skim out when they 
come to the top and let drain. Pour over them cracker 
crumbs browned in butter. 

RECIPE 1062. DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

One cup flour, i/4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, sifted together. Add Vs cup finely chopped 
suet, and enough milk to make stiff dough. Make into 
dumplings size of marbles, drop into soup, cover, and 
boil 10 minutes. 

RECIPE 1063. MRS. WS MARROW BALLS FOR 
SOUPS. 

Take the marrow size of an egg from a soup bone, 
crush it with a fork, add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
1 egg, salt, pepper to taste, a scant teaspoon cream. 

Take enough bread crumbs to make into soft mass. 
Shape into balls, set away to cool. Cook about ten min- 
utes in boiling stock or soup. 



CHAPTER XXIV 
Helpful Hints. 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING. 

Biscuits and rolls 10 to 2 minutes 

Bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Roast Beef — rare 15 minutes to the pound 

Roast Beef — well done 2 minutes to the pound 

Cake — Layer 10 to 15 minutes 

Cake — Solid 40 to 60 minutes 

Cake — Fruit 2 to 4 hours 

Ducks — Domestic 1 to 2 hours 

Ducks — Wild 30 to 40 minutes 

Roast Lamb — rare 15 minutes to the pound 

Roast Lamb — well done 20 minutes to the pound 

Roast Pork — always well done. .20 minutes to the pound 
Roast Veal — always well done. . 2 minutes to the pound 
Roast Turkey — always well done. 20 minutes to the pound 



282 HELPFUL HINTS 

Roast Chicken — always well done. 2 minutes to the pound 

Baked Pish — large 10 minutes to the pound 

Pried Pish — small 5 to 15 minutes 

Popovers 20 minutes 

Cream Puffs 20 to 25 minutes 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

60 drops equals 1 teaspoonful. 

3 teaspoonsful equals 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonsful equals i/4 cupful. 

8 rounded tablespoonsful dry ingredients equals 1 
cupful. 
16 tablespoonsful liquid equals 1 cupful. 

2 cupsful equals 1 pint. 

2 cupsful butter equals 1 pound. 

2 cupsful granulated sugar equals 1 pound. 

2 cupsful chopped meat equals 1 pound. 

2 % cupsful powdered sugar equals 1 pound. 

31/^ cupsful confectioner's sugar equals 1 pound. 

4 cupsful flour equals 1 pound or 1 quart. 

2 tablespoonsful nuts, citron, raisins, currants or but- 
ter equals 1 ounce. 

1 pint equals 1 pound. 

TABLE OP PROPORTIONS. 

1 level teaspoonful to 1 cupful flour. 

1 level teaspoonful cream of tartar to 1 cupful flour. 

V2 teaspoonful soda to one cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda to 1 cupful molasses. 

1 heaping tablespoonful cornstarch to 1 pint of milk. 

1 envelope of granulated gelatine to 1 quart of liquid. 

HELPFUL HINTS. 

To freshen the atmosphere in a room put a few drops 
of oil of lavender in a bowl and add a pint of boiling 
water to it. 

Celery should be thrown into slightly salted ice 
water before using. This will make it crisp. 

Plowers should be put into a vase which has a little 
charcoal in it. The charcoal sinks to the bottom of the 
vase while the water remains clear. The flowers will 
remain fresh for several days. 

Every household should have a bottle of linseed oil 
and lime water for instant application in case of burns. 
Dip a piece of absorbent cotton in it and apply to the 
burn and bandage it on. 

Two pounds of alum dissolved in 3 quarts boiling 
water will make a solution which if applied to all cracks 
or crevices will drive away all bedbugs, roaches and ants. 



HELPFUL HINTS 283 

MY FAVORITE HAND LOTION. 

Once Tried You Will Never be Without it. 

Equal parts of glycerine, bay rum, ammonia and 
lemon juice. Druggists usually fill this prescription, put- 
ting up sixteen ounces for 35 cents. Use full strength on 
hands when retiring; rub it in well. Keep an extra bot- 
tle near the kitchen sink and use it after any work which 
is hard on the hands, but when using it in the daytime 
dilute it a trifle as it is slightly sticky. 

Chloride of lime sprinkled freely in the cellar will 
drive away rats and mice. Repeat the operation every 
three or four months. 

If you put an apple into the cake box it will keep the 
cake fresh. 

Grease spots on the floor should be moistened with 
soda and cold water before scrubbing. 

Cucumber peelings will frequently drive away 
roaches. 

Screen doors brushed with kerosene will help keep 
out the flies. 

Fruit should be rolled in a little flour before adding 
it to cake. This will keep it from sinking to the bottom 
of the cake. 

In making fruit gelatine, stir it two or three times 
after it begins to harden. The fruit will not all settle on 
top if this is done. 

The yolks of eggs which are left over to be used 
another day should be covered with a little cold water. 
This prevents a crust forming. 

If a can of pimientoes is opened and all are not used, 
put the balance into a jelly glass and cover with parafine 
until ready to use. 

If a drawer sticks rub it with lard or soap. 

In newly flnished bungalows the pitch in the wood 
may ooze out, making the stained woodwork sticky. This 
may be removed by applying a cloth wet in diluted 
vinegar. 

A teaspoon of butter added to frosting keeps it from 
drying out. 

In making boiled icing, if the syrup is removed 
from fire and poured over the eggs before the syrup is 
quite done, it is found that it will not harden. When 
well beaten put it into the double boiler for four or five 
minutes, without stirring. It will then be found to 
spread nicely. 

When washing mirrors or window panes, put a few 
drops of household ammonia on a piece of soft paper and 
every finger mark will vanish. 

Salt rubbed on egg stains on silver will remove them. 



2 84 HELPFUL HINTS 

Dry all bread crusts in oven and use for deep fat 
frying. When crusts are perfectly dry put them through 
the finest tooth meat grinder and then put away in jars. 
If weather is very damp dry them out in the oven oc- 
casionally so they will not mould. Bread crumbs are bet- 
ter than cracker crumbs for deep fat frying because they 
do not absorb the fat so readily. 

Cracker crumbs are best for the layers in most of 
the escalloped dishes. The top layer of either bread or 
cracker crumbs should be lightly buttered. This is easily 
done by melting a little fat in a frying pan and adding 
the crumbs to it and stirring well. These may be kept 
in this way several days in a cool place. 

Make enough pie dough for several days. It is all 
the better for standing in a cool place. 

Parafine wax is preferable for oiling the cake pans. 
Keep a piece handy, warm the pans slightly and rub with 
the wax. 

When the lettuce comes from the garden or market 
it should be looked over, washed thoroughly and placed 
in a clean wet cloth. Lay it on the ice. It should be 
looked at each morning, but will keep a week and is all 
ready for use without further washing. Lettuce must 
be perfectly dry before adding it to a salad or before 
pouring salad dressing over it. 

In making a rice pudding, boil the raisins in water 
for ten minutes before adding them to the milk and they 
will never curdle the milk. 

Never serve tea when you have fish. The tannic 
acid in the tea makes the fish very hard to digest. 

Copper may be easily brightened by rubbing it with 
a flannel cloth dipped in powdered borax and then well 
soaped, then applied briskly to the copper. 

When measuring out molasses first dip the cup thor- 
oughly in flour. The molasses will then run out readily. 

Wlien preparing celery for the table take lower end 
of root and coarse outer stalks with unbleached leaves, 
trim and scrub well, then lay on paper on pantry shelf or 
in cool cupboard and dry. Can be used to flavor soups, 
scalloped potatoes, etc., when fresh celery is not available. 

To drive away moths; wet little wads of cotton bat- 
ting with oil of cedar and place them in the closets and 
drawers. 

To take the printing from flour sacks, saturate sack 
in kerosene and roll tightly for an hour or more, then 
wash sack in warm soap suds and rinse. 

If you wish your hydranga to be blue, instead of 
pink, put it in a zinc tub, or put nails or iron close to 
the roots. 



HELPFUL HINTS 285 

How to tell how much ice the iceman leaves. Buy 
a cheap spring scale that will weigh from 1 to 50 lbs. 
Hang it by the ice box and when the iceman makes a de- 
livery, tie a strong piece of wrapping twine around the 
piece of ice and insert the hook of the scale and weigh. 
You will be surprised how a 10-lb. piece will shrink to 
7 or 8 pounds, or a 25 to 20 pounds. 

To remove ink stains, place article over a bowl, 
cover stain with borax, wet borax thoroughly with 
peroxide, using plenty of peroxide, and stain will almost 
immediately disappear. 

When making jelly, instead of using parafine to 
seal it, I wait until jelly is cold, then take a teaspoon of 
sugar and sprinkle on evenly. The sugar will candy 
and with this aid the jelly will keep perfectly if a piece 
of paper is tied over the glass and the tin lid is adjusted. 

If your crackers are limp crisp them in the oven 
before making a stuffing with them. 

Every man ought to take a lesson on carving. 

Dredge your lamb with flour before you sear it. 

If the citron is hard to cut, put it into a warm oven 
for two or three minutes. It will then cut easily. 

If the paper which comes around raisins and cur- 
rants is inclined to stick to them, put the package into a 
warm oven for a minute or two and paper will readily 
come off. 

Do not scrape the agate vessels to remove the 
scorched contents. Keep a can of concentrated lye in 
the kitchen and when a vessel becomes scorched put in 
a little lye, cover with an inch of water, let it come 
slowly to the simmer, and remain cooking very slowly 
for about five minutes. Pour off the lye water and the 
scorch will come off easily. 

When the recipe calls for the cake pans to be 
greased, just before putting in the cake dough shake a 
little flour into the pan and then shake out all that will 
come out. This flouring process assists the cake to come 
out easily and leaves a nice smooth surface on which to 
put the frosting. 

Plum puddings can be cooked in the double boiler 
without fear of their burning. 

When waffle iron is new, fill it full to running over 
with melted lard. Let it stand over night. In the morn- 
ing burn off this lard and fill it with fresh lard and let 
stand another day. It is then ready for use. Do not 
wash the waffle iron. Simply wipe it clean from day to 
day. 

Put patty shells in the oven to get crisp before using 
them. 



286 HELPFUL HINTS 

To clean a clogged drain pipe, before sending for the 
plumber, pour a cupful kerosene down the pipe and im- 
mediately pour after it a kettle of boiling water. 

If a dress becomes stained with lemon juice, put 
some ammonia water on the spot. It will frequently re- 
store the color. 

Scraped raw potatoes applied at once to a burn will 
give relief. It is said that if peroxide of hydrogen is 
applied at once to a burn there will be no blister. 

Keep a pair of shears over your kitchen table or 
some place close at hand. You need them to cut threads 
in trussing and for many other things. 

Don't use mutton fat for anything. It tastes wooley. 
Use salt pork fat. 

Be careful not to pierce the skin when you are sear- 
ing a lamb or any other meat for that mater. 

Cook dark meats rare and light meats well done. 



SOUR CREAM ICING. 

% cup sour cream 2 cups granulated sugar 

V2 teaspoon orange or vanilla extract 
Combine sugar and cream and boil gently without 
stirring until it threads. Cool until tepid, add flavoring, 
and beat until creamy, when it can be spread quickly over 
the cake. This makes a cream-colored frosting. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

3 egg-whites 1 cup granulated sugar 

2 1/^ teaspoons corn-starch 2 cups shredded cocoanut 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Beat egg-whites stiff and beat in the corn-starch 
mixed with the sugar. Cook in a double boiler, stirring 
all the time, until thick around the edges, remove from 
heat, add cocoanut and vanilla, drop on buttered tins, 
and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 



INDEX 



A 

Albondigas 226 

Ang-el Cake 955, 978-979 

Apple, Baked Dumplings .. 545 

Cake 1023 

Cups : 527 

Pie 615 

Roll Jelly 548 

Steamed Dumpling- 546 

Steamed Pudding 551 

Apples, Baked 547 

Escalloped with Left- 
Over Pork 848 

Fried With Left-Over 

Pork 849 

Stuffed With Left-Over 
Pork 847 

Apricot, Ice 690-695 

Pie 607 

Sherbet 702 

How to can 915 

Asparagus, Canned ...428-429 

Boiled 426 

Creamed 430 

Cream Soup 61 

Drawn Butter Sauce for. 116 

Escalloped 431 

Hollandaise Sauce for... 141 

Canned 429 

Salad 502 

Souffle 432 

Soup (See Cream Soup) . . 61 
Vinaigrette Sauce for 
Canned Asparagus . . . .428 

Vinaigrette Sauce 153 

Vinegar Sauce for 427 

Austrian Tomatoes 28B 

B 

Bacon, Broiled 346 

Fried 347 

Baked, Apple Dumplings. . 545 

Apples 547 

Brown Bread 1012 

Special Potatoes 364 

Sweet Potatoes 366 

Tomatoes 191-421 

Baking Powder Biscuit. . 1024 
Baking Powder Biscuit 

Rules 1023B 

Banana Filling for Cake.. 817 

Ice Cream 681 

Batter Fritter 164-165 

Bavarian Cream Pudding .660 
Bean, Kidney Salad... 483, 510 

Puree 72-73 

Beans, Boston Baked 442 

How to Can 918 

Lima 446 



Lima Beans Dry 448 

New England 443 

String 444-445 

Bernaise Sauce 142 

Bechamel Sauce, White.... 138 
Yellow. . .139 

Beef, a-la-mode 323 

Braised 337 

Boiled Corned 340 

German Pot Roast.. 309, 844 

Loaf Brown Gravy 295 

Loaf Creole 296 

Loaf Spanish 297 

Olives 177 

Rice With 300 

Roast of 290 

Rolls, Left-Over Roast.. 846 
Steak (see Index) 

Steak Pie 181 

Stock 43 

Tongue, Braised 338 

Beets, Boiled 394 

Boiled Tops 396 

Vinegar Sauce for 427 

Belgian Hare Country Style 283 

Fried 284 

En Casserole 217 

Berry Pie 604-606 

Pudding 552 

Beverages as follows. . 715-729 
Canton Ginger Punch... 729 

Champaigne Punch 723 

Claret Cup 719 

Claret Punch 720 

Currant Shrub 724 

Egg Nog 726-727 

Fruit Cup 718 

Fruit Cup for 50 persons. 728 

Lemonade 715 

New York Punch 722 

Orangeade 716 

Pineapple Lemonade ....717 

Raspberry Shrub 725 

Root Beer 933 

Sherry Cobler 721 

Biscuit, Baking Powder.. 1024 
Baking Powder Rules 

for 1023B 

Beaten Biscuit 1040 

Braids 1033 

Breakfast Breads which see 

Clover Biscuit 1032 

Coffee Cake 1026 

Date Triangles 1035 

Dutch Apple Cake 1039 

English Sweet Buns ...1031 

Glace 688 

Hot Cross 1029 

Marmelade 1028 



288 



INDEX 



Nut Drops 1030 

Parker House .1054 

Sandwich 1027 

Sweet Potatoes 1034 

Skon 1041 

Southern for two 1025 

Blanc Mange 631 

Chocolate 633 

Chocolate, no eggs 632 

Boston Baked Beans 442 

Boston Brown Bread ....1012 

Brandied Peaches 952 

Bread, Baking Rules, Page 260 

Boston Brown 1012 

Brown. Baked 1013 

Date Bread 1004 

Egg Bread 1058 

German Rye lOllA 

Graham 1007-1008 

Gluten 1016 

Making 260 

Milk 1009 

Nut 1001 to 1003 

Potato 1013B 

Quick Nut 1001 to 1003 

Raisin 1005 

Roman Meal 

Rye 1010 

Salt Rising lOllB 

Salt Graham 1008 

Southern Rice 1046 

Two Hour 996 

Whole Wheat 1006 

Breaded Chops 330 

Breakfast Breads, Rules 

for 1024 

Biscuits (see Biscuits) 

Corn Puffs 1056 

Date 1051 

Graham Gems 1052 

Griddle Cakes 1043-1050 

Muffins, Fruit 1045-1047 

Muffins, Pumpkin 1048 

Muffins, Wheat 1044 

Pop Overs 1053 

Pumpkin 1049 

Quick Coffee Cake 103S 

Skon 1041 

Southern Rice Bread... 1046 

Waffles, Plain 1042 

Waffles, Pumpkin 1049 

Waffles, Rice 1050 

Waffles, Hominy 1050 

Brown Betty Pudding 549 

Sauce 115 

Stock 47 

Buns. English Sweet ....1031 

Hot Cross 1021 

Butter, Drawn Sause 116 

Butter, Maitre d'Hotel 137 

C 

Cabbage, Au Gratin 438 

Boiled 436 



Cold Slaw 512 

Escalloped 437 

Cake Making Rules, Page 188 
Mixing and Baking 

Rules, Page 189 

Angel 778-779 

Apple 1023 

Beacon Stone 747 

Boiled Fruit 783 

Brides Cake 732 

Caramel 757 

Chocolate Black 745 

Chocolate and White ...73.'^ 
Chocolate Triangles ....774 

Chocolate Icing for 775 

Citron 770 

Coffee Cake. German. . .1022 
Coffee Cake, Quick ....1038 

Currant 771 

Date Sticks 788 

Devil's Food 743-744 

Dutch Apple or Peach.. 1039 

Fairy T's 753 

Feather White 737 

Fig 772 

Fillings (see Fillings) 
Frostings (see Frostings) 

Fruit Black 781 

Fruit, Boiled 783 

Fruit and Nut 782 

Fruit White : 784 

Fruit Dark 781 

Fruit Tea 787 

Fruit Rocks 831 

Fruit, no butter or 

eggs 785-786 

German Coffee 1022 

Good Quick 739 

Golden Cream 758 

Golden Cream Filling ..759 

Golden Pound 768 

High Altitude (see end) 

of Cake Index) 

Ice Cream 732 

Icing for Walnut 

Squares 777 

Jelly Roll 748-749 

Layer Spice 731 

Left-Overs 879 

Little Fancy Sponge ....752 
Marshmallow Filling ..816 

Molasses 741 

Northwest White 731 

One Egg 738 

Potato 742, 759B 

Pound Golden 768 

Pound Plain 769 

Quick Coffee 1038 

Quick and Good 739 

Raisin 773 

Ribbon Cake 733 

Small Pork 780 

Spice 734-789 

Sponge 754 to 756 



INDEX 



289 



Strawberi'y 563 

Strawberry Snow Drifts. 55? 

Sunshine 751 

Velvet White 730 

Walnut 7 40 

Walnut Chocolate- 746 

Walnut Chocolate Drops. 834 

Walnut Squares 776 

Walnut Icing for 777 

Walnut Wafers ' 835 

Washing-ton Pic 750 

White Sponge 756 

Yellow 832B 

Yellovv- and WTiite 736 

Cake, High Altitude 

Rules for 759A 

Chocolate .762 

Devil's Food 763 

Nut and Raisin 766 

White Layer 767 

Potato 759B 

Rocky Mt. White 765 

Spice 761 

Walnut 764 

Yellow Layer 760 

Canapes, Vaviare 38 

Cheese 40 

Cheese and Olive 35 

Chicken 42 

How to Make 32 

Lobster or Crab 37 

Pimioplo 39 

Sardine 34 

Sandwiches 38 

Smoked Salmon 36 

Tomatoes . . 41 

Canapes and Sandwiches.. 33 
Candies (see Confections) 
Canned Fruits 

Rules for . . . .Pages 235-237 

Apricots 915 

Blackberries 913 

Clierries 912 

Cooked m Oven 953B 

Peaches . .90 8 

Pears 909 

Pineapple 911 

Plums 915 

Quinces 910 

Raspberries 913 

Strawberries 911 

Canned Fruit Cooked in 

Oven .953T', 

Canton Ginger Punch 729 

Caper Sauce 143 

Carrot Pie 590 

Casserole Cooking ...Page 45 

Cauliflower. Boiled 439 

Escalloped 440 

Fried 441 

Chaffing Dish Su:rg<^s- 

tions 24'1-245 

Cheese Ball.-^ . ..239-240 



Cheese 

Canapes 35-40 

Corn with 208-209 

Macaroni and 876-877 

Macaroni Souffle 170 

Noodles Souffle 171 

Rice Souffle 173 

Souffle .168 

Spaghetti and 169 

Straws 241 

Welsh Rarebit 242 

Cherries, How to Can.... 912 

Spiced 919 

Cherry Pie 602-950 

Preserves 923 

Salad 473 

Sauce 575 

Chestnut Stuffing t~>v 

Turkey 251 to 256 

Chlckfii. a la King. ... 270-271 

a la Plain 272 

a la Marengo 27 8 

Corn Pie 249 

Broiled 267 

Canape 42 

Creole 266 

Croquettes 157 

En Casserole 216 

Fricassee 260 

Fricassee Southern 261 

Fried 262-263-264 

Fritot 265 

Goulash 268 

Gravy with Eggs 274 

How to Plank ....Page 91 

Maryland 264 

Pie 629 

Planked 269-30?, 

Roast 268B 

Salad 464 

Supreme of 275 to 277 

Tomato Pie 630 

Wings with Rice 273 

Chile Con Carne Con 

Friioles 225 

Killes 227 

Chocolate Beverage 6 

Blanc Mange 633 

Cake. Devil's Food .773-774 

Cream Pudding 634 

Sauce 571 

Chop Suev 228 

Chops. Preaded 330 

Broiled 3Sl 

English i\Patton 332 

Stuffed 329 

Chowder, Clam 68 

Fish 67 

Cinnamon Rolls 1017 

Citron Cake 770 

Claret Cup 719-720 

Clover Biscuit 1032 

Club Sandwich 993 



290 



INDEX 



Cobbler, Sherry 721 

Coffee Cake. German 1022 

Cocktail, Boiled Fish 836 

Crab 101-102 

Fruit 537 

Grape Fruit .536 

Lobster 102 

Cocoa Beverage 5 

CodfTsh Balls 109 

Creamed 106 

Pyramids = 107 

Pyramid Sauce lOS 

Coffee, au Lait 4 

Boiled 1 

Black 3 

Cake 1026 

Cream Fillings for 

Cake 812 

Iced 9 

Ice Cream 679 

Percolated 2 

Confections 

After Dinner Mints 955 

Black Walnut Panouchi.95S 

Bologna Candy 961 

Butter 977 

Chocolate Caramels ....963 

Chocolate Fudge 964 

Chocolate Divinity 

Fudge 968 

Divinity Fudge 966-967 

Fondant 954 

French Bons Bons 957 

Karo Butter Scotch 978 

Karo Caramel 981 

Karo Cream Drops 975 

Karo Cream Caramels .. 983 

Karo Sea Foam 979 

Karo Wafers 980 

Maple Fudge 969 

Maple Nut Fudge 970 

Marshmallows 972 

Mint Delight 960 

Mints, After Dinner ....95.^> 

Molasses Taffy 971 

Nut Creams 956 

Peanut Candy 976 

Peanut Fudge 96F 

Soft Karo 973 

Turld.sh Delight 959 

Uncooked Cream 962 

AValnut Ca-^amels 982 

Yellow Jack 974 

Cookies, Cream 828 

Fruit Rocks 831 

Ginger Snaps 823 

Hickory Nut 829 

Molasses 825-82(; 

Oatmeal 830 

Plain 827 

W^alnut Drops 834 

Corn Beef, Boiled 34 

Beef Hash 342 



Corn 

Bread, St. Charles 1055 

Escalloped with Toma- 

toeo 210 

Fritters 207 

How to Can 916 

Johnny Cake 1059 

Oysters 211 

Meal Parker House 

Biscuit 1054 

Pudding 20S 

Pudding with Cheese. ... 209 

Puffs 1056 

Southern Corn Bread.. 1057 

Crab, a la Newburgh 2 46 

Canape 37 

Cocktail for one 100-101 

Creamed 103 

Croquettes 159 

Deviled 105 

Flakes, a la Dewey.... 248 

Cream Bavarian Sauce.... 660 

French Sauce 663 

Puffs 565 

Sherry Wine, of 63S 

Spanish Sauce 662 

Velvet Sauce 661 

Soup 60-61 

Ham on Toa&t 852 

Creole Chicken 266 

Sauce 123 

Soup 50 

Steak En Casserole ....214 

Croquettes, How to Make.. 157 
Crumpets 1019 

Croquettes, Chicken 157 

Crab 159 

Egg 237 

Fish 159 

Lamb 157 

Lobster 159 

Macaroni 161 

Meat or Fowl 157 

Oyster 161 

Parsnip 389 

Potato Balls 375 

Ric^ 162 

Rice and C'neese 160 

Rules for Frying'. . Page 46 

Scallop 159 

Shrimp 159 

Soup Meat 313, 869 

Spaghetti or Macaroni ..161 

Surprise 867 

Sweet Bread 163 

Sweet Potato 235 

Tomato 238 

Turkey 157 

Veal 157 

Crumpets 1019 

Cubes, Lemon for Salad... 534 

Cumberland Sauce 154 

Currant Jelly 896 



(NDEX 



291 



Currant 

Shrub 724 

Tea Ring- 1020 

Curry Veg-etable 180 

Custard Baked 657 

Baked Rice 65 6 

CreE.m Filling 810 

Frozen 675. 678 

Minute Tapioca 658 

Rice 654 

Cutlets, Fish or Meat 

104, 158, 872 

D 

Date Bread 1004 

Sticks 1037 

Triang-les 1035 

Dandelion Greens, Boiled.. 397 

Deep Fat Frying 

Rules for Page 46 

Desserts, Cold 165 

Deviled Crabs 105 

Eggs 482 

Egg Sandwiches 995 

Tomatoes 200 

Doughnuts, Plain . . . '. 821 

Potato 822 

Drawn Butter Sauce 116 

Butter Sauce with li:ggs.ll7 

Drings (see Beverages) 

Duck, Mock 308 

Onion Stuffing for 257 

Roast 279 

Dumplings Page 142 

Marrow Balls 1063 

Meat Stews for 1060 

Potato 1061 

Soup for 1062 

Egg Tiread 1058 

Egg Nogg, Frozen . 677 

Plain 726 

Summer 727 

Egg Plant, Escalloped ^^3 

P'^H'cl '.435 

Stuffed 434 

Eggs and Breakfast Bev- 
erages Page 5 

Baked in Tomato Sauce. 24 
Baked in White Sauce. 27 

Boiled 10 

Country Style. Fried.... 12 

Creamed on Toast 22 

Croquettes 237 

Deviled 482 

Deviled Egg Salad 481 

Deviled Egg Sandwich.. 
Drawn Butter Sauce .... 

Escalloped 433 8.".'] 

^ried ; .811 

German Style It 

Mu.«hroom in Cteam.... 2s; 
Nests 31 



Egg 

Omelette i:.;onomical ... 30 

Omelette Jelly 21 

Omelette, Plain 19 

Omelette Puff 20 

Souffle 553 

Rum Souf flo 554 

Planked is 

Poached 1.3 

Poached in Chicken 

Gravy 274 

Poached in Codfish for 

two 29B 

Poached in Potatoes . . . .28C 

Scrambled 15-16 

Scrambled with Cheese. . 25 
Scrambled with Sausage. 29 

Shirred 17 

Southern Style 23 

Spanish Style 26 

Swiss 32 

With Cream Sauce 113 

En Casserole, Pigeoii, 

Squab or Squirrel 289 

Entrees Page 45 

English Muffins 1018 

English Sausage Pie 166 

English Sweet Bunns ...1031 
PJscalloped Cabbage with 

Pork 850 

Corn and Tomatoes ....210 

Egg Plants 438 

Dishes Page 45 

Left-Over Meat 183 

Meat with Potato Bor- 
der 86s 

Onions and Tomatoes ...205 
Spaghetti and Ham 236 

P 

Fat, Deep Frying ..Pag.e 46 

Figaro Sauce 125 

Fig Prune Cream 650 

Pudding ^ 539 

Fillings, Banana Cream.. 820 

Cake, Banana 817 

Chocolate Cream 811 

Cocoanut 813-814 

Coffee Cream . . ., 812 

Custard Cream 810 

Fig or Raisin 815 

Lemon 8uS, 814 

Marshmallow 816 

Nut 818 

Orange 809, 814 

Pineapple Gelatine 819 

Fish, Baked 76 

Boiled 78 

Broiled 75 

Creamed with Ovsters..842 

Cutlet 104 

Dressing 258 

p]scalloped with Toma- 
toes 841 



2^2 



INDEX 



Fish 

Fillet 79-80 

Fried 77 

Halibut Baked 86 

Halibut Cheeks 84 

Halibut En Blanquette.. 8'j 
How to Plank ....Page 91 

Left-Overs 836 to 863 

Medallions 81 

Sauce 88 and Page 3.^ 

Salmon Baked 85 

Shad Baked 83 

Smelts, French 87 

Stock for Fish 44 

Turban of Salmon Trout. 82 

Floating Island 653 

Floating Island with Rice. 654 

French Cream 663 

Rolls 1015 

Fried, Belgian Hare 284 

Chicken 262-263 

Fish 77 

Oysters 

Potatoes 362-370 

Rabbits 285 

Salt Pork with Gravy.. 348 

Smelts, French Style ... 87 

Fricassee Chicken ....260-261 

Fritter Batter 164-165 

Frostings, Boiled ....802, 790 

Brown 802 

Burnt 797 

Butter 799 

Caramel, Burnt 797 

Chocolate 793 

Chocolate Butter 800 

Chocolate Caramel 798 

Chocolate Fudge ..795 

Chocolate Marshmallow .796 

Cocoa 794 

Fudge 803 

Milk 804-805 

Mocha 801 

Uncooked 791 

Without Eggs ..792-807-806 

Frozen Desserts 673 

Custard 675 

Chocolate Custard 678 

Fruit Beverages ....Page 176 
Fruits, Canned (see CanneS*) 

Pickled Cherries 950 

Peaches 946 

Pears 947 

Plums 948 

Preserves (see Preserves) 
Fudge (see Confections) 

O 

Game. How to Dress 279 

Broiled Quail 281 

Roast Duck 279 

Roast Quail 282 

]-:oast Partridge 280 



Game 

Stuffing for, (see Stuffing) 

Gelatine, Fruit 643 

German Coffee Cake ....1022 

Pot Roast 309- 

Hash 854 

Rye Bread lOllA 

Gingerbread, Soft White.. 833 
White 832 

Ginger Canton Punch . . . .729 
Gooseberry Chutney ....953 

Goulash . 233 

Snaps 823 

Gluten Bread 1016 

Graham Bread ...1007 

Bread, Soft 1008 

Gems 1052 

Green Ravigote Sauce ....130 

Greens, Boiled Beets 394 

Boiled Tops 396 

Boiled Dandelion 397 

Spinach Boiled 400 

Griddle Cakes (see Break- 
fast Bread) 

H 

Halibut En Blanquette.... 89 

Fried 84 

Scotch 194 

Tartai-e Sauce for 129 

Ham, Boiled 34F 

Broiled 343 

Fried 344 

Left-Over 851-859, 

Hamburger, Broiled Balls. 316 

Country Style 319 

Hash on Tcast 318 

Hash Creamed 317 

Luncheon Dish 182 

Planked SLeak 314 

Planked Spanish 315 

Souffle 172, 864 

Spaghetti or Macaroni ..184 

Vienna Steak 179 

Hand Lotion Page 283 

Hare, Belgian En Casse- 
role 217 

Country Style . ."'. 283 

Belgian, Fried 284 

Hash, Spanish 224 

Corn Beef 342 

Helpful Hints ..Page 282-283 

Hollandaise Sauce 141 

Horseradish Sauce 126 

Hot Cross Buns 104 

Hot Cross Biscuits 1029 

I 

Ice, Apricot 695 

Lemon 690 

INlint 697 

Orange 6:n 

Peach 696 



INDEX 



293 



Ico 

Pineapple . , i^92 

Raspberr\ vjgs 

Strawberi :; 694 

.Tcebergs 698 

Icing- Chocolate Triangles 

for 775 

English Walnut Squares 

for . . _ 776 

Sour Cream Pa,g.> 28ti 

Ice Cream, Banana 6S1 

Biscuit Glace 6S,S 

Caramel 680 

Chocolate - ... 676 

Chocolate Custard 678 

Cotfee 679 

Custard . 675 

Egg- Nosg, Fiozen 67 7 

Evaporated Milk 68!,' 

Eruit 680 

Ivemon 685 

Macarooii 687 

Nut 68:; 

Orange .681 

Tutti l<'rutti 683 

Vanilla 673-674 

Ices and Sherbets ... 690 to 704 
Italian Merinsue 700 

J 

Jam, Rules for ....Pas-^ 235 

Blackben-y .'"'... 922 

Currant 922 

Raspberry 922 

Plum 920 

Spiced Plum 921 

Jellies, Rules for ..Page 285 
Jelly, Apple and Quince ..900 

^Pple 898 

Apple Mint 907 

Blackberry 901 

Coffee 641 

Crab Apple 899 

Cubes for Salad 534 

Currant 896 

Currant and Raspberry .. 897 

Damson Plum 904 

Fruit Gelatine 643 

Grape gO"} 

Lemon 640 

Lemon Cubes !534 

Marshmallow and Prune. 645 

Mint :. 906-907 

Mint for Roast Lamb 151, 906 

Orang-e 642 

Prunes in 644 

Quince 900 

Tomato for Salad. .. 479-480 

Wild Grape 905 

Wild Plum 903 

Wine .. < 639 

Johnny Cake 1059 

Jumbles 824 



Kidney Bean Salad 4Ji3-510 

Kidneys, Country blyie 188-.189 

En Cass^^role 218 

Stuffed 185 

With Mushrooms 187 

\V ine Sauce i86 

With Tomatoes . 189 

Lamb Chops 331 

Croquettes . 157 

Mint Jelly for 906-907 

l^oast 291 

Sturted Shoulder 335 

Stuhed Kidneys 185 

Lef t-Uvers, Appies 847 

Boiled l-'ish fc-aiad 469 

Cabbage 850 

Cake 879 

Cutlets of Meat. . .872 to 875 
Escalloped Meat . . . .183, 860 
Escalloped Meat with 

Oysters 359 

Fish, Cocktail .'.'836 

Creamed 838 

Creamed with Oysters. 842 
Escalloped v/ith Toma- 
toes 841 

Macaroni and cheese.. 840 

Pie 871 

Planked 837 

Fruits 880-881 

Ham or Sausage 851 

Ham on Toast 852 

Hamburger and Spa- 

,^&hetti 184 

Macaroni and Cheese. . 

,^ 859, 876-877 

Meat 843-857-863 

866 to 869 and 872 to 875 

Meat Salad 468 

Meat Pic 870 

Planked Page 91 

Potatoes, Baked Mashed. 376 

Balls 375 

Boston 371 

Cakes ,'.'373 

Creamed Southern ...369 

Hashed Brown 370 

Pyramids 373 

Lyonnaise 372 

Surprise Croquettes. .! 867 

Vienna Rolls 377 

Pork 847 to 849 

Pot Roast. 844 and 854 to 856 
Rice with Ham or Sau- 

_.sage 851 

Rice Souffle 862 to 865 

Roast Meat 845-846 

Roast Pork, Escalloped . 850 
Spaghetti and Cheese ...878 



294 



INDEX 



Lemon Cubes for Fruit 

Salad 534 

Fillings for Cake ...808-814 

Fluff Pie 594 

Ice 690 

Ice Cream 685 

Raisin Pie 610 

Salad Dressing- 461 

Sherbet 703 

Lemonades (see Beverages) 

Lentils, Puree 74 

Lima Beans, Puree 73 

Liver Roasted 234 

Lobster a la Newburgh . . . 245 

Britannia ...247 

Canape 37 

Cocktail 102 

Croquettes 159 

Salad 565 

Loganberry Pie 605 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese. . 876-877 
Macaroni and Cheese 

Souffle 170 

Macaroni and Hamburger . 184 
Macedoine of Fruit Jelly.. 652 

Mapleine Frango 708 

Marinate Page 122 

Marmelade Biscuit 1028 

Grape Fruit 930 

Orange 926-927 

Orange and Lemon 928 

Orange and Rhubarb .... 92*^ 

Peach 945 

Quince 931 

Spiced Rhubarb 932 

Marrow Balls for Soup... 1063 

Marshmallow Candy 972 

Filling for Cake 816 

Prune Jelly 645 

Pudding 646-647 

Snow 648 

Trifle 649 

Mayonnaise, Boiled 451 

Cheese 453 

Corn Starch, with 452 

Plain, Uncooked 128 

Meats Page 89 

Left-Over (see Left-Overs) 

Balls 220 

Cutlets 104 

Escalloped Left-Over . , 

848-85^5 

Pie 183, 858, 181, 311 

Potato Puff 166 

Sauces, see Page 35 

Soup Meat Pie 312 

Stews, Dumplings for.. 1060 
Meat Substitutes Page 229-230 
Bean and Cheese Nut 
Roast 884 



Meat Substitutes 

Bean Roast without 

Nuts 885 

Beans with Tomatoes ..887 
Banana and Nut Mould.. 890 
Banana and Bean Roast. 891 

Barley Roast 889 

Combinations for Meals. 

Pages 230-231 

Cutlets 104 

Cutlets or Croquettes... 

886, 892, 895 

Hominy and Nut Roast.. 888 

Italian Meat 895B 

Lentil and Cheese Nut 

Roast 884 

Lentils without Nuts 885 

Lentils with Tomatoes. . 887 
Noodles and Tomato 

Sauce 894 

Nut and Cheese Roast. . . 

892, 895C 

Nut Cutlets or Cro- 
quettes 892 

Peas and Cheese Nut 

Roast 884 

Peas without Nuts 885 

Peas with Tomatoes ...887 
Rice Croquettes or Cut- 
lets 895 

Rice Cheese Nut Roast.. 883 
Vegetable Hash 893 

Meringue, Italian 700 

Pies (see Pies) 

Mince Meat 585 

Pie 586 

Mint Delight 960 

Mock Oysters 212 

Quail on Toast 213 

Chicken 222 

Chicken Pie 223 

Cream Sauce 581 

Duck 308 

Mince Meat 587 

Mocha Frosting 801 

Molasses Cookies ...825-826 
Taffy 971 

Mornay Sauce 127 

Mousse Genl. Recipes 711 

Pineapple 712 

Jello 713 

Maple 714 

Mufflns, English 1018 

Fruit 1047 

Left-Over Cereal Fruit. 1045 

Pumpkin 1048 

Rice and Hominy 1050 

Wheat 1044 

Mushrooms Baked with 

Oysters 410 

Broiled 408 

Canned 411 

Cheese with 412 



INDEX 



295 



Oysters 

Escalloped 407 

In Cream 405 

Sauted 406 

Stewed 404 

Stuffed 409 

aiutton, Boiled Leg cf 333 

Braised Leg of 334 

English Chops 332 

EnCasserole 219 

Haricot 221 

X 

New England Boiled Din- 
ner 341 

Neufchatel Cheese Salad. . 

490 to 492 

New York Punch 732 

Noodle Soup 1001 to 1003 

Nut Balls 244 

Drop Biscuits 1030 

Bread, Quick ..1001 to 1003 
Roast with Cheese 895C 

O 

Omelette Souffle 553 

Onion Stuffing 257 

Onions Baked with Nuts.. 381 

Creamed 379 

Escalloped 387 

Escalloped with Toma- 
toes 205 

French Fried 386 

Fried 383 

Pickled 944 

With Chicken Stuffing. . 315 

With Custard Sauce 384 

With Drawn Butter 

Sauce 380 

With Savory Sauce 382 

Orange Filling for Cake.. 

809-814 

Ice 691 

Ice Cream 684 

Marmelade ...926-927 

Salad (see Salads) 

Orangeade 716 

Oyster Cocktail 99 

Croquettes 161 

Sausage 206 

Soup 69-70 

Stuffing 252 

Oysters. Broiled 97 

Creamed on Half Shell.. 96 

Escalloped , .... 93-94 

Fried 90 to 92 

in Blankets 95 

Planked 98 

Sausage 200 

F 

Parfait. Genl. Recipe 705 

Caramel (see note to 706) 
Custard 709 



Parfait 

Maple 70r, 

Pineapple 707 

Parker House Rolls. . .997-998 
Corn Meal Biscuits. ... 1054 

Parsley' Sauce 144 

Parsnip Balls 389 

Croquettes 389 

Parsnips, French Fried.... 391 

Fried 388 

Fritters 390 

Sauted 392 

Souffle 393 

Partridge, Stuffing for.258-25r. 
Roast 280 

Pea Puree 71 

Peach Ice 696 

Marmelade 945 

Pie 607-946 

Sherbet 704 

Tapioca Pudding ...558-559 

Peaches, How to Can 

Brandied 952 

Pickled 946 

Peanut Fudge 965 

Stuffing for Birds 255 

Pear Pie 608-947 

Pears, How to Can 909 

Peas, Buttered 399 

Carrots with Cream ..^.114 

Creamed 114-398 

How to Can 71 

Peppers, Green Baked, 

Stuffed with Corn ....202 
Green, Stuffed with 
Ham 203 

Perigeux Sauce 147 

Picalilli 941 

Pickles, Rules for ..Page 235 

Pickled Cherries % 950 

Beats 395 

Cucumbers 934 

Fruit (see Pickled Fruit) 
Gherkin Cucumbers ....934 

Green Peppers .936 

Green Tomatoes, Sour. . . . 

938-949 

Green Tomatoes, Sweet. 939 

Onions 944 

Peaches 940-946 

Pears 947 

Picalilli 941 

Pepper Stuffing 937 

Plums 948 

Vinegar Mixture for.... 935 

Pie Dough Suggestions.... 

Page 153 

Apple 615 

Apricot 607 

Banana 622 

Blackberry 604 

Blueberry 606 

Butter Scotch 628 

Carrot 590 



296 



INDEX 



Tie 

Cherry .... .... 602-950 

Cheap 596 

Chicken 629 

Chicken Tomato 630 

Chocolate 626 

Cream INIeringue b25 

Custard 591 

Damson Plum 621 

Date 617-61S 

Dutch Apple 612 

Dough for one 584 

Doug-h Suggestions Page 153 

Fig- 619 

French Apple 613 

Fruit Mering-ue 624 

Grape Fruit 611 

Green Tomato 620 

Italian Apple Tart 616 

Lemon Cheap 596 

Lemon Fluff 594 

Lemon with Crackers ..595 

Lemon Raisin 610 

Loganberry 605 

Maple Custard 627 

Meat 585 

Meringue Lemoii 593 

Mince 586 

Mince Meat for 585 

Mock Mince 587 

Peach 607-946 

Pear 608-947 

Pigeon or Squirrel 288 

Pineapple 607-94S 

Plum 607 

Potato 598-599 

Pumpkin 588 

Raisin and Cranberry. . 

592-609 

Raspberry 603 

Rice 600 

Rhubarb Meringue 623 

.•-^elf Frosted 597 

Squirrel 288 

Strawberry Cream 601 

Sweet Apple 614 

Sweet Potato 589 

Pigeon En Casserole 289 

Pie 288 

Pimiento, Baked Stuffed.. 204 
Canape 39 

Pineapple Lemonade 717 

Salad (see Salad) 

Plank, How to Use.. Page 24 

Planked Beefsteak 30i 

Chicken 269-303 

Fish 302 Csee Page 24) 

Hamburg-er 314-31.^- 

Left-Over Fish .'304-837 

Meat Sug-gestions for 

Planking Page 91 

Suggestions Where to 
Buy Plank Pag-e 91 



Plank 

Sugg-estions How to 

Use Pag:e 91 

Plums, How to Can 948 

Plum Jam 920 

Pie 607 

Pudding- 561-665 

Spiced 921 

Poached Egg-s (see Egg's) 
Poor Man's Rice Pudding-. . 655 

Pork, Creamed 222 

Left-Over 847 to 850 

Mock Chicken Pie 223 

Roast 293 

Salt with Gravy 348 

Stuffed Shoulder 335 

Tenderloin Breaded ....324 
Tenderloin Countrv 

Style 325 

Tenderloin Stuffed 326 

Tenderloin Lyonnaise ..327 
Tenderloin Financiere ..328 

Potato Balls 358 

Ball Croquettes 375 

Bread .1013B 

Cakes 373 

Chips 361 

Croquettes Surprise 37 4 

Nests 356 

Pyramids 378 

Salad 476-477 

Stuffing- for Birds 256 

Vienna Rolls 3?7 

Potatoes Au Gratin 354 

Baked 349 

Baked Mashed 376 

Ball Croquettes . , 375 

Boiled 350 

Boston 371 

Cakes 373 

Cottage Fried 3.'i9 

Creamed 352-369 

Diced in Cream 353 

Escalloped 363 

French Fried . . . . , 362 

Fried Balls 35S 

Hashed Brown 370 

Julienne 357 

Lyonnaise 372 

Mashed 351 

Minced Raw Fried 360 

Nests 356 

O'Brian 355 

Spiced Baked 361 

Surprise Croquettes ....374 

Sweet Balls 368 

Sweet Croquettes 368 

Sweet Fried 367 

Sweet Mashed and 

Baked 366 

Sweet Pie . 589 

Sweet Southern -. .365 

Pot Roast, German ...309-844 



INDEX 



297 



Pot Roast 

Veal or Lamb 320 

Poultry and Game. .. Page 72 

Dressing- 25^^-259 

How to Dress 250 

How to Stuff Page 73 

How to Truss . . . .Page 73 

How to Serve Page 74 

Left-Ovors (.see Left-Overs) 

Stuffins- for 251 to 259 

Pound Cake 768-769 

Preseives, Rules for Page 235 

Cherry 923 

Cherries Spiced 919 

.Jams which see 

Meloi; . : . 925 

Peaches Brandied 952 

Spiced Pears 95 1 

Yellow Tomatoes 924 

Prunes, Jellied 644-645 

Pudding 637 

Souffle with Nuts 636 

^ Whip 635 

Pudding, Apricot .. ..665-670 
Puddings and Sauces. . . . 

Pages 142 to 149 

Baked Apple Dumpling. 545 

Baked Apricot 66? 

Baked Pearl Tapioca. . . . 

• ■.» : .. .659-66S 

Baked Peach 66J 

Baked Pearl Pineapple. . 66; 

Bavarian Cream 66C 

Blanc Mange 631 

Blanc Mange, Chocolate. 633 
Blanc Mange, no eggs.. 632 

Boiled Indian 543 

Brown Betty 549 

Cereal 54O 

Cheap Steamed 538 

Cherry .. 55.S 

Chocolate Cream 634 

Chocolate Steamed 559 

Christmas 5 41 

Cocoanut Puffs ...Page 286 

Cottage 560 

Custard 657 

Fif? ;539 

Fig and Prune 650 

Floating Island 653 

Floating Island, Rice 654 

Fruit Chocolate 651 

Ginger 562 

Graham 54j 

Macedoine, of ..'.'.' 652 

Maraschino Cherry ....."55s 

Marsh mallow 646-64"^' 

Marshmallow Snow .... 

,,••••• •• • 646 to 648 

Marshmallow Triffle ...649 

Minute 658 

Nesselrode * 710 

Omellette Souffle 553 

Omelette Rum 554 



Puddin.^s 

Orange 666-667 

Peach Tapioca 

_ 659-664-668-670 

Peach Pineapple 669 

Plum 561-665 

Prune Whip 635 

Rice Custard 656 

Rice, Poor Man's 655 

Sauces for <.see Sauces) 
Short Cake, any Fruit.. 564 

Snow Balls 557 

Spanish Cream 662 

Steamed Fruit 

546, 550' to' 552 

Strawberry Dumpling ..556 
Strawberry Short Cake.. 563 
Strawberry Snow Drifts. 555 

Tapioca 558-559 

Tapioca Minute 671 

'i'ipsy 672 

Vegetable 542 

Velvet Cream 661 

Punch (see Beverages) 

Puree Lentils 74 

Lima Beans 73 

Navy Beans 72 

T^ea 7] 

Q, 

Quail, Broiled 281 

Roast .282 

Stuffing for 250 to 250 

Quince Jelly 901 

INIarmelade 931 

Quick Cake, Good 732 

Nut Bread ........ .1001-1002 

Parker House Rolls ....997 

Tea Rolls 99(1 



Rabbit, Country Style 283 

En Casserole 217 

Fried 285 

Rarabit, Welsh 24'^ 

Sage 243 

Raisin Bread 1005 

Raisin Fig Filling 815 

Raisin Lemion Pie ........610 

Rarebit, Sage 243 

Welsh 242 

Raspberry Ice 693 

Pie ..603 

Shrub 725 

Rhubarb Marmalade 929 

Rice, Baked Custard with. .653 

Cakes with Ham 851 

Cheese Croquettes 160 

Cheese Souffle 173 

Croquettes 162 

Custard Pudding ...655-656 

Muffins 1050 

Poor Man's Pudding ....655 
Souffle with Meat 862 



298 



INDEX 



Rice 

Spanish 231 

Tomato Soup 5S 

Roast Lamb 291 

Liver ?34 

Pork 21»3 

Venison 2ti4 

Root Beer, Home Made ..933 

Royale Sandwich 1003B 

Rolls, Cinnamon 1017 

French 1015 

Parker House 997-998 

Quick Tea 999 

Raised Cinnamon 1017 

Sweet Potato 1000 

Tea 99S 

Royale Sauce T.140 

Spaghetti , 17 4 

Rules, Bread Making Page 260 

Cake Making- Pagre 188 

Deep Fat Frying-. .. Page 4^ 
Croquettes 157 and Page 46 

Pie Dougrh 584 

Making- Jams Page 235 

Making Jellies ....Page 235 
Making Pickles ...Page 235 
Making Preserves .Page 235 

Russian Sauce 152 

Rye Bread 1010 

S 

Sage Rarebit 243 

Salads and Salad Dress- 
ing Page 122 

Salad, Apple Cups for 527 

Apple and Ripe Olives.. 521 

Asparagus 502 to 505 

Beets and Nuts 485 

Brussels Sprouts 501 

Cabbage 512 

Carrot and Walnut 486 

Celery 513 

Stuffed 514 

Cheese and Bar-le-luc. . 493 

Cherry 473 

Chicken 464 

Combination 500-516 

Crab Meat 467 

Date and Cheese 509 

Deviled Eggs 481-482 

Dressing, Svaporated 

Milk 455 

Egg 471 

Eggs in Nests 520 

Florida 475 

French Dressing ,...449-450 
Fruit without Gelatine. . 531 

Fruit Gelatine 532-533 

Fruit Dressing 462 

Grape and Filbert 472 

Grapefruit and Onion... 535 
Grapefruit and Oysters. 519 

Green Pepper 496 

Honey Dressing 457 

Kidney Bean 483-510 



Salad 

Left-Over Fish 469 

Left-Over Meat 46-. 

Lemon Cubes for 534 

Lemon Dressing 461 

Lobster 465 

Mayonnaise, Boiled . h") 1-452 
Mayonnaise, Cheese ....453 

Mayonnaise, Cream 458 

Mayonnaise, Danish ....460 
Mayonnaise, Plain Un- 
cooked 128 

Mayonnaise, Sweet 463 

Mayonnaise, Tartaro 

Sauce •. 131 

Marinate, use of (see Chap. 
XI. Page 122) 

Mushroorv\ . 489 

Neufchatei Cheese 490 to 492 

Norwegian 487 

Nut, Pineapple, Celery.. 522 
Orange Sherry Sauce ...494 
Orange, Pineapple and 

Banana 52.^ 

Orange Cups 515 

Orange and Onion 535 

Oriental .,..484 

Oriental Salad Diossing.456 

Oyster 517-518 

Palace 508 

Pear 495 

Pick-up 526 

Pineapple and Banana... 524 
Pine apple, Celery and 

Nuts 522 

Pineapple and Celery ...530 

Poinsetta 506 

Potato 176-477 

Roquefort Cheese 499 

Russian 470 

Sardine and Shrimp ....507 

Salad Sticks 1036 

Shad Roe 497-498 

Shrimp 466 

Sweet Bread 528 

Sweet Potato 488 

Stuffed Green Pepper ...523 

Tomato Jelly 479-480 

Tomato Stuffed 511 

Waldorf 529 

West India . . .474 

AVhite Dressing, No Oil.. 454 
Wilted Lettuce 478 

Salad Dressings 

Cream Mayonnaise 458 

Danish Mayonnaise 460 

Evaporated Milk 455 

Green Mayonnaise 459 

Fruit 462 

Honey 457 

Lemon 461 

Oriental 456 

Sweet Mayonnaise for 

Fruit 463 

Salmon Canape, E^moked.. 36 



INDEX 



299 



Salmon 

Trout, Turban of 82 

Salt Pork with Gravy.. 348 
Rising Bread lOllB 

Sandwiches Page 255 

Biscuit 1027 

Club 993 

Deviled Egg 995 

Fifty Ways to Make.... 984 

Fruit 991 

Fruit Preserve 992 

Green Pea^ and Egg ... .990 

Minced Ham 994 

Royale 1003B 

Salmon 987 

i^pinach 988 

Spinach and Anchovy .. .989 

Tomato 985 

Tomato and Peanut. ... 986 

Sauces, Meat and Fish.... 

Page 35 

Bernaise 142 

Bechamel, White 138 

Bechamel, Yellow 139 

Bordelaise 136 

Brown 115 

Brown Mushroom 146 

Caper 143 

Cheese Mayonnaise 453 

Celery 149 

Cream with Eggs 113 

Cream Mushroom 145 

Cream Tomato 121 

Creole 123 

Cucumber Pickle 133 

Cumberland Venison . . . .154 

Drawn Butter 116 

Drawn Butter with Eggs 117 

Figaro 125 

For Pyramids 108 

Green Ravigote 130 

Hollandaise l4l 

Horseradish 126 

Jelly for Roast Lamb... 

151, 906-907 

Maitre d'Hotel 137 

Mayonnaise Caper 134 

Mint 150, 906-907 

Mint Jelly 151 

Mornay 127 

Mousselaine 131 

Nut and Olive 124 

Oyster 148 

Parsley 144 

Perigeux , 147 

Piquante 156 

Ravigote 130 

Royale 140 

Russian 152 

Saubise 155 

Spanish 122-298 

Tartare Mousselaine . . . .131 

Tartare 129 

Thousand Island 135 



Sauces. Meat anJ Fish 

Tomato 118-119 

Tomato Mushroom 120 

Uncooked Mayonnaise ..128 

Vinaigrette 153 

Whiche 132 

White 110-11-112 

White Dressing No. One. 454 
Sauces for Puddings 

Banana 576 

Bavarian Cream 660 

Berry 573 

Brandy 568-569 

Butter Scotch 579 

Cheap 583 

Che-rv 575 

Chocolate 571 

Coffee 578 

Custard 570 

Foamy 572 

French 582 

French Cream 663 

Hard Sauce 567 

Karo, irlain 580 

Lemon. I'lain 57 4 

Mock Cream 581 

Orange 577 

Spanish 6'\".2 

Vanilla 566 

Velvet 661 

Sauce for Fish . .see Page 35 
Sauce for Meats.. see Page 35 

Sausage Pie, English 166 

Scallop Croquettes 159 

Scotch Halibut 194 

Scotch Hot Pot 232 

Shad, Baked 83 

Sherbets, Apricot 702 

Lemon 703 

Orange 699 

Peach 704 

Pineapple 701 

Sherrv Cobbler 721 

Short Cake, Strawberry ... 563 
Short Cake, any Fruit ....564 

Shrimp Croquettes 159 

Salad 466 

Shrub, Currant 724 

Raspberry 725 

Skon Bread 1041 

Snow Balls 557 

Souffles Page 45 

Cheese 168 

Cheese and Noodles ....171 

Cheese and Rice 173 

Cheese and Macaroni ...170 

Hamburger 172 

Macaroni and Cheese. ... 170 

Omelette 55^ 

Rum Omelette 554 

Rice Cheese 173 

Spaghetti and Cheese... 169 

Vegetable 1-^7 

Southern Biscuit 1025 



300 



INDEX. 



Soup, Beef Stock 43 

Brown Stock 47 

Soups Page 16 

Clam Chowder 68 

Clear Tomato 50 

Cream 60-61 

Cream Asparagus SI 

Cream Fish 66 

Cream Rice Tomato .... 62 

Cream Tomato 64 

Creole 50 

Fish Chowder 67 

Fish Stock 44 

Hamburger 56 

Julienne 52 

Left-Over Bones 48 

Marrow Balls for 1063 

Noodle 51 

Oyster 69-70 

Puree Lentils 74 

Puree Lima Beans 73 

Puree Navy Beans 72 

Puree Peas 71 

Rice Cheese 63 

Rice Chicken 55 

Rice Tomato .- 58 

Stock, Beef 43 

Stock, Brown 47 

Stock, Left Over Meats.. 48 
Stock, Left-Over Bones.. 48 
Stock, White ...-, ^ ... 45-46 

Surprise 65 

Tomato 118 

Turkey Bones . . . , , 53 

Turkey with Corn and 

Tomatoes 54 

Turkish 49 

Vegetable . 57 

White Stock 45-46 

Spaghetti with Cheese 878 

Croquettes 161 

Escalloped with Ham ...236 

Hamburger 184 

Ii;alian 175 

Royale 174 

Souffle with Chee-o 169 

Spanish Cream 622-662 

Hash 224 

Rice 231 

Sauce 122-298 

Spiced Pear Preserves 951 

Spinach Au Gratin 402 

Boiled 400 

Creamed 403 

Escalloped 401 

Squab, Broiled 287 

En Casserole 289 

Roast 286 

Squash, Summer, Boiled... 413 
French Fried Summer... 414 

Fried Summer 415 

Steamed 417 

Winter Baked 416 



Squash 

Winter Boiled 418 

Squirrel, En Casserole ....289 
Pie 288 

Steag, Broiled 305 

Country Style 3U6 

Creole En Casserole ....214 

Flank Stuffed . 310 

German Round 178 

Planked . 301 

Suggestions for.... Page 91 

Stuffed 310 

Vienna Hamburger 179 

Stock, Beef 43 

Fish 44 

Soup 48 

White . .45-46 

Strawberry Dumplings . . . .556 

Cream Pie 601 

Ice 694 

Short Cake 563-564 

Snow Drifts .555 

Stuffed Lamb Kidneys 185 

Left-Over Roast ....845-846 
Pork Tenderloins, 

Breaded 324 

Stuffing for Poultry and 

Game 251 to 259 

Chestnut 253 

Corn Meal 259 

Nut and Raisin 254 

Onion 257 

Oyster 252 

Peanut .255 

Potato 256 

Succotash 447 

Sunshine Cake 751 

Supreme Chicken ..275 to 277 

Sui'prise Croquettes 867 

Sweet Bread Croquettes. . .163 
Salad 528 

Sweet Potato Biscuit ....1034 

Croquettes 235 

Mashed 366 

Pie 589 

T 

Table of Proportions 

Page 282 

Tamales 229 

Tamale Loaf 299 

Tapioca Pudding- 
Baked 658-664 

Minute Cream 671 

Pearl Apricot 670 

Pearl Baked .659 

Pearl Orange 666-667 

Pearl Peach 670-664 

Pearl Pineapple 669 

Pearl Plum 670 

Tart, Italian Apple 616 

Tartar Sauce 129 

Mousselaine 131 

Tea Beverage, Hot 7 



INDEX 



301 



Iced S 

Time Table. Cooking. Page 281 

Tipsy Pudding 672 

Tomatoes, Austrian 28B 

Baked 191 

Baked with Eggs 201 

Baked with Nuts 193 

Baked with Rice 198 

Canapes 41 

Tomato Catsup 942 

Chile Sauce 943 

Croquettes 238 

Deviled 200 

Escaiioped Canned 199 

With Onions 205 

Fried 420 

Fried with Kidneys ....189 

Grenn Pickles 949 

In Half Shell 176 

Macaroni with 192 

Mushroom Sauce 120 

Rice with 198 

Sauce 119 

Soup 118 

Spaghetti or Macaroni . .192 

Stewed 419 

Stuffed with Corn 195 

Stuffed with Nuts 196 

Stuffing: for 197 

Toasted 190 

Tona-ue, Braised 338 

Boiled 339 

Turkey Bones Soup 53 

Cleaning 250 

Dressing- 258 

Roast 250 

Trussing Page 73 

Stuffings 251 to 256 

Suggestions for Serving 

Page 74 

Turkish Delight candy ...959 

Soup 49 

Turnips, Creamed 425 

Mashed 424 

Tutti Frutti Ice Cream.... 683 

V 

Vanilla Sauce 566 

Veal Birds on Toast 321 

Braised Shoulder 336 



Veal 

Country Style 307 

Croquettes 157 

En Casserole 215 

- Ovsters 322 

Roast - 292 

Steak, Country Style 307 

Stuffed Shoulder 335 

Vegetable Pudding 542 

Curry 180 

Souffle 167 

Soup 57 

Vegetables Canned . ,C»16 to 918 

Canned Beans 918 

Canned Corn 916 

Canned Peas 917 

Velvet Cream 661 

Venison Broiled 294 

Cumberland Sauce tor.. 154 

Roast 294 

Vienna Potato Rolls 377 

Vinagrette Sauce 153 

Vinegar for Pickles lf35 

Sauce 427 

W 

AVaf fles. Date 1051 

Plain 1042 

Pumpkin 1049 

Rice or Hominy 1050 

Waldorf Salad 529 

Walnut Cake 764 

Drops 834 

Wafers , 835 

Weights and Measures.... 

Page 282 

Welsh Rarebit 242 

White Cake 756 

Fondant 954 

Fruit (see Fruit Cakes) 
High Altitude (see 
High Altitude Cakes") 

Sauces 110 to 112 

Stock 45-46 

Whole Wheat Bread 1006 

Wine Jelly 639 

Y 

Yellow Bechamel Sauce... 139 
Tellov.' and White Cake (see 
Cakes) 



PUBLISHERS PRESS ROOM AND BINDERY CO 
DENVER. COLO. 




'"fmti^sm^- '-^^^^v^ 



m 













\^ 



^ 



:i^^^ A'^-^.:.-.-- - _::^^s^ 













i^M^iOi^X 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 827 8 



